Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 




Hosted by 



Google 




Hosted by 



Google 







Hosted by 



Google 



Hosted by 



Google 



Hosted by 



Google 



Hosted by 



Google 



Hosted by 



Google 




MAPoftlieWORLD,onw.l> IS Delineated theVojages 
oi'jiOlilNSON CRTJSO 



FnmJifw th^ bile tfi/isBJ^L 







THE FARTHER 



A]t>VENTURES 

O F 

Robinson Crusoe ; 

Being the Second and Laft Part 



OF HIS 



t I F E, 

And of the ftraiige furprifing 

Account of his TRAVELS 
Round three Parts of the Globe. 



^JVritten by Himfelf. 



The Fourth Ehitioh, Adorned with Cuts 




LONDON: 

Printed for W. Taylcih, at the Ship and Black Swim 
ta^nri'-Nirlier-R.oii'. Mdccxxh, ■>; 



Hosted by 



Google 



Hosted by 



Google 





THE 

P R E F A C E. 

^HE Succefi the former Part of this 
W o'RK. has met ivrt/j in the IVorld, 
I hcu yet been no other, than is ac- 
'wledgd to be due to the furprifiug 
' Fhrieiy of the SubjeB, and to -the 
agreeable Manner of the Perfontiance. 

ALL the Endeavours of envious People to re- 
proach it ivith being a Romance^ to ftarcb it for 
Errors in Geography, Inconfiftency in the Relation^ 
and ComradiHions in the FaSi, have proved abor- 
tive, and Oi impotent m malicious. 

THE jufi Application of every Incident, the 
religious and ufeful Inferences drawn from eve;-y 
Part, are fo many Tejlimonies to the good Dejign 
of making it publick, and mufi legitimate all ths 
Part that tnay be call'd Invention, or Parable in 
the Story. 

The Second Part, if the Editor's Opinion 

may pafs, is (contrary to the Ufage of Second 

Parts,) every JV.iy en entertaining m the FirR, 

eomains m ftrange and furpriz,ing Hnidems, and 

A 1 M' 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



The Pr ef; ace. 

at great a Viirkty of them ; nor is the Application 
lefs feiieus, or fuital/le ; and douMefs wiS, to the 
fvber, ai v^ell ai ingenious Reader , be every !Viay m 
profitable and diverting ; and thiS' makes the a- 
bridging this Work, m fcandakuiy oi it is 
kftavifi) and ridiculous ; feeing, while to jhanen 
the Book, that they may fern to reduce the Value^ 
theyfirip it of all thofe Refleflions, as weS religi~ 
cus m moral, vjhich 0rs not only the greatefi 
Beauties of the WoRK, but are calculated for 
the infinite Advantage of the Re ade R. 

BI this they leave the Work naked of its 
brightefi Ornaments ; and yet they -would, at the 
fame- time pretend, that the Author hasfupply'd 
the Story out of his .Invention, tljey take font it 
the Improvement, which alone ntontmends that In- 
veniioii to wife and good Men, 
, 'The Injury thefeMen do to the Proprietor 
bf this Work, is a PraBice all honefi Men 
abhor ; and he believes he may challenge them to 
^biw the Differeace between that and Robbing an the 
Highway, or Breaking open a Houfe. 

IF they can't fhew any Difference in the Crime, 
they will 'find it hard to fi)ew why there Jbould'^ 
any D'ffcrenco in the Ptmijhment : And he vtiH 
anfwer for it, that nothing /hall be wanting on 
his Part, tu do them Jufiice. 



THE 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



J - 






t^^i^42tM 



) -v- 



'^ 



4g<W- 



-^^• 



^ 



^ggfc'fgrtfgc^jiVjgcf 



""srff 



ADVENTURES 



Robinson Ckusoe, S/^r. 

.HAT hoiv.dy Proverb ufed on 
^ fti many Occafions jo Enghiid, 
! -vii.. That irhat ii bred in the Bone 
i will net go out ^ the Fleflj, was 
never more vciify'd, tlianiafhe 
Stoty of my L [ f e. Any ont 
woukithinld that after thi'ty-fivc 
Years Affliilion, and a Variety 
ofuidiappyCircumftanccp, which 
fe^v Men, if any ever, went thro' 
before, and after near feven years 
of Peaccand Enjoyment in the Fulncfs of ail Things; grown 
old, and when, if e^er, it might tie allowed me to have 
had Experience of every State ot jniddle Life, and totnow 
which wa» moft adapted to make a Marj complcarly hap- 
py ; i fay, afier all this, any one wrould have thought that 
the native Propcnlity to rambling, which I gav<: an Ac- 
count of in jny firit Setting out into the World, to have 
been fo predominate in my Thoughts, fliould be worn 
out, the Volatile Part be fully evacuated, or at leaft con- 
dttls'd, and Imight at: 6i Years of Age havebwn a little 
A J inclin'd 




Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



U) 

indin'd to ftay at Home, and have done venturing Life 
and Fortune any more. 

Nay farther, the common Motire of foreign Adven- 
tures was taken away in mej for I had no Fortune to 
make, I had nothing to firek ; If I had cain'd ten thoufimi 
Pound, I had been no richer i tor I had already fufficient 
for me, and for thofe I had to leave it to i and that I liad was 
TilibJyinCTeafing; fbr kivin'g no great Family, I could acX 
Ipend the Income ofwhat I had, unlefi I would fet up fbr 
anexpenfive Way of Living, fudi as a great ramily. Servants, 
Eijuipage, Gayety, and tht like, whicli were Tilings I hiid 
no Notion of, or Inclination to ; fo that 1 had nothing 
indeed to do, but to lit fliU, and fully enjoy what I had 
got, and fee it increaic daiJv upon my Hands. 

Yet all thele Things had no effe&upon me, or at lead 
not enough to refill the ilrong Inclination I had to go A- 
broad again, which hung about me like a chronical Di- 
ftcmperj partiailaily the Defiie of fteing my new Planta- 
tion in the Ifland, and the Colony I left there, nm in my 
Head contitiually. I dream'd of it aH Night, ami tny 
Imagination run upon it all Day ; it was uppermoft in all 
my Thoughts, andmy Fancy work'd fbfteadilj' andftrong- 
ly upon it, that I talk'd of it in my Sleep; in il.ott, no- 
tb'ng could remove it out of my Minds it even broke fo 
violCTitly into all my Djfcourfcs, that it made my Conver- 
Cition tirefbmc; for I eould talk of nothing die, all my 
DiJixwrle run into it, even to Impertmence, and I jSw it 

I H A V E often heard Perfbns of good Judgment fiy. 
That all the Stir People make in the World about Ghofts 
and Apparitions, is owing to the Snengih of Imagination, 
and the powerful Operation of Fancy in their Mind* ; thsU: 
there is no Cich Thing as a Spirit appearing, or a Ghoft 
walking, aaJ iHt like; That Peoples poring aSeftionateiy 
upon the pail Converfation of tneir dcccas'd Friends, lo 
leatizes it to them, that they are capable of fancying up- 
on Ibme extraordinary Qrcumftanccs, that they iec them; 
talk to them, and are aifwreted by them, when, in Truth, 
there is uothb? but Shadow and Vapour in the Things 
tod they really Iciww nothing of the Matter. 

For my Part, I kaow not to tlu« Hour, whether there 
■re any £ichTtungs as lealApparitiotu, Speftcesj or walk- 
ing 



Hosted by 



Google 



(7) 

he of People after they are dead, or"wIi«ier thwe is inf 
T&ng in the Stories they teU us of that kind, more thM 
the Produdl of Vapours, fick Minds, and wandring Fan- 
cies; But this I know, that my Imagination work'd up 
to luch a Hright, and brought . me into liich Exccefs of 
Vapours, or v^t eKe I may ca}\ it, that I adlually fup- 
pos'd my felf, oitentimes upon the Spot, at my okiCafile 
behind the Trees ; faw my old Spaniard, Fri^y's Father, 
and the reprobate Sailors who! left upon the Iflandi nay, I 
fancy'd I talk'd with them, and look'd at them fo fteadi- 
iy, tho' 1 wras Iwoad awake, a$ at Perfons juft before me; 
and this I did, tilll often frighted my fclf with the Im^es 
myFancyrew^fented to me: One Time in mySleeplEid 
theVillanyofthethreePyrateSailors, lb lively related to mc 
hy the a^tt Spaniard zndFriJ^'s Father, thatit wasfurpri?,- 
ing i they told mc how they barbaroufly attempted to murder 
a&tbeSfsmarJs, and that they fct Fire to the Provifionsthey 
had laid up, on purpoie to diilrefs and ftarvc them ; Things 
that I had never heard of, and that yet were all of them 
true in h& ■ And it was fo warm in my Imagination, 
and lb realiz'd to me, that to the Hour I iaw them, 
I could not be perfiiaded, but that it was or would be 
true; alfo hoiw I Tefeited it, when the Spiml^irds com- 
plain'd to me, and how I brought them , to Juilice, try'd 
them befof e me, and order'd them all three to be fcrng'd : 
What there wa? really in tliis, /ball be fren in its Place: 
For however, I came to form fuch things in my Dream, 
and what fecret Convei-fe of Spirits injettcd it, yet tl^e 
was , I fny, very much of it true. I own, that this Dream 
had notlung in it literally and fpecifically true; but the ge- 
neral Part was fo true, the bafe and villanotis Bchavioiir 
of tlcfe three harden'd Rogues was fuch, and had been fi> 
much worfc than all I can defcribe, that the Dream had 
too much Similitude of the Faift, and as I would after- 
wards have puni/hed rhem' ftvcrely j fo if I had hang'd 
them all, I had been much in the Right, and iliould ha" 
been juftified both by the Laws of God and Man. 
. B u T to return to my Srory ; in this kind of Temper 
I had liv'd fome Years, I had no Enjoyment of my Life, 
no pk'afant Hours, no agreeable Divcrlion, but what had 
fcmethbg or other of this in it,- fo that my Wife, 
wIk) law my mind fo wholly bent upon it, told me vay 
A 4 licitoufljr 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



(8) 

fcrioufly one Night, That fl-e believ'd there was fome &- 
aet powwful Impulft ot Providence upon me, whichhad 
iktermin'd me to go thither again i and that ll.e found no- 
thing hindered my gobg, but my being engag'd to a. Wife 
and Children. She tola mc, tiit it was true, fix could 
iiot think of patting yith me j hut as Ihe was aflui'd, t]iat 
if Re w^s dead, it would be tlie &(l thing I wouH do; 
So as it iecm'd to her, that the thing was detcimin'd a- 
bove, n-.c would not lie the only CSbihuftioii : For if I 

thought fit, and refolv'd to go— Here She found me 

very intent upon her Wwds, and that I look'd very ear- 
'neftly at hcTj fo that it a little diJbrder'd her, and (lie 
ftopp'd, I ask'd her. Why (l:e did not go on, and faj* 
But what flie was going to iay? But I pctceiv'd herHeait- 
was too iuU, and fome Tears flood in her Eyes i Speak out 
my Dear, laid I, Are you willing 1 fr.ould go ? No, fyt 
fiif, fvety aSeSieaaiefy, I am fer ffom willing : But if you 
arc iefolv'3 to go, £iys {i.e, and rather than I will be the 
only Hindiance, I will go with you; for tlio' I think it 
a moft prepofterous thing for one of your Years, and in 

{pur Condition, yet if it muft be, f^d flie agaiiv weeping,. 
,wcn't leave youj fa- if it be of Heaven, you muft So 
it, there is no tri:IKng it ;, and if Heaven makes it yoim 
Duty to go, he will alio make it mine to go with you, 
or Dthcrwile djl^^ofc of me, iliat I may not ot.firaft it. . 
This affe^ionateBehavimir of my Wife'sUought me a 
Bttlc out of the Vapours, and I began to conlldcr what I 
was a doing; Iconcdcd my wandaing Fancy, and began 
.to argue With my lelf fedateij-, what JSulinels I had alter 
.threclcorc Ycais, and after luch a Life of tedious Suffer- 
ings and Diiallcrs, and clolcd in lb happy and eafy a Man- 
, nw, I lay, what BuiindJ had I to tufli into new Hazards, 
. and put my fiJf upon Adventures, fit only for Yourh and 
-Poverty to run into.. 

With thofc Thoughts, 1 confidered- my new Engage- 
ment, that I had a Wilt, one Child born, and my Wife 
then great with Child of another; thatjliad all theWorl(i 
could give me, and had no need to Jeefc Hazards for Gain ; 
that I was declining in Years, and ought to think larhcr 
• of leaving what I had gain'd, than of i«:king to increafe 
, iti, that as to what my Wife had faid, of its being aalm- 
puUe fiom Heaven, and that it fliould be my Duty to f>p. 



Hosted by 



Google 



(9) 

I had no Notion of tliat ; fa after many of tliele_Cogita-/ 

tions, I iltuggied with tiie Power of my Imagination, 

reafon'd my Icif out of it, as I Relieve I'eeple may dtf^ys 

do in Uke Cafe, if thty mlli and, in a Word, I conquer'd 

It; compos'd my filFwith fuch Arguments as occur'd to ■ 

my Thoughts, and which my prcfont Condition furnilb'A 

me plentifully with, aad pamculaih-, as die moft eifoaaal 

Method, I refclv'd to divert my fclf vwith other Things, 

, and to engage in fome Bulincfs that, might cfleftuallj^ tio 

nie up fiom any more Excurfioa's of this Kind; for T 

; found, the Tiling return'd upon me cliicfly when I was 

I idle, liad nothing to do, or any tiling of Moment immc- 

i diately before me, 

I To this Purpoie I bought a little Farm in the County 
j o( Bedford, and refolv'd to remove my fcif thith«-. Ihaii 
j a little convenient Houfc upon it, and the t^nd atjout it I 

1 found wras capable of gieat Improvement, and that it wis 
many ways lyiteil to my Inclination, which delighial in 
Cultivating, Managing, Planting, and Improving of Land; 
i and particuar!y,beingan Inland Countty, Iwasiemov'dfiom 
converling among Ships, Sailors, and Things relating to 
, the remote Parts of the Woty. 

I tj a Word, I went down to my Farm, IcUled my Fa- 
mily, bought me Ploughs, Harrows, aCair, Waggou,HOT- 
fes, Cows, Sheep ; and letting fetioufiy to Woik, became 
in one half Year, a racer Country Gentleman ; my Thoughts 
I were intirely taken up in managing my Servants, cukivai- 
! ing the Ground, Encfoiing, Planting, eye. and I liv'il, as I 
thought, the moft agi-eeat.le Lite that Nature was capabL- 
of direiling, or that a Man always biedto Misfottuncs 
was capable of bring reOeateil to. 

I farm'd upon my own Land, I had no Rent to pay, 
was limited by no Articles, I eosiki pull -up or cut down 
as i plealed : What I piantcl, was for riiy felf, and wjiar I 
improved^ was for'my, Family i and having thus left oft' 
the Thoughts 'of Wandeiing; I had not tlielcaft Uifwrn- 
forl in any_ p^t of my Lite, ai to this World. Nc«v 
I thought indeed, that I enjoy'd that Midille.State of Lite, 
wluch my Father' fo earneftly recommended to mii ;- A 
kind of heavenly Life, fomethmg like what is deferidcdby 
the Poet lipoa the .siijcii of a Counti y Life. 

A J- /r« 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(to) 

Tree f-om Vices, fret frem Cart, 
Agi iit DO FMm, and Tenth no Snare, 

B u T in the Middle of all this Felicity, one Blow &»% 
enfcen R'ovidenceiiiiiui^d me at once; andnot only made 
1 Breach upon me inevitable, and incurable f but drove me, 
by its Conlcquence, upon a deq> Rdapfe info the wander- 
ing Di^^fition, which, as I may iky, being born in my 
very Blood, foon recover*d its Hold of me, and like the 
Returns of a violent Diftempcr, came on with an irrefi- 
filUble Force upon me ; Ga that nothing could make any 
Hiore Impreflion upon me. This Blow was the Lofs of 
wy Wife- 

It is not mr Bufinefi here to write an Elegy upon my 
Wife, give a aiarafter of her particular Virtues, aiid make 
joy Court to the Sex by the Flattery of a Funeral Ser- 
Mon-M She was, in a few Words, the Stay of all my Af- 
feirs, the Center of all my Enterpriies ; the Engine, that 
Jy her Rrudence reduc'd me to that happy Compafs 1 was 
ki„ fiom the moll extravagant and ruinous ProjeA that 
JbittB''d in m^ Hea4 ^ above; and did more toguidemy 
lamMng Genius, tlun a Mother's Tears, a FaAer's In- 
fei^onsi a Friend's Coun&l, or all my own realbning 
Pbwers" could do. I was happy in liltening to her Tears, 
andiihbeingnrovcdby her Entreaties, and to thelaft degree 
^ibio^te ai3 diflocatcd in the World by the Lo^ of her. 

Wnrn flic was gone, the WorM looR'd aufcwardly 
round me; IwasasmuchaStrangcr in it, in my Thoughts, 
as I was in the Br^fils, when I went firft on Shore there j 
and as much alone, except as to the Affiflance of Servants, 
as I was in my Ifland. I knew neither what to do, at 
what not to do.. I SivT the World buTy round mc, one 
Part labouring ioc Bread, and the other Iquandering it, in: 
lilc Excefles or empty Pleafures; equally mifer^e, he- 
caulc the Entt they propos'd ftiU fled from them ; for the 
Men of Pfcaliirc every Day fiirfeited of their Vice, and 
Eeaped'up Work for Sorrow and Repentance; and the Men 
ef Labour Ipcnt then- Strength in daily Strug^ings for 
Bread to maintain the- vital Strength they labour'd with;- 
Sa living in a daily CJrculatimi of Sorrow, living but to 
wtukv and wodung. but to live^ » if daily Biead werethc 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



T") 

mfy Cnd of wnri&me Life, and a weari&me Life the on- 
ly Occaiion of daily Bread. 

This put me in mind of the Life I lived in my King-' 
dom, the Iflandi where Ifuffer'd no more Com to grow, 
becaufe 1 did not want itj and bred no more Goats, bc- 
caufc I had no more Uft for them ; Where the Money 
lay in the Drawer till it grew mill-dew'd, and had fcarce 
the Favour to be look'd upon in lo Years. 

All thele Things, had I improv'd them as I ought to 
liave done, and as Reafbn and Religion had diftatcdto me, 
would have taught me to fearch farther than human En- 
joyments for a ftill FeUcity, and that there was fomcthing 
which certtinly was the Reafcn and End of Life, fiipcriof 
to all theie ThinK, and which was either to be polfefi'd, 
or at leaft hop'd lor on this fide the Grave. 

But my iagc CounfelTor was gone l I vras like a Ship 
without a Pilot, that could only run <gwf the fVmi: Mjr 
Thoughts lun all away again into the old Aflair ; my Head 
wasquitetum'd with the Whiinfies of foreign Adventurec, 
and all the pleafing innocent Amuferaents of my Farm, and 
my Garden, my Cattle, and my Family, which before en- 
tirely pofleft me, were nothbgtome; had no Rcliffi, and 
wae fike Muficfc to one that has no Ear, or Food Co one 
that has uoTafle: In aWord, Irefoiv'd to leave ofFHoufo- " 
keeping, lett my Farm, and return to Lmdixn and in it 
few Montiis after, I did fo. 

When I came to London, I was flillasuneafyas I wa» 
befbrej I had no Rdifti to the Place, no Employment in 
it, nodiing to do but to faunter about like an idle Perfon, 
of whom it may be &d, he !» perfi^ly ulclefs in God's 
Creation, and it is not one Farthing matter to the reft o£ 
hi* Kind, vrfiethir he be dead or alive. This alio was 
rhe" Thing, which of ^ Circumftances of Life was tie 
moft my Averfion, who had been all my Days ufrd to ao 
affive Life! and 1 would often (ay to my lelf, A Sim» 

/Idimtfs u tht -vtry Dregs tf Lift ; and indeed I thought 
was much more fuitibly employ'd, when I was a<S 
Days a making me a Deal Board. 

It wits now the Beginnidg of the Year 1693, when 

my N^ihew, who as I Im-vt ohfirv'd before, I had brouglic 

up to the Sea, and had made him Commander of a Smp, 

WM cove -Home from a Own Voyage to BiUoa, bdng 

the 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



1 IX) 

tht firft he had made : He came to me, and toW iwe, that 
fome Merchants of his Acquaintance had been propoiing 
Oo him, lo go a Voyage for them to the Eajl-lmliei, and 
to Cbimt, as private Tiaders : And nov Undi, faj-s he, if 
yilf^'ll-go lo.Sea with me, I'll engage teUndyou Kfon yonr 
eld Habitation in the Ipind, far ice itre to touch at the Q!ai\\s. 
- NoTHiMO can he a greater Demonftration of a fu- 
ture State, and of thcExiliencc of an invilible Woild, than 
the Qmcmrence of fecotid Caufes, with the Ideas of 
Things, which. we form inour Minds, pcrft^ly referv'd, 
and n»t communicated to any. in the Woild. 

M 1 Ne[Aew knew nothing how iar my Dilkmper of 
wnndeiingwas retiirn'd uyon mc, and I knew nothing of 
wlut lie h^ in his Thoughts to iky ; when that very 
f'!o!ning before he came to me, I had in a great deal o£ 
Ci>n&iiion of Thought, and revoking eveiy Part of my 
ftjjcutnllances in my Mind, come to. this Reiblution, tia. 
That 1. would go to Liiton, and confult with my old Sea^ . 
OpKun ,- and & if it was rational and pi afticable, I would 
fft aaifce the Ifland again, andfeewhat wasbecomeof my 
Ftt^je theje: 1 had^eas'dmy ftlf alio with the Thoughts 
•f pcoi^ling.the Place, and carrying Inhabitants frorn hence, 
gecuog X Patent for the Pofleflioo, and I knovv not 
whati when in the Middle of all this, in comes my Ne- 
I^KW^as Lhaye (iud,.with hisProje^ of caiTying-me.chi- 
tfw, in his Way to die Eaft-lnMii, 

I F»i/s.'i> awhile at his Words, and looking fteadily 
at- ^m, Hii^tDtTil, imd J, fint ym of this unlucky Errand? 
My Nepliew ftaitl'd as if he biid been flighted'^ at fiift ; 
but perceiving I was not much (JiTpkafed with the Pro- 
pofal he rec-ovei'd himftlf. I iioi-« it may not be an un- 
weky Propo£il,, Sir,, fays he, I dare fiy you woiUd be 
pleai'ii: t« fie- your new Colony there, where you once 
reigned with more Felicity, than Bioft of your Brother 
Monarchs in the.Wcrh^, 

In a Word, the Scheme hit & exaftly with my Tem- 
pCTa tjjai^ is, to favj with the PrcpolTeflion I was under, and 
of which I have iaid fo much, that I told him in few 
W«rds, if he agrred^with the Merchants, I wauU gowith 
jjim : But I toS hin>. I would not pomiie to go any fa- 
ther tlBn my owalflaiidi iffy, Sir, ,&.js hs, yat* tloif't 
w^ml tf i' Uftth^e a^nin, ibtfi i. ^flhyj laidlj i^ptt.jvit 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



Bof take me up ngim myaati Return ? He told me, it 
couJd not be polT^k ro do fo, that the Merchants would 
never aJlow Jiim to come that Way with a loadca Ship of 
fucJi!. Value, it being a Month's Sail out of his Way, and 
might -is Aiee or four: Bejides, Sir, if 1 Jheuld mifcarty, 
faid iie, mid net return at ail, then yeit would bt juji re- 
duced to the CmStimtyou were in i/ifore. 

This was very ratioDsii but we both found out aRcr 
medy for it, which was to carry, a tianied Sloop on board ■ 
the Sliip, which being taken in. Pieces, and fhipp'd on 
board the Ship, might by the Help, of feme Caipcnters 
who we agreed to carry. with us,.be-fet up again in the 
Ifland, and fjiiHi'd, ,fit,to go to Sea in a few Days. 

I w A s not long reibiving ; for indeed the Impoitunities 
of my Nephew join'd in, ft) eftedhialiy with rny Incima- 
tion, that nothing could opcofe me ; On tiie other hand, 
my Wife being dead, I had no ixniy that concein'd them- 
ftl/es ib raut^.for me, as po peifijade me one way or 
other, except my ancient gJod Fiiend the Widow, who 
fainelUy ftru^led with me to coniider my Yeffls, myea- 
iy CiictJmftances, and Jlie necdlefs Hazard of a long Voy- 
agci and aboie ail my y-cung Children; But it was ait to 
no Purpole, I had an iireliftible Dcfire to the Voyage-; 
and I toid her, I thought there was fomething & uncom- 
. mon in the ImprelTions I had upon my Mind for the 
Voyage, that it would be a kind of reiilbi^ Providence, 
if I ffiould attempt to (lay at Home; after which,, flic 
vteas'd her E^poftulations, and join'd with me,, not on- 
. !y in making Piovifion for my Voyage, but alio in iet* 
tling my Family Afiaits for my Abfcnce, and providmg 
fijT the Education of my Children. 

In Oixicr to this, I made my Will, and fettled the E- 
ftate I had, in fuch a Manner tor my Children, and pla- 
ced in fuch Hands, that I was pafbaly eafy and firisfi''d 
they would have Juftice done tliem, whatever might fce* 
&1 me i and tor their Education, I left it wholly to my 
Widow, with a fuflidcnt Maintenance to her Crif for 1^ - 
Eaie: All w>ich ft. e richly defcrv'd; for no MoClier Could 
have taken tirore Care in tlipr Education, or undeiftood 
it better * end as die Uv'd till I carne Home, I ahb liv'd 
to thank her for it. 

MV Ni^hcw WM ready to fall about the Beginning, of 
yamimy 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



f.4) 

yamarr iS^^rf, ««* I wMi my Man Tfiday went ori 
botsA m the Diwfw the iih, having befides that Sloop 
which I mentiMi'd above, a very coBfiderable Cargo of 
all Kinds of iKccflfeT Thing tor my Colony, whicH if I 
&d not find in good Cimdmon, I le&lv'd to leave lb. 

First, I carried with me feme Servants, who I pujpos'd 
to place thae, as Inh^tants, or at leaft to fet on Wtwlc 
there uptm my evm Actrmuit while I ftay'd, and dthef 
to leave them mene, or carry them fiH-ward a« they Jliould ap- 
pear wiUing i particularly, I carty'd two Carpenters, a Smith) 
and a very handy ingenious Fellow, viha was a Cooper 
by trade* but was alfi> a «neral Mechanick ; fm he was 
dextrous at making W&els, and Hand-Mills to grind 
Com, was a good Tunwr, and a good Pot-Maker j he 
alfb made any Thing that was proper to make of Earth, 
or of Woodj in a Word, we caB'd him Our Jitck of /til 
Ti-aJei. 

WiTHthefe I carry'd aTaylor, who had ofier'd himfelf 
to go Paflcnger to the E^-InJitt with my Nephew, but 
afterwards ctm&nted to fiay on our New Plantation, and 
prov'd a moft neccSary handy Fellow, as could be ddir'd, 
' m many other BuJinefles, belides that of thisTradej for a« 
I (Aferv'd formerly, Neceffityarmsusforall Employments. 

M Y Cargo, as near as I can collefl, ibr I have not kept 
an Account of Farticuhrs, ctniifted of a fufiicient Quau' 
tity of Linoen, and Come tliin EngUfi Stuffi fbr cloatinz 
xhsSftmittrds that I expe^M to find thcrej and enough <» 
them, as by my- Calcuiation might comfortaUy fupply 
them tbf .!ei»n Years ; if I remember right, the Materi- 
als which I carry'd for cloathing them, with Gloves, 
Hats, Shoes, Stockings, aad all fcch Things as they could 
want fijr wearing; amounted to above loo Pounds, in- 
cludmg ibme Beds, Bedding, and HoufhoH- Stuff, par- 
ticubi^ Kitchen- Utcn^, with Pots, Kettles, Peuter, 
BrxTs, (^. besides, near a hundred Pounds mate in Iron- 
Work, Nails, TooJs of evety Kind, Staples, Hooks Hinges, 
and every neceiTary Thing I couU think of. 

I cafry'd alfo an hundred Ipare Arms, Muskets apdFu- 
zees, befides fome Piftols, a conlidcrablc Qiiantity of Shot 
of ^ Sizes, tbcc or four Ton of Lead, and two Pieces 
of Biafs Cannont and fcecaufe I knew not what Time, 
and what EjiQcsailies I wis providing for, I carry'd an 
bundled 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( «s ) 

fcunired Barrels of Powder, befides Swords, and Cutlafle^ 
and the Icon Psrt of fome Pikes, and Halberts, lb that in 
fliort, wc had a large Magazine of all Sorts of Stores; and 
I made my Nephew carry two fmall Quartet-Deck Guns 
more than he wanted for his Ship, to leave behind, if 
there was Occafion ; that when we came there, we might 
build a Fort, and man it againftaUSotts of Enemies-. And 
indeed, I at firft thought there would be Need enough for 
it all, and much mote, if we hop'd to maintain our Poi^ 
fcflion of the Ifland, as fliall be fecn in the Courfe of the 
Story. 

I H A D not fuch bad Luck in this Voy^e, as I had been 
nfed to meet with ; and therefore iViall have thelefs Occa- 
fion to interrupt the Reader, who prehaps may be impai- 
ent to hear how Matters went with my Colony; yet 
fome odd Accidents ,^ croTs Wmds , and bail Weather kip- 
pen'd, on this firft letting out, which made the Voyage 
Jonger than I expeited it at firft; and I who had never 
made hut one Voy^, (vii..) my firft V^ag* fa Gmata, in 
which \ might be Kud tp come bock again, as the Voy^ 
was at firft defign'd, b^an to think' the iame ill FateftUt 
attended me i and that I was born to be never contmted 
with my own Shore, and yet to be always unfiKtunato 
at Sea. 

Contrary Winds firft put us to the Northward, and we 
wereoblig'd to put in at GiUwm in Irtlmd, whete we lay 
Win4-bound two and twenty !teysi but we had this Sa? 
fisfeftion w^ith thcDilafter, that Provifions were here ex- 
ceeding cheap, and in the utmoft Plentv ; lb that while 
we Uy here, we never touch'd the Ship's Stores, but 
rather added to them ; here ajfo I took fcveral live Hogs, 
and two Cows with then: Calves, which I relblv'd, iff 
had a good Paflage, to put on Shore in my IHand, but we 
found Occafion to difpofe otherwifc of them. 

W E fet out the fih of Tebrumy from. Irtland and had 
a very &ir Gale of Wind for fome Days; as I remember, 
it ought be about the lo/A of ttiriMry in the Evening 
lale, when the Mate having the Watcn, came into the 
Round-houfc, and told us, he law- a Flajh of Fire, and 
Heard aGun fir'd, and whiiehe was telling ils of it, a Boy 
came in, and told us the Boatfv^n heard another. This 
made us all run out upon the Quarter-Deck, where for a 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



-while we heard nothing, but in a few Minutes we fiw a 
'very great Light, and tound that there was Tome veryter- 
rible Fire at a Diftance ; immediately wc had recouiie to 
our Reckonings, in which we all agreed, tliat there could 
be no Land that Way, in which the Fire fhcw'd it fclf, 
no not for f qo Leagues, for it appear'd at W. 'N. W, 
Upon this we concluded, it muft be fome Ship on Fire at 
Seas and as by our hearing the Noife of Guns jull before, 
we concluded it could not be far off: Wc flood dirciSly 
towards it, and were prefcntly Gitisfy'd we (houlddifcover 
it, becaule the farther we faiid, the gieater the Light ap- 
pcar'd, tho' the Weather being haiiy, we could not per- 
ceive any Thing but the Light for a while : In about half 
an Houils Sailing, theWindbdnglah'fbrus, tho'notmuch 
of it,and"th« Weather cfearing up alittlc, we could plainly dit 
cem that itwasagreatShipon fire in the Middle of the Sea. 

I was mofi fenlibly touch'd with this Dilafler tho' not 
at all acquainted w^itll the Pcrlbnsengag'd in it; I ptefint- 
ly recolleded my formed Circumflances, in wliat Condi- 
tion I WHS in, when taken up Lt the Tortugal Captain ; 
and how much tnote deploraUe the Citcumflances of tiie 
yoor Creatures belonging to this Ship ffluil be, if they 
had no other Ship in Company with tliem : Upon this, 
I immediatlyorder'd, that five Guns U.ould be tir'd, oijc 
fixin after aaotlier, that, if polTible, we might give No- 
tice to them, that there was Help fbr them at Mnd, and 
that they might endeavour to Jave themfelves in their 
' Boat i TOT tho' we could fee the Flame of the Ship, yet 
they, it being Night, could lee nothing of us, 

W E lay by fome Time upon this, oidy diiving as the 
-burning Ship dtove, wnitir^ for Day-light; -when on a 
Hidden, to our gi-cat Terior, though we had Reafon to 
expeit it, the Ship blew up in the Aitj and immediatly, 
riiat is to lay, in a few Minutes, all the Fire was o^lV 
that is to lay,' the reft of llie. Ship -funk ; This was 
a Terrible, and indeed an afBifling Sight, for the Sake of 
riie poor Men, v/ho, I concluded, mull be either all dc- 
ftroy'd in the Ship, or be in the utmoll Diiticls in their 
Boats in die Middle of the Ociaa, which at prefint, by 
Realbn it was dai k, I could not fee : Hoivevct, to diiea: 
them as well as I cculd, I cauljbd Liglits to be hung out 
fc,aH the Parts of the Ship whce we could, and whicli 



Hosted by 



Google 



. J Hosted by 



Google 







Hosted by 



Google 



(»7 ) 

vf'e had Laiitliorns for, and kept firiiiE; Guns all the NJe ht 
long, IcrtJug them know by viiis, ikit there was a sSip 
not far off. 

About S a-Clock in the Mo;-mng wc iJiSrover'd the 
Ship's Beats, by the J^elp of oiu- Pnipeiaive GhSTes, found 
there were two of them, both tkong'd with People, arrd 
^ecp in the Watei-: We pi;ccived they low'd, tfe Wind 
being againft them, tliat they jkw our Ship, and did the 
utmoft to mate us &c them. 

■ We immediately fpreail cur Ancient, to let them know 
we.iaw them, and hung a Waft out as a Sign.il fra them 
to come en Boaid, and then made more Sail, ilanding di- 
reiMy to tliem. la little more than half an Hour we 
came Jf with them, and in a void, took tliem all ii^ 
fccing no kfs ihaii ii.My four Men, Women, and Cliildrcni 
lor theie were a gieat many Paflengeis. 

Upon tlie whole, we found it was a Jrtacfi Mer- 
chant Ship of 500 Tvn, homewaid Icimd fiom ^ufbcck, 
in the River of CmMiin. TJie Mailer gave us a king Ac- 
count of the Djih-cfs of his Ship, how the Fire begin in 
the Steerage, Tiy tlie N^ligence of the Steerlmanj. hut 05 
his ciymg out tor Help, was, as every Body thought, 
entirely put out : But they Qxm found, that lome Sparks 
of the firft Fire had gotten into fome j'ait of the Ship, 
fo difficult ta come at, tliat they could net efteftually 
quench it i and afteiwards getting in between the Tim- 
bets, and within the Ceiling of the Ship, it proceedcii into 

-the HoU, and itiaftet'd ail the Skill, and all tlie Application 

.tlwy we-e able to exeit. ; 

Th E If had no more to 60 then, but to get inta tlidr 

Boats, which to their g^tat Comfort were pretty large, 

- being their Long-Boat, and a great Shaltoup, belSdes a 
iiDall Skiff wiiich was of no gieat Seiviee, to them, other 
than ro get lome f efli Water and Provi/ioris into iiei-, 
affei- ihey had feait'd tliere Lives torn the Fire, Th(iy 
had indeed Ihiflll Hope of their Lives by getting into theie 
Boats at tliat Difeiicc from any Land, only, as they faiil 
well, tliat th^ weie eftap'd fiom the Fire, and had a Pof^ 
iibility that fomeShip miglit happen to be at Sea, and 

r might take them ia. • They had Sails, Oars, and a Com- 
V^,j and- were pcparing to laafce the bcft of their Way 
tiCk to iitwf»fm4:Lnd, the. Wind blpwing pretty (m, lor. , , 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(.8) 

it blew an eafy Gde at S, E. by E. They had as mudi 
ProviliOTs and Water, as with fpaving it £o is to be next 
door to ftarving, might fupport them about ii Days; in 
which, if they had no bsa Weather, and no contrary 
Winds, the Captain faid, he hop'd he might get tlie Banks 
of NemferiKtl-land, and might perhaps rate lome Fifli t» 
furtain them till they might go on Shore. But theic were 
fo many Chances againft them in aO theie Cafes; fuch as 
Storms tooverfet and founder them; Rains and Cold to be- 
numb and perifl] their Limbs; contrai7 Winds to keep 
them out and ftarvc them ; that it rnuft have been ncit 
to miraculous, if they had efea^'d. 

1 N the midft of their Conlultations, every one being 
hopelefs, and ready to defpair, the Captain with Tears in 
his Eyes told me, they were on a fudden fiirpriz'd with 



fitft leeing the Light : this revived tlieir Hearts, and gave 
them the Notice, which, us aigve, I delir'd it iliouid, 
(■nix..) that there was a Ship at hand for their Help. 

1 T was upon the hearing theie Guns, that they toofc 
down their Marts and Sails ; and the Sound coming from the 
Windward, they refolv'd to lie by till Morning. Some 
Time after tius, hearing no more Guns, they fir'd three 
Muskets, one a confiderable while after another j kit 
thefe, the Wind being contrary, we never heard. 

Some Time after that again, they were ftill more 
Sereeably furprii'd with feeing our Lights', and hearing 
the Guns, which as I have faid, I caus'd to he fir'd aU 
the reft of the Night; this fct them to work with their 
Oars to keep their Boats a-hcaci, at Icaft, (that we might 
iJie (boner conie up with tliem ; and at lafl, to their in- 
cxprefTible Joy, they found wc faw them. 

I T is impolTible for me to exprcfi the feveral Geflures, 
the ftrange Extafies, the Variety of Poftures which thefe 
poor deUver'd People run into, to exprefs tlic Joy of their 
Souls atfo unexpefted a Deliverance; Grief and Fear are 
eaill^ defcribed; Sighs, Tears, Groans, and a very few 
Motions of Head and Hands make up the Sum of its 
Variety : But an Excels of Joy, a Surprize of Joy has a 
Thoufind Extravagances in its there were fiime in Tears j 
J fyax i!^g and tearing themielves, as if they had been 



1^'.:'. 



Hosted by 



Google 



(19) 

in the greatefl: Agonies of Sorrow; Jbme ftark-raving and 
down-right Lunatick ; foiiie ran about the Ship /lamping 
with thar Feet, others wringing their Hands; ibme were 
dancing, &me finging, fome laughing, more crymg; many 
quite dumb, not able to fpeak a word; otiiers iick and 
vomiting; feveral fwooning, and ready to flint; and » 
fen>, were Ci-ofling themfelve*, and giving God TJianks, 

1 w o u L D not wrong them neither ; there might be 
many that were thankful afterward, but the Paflion was 
too flrong for tJicni at firft, and they were not able to 
maftcr it, they were thrown into Exta.les and a kind of 
Frenzy, and fo there wee but a very few who were com- 
pos'd and ferious in tlieir Joy. 

Perhaps alio the Caie may have (bme Addition to it, 
from the particular Circumftancc of the Nation thev be- 
long'd to, I mean the French ; whoie Temper is allow'd 
to &: more volatile, more palTionatc, and more ^'rightly, 
and their Spirits more fluid tlian in other Nations. 1 am 
not Philofopher enough to determine the Caufe, but no- 
thing I had ever feen tefore came up to it : The Extafies 
poor Friday, my trufiy Savnge, was in when he found his 
Father in the Boat, came the ncareft to it, and the Sur- 

Jirize of the Mafter and his two Companions, who I de- 
ivercd fiom the Villains that fet them oi) Shore in the 
Illand, came a little Way towards it, but nothing was tg 
compare to this, either that I fiwin Fridny, or any whcr* 
elfc in my Lift. 

I T is farther oblervable, ahat th^Ie Extravagancies did 
not Ihcw thcmfelves in that different MaiHier I havemcn- 
tion'd, IB different Pcrfiwis only: But all the Variety 
would appear in a fliort Succeflion of Moments, in one 
and the fime PtTlbn. A Man that we faw this Minute 
dumb, and as it were ftupid and conibunded, fliould the 
next Minute be dancing and hallowing like an Antick ; 
and the next Moment be tearing his Hair, or pulling his 
Clothes to Pieces, and ihmping! them under his Feet, Uke 
a Madman ; a few Moments after that, we ftiould have 
him all in Tears, then fick, then fwooning; and had not 
immediate Help been had, would, in a few Moments 
more, have been dead; and thus it was not with one or 
twp, or tea or twenty, but with the greatcll Part of 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(20) 

tliein i snd if I reriicmber right, our Siugeon was oblig'd 
to lee above thirty of diem blood. 

There v/ere two Piiells among them, one an oU 
Man, and ihe otlier a young Man; and tliat which was 
ftrangcft was, tliattheoMeftManwas the woift. 

A s foon as he fct his Foot on board our Ship, and law 
himiclf late, he dropt down (tone-dead, te ail Appiarnnct, 
not the Jeaft Sign of Life coiild be percciv'd in him ; our 
Surgeon immediately apply'd piopcr Remedies to recover 
him, and was the only Man in the Ship I hat belicv'd he 
was not dcadi at length he open'd a Vdn in his Aim, 
having firft chaf'd and rubb'd the Part ib as to T/arm it 
as much as polfibk; Upon this the Blood, which only 
dtopp'd at lirft, flov?'d fomething freely; in three Minute? 
after, the Man open'd bis Eyes, and about a quarter of an 
Hour after that he fpoLe, grew better, and in a httie 
time quite well) afcei- the Blood was ftopp'd he walk'd 
about, told us he was pevfeftly wtll, took a Diam of 
Cordial which tJie Surgeon gave him, and was what we 
C!ill'd, Came to himfclf ; about a quarter of an Hour after 
this, tliey came running into the Cabin to ihe Sugecn, 
who was bleeding a French Woman, tliat fiad fainted ; and 
told him, the Pneft was gone ftark-mad ; it fecms he had 
begun to icvoive the Change of his CiiTumftance in his 
Mind, and this put him into an EstaJy of Joy, his Spi- 
rits whirl'd about fafter than the Veflels could convey 
them ; the Blood gicw hot and teveriih, and the Man was as 
fit for Bealitm, as any Cicatuie tliat ever was in it: Tlie 
Surgeon would not bleed him again in cliat Condition, but 
give him JbmetHng to dofe and put him to deep, which 
after Some Time operated upon him, and he wak'd next 
Morning pa-fcaiy compos 'd, and well. 

The youngciPriellbehav'dhimrelfwithgreat Command 
of his PalViffla, and was really an Example of a ferious 
wcll-govern'd Jliiid; at his firft coming on boaid the Ship, 
he thi-cw hiro£-lf flat on his Face, pioftiating himfclf m 
ThankfuJnefs for his Deliverance) in which I unhappily 
and unfcafonably diilurb'd him, really thinking he had ocea 
in a Swoon; but he (pake calmly, tliauk'd me; told me, 
he was giving God TJianks for. his Diliveraticc; begg'j 
.me to leave liim a tew Moments, and that, next tohis 
Makcrj he would give mc Thanks alio. 

I WAS 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



I WAS heaitilv fbrry, tJint I dilturt'd Iilm, and not onlf 
left Iiim, but kept others from intctrnpting him alio ; he 
continueil in that Pofture about three Minutes, or a little 
move, after I left him, tiica came to me, as he ]iad laid 
he would, and with a great deal of Seriouftiels nnd Afiec- 
tion, but with Tears in liis Eyes tiiank'd me that had, un- 
der GoJ, given him and fo many miJerablc Creaturts their 
Lives: J told him, 1 had no Room to move him to thank 
God for it, rariier than me: For I had feen that he had 
done that alrtadj-; But I AiUeA, Thai it was no.hina; but 
what Rcalbii and Humanity dii>.ited to all Men, and that 
we had as much Rea&n «j ^ to giveThanks to God, who 
had blels'd us lb far as to make us the Infttuments of his 
Mercy to lb many of his Creatures. 

Aftes this, the young Pi ieli apply'd himfeif to his 
Country-Folks, labouv'd to compofe tliemi pefuaded, en- 
treated, argued, rcalbu'd, with them, and did his utmoft to 
keep them within the Exerdfe of their Reafon ; and with 
foine he had Succefi, tho" others wei* for a Time out of 
all Government of theinfelvcs. 

I CANNOT help committing tliis to Writtiiig, as per- 
haps it may be ufeful to thofe into whoie Hands it may 
fiJI, in the guiding themfclves in all ihe Extravagances of 
their Paflions ; for if an Excefs of Joy caxi carry Men out 
to fuch a Length beyond the Rearh of their Reafon, what 
will not the Extravagances of Anger, Ra^, and a provok'd 
Mind carry us to? and indeed here! fawft.cafon for keeping ' 
an exceeding Watch over our Paflions of every Kind, as 
well thofe or Joy and Satis&iftion, as thofe of Sorrow and 
Anger. 

w E were fomcthing diforder'd by thcfe Extravagances 
among our new Guefls for tlie lirft Day; but when they 
had been rctir'd, Lodgings provided fortfxem as " 
Ship would allow, andrliey Jiad llept Iieaitily, 
tliem did, being fetiga'd sud flighted, they 
another Sort of People the next Day. 
Nothing of good Manners or t 
for the Kindnefs fhewn them was 
'tis known, are naturally apt enough 
The Captain and one of 'w; P.iells 
Day, and deliring to (peak 



Commander, begio to coufult with u 



maii of 



il A ck nowiedgm en ts 
'iaiirigi the Frtnch, 
a oirceed that Way ; 
ime to me tlie next 
ly Nepheiv, the 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



done with them ; and firft they told us, that as we hsd 
faved tiieir Lives, Co all they had was httle enongh for a 
Return to us for the Kindneis received. Tlie Captain iaid, 
tlicy Iiad iaved fome Money and ibme Things of Value in 
their Boats, catch'd haftily out of the Flames, and if we 
v,'ould accept it, they were ordered to make an Offer of it 
alltousj they only defir'd to bcfcton Shore fome where in 
our Way, where it poffxble they mightgetPaOage to rraB«. 

M Y Nephew was for accepting thejr Money at firft 
Word, and to coniider what to do ■with them afterwards; 
but I ovcr-rul'd him in that Part, for I knew what it was 
to be let on Shore in a ftrange Country; and if the Per- 
tagal Captain, that took me up at Sea had Jen-'d me Ci, 
and took all I had for my Deliverance, I muft haveftarv'd, 
or have been as much a Slave at the Srafil^, as I had been 
in B»rb«ry, the being fold to a Muhometan only excepted; 
and perhaps 3. Tertugutfe is not much a better Mailer than a 
Turk, if not in Ibme Cafo a much worfi, 

Itherefohe told the French Captain that we had ta- 
ken them up in their Difecfs, it was true; but that it was 
our Duty to do &, as we were Feliow-Ci-eaturcs, and as 
we would delire to be & delivered if we were in tlie lite 
or any other Extremity 1 that we had done nothing for 
them but what we believed they would have done for U3, 
if we had been in their Cafe, and they in ours ; but that 
we took rfiem up to five them, not to plunder them ; and it 
would be a moft barbarous Thing to take that little ftoin 
them which they had faved out of the Fire, and then iet 
them on Shore and leave tliem ; that this would be firft to 
ixve them from Death, and then kill them our fdves; lave 
them from drowning, and abandon them to ftarvingi and 
therefore I wouU not let the leaft Thing be taken from 
them : As to letting them on SJiore, I told them indeed, 
that was an cxcee<fing Difficulty to us, for that the Ship 
was bound to the Eafi-Indies; and tho* we were driven out 
of our Courft to the Welhvard a very great Way, which 
perhaps was direfted by Heaven on purpofe for riieir De- 
fiverance, yet it was impoflible for lis wilfully to change 
our Voyage on this particular Account; nor could my Ne- 
phew, the Captain, anfwericto the Freightas, withwhom 
he was under Chaiter-Party to pur<ue his Voyage by the Way 
of Brazil and all I knew we could do for them, was to 
put 



Hosted by 



Google 



pa our fclvcs in tie Wav of meeting with other Ships 
homeward bound from the Weft-InMii, aod get them Paf- 
fige, if pofliblc, to Englmd or Frimcf. 

THEfirftPart of ttePropofil was fo generous and kind, 
they could not but be very thankful for it j but they vrere 
' a very great Conilemation. efpecially the Paflengers, s" 



Weftward, before I met wito them, I would at leaft keep 
on the fame Courle to the Banks of Niivfbitnd - Limd, 
where it was probable I might meet with fome Ship or 
Sloop that they might hiie to cany them back to Ciww- 
Jii, from whence they came. 

1 THOUGHT this' was but a reafonable RequelV on their 
Parti and therefore I inclin'd to agree to it ; for indeed I 
confider'd, that to cany this whole Company to the £«/?- 
Iik/iei, would not only be an intolerable Severity to Uic 
poor People, but would be mining our whole Voyage by 
devouring all our Provifionsj fo I thought it po Breach of 
Charter-Party, but w^hat an tinforeleen Accident made ab- 
folutely necdlary to us, and in which no one could lay we 
were to blames for the Lav/s of God and Nature would 
have forbid, that we fliould rcfufe to take up two Boats 
full of People in fiich a diftrefs'd Condition, and tlie Nature 
of the Thing as well re^ieSing our felves as the poor Peo- 
ple, oblig'd us to fct them on Shore Ibme where or other, 
for their Deliverance ; ib I confcnted that we would carry 
them to Nev found-Land, if Wind and Weather w^ould per- 
mit, and if not. that I would carry them to Maninico in 
the Wtjl-lndies. 

The Wind continued frefh Eafterly, but the Weather pret- 
ty good, and as it had blowed continually in the Points be- 
tween N. E. and S. E. a long time, we miffed feveral Op- 
portunities of folding them to Fratjcti for we met leveral 
Ships botind to Ewepe, whereof two were French from St. 
Chrifto^r's, but they had been & long beating up againil 
the Wind, that they durfl: take in no Paffengers for fear of 
Wanting Provifions for the Voyage, as well for themielves 
!is for thofe they (liouM take in ; fo we were oblig'd to go 
*"!. It was about a Week after this that we made fie 
Banks of ISliwfmmd-LMd, where, to ihortcn my Story, we 
_f at all our French People on board a Bjrk, which they 
hir'd 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(=4) 

hif'ti at Sea there, to put them on Shore, and afterwards 
to carry them to Trance, if they could get Provilion to- 
viiaualthemfclveswjth: ■When.I.ray.aUthcFreJwA wenton 
Shme,! ihtmld remembci- thit the young Prieft I fpoke of, 
hearing we were bound to the Eaft-InMes, defii'd to go tlis 
Voyage VT'a\\ us, and to be let on Shore on theCoaft ofCo^ 
romtmdel: I readily agieed to that, tor I wonderfiilly lifc'd 
the Man, and had very good Reafbn, as will appeal after- 
wards i alfo four of the Seamen entcr'd themfelves on our 
Ship, and prov'd very uiefol Fellows. 

From hence we dii eiSled our Courfe for the Wefl-IniTies, 
fteeriBgawayS.andS.bvE.forabout loDaystogether.tbme- 
times little or no Wind at all, when we met with anothw 
Subjcift for our Humanity to work pon, almoil as deplo- 
rable as that before. ." 

It was in the Latitude of 17 Degrees f Minutes N, 
and the 19th Day of March i6_ i.-f, when w^ 'Ipy'd a 
Sail, our Courfe S. E. and by S. We foon perceiv'd it was 
a large Veilel, aodthatflieboreup tons, but could not at firil 
know what to make of her, tillafter comity a little nearer, 
wefound ftie had loll her MainTop-maft. Fore-malt and Bolt- 
ftrit, and prefcntly flie fires a Gun as a Signal of Diftrefs j 
the Weather was pretty good, Wind at N, N. W, a freih- 
Gale, and we foon came to fpeak with her. 

W E found her a Ship of Brifiol, bound home from Bar- 
badoes, but had been blown out of the Road at Bnrbadaei 
' a few Days brfbre Ihe was ready to &il. by a ten ible Hur- 
ricane, while the Captain and Cliief-Mate wei-e both goiiei 
on Shore; fo that, befidc the Terror of the Storm, rhey; 
were but in an indiffcient Cafe for eood Artifts to bringj 
the Ship home: "fhcy !ad been alicaoy nine Weeks at Sea, 
: and liad met with another terrible Sronn after the Hurriri 
cane was over, which had blown them quite out of tlicirj 
Knowledge to the Wdlwavd, and in which they loft tl^ir 
Mafts, fu abavt; they tcld us they espeaed to have fceO| 
the Bahama Wands, but were then driven away agim! 
to the South-Eaft, by a ftrong Gale of Wind at N. N. W-. , 
the iamc that blew now, and having no Sails to work tlw ' 
Ship with, but a Maiii-Courfi, and a kind of fquare.^1 1 
upon a Jury-Foie-Maft, which they had fet up, they comW 
not lie near the Wind, but were cndwvouring to aiiiA.\- \ 
way for the Cmiwies, _ ,' " 

' Hut 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



C»5 ) 

Cot that which was worft of all \vas, that they were 
aliiioft ftarv'd far want of I'rovifions. bdides the Fatigue; 
they had undergone; their .Bread and Fleih was quite gone, 
■ thfeyhadnotoneOunee left in the Ship, and had had none for 
II Days; the only Relief they had, was, their Water was 
not all ipent, and they had about half a Barrel of Flower 
left; they had Sugar enoughs fome Succades or Sweet- 
Meats they iad at firft, but they wcic devour'd, and thcjf 
had fcven Casks of Rum. 

There was a Youth and his Mother and a Maid-Scr- 
vant on board, who were going PaiTengers, and thiiiking 
the Ship was leady to fill, unhappily came on board the E- 
veningbcfotcthe Hurricane began, and having no Piovifions 
of rhcir own lefr,thcyv,-^einanioredeplorabie Condition than 
the reft; fot the Seamen, being reduc'd to fuch an cutreme 
Neceliity themlelvcs, had noOjmpaHion, we may be futc, 
fin' the poor FafTengers; . id they were indeed in a Condi- 
tion that their Milery iB''vcry havd to defoibe. 

1 HAD, perhaps, not knownthis Part, if my Curiofity had 
not led me, the Weather being tair and the Wind ^ted, to 
go onboard the Ship; The Second Mate who upon this Oc- 
cafion commanded the Ship, had been on board our Ship, 
and he told me Indeed, that they had three Paflcngers iji 
the great Cabin, that they were in a deplor^le Condition; 
nay, fays he, I believe they are dead, tor I have heard no- 
thing of them for above two Days; and I was afraid to en- 
quire after them, iaid he, for I had nothing to relieve them 
with. 

W E immediately apply'd our frlves to give them what 
Relief he could Ipare; and indeed t had lo far over-iuled 
Things with my Nephew, that I would have viftuall'd 
them, tho' we had gone away to Virginia, or any Pa't of 
theCoaft of America, to have iupply'd om- fclvesj but there 
was no NeccfTity for that. 

But now they wherein a jiew Daagerj fortheywcre 
afraidof eating too much, even of that Ettic we gave them; 
the Mate or Commander brought fix Men with him in his 
Boat, but thcfc jioor Wretches look'd like Skeletons, and 
weie fo weak, they could hardly fit to their Oars: The 
Mare Iiimfelf was very ill, and half flawed t fbr he de- 
dar'd he had referv'd nothing from the Men, and went 
B Shaie 



Hosted by 



Google 



■Share and Share alike with tlier 



I ererjF Bit they 



I cjiution'd him to eat Jparingly, but fct MciC be- 
foie him immediate!)', aod he md not eaten three Mouth- 
flils before he fccejm to be fick, and out of oidcti lb he 
ftopt a while, and our Surgeon mix'd him up fomethiiig 
with fome Broath, which he Jaid would be to him both 
Food and Phylick; and after he had taken it lie giew let- 
ter: in the mean Time, I forgot not the Men; I ordei-'d 
Victuals to be given them, and the poor Cieatures rather 
devour'd than eat itj they were ib exceeding hungiy, that 
they were in a kbd ravenous, and had no Command of 
themfiJves j and two of them cat with fo much Greedi- 
ncfs, that they were in Danger of their Lives the next 
Morning, 

The Sight of thefe People's Diftrefs was very moving 
to me, and wought to mind what 1 had a teirible Piolpcft 
of at my firft coming on Shore in my IJland, where I iiaJ 
not the lead Mouthful of Food, or any Profpedl of pro- 
curing any} befides the hourly Apprehenfion 1 had of being 
made the Food of other Q eatures ; But all ihe while the 
Mate was thus relating to me the miferable Condition of 
the Ship's Company, I could not put out of my Thought 
the Stmy he had told me of the three poor Criatnres in 
the great Cabin, (■viz..) the Mother, her Son, and the Maid- 
Servant, who he had heard nothing of for two or three 
Daysi and who he leem'd to confels they Jiad wholly ncg- 
k-itcd, their own Extremities being ft great; bj- which I 
underftood, that they had really given them no lood at all, 
mid that therefore they muft be pejifli'd, and bcalllyii-.g 
<icar,i perhaps on the Floor, or Deck of the C^in. 

A s I therefore kept tlie Mate, who we tlwn railed Cap- 
tain, on I>oard with his Men to refiefii them, To I alio for- 
got not the ftarving Crew that were iefi: on boaid, but or- 
Ser'd my own Bo^t to go on. board the Ship, and with my 
Mate and twelve Men to carry them a Sack of Bread, and 
foiir or five Pieces of Beef to boil. Our Surgeon charg'd 
the Men to caufe theMeat tobe boil'dwliiie rheyftay'd, and 
to l.cep Gaurd in the Cook-Room, to prevent the Men 
taking it to eat raw. or taking it out of the Pot before it 
was weli-boird. and then to give every Man but a little at 
ft nmc ) aiid by this Caution he preCJrv'd the Men, who 
would 



Hosted by 



Google 



wouM othcrwiic ha' kill'd themfeves, with tliit very Food' 
that wa5 given them on Purpofe to iavc their Lives. ■■ 

At tlie fame Time, I ordered rhs Mate to go into the 
great Cabin, and fte what Condition the poor PalTengei* 
were in, and if they were alive, to eomftnt them, and give 
them what Rcfrefhmeat was proper ; and the Sargeon gave 
him a large Pitcher wthlbmc of the prepar'd Broth which 
he had given the Mate that was on Board, and which he 
did not queftion would reftorc them gradually. 

I w A s not fatisfied with this, bur, as I faid above, hav- 
ing a ^eat Mind to fee the Scencof Mifcry, which I knew 
the Ship it felf would prefent me with, in a more lively 
Manner than I could have it by Report, I took the Captain 
of the Ship, as we nowcali'd him, with me, and wentmy 
fcif a little after in their Boat, 

Ipouni) the poor Men on board almoft in aTumulE 
to get the Viduals out of the Boiler before it was ready: 
But my Mate oblcrv'd his Order, and kept a good Guard at 
the Cook-Room Door, and the Man he placd there, after 
uling all poflible Perfuafion to have Patience, kept them off 
by Force : However, he cauied Ibme Bisket Cak<s to be 
dipp'd in the Pot, and fofcen'd them w^irh the Liquor of the 
Meat, which they call Brewes, and gave them every one 
One, to ftay their Stomachs, and told them it was for their 
own Safety that hewasobligd to give them but a Utile »c 
a time; But it was all in vain, and tod I not comeonboard, 
and their own Commander and Officers with me, and with 
gooii Words, andJbmeThreatsalfoof givingthem no more, 
I believe they would Iwve broke into the Cook-Room by 
Force, and tore the Meat out of the Furnace : For Words 
are indeed of very fmall Force to a hungry Belly : However 
we parify'd them, and ted them gradually and cautioufly for 
the firfl Time, atwl the next Time gave them more, and at 
M fill d their Beljies, and the Men did well enough. 

But theMilcry of the poor Pallengers intheCiiin was 
of another Nature, and tar beyond the reft j forasfirfi. the 
Ship s Company had fo little lor thcm&Jvcs, it was but tosi 
true that tiiey had at iirfl kept them very low, and at taft 
totally negle&ed thcmi fi> that for fix or Icven Days, it 
might be iaid, they had really had no Food at all, and for 
feveral Days before, very little. The poor Mother, who, as 
th« firft Mate repotted, was a Woman of good Sencc and 
H 1. gooi 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



goad Brecdbg, had fpar'd all (be could get Co afTe(tion:i.ti:\f 
tor her Son, that at bft lire entirely funk undc'- it ; An.i 
when the Mate ot' Ship wait in, (he fat upon the Floor cr 
Deck, with her Back up againll the Si'Je;, between two 
Chaiis, which were hfh'd Sft, and-her Head funk iu be- 
tween hei- Shoulders, like a Corpfe, tho' not quite dead. 
My Male laid all he could to revive and cncouiage her, and 
with a Spoon put Came Broth into her Mouth; (he o]-e;i-' 
cd Iicr Lips, and lifted up one Hand, but could not fpeak ; 
yet fi e udn«ftood what he faid, and made Signs to him, 
intimating, that it was too late for her, but pointed to hw 
Child, as it' Hie would liavc iaid, they ftiould take Care of 

HowEvFR the Mate, who was evcecdingly mov'd 
vi;h the Sight, cndeavour'd to get ibme of" the Bvoih in- 
'to her Mouili.i and, as he faid, got two or three Spoonfuls 
«own, iho' I queftion whether he could be fine of it oi- 
cot : Hut it was too late, and fhc dyd the fame Night. 

The Youth, who was prcfcrv'd at the Price of his moft 
aflcftionatc Mother's LiJc, was not lb far gone, yet he lay 
in a CaKn-hed as one Jbetchd out, with liaidly any Life 
left in him, he had a Piece of an old Glove in his Mouth, 
having eaten up the reft of it; however, being young_, and 
having more Strength than his Mother, the Mate gotibmc- 
tliing down his Throat, and he be^n fcnfibty lo revive, 
tkiugh by giving him Ibme time after but two or tiirce 
Spoonfuls cxtraoriiinary, he was very fick, and brought it 
up again. 

B u T the next Care was the root Maid, f\ e lay all along 
upon the Deck, hard by her Miihefs, and juil like one that 
had fallen down with an Apoplexy, and (bugglcd for Lite: 
Her Limbs wac diftoncd, one of her Hands was clafpd 
round the Frame of the Chair, and (lie grip'd it fo liaid, 
tiiat we could not eafily make her let gp; her other Arm 
lay over her Head, and her Feet lay both together, let fcft 
againli- the Frame of the Cabin-table; inftioit, il-cbyjuft , 
hke one in the laft Agonies of Death; and yet Rx \vas 
alive too. " 

T n f poot Creature was not only iTarvy with Hunger. 

ind teriify d with the Thoughts of Death, but, ss the Men 

told ns aftcrwaids, was bioken-heaited for her Miilrefi, 

who 



Hosted by 



Google 



(.29) 

rvho "fte faw dying two or three Days bcfo.-e, and w! 
Icv'd-mofttcndcily. 

; knew not wk-.t to do with this poor Givl 



for 






uigeon, 



who^^ 



1 Man of very great Know- 



Idge and Expci icnce, had with great AppUca 
Her, as to Life ; he kid hn' upon Iits Hand as to her Scnfo, 
for ft-.c w^s little lels than diftiaftcd fora confideia';icTim« 
•after, as (liail appear prcfcnrly. 

W HoEVER 1! all read thefe Mcmorandmni mult be de- 
fi'-'d to 'eonfider, that Vifits at Sea arc not like a lourncy 
into the.Couniry, ■whe;e ibmctimes People liay a Week or 
a Fortnight a' a Place. Ou^- Buiinefs was to relieve this 
difh-ciredShip's Crew, but not lie by for tlicfri i and t)io' 
they were willing to tieei- the fame Co'.uie with us tor 
fome Days, yet we could carry no Sail to keep Pace with 
a Ship that hU no Maft'^ i however, as ihrir Captain beg- 

f'd of us to help him to Jet up a Main-Top-Maft, and 3 
ind of Top-Maft to his Jui y-Fore-Maft. We did, as it. 
were lie by him for ilr ee or four Days, and then having 
given him liveBartels of Beef, a Barrel of Potk, twoHog- 
fleadsof Biskef, aiui a Porfortion of Peas, Flowr, aiidwhat 
other Thir^ we coul.l Ipa-cj and taking thicc Ca^ks of 
Sugar, fome Rutn, and fome Pieces of Eight of them lor 
Sansfaftion, welcft them, uking on board with us, attheir 
own raitieft Requeftj the Yoath, and the Maid, and all their 
Goods. 

The young Lad vras about fcventeen Years of Age, a 
pretty, well-bied, modeft, and fcnlitlc Youth; gieaiiy de- 
jeifted with the Lofs of his Mother, and, as it leems, had 
loft his Father but a few Months Iiefore at Barh^^hfi. He 
b<^d of the Surgeon to Ipeak to me, to take him out of 
tlieShip, for he faid the cruel Fellows had munhevd hii 
Mother i and indeed fo'thty h/jd, that is to fay t.'_^;r.^; tor 
they might ha' Ipai-d a fmail Suftenance to the poor hd^i- 
lefs Widow, that might liavcprefev'd her Life, tho' it had 
teen but juft to keep her alive. But Hunger knows no 
Friend, no Relation, no Juilice, no Right, and ihcieiurcis 
remorfclefs, and eapabk of no CompalTion. 

The Surgeon told him how far we were going, ami 
how it wouS cairy him away from all iiis Friends, and put 
him perhaps in as bad Circumftances almoft as v^e found 
dicm in i that is to lay. ftarvine; in the World, tie fiid hs 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



f 30) 

miattcr*d not whcthe: hewent, if he was but deli ver'd from 
tJie terrible Qcw, that he vvas among : Tliat the Captain 
tby which he meant me, for he could know nothing of 
my Nephew) had fav'd his Life, and he was fute would 
jiot huit him ; and as for the Maid, he was lure if f e 
ramc to her lelf, ihe would he very thankful for it, kt 
uj cany them -where wc would. The Surgeon repvcC-iit- 
eil the Cafe fo aifcftionatclj' to tne, that I yielded, and we 
took ihetn both on boaiU withalltheitGoods, except eleven 
Hogd-i^sof Sugar, which could not he removed or come 
at, and as tlie Youth had a Bill of Ladirg for tla;m, I 
inadc his Commandei- iign a Writing, obliging himfelf to 
go as foon as he came to Srifiol, to one Mr, Rogert aMer- 
chant there, to whom the Youth faid he was related, and 
to deliver a Letter which I wtote to him, and all the 
Goods he had belonging to the deceafed Widow,- which I 
. iiippoic was not done, for I cooldncver leant that the Ship 
eame to Srijfol, but was, as is moft probable, loft at Sea, 
being in Co difd>led a Condition, and to far from any Land, 
that 1 am of Opinion, the firft Storm (lie met with after- 
wards, ft;c might fbutidcr in the Sea, for She was leaky, 
End had Dam;^ in her Hold when we met with her. 

I «■« s no-w in the Latitude of ijj Dcg. ji Min. and 
had hithei to had a tolerable Voyage as to Weather, though 
at firft the Winds had been cootnffy, I Ihall ttoutlc no 
body with the little Incidents of Wind, Weather, Currents, 
e^. on the reft of out Voyage; but (hortning my Story 
fyr the fake of what is to foifow, (hall obferve that I came 
to my old Habitation, the Ifland, on loth of April, ifitif . 
It was with no fmall Difficulty that I found the Place; 
for a.^ I came to it, and -went from it beftire, on t]K South 
and EaJl Side of ihe lijand, as coming from thcBrHj h, fo 
novr coming in between the Main and theldand, and hav- 
ing no Chart for the Coail, nor any Land-Mark, I did 
not know it when I faw it, or know wlicthcr 1 Jaw^ ii 

W E beat about a great while, and went on Shore on ie» 
Veral Iflands in the Mmth of the great River Orcnaiqui, 
but none tor iny Purpofc. Only this I Icain'd by my 
Coartbg tlie Shore, that I was under one great Miftake be- 
fore, tiiz.. that the Continent which I thought I law, from 
tte liland I livd in, was reaBy no Continent, but a long ■ 
lilaod. 



Hosted by 



Google 



Ifland, or rather a Ridge of Iflands, reaching from one to 
the oiher Side ot the c>:tcnded Mouth of that grtac Rivci-, 
and that the Savages who came to my I/bnd, were not 
properly llioie which we call Curibbm, hut Iflaiidcrs and 
other Barbavians 'of the fame Kind, who inliabited &mc- 
thing nea.i:cr to our Side than the rell. 

In iliort, I vili ted fever al of theJc lilands to noPiirpoic,- 
fonic 1 found were inhabited, and fome waenot. On one 
ot them I found ibme SlaniarJi, and thought thej' hadliv'J 
tliere, but Ipcaking with them, found they had a Sloop lav 
In a fmal! Cieck hud by, and they came thither to make 
Salt, and to catch fome Pearl Mufcles if they cou]d, hut 
that the^ belonged to the Ifle Ji Triiiidad, whic'h lay farther 
Norths in the Latitude of lo and ii Degr^s. 

Thus coaflingfi^m one Ifland to ancther, fometimes 
with the Ship, fometimes with the Frrfoc/j Man's SJialloup, 
(which we had found a ciMivenicnt Boat, and therefbie ki'rt 
her with their very good Will ; ) at length I ranic fiiir on 
the South Side of my liland, and I prefcntly knew the ve- 
ry Countenance of the Place; fo I brought the Shipfafc to 
an Anchor, Broadlide with the little Creek where was my 
old Habitation, 

_ As foonas Ifaw the Place, I call 'd for TrUay, and ark d 
him if he knew where he was? He lookd about a liitk, 
and prefently, clapping his Hands, cry'd j O yes, O rherr, 
O yrs, O there, pointing to our old Habitation, and fcU a 
dancing and capering like a mad Fellow, and I h:id mucil 
ado to keep him from jumping into the Sea, to fwim a- 
flwre to the Place. 

Well, £riJm, fays I, do you think we (hall find any bo- 
dy here or no? And what do you think, (hall we fi'c vour 
Father ? The Fefcw Hood mute as a Stock a gOOil while, 
but when I nam'dhis Father, the poor afftdlitinateCrcfltiirc 
look'd dejeiiied. and I couid lee the Tears run Aowa his 
Face very plentifiilly. What is the matter, Tridny, lays I ? 
Are you troubled becaufe you may fee vour Father ? No, 
no, jnys he, (haking his Head, no fee him mo; c, no ever 
more lee again ; U^fo, fiid I, Tridiy, hcti ibyou kKov 
fhHt? O no, O no, liys Fridiiy, he long ago diej long ago, 
he much old Man. Well, well, fi^i I, Triday. yOu don't 
know j but Ihail we fee any one dfe tMdi ? Tiie Fellow, it 
*ems, had better Eyes than I, andhepoints juft to theHil! 
S ^ above 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



f 3») 

ilove my old Houfc; and tho' we l.iy half a League off, hi 
ciiesout. mefte! me fee! yes. yes, mefee much Man theic, 
and thcrcj and there. I look'd, but 1 couM fee no body, 
no not with a PeTftcflive Glafs ; which was, I fuppofe, 
hecaufc I ccHild not hit the Place, for the Fellow was right, 
as I found upon Enquiry the next Day, and thcie was five 
or fix Meii altogether, flood to look at the Ship, not luiow- 
ing what to thmk of us. 

As &O0 as FriJsyhai told me hefaw People, I caus'ii 
ihc En^lijh Ancient to be fpread, and fit'd tliiee Gun^, to 
give them notice we were Friends, and in about half a 
Qiiatter of an Hour after, we percriv'd a Smoak rile fiom 
the Side of the Creek, fo I immediately ordei'd aBcat out, 
taking TriJay with me, and hanging out a white Flag, or 
a Flag of Truce, I went dircflly on Shore, taking with me 
the young Fryer I mention'd, to whom I had toU the 
whole Story of my living there, and the Manner of it. and 
every Pa-ticular both of my IZ'If, and thofe that I left there; 
and who was on that Account extremely dciirous to go 
with me. ■ We had befides about fixtcco Men very well 
aini d, if we had found any new Guefls there which we 
i\6 not [.now of j but wc had no need of Weapons. 

A s we went on Shore upon the Tide of Flood, near 
high Water, y/c Tow'd diirfll)' into the Creek, and the fitft 
IVSn, I fix'd my Eye upon, was the SpmiMfd whofc Life 1 
had lav'd, and wl.to I knew by his Face pcrfeaiy well ; as 
to his Habit I fl all detcribe it aftervvards, lordet'd no bo- 
dy lo go on Shore at firft but my fcif, but theie was no 
kcepirg FriJt^ in tlic Boat ; for the affbilionatc Creature 
had Ipyd his Father at a Diftance, a good way off of the 
Spaniards, whae indeed I fiw nothing of him j and if'thev 
had not let him go on Shoi e, he would have jump d into 
the Sea. He was no IbonH- on Shore, but lie flew away 
to his Father like an Arrow out of a Bow. It would have 
made any Man have ihed Tears in Ipight of the lirmeftRe- 
iblution, to have Iccn the fitft TranTports of this poor Fel- 
low's Joy when he came to his Father; how he embracd 
him, kifs'dhim.,ilrtd:d his Face, took him up in his Arms, 
let him down upon a Tree,^ and lay down by him ; then 
flood and look'd at him, as anyone would look at a fttange 
' Fkiure, for a Quarter of an Hour together^ thmlye down 

OB 



Hosted by 



Google 



(n) 

on t!ie GrounJ, nnd Broke his I^gs, anj !^ f the n an I 
then get upagain, and ilareathimj one woullha 1 o g c 
the Fellow bewitch'd : But it would ha e n e a 
Dog laugh to iee how the next Day his Pj 1 o un 
out another Way; In the Morning lie walk i Id g Ic 
Shore, to and again, withhis Fother fevc.alHo a s 

leading him by the Hand, as if he had been a Lad a 1 
eveiy now and then would come to fcteh fo c 1 go 
othci' for hirvi to the Boat, either a Lump ot '^ug o a 
Dram, a Biskct, or Something or other that g<^ 

In the Afternoon his Frolicks run another ftaj to t! -n 
he would fctthc old Man down upon the Gumnd, and 
dance about him, and made a Thoufand aiitick Pdfttnes 
and Gefturesi and all the while he did this, he would be 
talking to him, and telling him one Story or another of 
Iiis Travel, and of what had happen'd to him Abioad, to 
diveit him. In lliort, if the fime filial Afleftion was to 
he found in Cliriftiaos to their Parents, in our Pait! of the 
World, one would be tempted to fay, there would Iiardly 
Iia' been any Need of the nftch Commandment. 

But this is a Digreflions I return to my Landing, 
It would be endleis to ake Notice of all the Ceremonies 
ard Civilities that the Sfmiards receiv'd me with. The 
fivft Spmiiard. who, as I laid, I fcne\v very well, wai 
he whole Lite I had fiv'd; he came towards the Boat, 
attended by one more, catryingaFIag of Truce alfo; aiidlic 
dii! not only not know me at fi: ft, but he had no Thoughts, 
no Notion of its beinj; me tliat was come, till I fpoke to 
hira : Seignior, fiid I, in Pertitgiitfe, Do you nor know 
me ? At which he ipo£c not a Woi d ; but giving his Mu- 
sket to the Man that vvas with hiin, threw his Amis a- 
hroad, andfiyingfomethiiigin^f/iwjlS, tliatldidnot p:rfi;dl:- 
ly hear, came foiw.ivd, and cmbrac'd nic, telling roe he 
was inexcufablc, not to know that Face again, that he had 
once feen, as of an Angel fora Heaven, ient to iaye his 
Lifr; He iaid Abundance of very Fandfoitic Tilings, as a 
well-bied SpiMarJ always knows how ; and then beckon- 
ing to t!!C PcrSm that attended him, hd him go and call 
out his Comeradcs, He then ask'd me, if I woulii 'valk 
to my old Habitation, where he would irivc me Pi fT-.iiivn 
of my own Houle again, andwliec I (Fouki lee tlv.rehad 
been but mean Improvcmwits ; fy I waHcM -Acr.x >vith 



Hosted by 



Google 



(34) 

but alis! I otuiJ no more find the Plice again, than if I' 
had never been there ; for they had planted fo many Trees, 
lad plac'd them in fiich a Pofture, fo thick and clofe to 
one anotherj and in ten Year's Time they were grownfo 
big, that mjhart the Place was inaccelTible, except byfuch 
windings and blind Ways, as they themfelves only, who 
made them, could find. 

I A s K ■ D them what put tliem upon all thefe Fortifica- 
tions ? He told mc, I would iky there was need enough 
of it, when they had given me an Account how they had 
pafs'd their Time fince there Arriving in the Ifland, efpe- 
cially after they had the Misfortune to find that I was 
gcme: He told me, he could not but have fome Satisfafti- 
on in my good Fortune, when he heard that I was gone 
in a good Ship, and to my Satisiiiftionj and that he had 
otten-times a ftrong Pcrfuafion, that one Time or other he 
ihould ftc mc again : But nothing that ever befel him in 
lis Life, he fai^ was fo furprifing and afflicting to him at 
foil:, as the Difippointmcnt he was under whm he came 
back to the Ifland, and found I was cot there. 

A s to rhc three BarAarJam (Co he call'd them) that were 
left behind, and of whom he iaid he had a long Story to 
'tell me; the Sfimiards all thought themlclves much better 
among the Savages, only tliat their Number was fo fmall. 
And, %,Y% he, had they been flrong enough, we had been 
all long ago in Purmtory; and with that he crofs'd him- 
vfelf on tlS BrMll: But, Sir, Jays he, I hope you will not 
fee difplca&d, when I ftal! tell you how. We'd by Nccef- 
fity, we were oblig'd, for our ovvn Prclcrvation, to diiarm 
than, and making them our Subjefts, who would not be 
content with being moderately our Mafters, but would be 
our Murthererj. I anfwer'd, I w^ heartily afraid of it 
■ when I left them there; and nothing troubled me at my 
'Tuning from the Ifland, but that fliey were not come 
fckck, that I might have put them in PofTeflion of every 
Thing fii-ft, smi left the other in a State of Subjeflion, as 
they delcrv'd : But if they had reduc'd them to it, I 
viis \<:'iy glad, and fhould be very far from finding any 
Tault with it ; foi- 1 knew they were a Parcel of refrac- 
lovy, ungovern'd Villains, apd wcie fit for any Manner of 
mkhkf 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(35) 

While 1 was faying this, came the Man whom lie 
had Cent back, and with him eleven Men more : In the 
Drefs they were in, ic was impofTible to guefs what 
Nation they are of : But he made all clear both to them 
and to me. Firft he turn'd to me, and pointing to them, 
laid, Thefe, Sir, arefome of the Gentlemen whoovjetheir 
Lives to youi and then turning-to them, and pointing to 
me, he let them know who 1 wat ; upon w^hich they all 
came up one by one, not as if they had been Sailors and 
ordinary Fellows, and I the like, but teally, as if thqr had 
teen Ambailadors of Noblemen, and I a Monarch or a 
great Conqueror ; their Behaviour vias to the Jail Degree 
obliging and courteous, and yet mi^'d with a manly, ma- 
jeftick Gravity, which very well became them ; and in 
fhoi t, they had Co much more Manners than 1, that I fcarce 
inew how to receive their Civilties, much Icfs how tore- 
turn them in kind. 

The Hiiloryof their coming to, and Coodaftiatfce 
Ifland, after my going away, is lb very remarkable, and 
has fo many Incidents, which the fortiier Part of my Re- 
laiion will help to underftand, and which, wi^, in moft of 
the Particulars, reier to that Account I have already given, 
that I cannot but commit them with great Delight to the 
reading of tho& that come after mc. 

I 11 all no longer trouble the Story with a Rektion ill 
the firft Perfon, which will put me to the ExpOice of ten 
Thoufand fitiJ J'l, and faid he's, ami he loW rat's and I tdd 
bim's, and the like, but I lliall colleit the Faiij HifloricaUy, 
as near as I can gather them out of mj" Memory from 
what they related to mc, and from what I met with in 
my conueriing with them, and with the Place. 

I N order to do this fuccinflly, and as intelligibly as I 
can, I muft go back to the Circumftance in which I left 
the IHand, and wliich the Perfiwis^verein, of whomlam 
o ipeafc. And fii flit is neceffary to repeat, that Ihadfent 
"■ ■ 'i/, tlie two whofi! 
^ ; I fay, I had fcnt 
them awav in a laigc Canoe to the Main, as ithmthoitght 
it, to fcccn over the Sp/mnrd's Companions, whom he liad 
. left behind him, in order to lave them.fiom the like Ci- 
lamity that he had been in ; and in order to fuccoiir tliem for 
thcp.-dbit, and that if roilibie, we might toj^clher fini 
feme Way fbi out DclivctMice aftet ward. Whem 



Hosted by 



Google 



Wjitn I ftnt tlieni away, I had no vilible Appraran<T 
of, or the leaft Room to hope for nij own Detverancc 
any more than I had twenty Year before, much lefi hid 
lany Fore'knOwkdgeof what after happened, 1 mean of an 
£n£ii/hSiap coming on Shore there to fetch me off; and it 
fould not but be a very great Surprize to them when they 
eame back, not only to find thai I ivas gone, Kit to find 
three Strangers left on the Spot, poflt'is'd of aJ] that I had 
left behind me, which. WOuM otaerwiii have been their 

The firft Thing, however, which 1 enquir'd into, tliat 
I might begin where I left off, was of their own Part j 
and f defir'd he would gix-e me a particular Account of 
■ ■ ' Boat, wh 
; there « 

iittle Variety in that Part, for nothing rcmai kablc happen'd 
to thtm on the Way, theyliaving very calm Weather, and 
afmoothSeaifor his Countiymcn it could not be doubted 
he fiid, but thatthey were over joy'd to fee Inm : It fecms 
hewasrhe priadpal Man among them, the Captain of the 
Vcflel tlreyhadBeen Shipwrect'd in (having been Ucad 
icme Time) thi^wtre, be /aid, the more Surpiiied tolee- 
h'm, bccaufeth^ knew that he was fiUen into tfte Hands of 
t!,c Savages, who, they were fitisfy'd, would devour him- 
a:, they did ail the reft of their Ptifoners; that when they told 
them the StorJ of his Deliverance, and in what Manner 
he vras fiirnifti'ii' for carrying them away, it was like 
a Dream ijo them ; and their AftonifhmeHt. they faid, wa» 
*bmething' like that of y^efA's Brethren, when he told-them- 
who he was, and told them the Story of his Eiialtation 
in Fharo/ih's Court: But when he fiiewed them the Arms, 
the Powder, the Ball, and the Proviiions that he brought 
*hem foi- their journey or Voyage, they were icilor'd td 
themlclves, took a 'uft Share of the joy of their Dclive- 
Fanco,.and iwitncdiatclj' prepar'd to come away wiih him. ' 

TsEtR lirft Bufinefi was to get Canoes,- and in this 
they were d>liged not to flick fo much upon the honeft 
Part of it, but to tiiefpafs apon their friendly Savages, and to 
fcorrowrw-o laigeGanfws er Periagua's, on pretence of go- 
fcg out a Fiiliing, Or for PIcalure, 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(57) 



I N tlieft they camcaway the next Morning; it Items thef 
wanted no Time to get thomfelves leady, ftr they had no 
Ba^ge, neitheir Clothes or ProviJions, or any Thing in 
tlieWorld, but what they had on them, and a few Roots 
to eat, of which they uf«l to tnake their Bicad. 

T n E V were in all three Weeks abfcnt, and in thar 
Time, unluckily for them, I had the Occaiion offer'd tor 
myElcapc, asl mention'd in my other Part, and togetotF 
fiotn the Iflandj leaving three of the moft impudcntr 
harden'd, ungovCTn'd, difigiecaMe Villains behind me, that 
any Man could defiie to meet with, to the poor Spar.mrJi 
great Grief and Difippointment, you may be fure. 

The only juft Thingthe Rogues did, was, Thatwhen 
the SparJards came on Shore, they gave my Letterto them, 
and gave them Provifions and other Relief, as I had or- 
deredthem to do ) alfo they gave them the long Paper of 
Direiftions which I had Jcft with rhcm, containing the 
Paiticular Methods which I look for maraging eveiy Pait 
of my Life theie, the Way how I bated my 'B;c.id, 
b:ed up my tame Goats, and planted my Com, how j 
cm'd my Giapes. maile my Pots, and, in a Word, every 
Tiling I did, all this being Written down, they gr.vo 
to tiK Spaniards, two of whom underf;and Ei?£/ijh well 
cnotigh; nor did they rcftife to accomodate the SJartiArdi 
with any Thing elJe, for they agreed very well iot iome 
Time; they gave them an etjuai AdmiHion into theHoufir. 
or Gave, and they began to live very Cjciably; and the Head 
Sfuniard, who had Seen piefty much cf my Method, and 
FriJay's Father together, manag'd ?JI their AHai; s ; for, al 
for the Eng/ijhmm they did nothii'g but Rambie about 
the Uland, flioot Panots, and raich To loifc;, and when 
they came Home at Night, the Sp/tiii.'rUj provided ihck 
Suppers for them. 

The SpamnrAs would have been farifsy'd' with tj-.is, 
would the othci- but have let 'em a!one,wbich, however.they 
could not find in theit Heat ts to do long; but. lite the Dog in 
the Manger, they woidd not cat thcmielves, and would 
not 1« other,^ eat neither ; The Differences, nevclhelefs, 
were at firft hut tiivial. and fuch as ate not worth lel.itir.gj 
bur at faft it bioke out into open War, and it begun w-itli 
all the Rudciiefs and Iniblcnce that can be iinagiii'ci, witl>- 
out Reafon, without Ptovocaiion,contiary to Nutute.andin- 
dtci!. 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(38) 

Arcd, to common Senic j aiid tho' it is true the firft Re- 
lation of it came &om the SpmiiKrdt themfelves, who I 
■faay call the Accufers, yet wheii I came to examine the 
Fellows, they could not deny a Word of it. 

But before I come to the Particulars of this Part. I 
mnft fupply aDefca in my former Relation, and this was. 
that 1 forgot to fet down among the reft, that juil as we 
were weighing the Anchor to fet Sail, ther^ happened a 
httle Quarrel on board our Ship, which I was afraid once 
would nave turned to a fecond Mutiny j nor was it ap- 
pcas'd, till the Captain rousing up 1ms Courage, and taking 
tisall to his Aflilrance, parted them by Force, and making 
two of the moft refeSory Fellows Pnibners, he laid them 
in Irons, and as they had been aftive in the former Dilbr- 
ders, and let fell fome ugly dangeious Words the Jecoad 
Time, he threatn'd Co carry them in Irons to Englan.i, and 
have them hang'd there for Mutiny, and running away 
with the Ship. 

This, it leems, tho' rhe Captain did not intend to do 
it, frighted Ibme other Men in the Ship, and Ibtne of 
them had put it into the Heads of the reft, that the Cap- 
tain only ^ve them good Words for the prefcnt, till they 
fhould come to &mc Englifh Port, and thar then tliey 
fl:Ould be all put into a layl, and try'd for their Lives. 

The Mate got Intelligence of this, and acquainted us 
■with it; upon which it was delir'd, that I, who ftillpafs'd 
ibr a great Man among themj iliouJd go down with the 
Mate, and fitisfy the Men, and tell them, that they might 
be alTut'd, if they behav'd weB the reft of the Voyage, all 
they iiad done for the Time pail Ihould be pardon'd. So 
I went, and after paffing my Hmour's Word to them, they 
appear'dcafyj and the more &, when I cau&d the two 
Men, who were in Irons, to be rclcafcd and forgiven, 

But this Mutiny had brought us to an Anchor for tliat 
Night, the Wind alio felling calm, next Morning wc 
found, that our two Men who had been laid inhons, had 
ftclc each of them a Musket, and fome otiier Weapons, 
what Powder or Shot they had, we kno%v not; and had 
taken iKe Ship's Pinnace, which wa^ not yet hal'd up,i«id 
ran away with her to theu" Companions, in Rogury, on 
Sho:e. 

As 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(39) 

A s foon as we found this, I order'J the Loog-Boat on 
Shore, with twelve Mea and the Mare, and away they 
went to leek the Rogues, hutthey could neithcrfinJchem, 
or any of the reft ; tor they all fled into the Woods when 
they laW the Boat coming onShorc. TheMare wasonro 
reiblv'd in Juftice to their Rogery, to have deftroj'd their 
Plantations, burnt all their Houiliold-Stuff and Furniture 
and left them to (hift without it ; but having no Order, 
he lee all alone, Jeft every Thing as they found it, mi 
bringing the Pbnace away, came on Board without 
them. 

These two Men made their Number five, but the o- 
ther three Villains were fo much wickeder than theie, that 
after they had been i or 3 Days together, -they turned 
their two New-Comers out or Dooi s to fhift for them- 
felves, and would have nothing to do with them, nor 
could they for a good while be perfuaded to give them 
any Food; as for the Spimiards they wwe not yet come. 

When the Spaniards came firft on Shore, the Bufinefi 
b^n to go forward ; the SpaniarJs would have perfuad- 
ed the t&ee Engli/tr Brutes to have taken in their two 
Countrymen again, that, as they iaid. they might be all 
one Family j but they would not hear of it : So the two 

nr Fellows liv'd by themlejves, and finding nothing but 
aiiry and Application would make them live comfort- 
ably, they pitch'd their Tents on the Nar/A-fliore of the 
Ifland, but a little more to the mjl, to be out of the 
Danger of the Savag^, who always landed on the E/tfl 
Parts of the Ifland. 

Here they built them two Huts, one to lodge in, and 
the other to lay up their Maga^.ines and Stores jn, and the 
Spaniards having given them fome Corn for Seed, and ef- 
peciaily ibme ot the Peas which I had lefi: them, they dug 
and planted, and enclofcd; after the Pattern I had 'et for 
them all, and began to live pretty well ; their iii ft Crop of 
Com was on the Ground, and tho' it was but a little bit 
of Land which they kid dug up at firft, having had but 3 
little Time, yet it vras enough to relieve them, and find 
them with Bread and orhei* Eatables ; anJ one of the Fel- 
lows being the Cook's Mate of the Ship, was vL-y ready 
at making Soup, Puddings, and fuch other Prcpi-ations, 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(4») 
as the Ri«, and the Milk, and Rich little Flefti as tficy 
got, fiirniili'd him to do. 

They were goiiig on in a little thriving Poftuve,w!ien 
the thfce unnatuial Rogues, their own Countrymen too, 
in mere Humour, and to infuk them, came and bully'd 
them, and told them, the Illand was theirs; chat the Go- 
veinour, meaning me, hod given them PolTelTion of it, 
and no Body elfe nad any right to it, and damn 'cm, they 
Ihould build no Houfes upon their Ground, unlefs tlicy 
would pajf them Rent for them. 

T H E two Men thought ihey kid jefted at firft i 
ask'd them to come and lit down, and lee what fine 
Houfts they were, that they had built, and tell them what 
Rent they demanded, and one of them mectily toldrhcm, 
if they were Ground- Land lords, he hoped, if they built 
Tenements upon the Land, and made Improvements, they 
\vould, accoiding to the Cuftom of all Landlords, grant 
them a long Leafe, and bid rhem go fetch a Sciivener to 
draw the W'.itings. One of the three damning and ragc- 
ing, told them, they flr.uld fre fliey weic not in Jelt, 
■snd going to a little Place at a Diliance, where the honeft 
Men haa made a Fire to dtefs their ^'iftu:;Is, he takes a 
Firc-biand, and daps it to the Out-lide of tlitir Hut, and 
very fu'rly &t it on Fire, and it would have been all burnt 
down in a lew Minutes, if one of the two had not run to 
the Fellow, thruft him aivay, and ti'od the Fire out with 
his Feet, and that nor without fome Difficulty too. 

The Fellow was in iiirh a Rage at the honeft Man's 
thrufling him away, that he turn'd upon him with a Pofc 
he had in his Hand, and had not the Man avoided the Blow 
very nimbly, and run into the Hut, he had ended his Days 
at once t his Comrade Iceing the Danger they were both 
in, run in afiei- him, and immediardy they came both 
out with their Muskets, and the Man that was fii.1 ftruck 
at wiili the Pole, knock'd rhe Fellow down, who begun 
the QEjarrel, with the Stock of the Musket, and that%e- 
forc the other two could come to help him, and then fee- 
ing the icft come at rhem, they flood together, and pie- 
fcnting the other Ends of tlieit Pieces to Uieni, bad them 
■ftand ofF. 

The other had FiieArnis wiih them too, biit one nf 
the two honeft Men, LoIJcr than his Comrade, and made 



Hosted by 



Google 



(40. 

(klperate by his Danger, ttjd tliem, if thcj- oSer'd to 
move Hand or Foot they were dead Men, coldly com- 
manded them to lay down their Amis. They did not 
indeed by down their Aims, but feeing him reiblute, it 
brought them to a Parley, and ihey con&n*«l totake rhcir 
wounded Man with them, and- bt' goiie j and indeed it fcenis 
tlie Fellow was wounded Sufficiently with the BloWj 
however, they weic much in the wrong, iince th^ had 
theAd/antage, thatthey didnotdifitm tliem ei&diuslly, as 
they might have dore, and have" gone iinmaiiately to the 
Sp/taiardi, und given tlicm an Account how the Rogues had 
tteateil them ; tor the thicc Villains ftudied norhing tut 
Reven^, and every Day gave ihcm fome intimation tteit 
ihey did Co, 

But not to aow'd this Part with an Account of the 
leflcr Part of thrir Rc^uries, fuch as treading down their 
Corn, lliooting three young Kids, and a She-Goat, which 
the poor Men had got to breed up Tame for their Store; 
and, in a Word, plaguing them Night and Day in this 
Manner, it forccii the two Men to fuch a Defberalion, that 
they rcfclv'd to fight them all thi-ee the fiift Time they 
had a fair Opportunity i in order to this they rcfolv'd 
to go to the Caflle, as they called it, that was my old 
Dwelling wlire the three Rogues and the SfaniarJi aU 
liv'd together, at that Time ; intending to have a fair Bat- 
■ tie, andtheSpanwriililliould (land byto ftefair Plays- ib they 
got up in the Morning before Day. and came to the Place, 
and cali'd the EngUjhmta by their Names, telling a Sfani- 
Wf^tliatanfwcr'd, thatthey wanted to fpcak with them. 

It happen'd that the Day before two Of the Sfxniards 
having been in the Woods, had fcen one of the two En^- 
UJhmen, who, for Diftinftion, 1 call the Honefi Mtrt ; and 
he had made a lad Complaint to the Spmuardi, of tlic 
barbarous Uiagc they had met with from their th' ee Country- 
men, and how thev had ruin'd their Pianfation, and deihoy'd 
their Corn, that tney had labour'd fo hard to bring for- 
ward, and kili'd the Miltch-Goat, and their rhiee Kids, 
which was all they had provided for their Suftenancc, and 
that if he and his Friends, meaning the Spaniardi, did not 
alTift them again, they fhould be [i&rved. When the SprJ- 
ninrds came Home at Night, and they were all at Supper,' 
he took the Freedom to reprove the three En^iijlj'/ia:, tho' 



Hosted by 



Google 



C40 

n gentle and mannerly Tams, and ask'tl rliem, Uoiv thej 

»uid be fo ciue], they being harmlefs inoffrnlive Fdbws, 



and that they v 



e puttuig 



themiclvcs in a Way to fubfift 



by that Laliour, and that it had coft theiii a great deal of 
Pains to bring Things to ilich a Perf«aion as they had? 
Oke of the Etiglijhmei. retuin'd very briskly, what h?.d 
they to do the;c? That they came on Slioj-e without 
Leave, and they fhould not Plant or Build upon the Illand, 
it was none of their Ground. Why, lays the Spaniarj 
yay calmly, Seignior Ingltfe, tkey miifi not ftarue / The 
Engt'ijhmea reply d like a true loi'gh-hewn Tarpaulin, they 
might flarve and be danui'd, they Jliould not Plant nor 
Btufd in that Place. But what muft they do then. Seig- 
nor, (ays the Spaniard f Another of the Brutes retnifi'd, 
do! D- — m 'em, they IhouJd he Seivaots and work for 
tfcem. But how can you expedl that of them, the/ are 
not bought with your Money; you have no Rigiit to 
make them Servants ? The Englijhmen anfwer'd, the Irtand 
"was theirs, the Govemour had eiven it to them, and no 
Man had any thing to do there but thenifelvcsj and with 
diat fworc by his Maker, that they would go and bum 
ail their new Huts, they fliould build none upon their 

Why, Seignior, (ays the SpunlarJ, by the fame Rule 
we muft be your Servants too? Ay, fays the bold Dog, 
anil fo you fi-all loo, before we have done with you, mix- 
ing two or three G— d Damme s in the proper Intervals of 
his Speech; the Spaniard on\y fmild at that, .and made him 
no Anfwer: However, this little Difcourft had heated them, 
and darting up, one fays to the other, I think it was he 
they call d Will. MUm, Coir-e facli, let us go and liave the 
t'other BruHi with them; well dcmolilh their (^aftlc, 
I U warrant youi they )l;ail plant no Colony in our Domi- 

. U i-ON this, they went all Trooping away, with every 
Man a Gun, a Piftol, and a Swoid, and miitter'd fome in- , 
iblent Things among themfelves, of what they would do 
to the Spumards too, when Opportunity offer d j but the 
Spaniardi, it feems, did not fo perfeSiy underftand them, 
as toinow all the Particulais. only, that in general, they 
thieuued them ioid for taking the two Ertglipmms Part. 

Whethe* 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(« ) 

■Whether they went, or ho^v they bedow'd their 
Tinie that Ei'ening, the Spaniards Cxt6, they did nor know ; 
but ic fcems they wanAcr'A about the Country, pai t of the 
Niglit, and then lying down in the PLice which I ufed to 
rail iny Bower, they were w/cary, and ovcr-flept tJiem- 
fdvc5. The Cafe was this, they hni lefolvd to fliy till 
Mid-night, and lb to tike the poor Men wJien r!icy were 
afleep, and a; they actiiowicdgcd it afterwards, intended 
to let Fire to tlicir Huts while they we;e in them, and ei- 
tlier bnr» them in them, or murder them as tJiey came 
out; and as Malice fcldom (leeps very found, it was very 
Jliange they HicuM not have been kcft waking. 

However, as the two Men had alfo a Dcfign upon 
them, as I have faid, tho' a much fairer one tiian that of 
Bumbg and Murdering, it happen 'd, and verv luckily for 
them all, that they were up and gone abroafl, before the 
bloody-minded Rogiies came to their Huts. 

When tlrey came theieand found the Men gone, At- 
kins., who it ftcms was the fbrwardeft Man, call d ■out to 
his Comrades, ha* Joci, heres the Neft, but, D — n 'em, 
the Birds aic Sown : Th^ muled a while to think what 
ll-.ouJd be the Occafion of their being gone abroad fo foon, 
and fuggefted prefently that the Sfniaards had given them 
Notice of it, and with that they ll:ook Hands, and fwore 
to one another tliat they would be reveng d of the Sfmi- 
«rds. As ibon as they had made this bloody Bargain, they 
fell to wx>rk with the pom- Mens Habitation, they did not 
fi:t Fire indeed to any Thing, but they pulld down both 
their Houfes, and pull d than fo Limb ftoni Limb, that 
they left not the leaft Stick (binding, or fcarce any Sign on 
the Ground where they ftood ; they toi e ail their little co!- 
leiftcd Houfliold Stuff in pieces, and threw every thing a- 
bout in fuch a Manner, that the poor Men found afterward s 
ibme of their Things a Mile off from their Habitation. 

When they liaJdone this, they pull d up all the young 
Trees which Che poor Men had planted ; pull d up the En- 
clolure they had made to fecure their Cattle and their Corn i 
and, in a Word, fack'd and plunder'd every thing, as cora- 
pieatly as a Hoard of Tartars would have done. 

The two Men were at this Junfturc gone to find them 
out, and had relblv'd to fight theni where-ever they had 
been, tho" they were but two to three : So that had they 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(44) 

met, thac certainly wouEd hive been Blood'flicd amorig 
tht-m, for they wei-e all very ftout leibliire f eiio'.vs, to give 
thein their due. 

But Providence took more Ca'C to keep them artinilcr, 
then they thcmfilves conUi do to mecti for, l; if they had 
dcggd one another, when the tlitee weic jjjne thiiht-r, 
tliL- two wcic he:ei and atfeiwraids whtn the tvi-o went 
fcack to find them, the tfcce wt.c come to the old Habi- 
tation again; we (lallfcc thdi- differmg Conduift pclLiirlv. 
V;hen the ihtec came tack, like furious Crtatarcs, fluft.d 
with the Rage which the V' ork they had been about put 
them into, they came up to the' Spaaiardi, and told them 
what they had done, by way of Scoti and Biavailo ; and 
fcne of them (lepping up to <me of the Spaiiiariii, as if they 
had letn a coupk of Boys at play, takes iiold of his Hat, aa 
it was upon his Head, and giving it a Twiil about, fleer- 
in his Face, fays he to him, Aadyait, Seignior, Jack Spani- 
ard, ySaffi&a'i.'erije^meSawcf, 'j yott ii> tat mrna yauT Maa~ 
fieri: The SfMianl, who tho' a i^uiet civil Man, was as 
brave, as a Man could be defurd to be, and withal a ftrong 
well-made Man, iookd fteadily at him for a good while, 
and then, having no Weapon in his Hand, ftept gravely up 
to him, and with one Blow of his Fiftknock'd him down, 
as an Ox is felld with a Pole-Axj at which one of the 
Rogues, mibknt at the firft, fir'd his Piftol at the Sfuniurd 
immediately i he milsd his Body indeed, for the Bullets 
went thro' his Hair, but one of them touch d the rip of hi» 
Ear, and he bled pretty much. The Blood made the Spa- 
niard believe, he was more hurt than he rea'ly was. and 
that put him into fiime Heat, for beto'e, he afted all in a 
peifcdCalm; but now refolvingtogo thro' his with Wo-k, 
he ftoopd and tookthcFcUow's Musket whom he had knock d 
down, and was juft going to (hoot the Man who had fird 
at him, when the reft ot the Spaniards being in the Cave 
come out, and calling to him not to ll.oot, they ftept in, 
Jccur'd the other two, and took their Arms from them. 

W H E N they we e thus difmarm'd, and found they had 
made all the Sftninrdi their Enemies, as well as their own 
Countrymen, they began to cool, and giving the Spaniards 
better Words, would have hsd their Arms again; but the 
i'piiB/flri/jconfideringthe Feud that was between them and the 
Other two Engkjhmen, and that it would be the bell Method 
they 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 4! ) 

they coild rake, to keep tliem from one another, told them 
they wouU do them no harm, m\;\ if they would live 
peaccaUy, they wouU bevo-y willing to afTlft anJ fociare 
whh them, as they did brtorc, but thit they couU not 
think, of giving them their Arms again, wliile thej' appeav'd 
(b rdblv'd to do Mifrhief with them to their otvn Country- 
men, and ]iad even threatnal them ali, to make them their 
Servants. 

Ti; E Rogues were now more capable to hear Re.ilon, 
than to aft Rcaibn, but b«ingteftiEdiheir Aims, rlwy v.-ciit 
laving away, and raging Hkc Madmen, threatning wJiit 
they would do, tlio' liey had no Firc-Aims: But the Sfa- 
BiarJi defpiling their Thveatning, told them they fliculd 
take caie how they o&r'd any Injury to their Plantation 
or Cattle, for if they did, they would llioot them as they 
would do ravenous Bcaiis, where-evcr they found them j 
ind if tliey fell into their Hands alive, they flionld ce;tainly 
be hang'd. However, this was lar from cooling them ,■ 
but away ihev went raging' and Iwcaringlike Furies of Hell. 
As fixin as they were gone, came back the two Men in 
PatTion and Rage enough alJb, tho' of another kind; for 
having been at their Plantation, and finding^ it ail demolilh'd 
and dcfttoy d, as above, it will eaiily be luppos'd they had 
Provocation enough ; they ccHild fcarce have room to teil 
their Tale, the Sfaniarils were B:> eager to tell them theirs > 
and it was ftrange enough to find that Thteo Men (hould 
thus bully Nineteen, and receive no Punifhment at all. 

The Spminrds indeed defpifcd them, and cfpecially hav- 
ing thus dilaml'd them, maile light of all their Threat- 
nings i but the two EngUjhmcn relolv'd to have their Re- 
mcily againfl: t'lera, wlwt Painsibever it coft to find them 

B tJ T the Spjtniatdt interpos'd here too, and told them, 
that 35 they were already diiarm'd, they could not conlcnc 
that they (the Two) illould purfue them with Fire-Arms, 
• atid perliaps kiil themi but:, fiiid the grave Sfaiugrd, wiio 
w.is their Govcmour, we will endeavour to make them do 
you Juftjcc. if you will leave it to usj for as there is no 
douM hut they will Gome to us again when their Paflion 
is over, being not able to fulHift without our AlTillance! 
ve promifc you to make no Peace with them, without 
having a full Satisfinfliou for yau ; and upon this Condi- 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(40 

tion we hope voii will prcmife, to ufc no Violence witli 
tiicm, other tl\^.n in j-oui' own Defence, 

The tv.-o E't^lijhmen yielded to tiiis very awkardly, and 
with great Rcluftance, out the fifaniards protefted, they 
did it only to keep them from bloodH^ed, and to make all 
eafv at lift ; for, teid they, we a:e not fo many of us, liere 
is koom eiioueh tor us aJl, and it is gieat Pity we fhoiild 
rot be all good Friends ; at length they did con&nt, and 
Waited for the Iffue of the Thing, living for fome Days 
with the Sfxrunrdi, for tlieir own Habitation was di> 
ftroyed. 

In about five Days Time the th ee Vagrants, tii'd with 
wandiing, and almoft fta'v'd with ! lunger, having chiefly 
liv'd on Turtles Eggs all that while, came back to the 
Grovci and finding mv SfarJar*, who, as I have faid, 
was the Governotir, .-md two more with him walking by 
the Side of the Cieek s they came up in a veiy fubmiflive 
humble Manner, and begged to be receiv'd a^n into the 
Family. The Spaniards uM them civilly, but told them, 
they Iiad aftcd to unnaturally by their Countrymen, and fo 
very gi-oGly by than { the Spaniards ) that they could 
Dot come to any Condufion, without consulting the two 
Ettghfhmint and the reft; but however, they would go to 
th«n and difcourfc about it, and they fhould know in haif 
an Hour. It may be guefi'd; that they were very hard 
put to it, for it feems, as they were to wdt this halt Hour 
for an Anfwer, they be^'d he would fend them out Ibme 
Bread in the mean Time, which he did, and fent them at 
the fame Time a large Piece of Goat's Flelh, and a boil'd 
Parrot, which they eat very Heaitiiy, for they were hungry 
enough. 

After half an Hour's Confultat ion they were cali'd in, 
and a long Debate had about them, their two Countrymen 
charging them with rhe Ruin of all their Labour, and 3 
Deiign to murthcr them ; all which they own'd bctbrc, 
and therefore couU not deny now ; upon the w^hole, the i 
Spaniards a&xd the Moderators between them, and as they 
had oblig'd the two f.ngUflimm not to hurt the three while 
they were naked and unarm'd, fo they now oblig'd the 
three to go and rebuild their Fellows two Huts, one to be 
of the fame PimenJions, and the other iaiger than they 
were before i allb to fence their Ground again, where 
they 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



C47) 

they had puJl'd up the Tenets, plant Trees In the Ropm 
of thoic puil'd up, dig up the Land again for pbnting 
Corn, where they had Ipoil'd it; and in a Word, to le- 
ftore every Thing in the lanie Stare as tliey found ir, as 
near as ifcey could, for entirely it could not be, the Sealbn 
for the Corel, and the Growrh i.>f the Tiees and Hedges, 
not being polTible to be recovc'd. 

Well, they fubmi'.ted to '^a .lii";! and as they had 
Plenty of Piovil'oi^s given rliem ail ihc while, tliey grew 
very oidcily, and rliL' whole Society bewin to live plcalant- 
ly, and agreeably ii^eihci' a.^in; only tiiat theie three Fel- 
lows could never b* pCi ruailed to work j I mean not (or 
themfeives, except now and then a little, juit as thej' plea- 
fcd j however, the Spaniard told them plainly, thit if they 
would but live ibciably and friendly together, and fludy in 
thewhole ihe CJood of the Plantation/ they would be con- 
tent to work for them, and let them walk about and be 
as idle as they pleas'd; and rhus having liv'd pretty well 
together for a Month or two, the Sfaniardt gave them 
Arms again, and gave them Liberty to goabjoad with 
them as before. 

It was cot above a Week after they had thefc Arms, 
and went abroad, but the ungrateful Crcapircs began to 
be as infolent and trouhlefome as before; but however, 
an Accident happening prefcntly upon this, which endan- 
ger'd the Safety of them ail, they were obliged to lay by 
all private Reientments, and look to the Piefervation of 
■their Lives, 

I T happen'd one Night, that the SfxrUrd Govemnour, 
as I call him, that is to fay, thcSpiuiiird whoft Lift I had 
lav'd, who was now the Captain, or Leader, or Govern- 
iHRir of the re/b, found himielf very uncafy in the Night, 
and could by no Means get any Sleep: He was perfeiftly 
well in Body, as he told me the Story, only found his 
Thoughts tumultuous j his Mind run upon Men lighting, 
, and killing one another, but was broad awake, and 
and could nor by any Means get any Sleep ; in ftiort, he 
lay a gieat while, but growing more and more uncoiy, ha 
relblv'd to rife; As they lay, (beinglbmauyof thijm, upon 
Goat-skins, laid thick uponfuch Couches, and Pads, as they 
made for themielvci i and not in Hammocks and Ship. 
Beds, as 1 did, who was but oiw, ib they had littjc to dit, 
wiea 



Hosted by 



Google 



(48 ) 

■\\he 1 they were willing to rife, bii 

Ftet, 3i;(.i peihaps put o 

Pumps, and tlicy were read/ for going any Way that their 

Tlioughts guided them 

B E I N c tlms gotten up, he look'd out, but being dark, 
he could lee little or nothing, and bcfides, the Trees which 
I iifld plmtt I as m ni) former Account is dellrribed, and 
which wac Dnw grown tall, intercepted his Sighr, iothaC 
he couli onl lock up and Ice that it wvs a clear Star- 
light Night and hcaimg no Noife, he reiurn'd and laid 
hini down ap^m, lit it was all one, he couH not lleep, 
nor could he compoic himlclf to any thing like Reft, but 
his Thoughts weie to the laft Degree uneafy, and yet he 
knew not for what. 

Having made fome Noile with riiing and walking 
about, going out and coming in, another of tliem wak'd^ 
and calling, ask'd. Who it wasihatwas up? The Goveinour 
toM him, how it bad Ireen with him: 5ay you fo, fays 
the other Sfaaiard. luch Things are not to be ilighted, I 
afliire you ; there is certainly lomc Mifchief working, iJvs 
he, near us, and prefently he asked him, where aie tnc 
iiigliflimml Theyareali in their \ia.Xi, fays ht, fafeenough. 
It iomis, the Sfxti'mrds had kept Poifemon of the main 

tartmtnt, and had made a Place, where the three "Eng- 
men, iince their laft Mutiny, always quattei'd by them- 
es, and couU not come at the reft. Weil, fiys thci"^*- 
niard, tiierc is fomething in it, I am perfuoded from my 
own E.xperiencej 1 am latisiy'd our Spirits cmboiiiedhavc 
a Converfe with, and receive Intelligence ftom, the Spi- 
rits unembodicd, and inhabiting the invifible World, and 
this friendly Norice is given for bur Advantage, if w^know 
how to make ufe of it. Come, fiv/i he, let us go outwid 
look abroad, and if we fiad nothing at all in it to juftify 
the Trouble, I'll tell you a Story to the Purpole, that iliall 
convince you of the Juftice of my propofing it. 

Ins Word, they went out to go to the Top of the , 
Hill, where 1 mjJ to go, but they being ilrong and in 
good Company, not alone, as 1 was, us d none of my 
Cautions, to go up by the l^der, and then pulling it 
up after them, to go up a fecond Stage to the Top, but 
w^crc going round through the Grove unconcern'd and un- 
wary, when they were lurprii'd with feeing a Light, as 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



Up) 



ber. 

In ail the Difcovcric5 I had made of the Savages land- 
ing on the Ifland, it was ray conftant Care to prevent 
them making the lead Difcoveiy of there heing any Inha- 
bitant upon the Place ; and when by any Necelfity they 
came to know it, they fclt it lb effcfhially, that they that 
got away, were fcarcc able to give any Account of it j 
for we diiappear'd as foon as poflible, nor did ever any 
that had feen me, efcapeto tell any one dfe, except it was 
the three Savages in our laft Encounter, wiio jump'd into 
the Boat, of whom 1 niention'd, that I was afraid they 
-fliould go Home and bring more Help, 

Whether it was tlw Con&quence of the Efcape of 
thofe Men, that Co great a Number came now together ; 
or whether they came ignorantly and by Accident on their 
tifual bloody Errand, the Spaniards could not it fecras un- 
derftand j but ■whatever it was, it had been their Bulineft, 
either to iiave conceal'd themlelves, aqd not to have feen 
them at alij much Jcis to have Jet the Savages have feen 
that there vreie any Inhabitants in the Place: But to have 
fiJlen upon them (o cffedtually, as that not a Man of them 
(hould have efcap'd, ivhich could only liave been by get- 
ting in between them and their Boats; but this Pieiciicc 
of Mind was wanting to them, which vvas the Ruin of 
their Tranquility for a great wJiile. ^ 

W E need not doubt, but that the Govonour ajid the 
Man with him, furprii'd with tliis Sight, ran back im- 
mediately, and rais'dtheir Fellows, giving them an Account 
of the imminent Danger they were all uii and they again 
as readily took tlie Alarm, fauc it was impoiilblc to pet- 
liiade them to ftay cloie within whcve tliey were, butthat 
they mull run all out to fee how Things flood. 

While it was dark indeed, they were well enough, 
• and they had Opportunity enough for Ibmo Hours tovicw 
them by the Light of three Files they had made at Ibme 
Biftance from one another, what they wcic doing they 
knew not, and what to do themfelves they knew not ; 
for, firft, the Enemy were too many; and ftcondly, they 
did not keep together, Isut were divided into fevc.al Par- 
ties, and were oa Shore in ievLral Places. 

C Thb 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(;o): 



The Sfamarjs were in no fmall Conflemarion at this 
Sight i and as they found that the Fellows ran ftraggling 
ail over the Shore, they made no Doubt, but firft or laft, 
fome of them would chop m upon their Habitation, or 
upon fome otherPIacc, wheie they would iee the Tokens 
or Inhabitants, and they were in great Perplexity alio for 
tear of their Flock of Goats, which would have been lit- 
tle Icfs than llarving them, if thej' (hould have been de- 
ftroy'di fo the firft Thing they lelolv'd upon, was to dit 
patch thi-ee Men away before it was light, viz.. two Spa- 
niard! and one Eaglijhmaa, to drive all the Goats away to 
tlie great Valley w}irc the Cave was, and if Need werej 
to diive them into the very Cave it fclf. 

Could they have fean tlie Savages altogether in one 
Body, and at any Diftanee from their Canoes, they refolv'd, 
if they had been an hundied of them, to have attack'd 
them ; but that could not be ottiin'd, for they were fome 
of them two Miles ofF from the other, and, as it appear'd 
aftei'wards, wrere of two different Nations. 

After having mufed a great whije on the Courfe 
they ihould take, and beaten their Brains in conlidering 
their preient Circumftancesi they refolv'd at kit, w^hile it 
was dark, to fend the old Savage, {Friday's Father) out, as 
a Spy, to learn if poffiUe, Jbmething concerning them, as 
what they came for, and what they intended to do, and 
the like; the old Man readily undertook it, and ftripping 
himfelf quke naked, as moft of the Savages were, away 
he went ; After he had been gone an Hour or two, he 
brings Word, that he had beai among them undifcover'd, 
that he found they were two Parties, and of two feveral 
Naticns who had War with One another, and had had 
a great Battle in their own Coantrj", and that both 
Rides having liad frvcral PrifoiuTS taken m the Fight, they 
were by nieer Chance landed all in the lame Iflaiid, foi tiie 



devour 



; their Prifoneis, and making meiry; but their 



coming io by Chance lo the fame Place had fpoil'd alltheir .. 
Minh; ihatthey wine in a gcat Rage atone another, and 
that fo luai", rliat he Icliev'd they would fight again, 
a*! ibon as Day-light b^gan to appear,- but lie did not per- 
ceive tliat they hail any Notion of any body's being on the 
Illand but thcmfelvcs, H^ had hardlj made an End of tel- 
ling His Story, whcu they could perceive, by the unufual 
Nolle 



Hosted by 



Google 



Noife tley n 



;, tkit tlie two Httlc Armies v 



. a bloody Fight, 

FriJi^'s Father uftd all the Arguments he could to per- 
fiiade our People to lie elofe, ananotbe feen; hetold them 
their Safety confided in it, and that they had nothing to 
do but to lie ilill, and the Savages woula kill one another 
to theii" Hands, and the reft would go away; and it was 
lb to a Titile. But it was imfolTible to prevail, efpecially 
upon the EngUJhmm; their Curiofity was lb importunate 
upon thdr Prudentials, that they muft run out and lee the 
Battle : However, they uled Ibmc Caution too, (wz..) 
they did not go openly, juft by their own Dwelling, but 
went ferther into the Woods, and plac'd thcitdelves to Ad- 
vantage, where they might fccurely fee rhem maiiagi: tbc 
Fight, and, as they thought, not be feen by tiiem ; but it 
feems the Savages did ice them, as we fliall find here- 
after. 

The Battle was very fierce, and if I might believe tlie 
'Englijhmen, one of them laid, he could perceive, thatfoma 
of them were Men of great Bravery, of invincible Spirits, 
and of great Policy in guiding the Fight. The Battle, 
they &id, held nvo Hours, before they could guefs which 
Party would be beaten ; but then that Party which was 
neareftour People's Habitation began toappear weakeft, and 
after fome Time more, ibme of them b^an to fly; and 
this put our Men again into a great Conftcrnarioti, left any 
of thofe that tied lliould run into the Grove' before tlieir 
Dwelling, for Shelter, and thereby involuntarily difcover 
the Place ; and that by Confequence the Purfucrs lliouki io 
the like in Scarchfor them. Upon this they relblv'd that 
they wonld (land arm'd within the Wall, and whoever came 
into the Grove, they fl;ould fally out over the Wall and 
Kill them ; fo that, if poffible, not one ihould return to 
give an Account of it ; they order'd alio, thar it Ihould be 
, done with their Swords, or by knocking them down with 
tlie Stock of the Musket, but not by fliooting tliem, for 
tear of railing an Alerm by the Noifc. 

A s they expefted, it M out ,• three of the routed Army 
fied fbr Lifc, and, croffine the Creek, ran diteftly into 
the Place, not in the leaft knowing whether the/ went, 
but running as into a thick Wood fijr Shelter i the Scout 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(!0 

thej- kept to look Abroad, gave Notice of this within, 
with this Addition, to our Mens great SatisfadUon, (lii..) 
That the Conquerors had not purfued them, or Gxa wiiich 
Way they were gone; upon this, the Spuniitrd Govcini^ur, 
a Man ot Humanity, would not lufler them to kill the 
three Fugitives, but fending three Men out by the Top of 
die Hili, order'd them to go round and come in behind 
them, furprife and take 'em Prifoners, which wasdonej the 
Rcfidue of the conijuer'd People fled to their Canoes and 
got oft' to Sea; the Viftors retir'd, and made no Purfuit, 
or vay little, but drawing theniftlves into a Hoiiy toge- 
ther, gave two great skreaming Shouts, which they Jup- 
pos'd was by Way of Triumph, and Co the Fight ended ; 
And the fimc Day, about three a Clock in the Afternoon, 
they alio marched to their Canoes. And thus the Sfani- 
ardi had their liland a^in free to themlelves, their Fright 
w^as over, and they law no Savages in leveral Years 
after. 

After they w^ei'e all gone, the Sfanmrds came out of 
their Den, and viewing the Field of Battle, tJiey found 
about two and thirty dead Men upon the Spot i fome 
■were kill'd with great long Anows, fome of which were 
found fticking in their Bodies; but moft of them were 
kill'd with their great wooden Swords, iixieen or feven- 
teen ot which they found in the Field of Battle, and as 
many Bows, with a great many Arrows : Thefc Swords 
were ftiange great unweildy Things, and they muft be 
very ftrong Men that ufed them : Moll of thofc Men that 
were kill'd with them, had their Heads raaili'd to pieces, 
as we may lay, or, as we call it in Englijh, their Brains 
linoek'd out, and feveral their Atms and Legs broken ; 
fo that 'tis evident tliey fight with inexprefllble Rage and 
Fury 1 They found not one wounded Man that was not 
ftene-deadj tor either they ftay by their Enemy tiil they 
have quite kill'd him, or they carry all the wounded Men, 
that aie not qutedead, away witli them. 

This Deliverance tam'd our Eagii/hmtn for a great 
while; the Sight had fill'd them with Horror, and the 
Confequenccs appeav'd teirible to the kift Degree, cfpeci- 
allv upon fuppoling that Ibme Time or other they fliould 
fell into the Hands of thofc Creatures, who would not on ■ 
ly kill them as Eoemies, but kill them for Food, as we 
kill 



Hosted by 



Google 



(53) 

kill our Cattle. And they profefE'd to me. that t^e 
Thoughts of being eaten up like Beef or Mutton, thoug'i 
it was fuppos'd it was not to be, till tlicy vre:e dead, lud 
fomething in it fo horrihle, that it naufcated their very 

'Stomachs, made them fick when they thouglit of it, and 
fiii'd their Minds with fuch unufual Terror, that they were 
not tliemfelves for fome Weeks afser. 

This, as I faid, tamd even the three Englifh Brutes, I 
have been fpcaking of j and for a great while after, thc^ 
were vexy trainable, and went about the common Btili- 
nefs of the whole Society well enough : planieii, Ib'v .1, 
reap d, and began to be all naturaliz d to the Country ; 
But Ibmetime after tliis, tliey fell all into fuch limple 
Meafures again as brought them into a great deal o£ 
Trouble. 

Thev had taken three Prilbners, as I had obfcrv.d, and 
thefe three being lufty ftout young Fellows, they made 
them Servants, and taught them to work for them; and, 
as Slaves, they did well enough ; but they did not take 
their Meaiiires with them, as I did by my Man Tridy^ 
•via., to b^in with them upon the Principle of hiving (li- 
ved their Lives, and then inftruiS them in the ratioial 
Principles of Lifr, much Jefs of Religion, civiltiing and 
reducing them by kind Ufage and affeftionate Arguiri^sj 
but as they gave them their Food evei-y Day, & they fiVo, 
them their Work too, and kept thein fully employ d in 
Drudgery enough; but they fiiild in tJiis, by it, that they 
never h^ them to allift them and fight for them, as 1 had 
my Man Friday, who was as true to me as the very Fiefl) 
upon my Bones. 

B u T to come to the Family Part, being all now good 
Friends; for common Danger, as I fiidabox'C, had effeflii- 
ally reeoncild them, they began to eonfider their general 
Circumftanees ; and the firft Thing that came umler their 
Conlideration was. Whether, feeing the Savages p.irticularly 

, haunted that Side of the Ifland, and that there were mor« 
remote and retir'd Parts of it equally adapted to their Way 
of Living, and manifeftly to their Advantage, they fhould 
not lather remove tlieir Habitation, andplant in feme more 
proper Place for thrir Saiwy, and efpecially for the Secu- 
rity of their Cattle aid Com ? 



Cj 



Up 



Hosted by 



Google 



(54) 

Upon this, after long Debate, it was concluded. That 
they would not remove tlieir Habitation t beMufetbit fome 
Time or other, they thought they might hear from their 
Governour again, meaning me; and if I Jhould feidanyone 
to fcek them, 1 fhouB be fure to dire£l them to tliat Side, 
where if they (liould find the Place demoliih'd, they would 
conclude the Savages had kill'd us all, and we were gone, 
and fo our Supplj^ wouM go away too. 

B u T as to theu- Corn and Cattle, they agreed to remove 
them into the Valley where my Cave was, where the 
Land was as proper to both, and wJierc indeed there was 
Land enough : However, upon ftcond Thoughts, they 
alter'd one Part of their Refolutioa too, and refolv'd 
only to remove Part of their Cattle thither, and plant 
Part of their Corn there; and Co if one Part was deftroy'd 
the other might be &v'd : And one Part of Prudence they 
ufed, which it was very well they did, ■via.. That they 
never truftcd thefe three Savages, which they had taken 
Prifoners, with knowing any Thing of the Plantation they 
htd made in that Valley, or of any Cattle they had there; 
much leG of the Cave there, which they kept in Cafe of 
Neccifity, as a fafe Retreat, and thitha: they carried alfo 
t?ic two Barrels of Powder, which I had ient them at 
my coming away. 

tt u T however they refblv'd not to change their Habi- 
tatiiin.fyet they agreed, that as I had carefuilv cover 'd it firft 
wit.'i a WtJl or Fortification, and then w;th a Grove of 
Trees; fo, feeing their Safety confided entirely in their be- 
ing ccinceal'd, of which they werenowiuUyconvincd; they 
let to v-'ork to cover and conceal the Pbce yet more ef- 
fci£tua!iV than before: To this Purpofe, as I had planted 
Trees, (or rather thrull in Stakes, which in Time slJ ^ew 
Vp to he Trees) for fomc good Diilance before the En- 
traneeinM my Apartment, they went on in the £ime Man- 
ner, and fiU'd up the reft of ti^t whole Space of Ground,, 
from the Trees I had fet, quite down to the Side of the 
Creek, v/here, as I faid, I knded my Floats, and even in- 
to the very Ouie where the Tide flow'd, not fo much as 
leaving any Place to land, or any Sign that there iiad b«n 
any landing thereabout: Thefc Stakes alfo, being of a Wood 
very forward to grow, aslhave noted formerly, they took 
Care to have generally very much larger and taller than 



Hosted by 



Google 



C 5! ) 

thofe which I had pknted, and placed them fo very thict 
and ciofe Chat when they had been three or four Ycais 
grown, there was no piercing with tl:c Eje any coniide- 
rable Way into the Plantation : As for that Part which 
I had planted, the Trees were grown as thick as a Man's 
Thigh j and among them they placed fo many other ihoit 
ones, and fo thick, that, in a Word, it Hood like a Pallifa- 
do, a quarter of a Mile thick, and it was next to impof- 
fible to penetrate it, but with a little Army to cut it all 
down ; for a little Dog could hardly get between the Trees, 
they flood To clofe. 

But this was not all ? for they did the fame by all the 
Ground to the right Hand, and lo the Left, and round e- 
vai to the Top of the Hill; leaving no Way. not Co much 
as for themfclves to come out, but bj the Laddei- placed 
up to the Side of the Hill, and then lifted up, and placed 
again fi-om the fitft Stage up to the Top j which Ladder, 
when it was taken down, nothing but w^hat had M'ing^ 
or Witchcraft to aflift it, could come at them. 

This was excellently well contriv'd : Nor was it Itft 
than what they afterwards found Occafion for; which 
fcrv'd to convince me, that as hiiman Prudence has Au- 
thority of Providence to juftify it, &> it has, doubriels, the 
Dircftion of Providence to let it to Work i and wouMv/e 
liilen carefully to the Voice of it, I am fully pei'fliaded we 
might prevent many of tlie Dilafters which our Lives ate 
now, by our own Neligence, fubjefted to. But this by 
the Way. 

I return to t1;e Story. They liv'd two Yeats aficr this 
in peifrd Retirement, and had no more Vilits from the 
Savages: They had, indeed, an Alaim given them one 
Mo;riing which put them into a great Confternation ; for 
fcme of the Spaniards being outcarlv one Morning on the 
Weft Side, or rather End of the Ifland.which by the Way, was 
that End where I never went, for fear of being dii'covcr'd, 
they were furpriz'd with feeing above twenty Canoes of 
Imiani, juft coming on Shore. 

They made the beft of their Wa^ Home, in Huny 

enough; and giving the Alarm to their Conii'ades, they 

kept clofe all that Day and the next, going out only at 

Nihc, to make Obiervation; But they had the good Luck 

C4. » 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(5«) 



to be miflakcn; for, wherc-evcr the Savagfes went, they 
did not Land at tliat Time on the Ifland, but purfued 
Ibme ether Defign, 

A M D now thcj had another Broil with the three Eng' 
lijhmen i one of which, a moil tnrbnlent Fellow, being in 
a Race atone ofthe three Slaves, which I mentioned they 
hidt:3;cn, beeaufe the Fellow had not done fomeching right 
which he bid them do, and fsem'd alittle untradablc inliii 
ftiowing him, drew a Hatchet out of a Frog-Bclr, in which 
he wore it by his Side, and fell upon tlie poor Savage, not 
to correft him, but to kill him. One ot the Spaniardf, 
who was by, feeing hiin give the Feliow a barbarous Cut 
with the Hatcher, which he am'd at his Head but ftruck 
into his Shoulder, fo that he thought he had cut the poor 
Creature's Arm off, ran to him, and Entreating him not 
to Murder the poor Man, clapt in between him and the 
Savage, to prevent the Michiet", 

The Fdiow being enrag'd the more at this, rtruck at 
the Spaniard iwith hts HatcEet, and fwore he would ftrvc 
him as he intended to fcn-e the Savage ; which the Spa- 
niard perceiving, avoided the Blow, and with a Shovel 
which he had in his Hand, (for they were working ia 
the Field about thek Corn-Land) knocked the Brute down: 
Another of the EngUflsmtn running at the fame Time to 
help his Comrode, knock'd the Spaniard down ; and tlien 
two Spaniard! moie came to help their Man, and a 
third Engli/hman fell upon them. They liad noneof theni 
any Firc-Arms, or any other Weapons but Hatchets and 
other Tools, except this third Engti/hmatt ; he had one of 
my oklrully Cutbihes,with wliichhemadeatthelaftifasi- 
ardi, and wounded them both : This Fray fet the whole 
Family in an Uproar, and more Help coming in, they 
took the three EngUjhmen Prilbncrs. The next Queftion 
was. What fliouid be done with them ? they had been ib 
often mutinous, and were fo furious, fo defperatc, and lb 
idle whifhal, that they knew not what Courlc to take 
with them ; for they were mifchievous to the heigheft 
Degiee, and vidued not what Huit they did any Man ; 
ib that, in fhort, it was not fafe to live with them. 

The Spaniard, xvho was Goveinour, told them in fo 

Wany Woids, That if they had been his own Country he 

^ould have hacg'd Chem.all.; for all Laws and all Govcr- 

goura 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(J7) 

nours were topreferve Society j and thofe who were dan- 
gerous to the Society, ought to be expeli'd out of it; but 
as they were Englijhmen, and that it was to the geneious 
Kindnefs of an Engli{hman that they all ow'd their Pre- 
fervation andDelivaance, he would ufe them with all poi- 
fible Lenity, and would leave them to the Judgment of 
the other two Engiijkmen, who were their Countrymen. 

O N E of the two honeft EatUflimm flood up, and fatil, 
they dcfu'd it might not be left to them j for, fiys he, I 
am fure we ought to Sentence them to the Gallows j and 
with that gives an Account how William Atkins, one of 
the three, had proposed to have all the five Engliflmcn 
join together, aadMutther all the Sfttnwri// when they were 
m their Sleep. 

When the Spxaijli Govcmour heard this, he calls to WiU. 
Ackins^ How, Seignior Ackins, fiys he, would you Mur- 
ther us all ? What Tiave you to lay to that ? That hardenetl 
Villian was fo far from denying it, that he iaid it was 
true, and G~d d~mn him they v?ould doit ftil before they 
had done with them. Well, but Seignior Atkins, Jays 
the Sfamurd, What have we done to you, that you will 
kill us ? And what would you get by kitting us ? And 
what muft we do to prevent your killing us? Muft wc 
kill you, or you will kill us ? Why will you put us to the 
Ncceflity of this. Seignior Atkias ? fays the Spuniarii very 
calmly, and iiniling. 

Seignior Atkins was in fjch a Rage at the Spm-' 
»rd'& making a Jeft of it, chat had he not been held by 
thtee Men, and withal had no Weapons with him, it was 
thought he would have attempted to have kiU'd the Sfa^ 
awr/in the luiddle of all the Company. 

This hair-brain'd Carriage oblig'd them to confidcr 
Ibrioufly what was to be done. Tie two Englijhmen and 
the Spamitnl who lav'd the poor Savage, was of the O- 
pinion, that they ihould hang one of the three for an F.s- 
ampleto the reft, and that. Particularly, itiliould be Iietliat 
haii twice attempted to commit Murder with his Hatchcti 
and indeed there was Ibme Realbn to believe he had don? 
it, for the poor Savage was in fuch a miferable Conditi- 
on with the Wound he had received, that it was thought 
iiccould not live. 

Cj ' But 



Hosted by 



Google 



(ss) 



B n T the Goveraour Stan 
.XngUfhman that had fiv'd all their Lives, and he " 



II faid No, 



■uld 



never Confent to put an EagliJhmanltQ Death, tho' he had 
mQither'd half of them ; nay , he faid, if he iwd been kill'd 
himfelf b/ an Ei^li/hm/m, and had Time left to Speak, ic 
Jhould be, that ttey (hoold pardon him. 

This was fo foGtiveiy infilled on by the Governour 
Spaniard that there was no gainiaying it ? and as merci- 
feil Councils are mod apt to prevail where they are & 
eamelUy prels'd, fo they ail came into it j but then it was to 
fee confider'd, what (houid be done to keep them from doing 
the Mifchief they dc/ign'difbr a]l agreed, Goveinour and all, 
that Means were to »e ulbd for prefcrving the Society 
&.im Danger ; after a long Debate it was agreed, Firft, 
That they fliould be difarm'd, and not permitted to have 
eirber Gun^ op Powder, or Shot, or Sword, or any Wea- 
jou. and' ftould be lorn'd out of the Society, and left to 
live where tliey would, and how they would by them- 
EHvess 6ut tbat rone of the reft, either Sprtiiards or £»g- 
i^ fliouldf converli with tliem, Jpeak with them, or have 
anj Thic^ to do with them ; that they fliould be forbid 
to tome within s certain Diilance of the Place where the 
/eft dwelt; and that if they otfer'd to commit any Difor- 
der, fo as to Ipoil, burn, kill, or dcftroy any of the Corn, 
Kantingff, BuiUings,>Fenccs, or Cattle belonging to the So- 
ciety, «iat theyfhould die without Mercy, and they Aiould 
flioot them wnere-ever they couM find them. 

The Governour, a Han of great Humanity, mufir^ 
npon the Sentence, confider'd a little upon it, and turning 
K) the two honeft ingUfijmen £iid. Hold ; you muft refleo, 
that it wiUbe long e'er they can raife Com and Cattle of 
their own, and they muft not ftarvei We muft therefore 
allow? them Frovifions, fo hecaus'd to be added. That they 
fliould have a Proportion of Com given them to laft them 
eight Months, and for Seed to fow, by which Time they 
might be liipposy to raife fome of their own j that they 
ftould have fix Milch-Goats, four He-Goats, and fix Kids 
given them, as wettfor prefent Subiifficnce, as for a Store; 
and tftat they fhould have Tools gii^en them for rheir Work 
in the Fields; &cft as, fix Hatchets, an Ax, a Saw, and the 
Bke: But they fl-.ould have none of thefe Tools or Piovi- 
-&)DS, unlc£ they would Cwear folemnly, that tEcy would 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



nofiiirt or injure any of the spmarJs with them, or of 
their Fellow ZngUfhmen. 

Thus theyiiifmifs'ti them the Society, and turn'ii tlicm 
out to {hift ibr thcrafclvK, They went away futlen and 
rdraiftory, as neither contented to go away, or to ftay; 
but, as there was no Remedy, they went, pretending to 
go and chuft a Place where they would Tetrle thein- 
feJves to plant and live by themlelvesj and fbme Pro- 
vifions were given them, but no Weapons. 

About four or five Days after, they came again for 
ftme Victuals, and gave the Goveruour an Account where 
they had pitch'd their Tents, and mark'd themfelves out 
an H^itation and Plantation i and it was a very conveni- 
ent Place indeed, on the remotett Part of the Ifland, N. E. 
much about the Place wherel providentially landed in my 
firft Voyage, when I was driven out to Sea, the Lord 
alone knows whether, in my foolilh Attempt to iiirround 
the Ifiand. 

Here they built themfelvcs two handibme Fu"b, and 
contriv'd them, in a Manner, hke my fitft Habitation, 
being clofe under the Side of a Hill, having Ibme Trees 
growing already on the three Sides of it, fo that by plant- 
ing others, it would be very eafily covei-'d from the Sight, 
uiflefs narrowly fearch'd for ; they defir'd fonie iii7 'd Goari- 
sVins for Beds and Covering, which ^vere given them ; 
and upon giving their Words, that they wouB notdjfturb 
the reft, or injure any of their Plantations, they gave them 
Hatchets, and what other Tools they could fparc; Ibme 
Peas, Barley, and Rice, for fiiwing, and, in a Word, any 
Thing they ■wanted, but Arms and Ammunition. 

Th.ey liv'dinthis fcperate Condition atout fix Months,- 
and had gotten in thdtfirft Harveft, rho'the Quantiiy Was 
but fmain the Parcel of Land they had planteS being hut 
littfei for indeed, liaving all their Plantation to form, they 
Iiad a gieat deal of Work upon their Hands; and whi-n 
tJiey came to make Boards, and Pots, ami liich Thin;;', 
they were quite out of their Element, and couki make 
nothing of it) and when the rainy Scafon came on, for 
war.t of a Cave in th? Eairh, rhey coul.i not keep their 
Grain dry, and it was in great Danger of I'poiljng: And 
this humbled tliem much; fo tliey came and bc?|;'d tlie 
SpamarUs to help them, which they very readily did; and 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



Bi four Days work'd a gicat Hole in the Sii3e of tile- HiH 
for them, big enough to tecure their Corn, and other Things 
fioni IJK Rain; but it was but a poor Place, at bell, com- 
par'ii to miuci and eipeciall)' as mine was then, for the 
S'p^i'Mrdi feJ gLcatly eniarg'd it, and made feveral new 
ApaurjeotsmiC. 

About three Q.iiirters of a Tear after this Separati- 
Bn, a nevvFrolick took the'e Rogues, which, together with 
the foiiner ^illar.y they had committed, brought Miichief 
«:iough, upon, tiietn, and liad very near been the Ruin of 
tlievv'hoic Ct'lon^: Tlie throe neivSoeiates began, itfeems, 
to be wear? ot the. laborious Life they led, and that 
widicut Hope of bettering thair Circumftanccs ; and a 
Whim tpokthtm, that they would make a Voyage to the 
Continent troiu whence, the Savages came, and would 
tiy tf!chcy could not fciie upon feme Pii&ners among the 
liatiVc* there, . and Uing them Home, fo to make tlicm 
do the laE^ribus I%t of their Work for them, 

TnAPio,iea-was notfo.prepoilcrous, if .they had gont- 
no.-feiier;- Wt they did nothing, and popos'd nothing, 
bftBha(I,ei(ia: Miichief in the Deilgn, or Mifchief in the 
£w*w :; -ftnd if I may ^ve my Opinion, they feeni'd to 
^iRwfcr a BLili ftcm Heavchj for if we will. not ajlow 
* »34il '.t. Curfe to puriiie viliblc Crimes, how ftall we rer 
«Ba«lc the Eftnts of Thing;; wiih the Divine Juftice f Ft 
ir»s oeitifafj aa apparent vengeance on their Crime of 
ftlutiuy aud Piracy, that brought them to the S( ate they were 
KTfc atii as- they fl;ew'd not the Kaft Remorie ioc the 
<Jiroei. bat added new Villanies to it, fuch as, particular- 
ly, [hat Piece of mollrous Cruelly of woundbg a poor 
Siave,. bccaufc he did not, or perhaps «iuld not, undcrftand 
to do what he wa.? dueded i and to wound him in fucfa 
a Manner, as, no Queftioo, made him. a Cripple allhisLife-; 
and in a. Place where no Surgeon or Medicine could be 
hid itx his Cure ; and what was flill worfc, the muithe- 
rous. latent, or, to do Juftice.to the Crime,. the intenrio- 
oal Wurthp-, for fiichi to be fure it was, as was afrer- 
ri-ards.the foim'A Dcljgn they all laid, to rnuxder the S^ 
jiwr^, ill- cold Blood,_and in their Sleep,, 

B u T I fcl'/e obfervirgi and rerura to the Story : The 
ifiree FelSows eatnc down to rjie Sfuninrils one Morning, 
and,ia very hmublc Teiajs defur'd, to be admitted to fpe3c. 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



with them : The Spaniards very readily heard what tKcy 
had to fiy, which was this. That they were th'd of li- 
ving in the Manner they did i that they were not handy 
enough to make the Neceilaties they wantctl ; and that 
having no Help, they found they fhould be ftarv'di But 
if the Spnmrds would give them Leave to take one 
of the Canoes which they came over in, and give thetn 
Arms and Ammunition, proportion'd for their Defence, 
they would go over to the Main, and feek their Fortune, 
and fo deliver them from the Trouble of fupplying them 
with any other Piovifions. 

The S-^aniards were glad enough to be rid of theni, 
but yet very honellly reprefcnted to them the certain De- 
ftiudtion they were running into i told them, they had 
fufler'd fuch Hardlhips upen that very Spot, thai they 
could, without any Spiiit of PiopheJy, ttli rhem, that 
tJiey would be flarv'd, or muithsr d, aod bad them con-- 
fider of it. 

The Mea rcply'd audaciondy, they fhould be flarv'd S 
thq' flay'd here, for they could itot work, and would not. 
work i and they could but be ftarv'd Abroad, and if 
they were murther'd, there was an End of them, they had 
no Wives or Chileren to cry after them j and in ftiort, 
infilled importunately upon ^lieij- Demand, dcebring, thai 
they would go, whether they would give them any Arms 

The S^aniarHi told them, with great Kindnefs, that if 
they were re&lv'd to go, tliey fl)ouki not go like caked 
Men, and be in no Condition to defend ihemlelveEjand that 
though they could iil (pare their Fire-Arms, having not 
enough for themHIves, yet they would let them havetwo 
Muskets, a Plftol, and a Cutlalh, and eaili Man a Ilaichct. 
which they tlwught was fufficicnt for them. 

In a Word, they accepted the Oifer, and having baked 
them.Breadcnou^h tofeive them a Month, and given them 
as mueh Goats-tlefli as tlicy could eat while it was fwcct, 
and a great Basket full of dry'd Grapes, a Pot full of fieih 
Water, and a young Kid alive to till, they boklly fet out 
in a Canoe for a Voyage over the Sea, whcie H was at- 
leaft 40 Miles bioad. 

The Boat wds indeed a large one, and would have^- 
vay wdl.carry'd fifteen, or twenty Men; and, . therefore. 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



was rather too big for them to manage t But as they had 
a, fair Breeze, and the Flood-Tide with them, tlicy diJ 
well enough : They had made a Mail of a long Pole, and 
a Sail of four large Goat-skins dr/d, which they liadlbw'd 
or lac'd together : and away they went merrily enough ; 
the Stanmrds call'd after them, Bm Veyaje ; and no Man 
ever tliought of feeing tliem any more. 

The Sfaniardi would often iay one to another, and 
the two noneft Engtijhmm who remain'd behitid, how 
quietly and comfortably they liv'd now thofe three tur- 
bulent Fellow^s were gone; as for their ever comingagain, 
that was the remoteft Thing from their Thoughts that 
could be imagin'd; when behold, after two anif twenty 
DaysAbftnce, one of thcEnglilhmm being abroad upon his 
Planting- Work, fees three ftrange Men comingtowardhim 
at aDiifance.two of them mth Guns upon their Shoulders. 
Away runs the Englijhmioit as if he was bewitch'd, 
and came frighted and amaz'd to the Govemour Sfanraril, 
and tells him they wcrea!!. undone, for there were Scranga-s 
landen upon the lAand, he could not teR who ; The Spa- 
nmrd, paufing a while, iays to him. How do you mean, 
you cannot Ceil who .' They are the Savages to be fure; 
No, no, lays the Engiiflimart, they arc Men in Cloaths 
with Arms -. Nay, then, fay« the Sfaniitrd, why are you 
concem'd ? If they are not Savages they mull be Friends, 
for there is no Chriftian Nation upon Earti but will do 
US Good rather than Harm, 

While they were debating thus, comes the three Eng- 
tijhmtn, and ftanding without the Wood, wliich was new 
planted, hallb'd to them ; they prefintly knew their Voires, 
and lb all the wonder of that kind ceas'd. But now the 
Admiration was turn 'd upon another Queftion, (viz.) what 
could he the Matter, and what made them come back 
again? 

I T was not long before they brou^t the Men in, and 
enquiring wheie they had been, and what they had been , 
domg, they gave them a full Account of their Voyage in 
a few Words, (iii:.,) That they reach'd the Land in two 
Days, or ibmething left, but finding the People alarm'd at 
their coming, and preparing with Bows and Arrows to 
fight them, they durfl not go on Shore, but fjil'd on to the 
Northwaid lii or fevca Hours, titt they came to a great 
Opening, 



Hosted by 



Google 



(6i ) 



©pcning, by whiclitJiey percciv'd, that the Land they law 
from OUT Ifland was not the Main, but an Uland; tl^ten- 
tring that Opening of the Sea, they faw another Ifland on 
the Right Hand, North, and five:3i more Weft) and being 
rcfolv'dto land fomewhcre, chey put over to one of the 



lePeoi 



dly on 
nd frien 



they found the People very courteous and friendly to them, 
and they gave them, feveiai Roots and ibme dry'd Filli, 
and appeav'd very fociable; and the Women, as well as the 
Men, were very forward to fupply them with any thing 
they could get for them to eat, and brought it to them a 
great Way upon their Heads. 

They continu'd here four Days, and entjuir'd, as w^ell 
as they could of them, by Signs, wliat Nations were this 
Way, and that Way ; and were told of fevera] fierce and 
ttrnble People that liv'd almoft every Way ; who, as they 
made known by Signs to them, ufcd to eat Men i but as 
for them&lves, they faid that chey never eat Men or Wo- 
men, except only lueh as they took in the Wars, and 
then they own'd that they made a great Feaft, and eat 
their PriToners. 

The Englijhmen enqujr'd when they had a Feaft of 
that Kind, and they told them two Moons ago, pointing 
to the Moon, and then to two Fingers ; and ttat theh- 
great King had two hundred Priibners now, which he had 
taken in his War ; and they were feeding them to make 
them fat, for the next Feaft. The £ngUjhmen feem'd 
mighty defirous to fee thofe Priibners, but the other mi- 
^'ing them, thought they were defirous to have feme of 
them, to carry away for tlieir own eating. So they 
beckon'd to them, pointing to the Setting of the Sun, and 
then to the Rifing, which was to fignify, that the next 
Morning at Sun-nfing they would bring fome for them ; 
and accordingly the next Morning tliey Mought down five 
Women and eleven Men, and gave them to the Enjlijhmen, 
, to carry with them on their Voyage, juft as we would 
bring fc many Cows and Oxen down to a Sea-Port Town, 
to viftual a Ship. 

A s brutiih and barbarous as thcle Fellows were at home, 
their Stomachs turnd at this Sight, and they did not know 
what to do; to rcfufe the Priftinei's, would have been tlic 
higheft Affront to the 0vage Gentry that offcr'd them ; 



Hosted by 



Google 



.C«4) 

and what to do with them, they knew not) howevcp, 
upon fome Debates, they rcfolveii to accept of them, and 
in Retum, they gave the Savages that brought them, one 
of their Hatchets, an old Key, a Knife, an3 fix or fevea 
of their Ballets, which, though they did not underftand, 
tliey feem'd excreanily pleas'd with : And then, tying the 
poor Creatures Hands behind them, they ( the People ) 
diagg'd the Prifoners into the Boat for our Men. 

The ErtgUjhmen ■were oblig'd to come away as icon 
as they had them, or elfe they that Mve them tJiis noble 
Prefent, would certainly have expeSed that they lliould 
have gone to work with them, Jiave kill'd two or three 
of them tlie next Morning, and perhaps have invited the 
Donors to Dinner, 

But having taken their I,,eive with all tirc Relpefls, 
and Thanks that could w^ell pafs between People, w^hcre 
on either Side they undcrftood not one Word they could 
lay, they put off with their Boat, and came back towaids 
the firft Ifland; where when they arrivd, they £-t eight of 
t-heir Pri&ncri at Liberty, there being too many orthem. 
for theii Occafions. 

I N their Voyage, they endeavour'd to have Come Com- 
munication with their Piifoners, tut it was impoffiVle to 
make them underftand any Thing ; Nothing iJicy could 
lay to them, or give them, or do for them, but wa-slook'd 
upon as going about to murther tliem ; They firft of all un- 
bound them, but the poor Crpatutes skream'd at that, 
efpecially the Women, as if they had juft fcit the Kaife at 
their Throats ; for they immediately concluded, tliey wer« 
unbound on PurpoJe to be kill'd. 

I F they gave them any Tiling to eat. It was the fame 
Thing! then they concluded it was for Fear they fliould 
fiok in Flefli, and fo not be fat enoi^h to kill : If they 
look'd atone of them more particijfoilv, the Patty pre- 
fcntly concluded, it was to fee whether he or ftie was fat- 
eft, and fitted to kill firft ; Nay, after they had brought 
liem quire ove^, and began to tile them kindly, and treat 
diem well, ftill rhey expefted every Day, to make a Din- 
ner or Supper for their new Maflfiis. 

When the three Wanderers had given this nnaccounta- 

^ Hiftory, or Journal of their Voyage, the S^ammd ask'd 

jiieiBi- 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



C«s ) 

them, Where thdr new Family wai ? An3 being toH that 
thej* had brouglitthem on Shore, and put them into one of 
thea-Huts, anil werecomeup tobcgforoeViftuaisforthenii 
they (the S^aniariL) and the other two EngUlhmm, that is 
to iky, the whole Colony, reiblv d to go all down to the 
Plice and Jcc them, and did lb, and Friday's Father with 
them. 

When they came into the Hut, there they fate all 
bound i tor when they had brought them on Shore, they 
bound their Hands that they might not take the Boat and 
make their Elcape ; .there, I &y, they late, all of them 
ftark naked : Firfi, There were tiiree Men, lufty comely 
Fellows, well-il-.ap'd, ftraitandfeir Limbs, abourjo to thirty 
five Years of Agej and five Women, whereof two might 
be from thirty to forty, two more not above four or five 
and twenty, and the fifth, a tall comely Maiden about fix- 
teen or fiventeen : The Women were well-tavoured agrec- 
blc Per&ns, both (n Shape and Features, only tawny, and 
two of them, had they been perfeii: White, would have 
pals'd tor veiy handfome Womeni even in Lcndoa it lelfi 
having very pleaiant agreeable Countenances, and of i very 
moddl Behaviour, e(peeially when they came aftenwards 
to be cloath'd, and drefs'd, as they call d it, tho' that Drefs 
was very indifferent it mull be confeis'd ; of which here- 
after. 

The Sight, you may be fure, was lb mething uncouth 
to ourSfaniarJi, who weie (to give them a juflrCharaiicr) 
Men of the bed Beliaviout ; of the moft calm, Icdate Ten*- 
pers, and petfefl Good-humour that ever 1 met iwith ; 
and in paiticular, of the moft Modclly, as will ptefentjy ap- 
pear ; I fay, the Sight was very uncouth, to fce two naked 
Men, and five naked Women, il together bound, and in the 
moft miferable Circumftances that human Nature could be 
ilippos'd to be, T"/!,. to be expefting every Moment to be 
dragg'd out, and have their Brains knock'd out, and 
then to be eaten up like a Calf that is kill'd for a 

T 11 r. firft Thing they did, was to caule the old TmHan, 
Tridiiy'5 Father, to go in and lee firft if he knew any 
of them i and then , if he underftood any of their 
Speech : As foon as tlie old Man came in, he look'd 
fo-jonfly at them, but knew none of them s neither could 



Hosted by 



Google 



(66) 

any of them underfland a Word he fiW, or a Sign he could 
make, e!:eept one of the Women. 

However, this was enough to anfwerthe End, which 
was to latisfy th«n, that rhe Men into wlioft Hands they 
were Men, were Chriftians i that they abhorr'd eating of 
Men or Women, and that they might be iuie they would 
not be killd : As foon as they were aflur'd of this, they 
difcover'd fuch a Joy, and by luch aukwarii, and fiveiai 
wajs, as is hard to delcribci hr it Jeems they were of fc- 
verai Nations. 

The Woman, who was their Interpreter, was bid in 
the ne!(t Place to ask them. If they were willing to be 
Servants, and to work for the Men who had brought theia 
away, to iave their Lives ? at which they all fell a Danc- 
ing i and prefently one fell to taking up this, and another 
tlla^, any Thing tnat lay next, to carry on their Shouldeja, 
to intimate that they w^ere willing to work. 

The GoveinoUr, who found, that the liaving Women 
among them would prefently be attended with Ibnie In- 
convenience, and might occaiion fome Stiife, and perhaps 
Blood; ask'd the thiee Men, what they intended to do 
with theJe Women, and how they intended to nfe them ; 
whether as Servants, or as Women ? One of the Znglijh- 
meit anlwa'd very boldly and readily. That tlu:^ would 
life them as both. To which the Govemouv £id, I am 
Bot going to reflxain you from it, you are your own 
Mailers as to that: But this I think is but juft, ibr avoid- 
ing Disorders and Quarrels among yoo ; and I dcfire it of 
YOU, for that Reafon only, ijiz.. That you will all engage, 
oat if any of you take any of thcJe Women, as a Wo- 
man or Wife, that he iliall take but onej and that having 
taken one, none elfefhould touch her; for tho' we cannot 
marry any of you, yet 'tis but rcafonable, that while you 
flay here, the Womenany ofyou takes, nouldbemaintain'd 
by the Man that takes her, and ffould be his Wife; I mean, 
£iys he, while he continues here, and that none eiie ihould 
have any thing to do with her : AU this appear'd fi> juft, 
that every one agreed to it without any Difficulty. 

Then the ErtgUJhmen ask'd the Spmiards, If they de- 
fign'd to take any of them ? But eveiy one anlwer'd 
NO : Some of them Taid, they had Wives in S^ain, aiid 
and the others did not liJ(C Women that were not ChrifK- 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(«7) 

ansi and altogether declary, that thej' WouH not touch 
one of them ; which was an Inftance of fuch Virtue; a« 
I have not met with in all my Travels : On the other 
Hand, to be (hort, the live EnglifliTiKfi took them every 
one a Wife, that is to iky, a. temporary Wife j and lb they 
fctup a new Form of Living; for the Sfaniarji aniAFriilafi 
Father liv'd in my old Habitation, whichthey had enlarg'd ex- 
ceedingly within ; the three Servants wiiich they had taken 
in the late Battle of the Savages, liv'd with them ; and 
thefe carried on the main Pari of the Colony, fupplying 
all the reft with Food, and aflliling tliem in any Tlung as 
they coulH, or as they found NecelHty reouir'd. 

But the Wonder of this Story was, how five liich re* 
fraftory iU-mateh'd Fellows {liould agree about tliele Wo- 
men, and that two of them fliould not pitch upon the 
fime Woman, efpecially ieeing two or three of them were, 
without Compari&n, more agreeable than the other ; But 
they took a ^od Way enoi!gh to prevent quarrellmg among 
themlelves i tor they fct the five Women by themTelves ia 
one of their Huts, and they went all into the other Hut. 
and diew Lots among them, who ihould chufe firft. 

H E that drew to chufe firft, went away by himfelf to 
tiie Hut where tiie poor naked Creatuies w«e, and fetch'd 
out her he chofc; and it was worth obfcrving, that he , 
that chofe firft took her that was i-ecfcon'd the homelieft, 
and the oldeJl of the five, which made Mirth enough 
among the reft ; and even the Spaniards iaugh'd at it : but 
ihc Felkiw coniider'd better than any of them, that it was 
Application and Biifineis thatthey were to expert Afliftance 
in, as much as any Tiling elfe; and ftie prov'd the bell 
Wife of all tlie Parcel. 

When the poor Women faw themfelves fet in a Rovr 
thus, and fetch'd out one by one-, the Terrors of their Con- 
dition vcturn'd upon them again, and they fitmly believ'd 
that tliev were now a going to he devour'd ; Accordingly, 
when the EtigHjh Sailor came in and fetch'd but one of 
them, the reft £t up a moft lamentable Cry, and hung 
about her, and took their Leave of her with iuch Agonies 
and fuch Aflcftion, as would have griev'd the hardeft Heart 
in the World; nor was it poffible for the Englijhmea to fa- 
tisfy them, that they were not to he immediately mur- 
tlar'dj tin they fetch'd the old Man, fW^^'s Father, who 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



(68) 

fPnmciliatel)' let them know, that tlic five Men, who had 
fcTch'd tliem out one by oue, had chofen them for thi;ir 
Wives, 

When they had done this, and the Fright the Women were 
in was a ht'le over, the Men went to work, and the Sfa- 
nidfiU came and hclp'd them i and in a tew Hours they had 
built them every one a new Hut or Tent for tiicir Lodging 
apart; for thofe they had already, were crowded with Sieir 
TooU, Houfhokl-Stuft", and Piovifions ; The three wicked 
Ones had pitch'd fiirtheft off, and the tivo honcft Ones 
nearer, but both on the North Shore of the liland, fo that, 
they continued leparate as before: And thus my IHand was 
peopled in three Places ; and as I might fay, tWc Towns 
were begun to be planted. 

And here 'tis very well worth obfcrving, That as it 
often happens in the Woild (what the wife Ends of God's 
Providence are in Jiich a Dilpolition of Things, I cannot 
fey) the two honeft Fellows had the two wovft Wives, 
and the three Reprobates, that were fcarce worth hanging, 
that wae fit for nothing, and neither feem'd born to So 
themlelves Good, or any one elfc, had three clever, dili- 
gent, cat efi;!, and ingenious Wives; not tliat the two fit ft 
were ill Wives, as to their Temper or Humour; for all the 
five were moft willing, quiet, pafiive, and fubjeiled Crea- 
tures, rather like Slaves tlian Wives, but my Meaning is, 
they were not alike capable, mgenious, or mdulfcious, or 
alike cleanly and neat. 

Another Obfcrvation I muft make, to the Honour of 
a dilieent Application on one Hand, and to the Diigrace of 
a flothftil, neglipenc, idle Temper, on the other, that when 
I came to the Place, and iiev/edthe(everal Improvements, 
Plantings, and Management of the ieveral little Colonies; 
the two Men had fo tar out-gone the three, that there was 
no Comparilbn ; they had indeed both of them as much 
Ground laid out for Corn as they wanted ; and the Reafon 
was, becaufe, according to my Rule, Nature diftated, that 
it -was to no Purpofc to fow more Cora than they want- 
ed, but the Difference of the Cultivation, of the Plandng, 
of the Fences, and indeed every Thine elfe was eafy to be 
fcen at firft Viw. 

The two Men had innumerable yoiHig Tree* pkoted 
about their Huts, that when you came to the Place, no- 
thing, 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(«5) 

tiling was to be Iccn but a Wood, and tho' they had 
twice their Plantation demoliflVd, once by theii" own 
Countrymen and once by the Iflnemy, as firall be Ihcwn 
in its Place; yet they had leftoi'd all again, and every 
Tiling wa$ thiiving and fiouriihing about thenij iliey 
had Grapes planted in Order and manag'd like a Vine- 
pid, tho' they had thcmfeives never fen any Thing of 
that Kind) and by tlieir good ordering their Vines, their 
Grapes were as good again as any of the others. They 
had aiib found chemfelves out a Rcoeat in tlie tliickert 
Part of the Woods, wheie, though there was not a natu- 
ral Ca^'e, as I had found, yet they rnade one with incef- 
fant Labour of their Hands, and where when the Milehief 
which follow'd happend, they fecur'd their Wives and 
Childien, Co as they could never be found ,■ they having by 
flicking innumei able Stakes and Poles of the Wood, vrtiich 
as I laid, gtevir lb ealily, made the Grove unpai^ble, except 
in ome Places, where they climb'd up to get ove r the out- 
fide Paitj and then went in by Ways of tiieir ovralcaving. 
As to tl>e three Repriiates, as I juflly call them, tho' 
they were much civilis d by rheir new Settlement, com- 
par'd to what they were cefore, and were not ib (juaiel- 
iomc, having not the fame Opportunity; Yet one of the 
certain Companions of a profla^te Mind never left them, 
' and that vras theh' Idlenefi : It is true, they planted Com, 
and made Fences; but Solamcn's Words were never better 
verified than in them; I -aenl by the Viniyard of the Sloarh- 
fuL itnd it -aas all over-groim with Thorns ; tor when the 
HfiDiiards came to view their Crop, they could not fee it 
in fome Places for Weeds; the Hedge had ieveral Gaps 
in it, where the wild Goats had gotten in, and eaten up 
the Coin,,- peihaps, here and theic, a dcai.1 8u(h was 
cramra'd in, to flop them out for the prelent, but it was 
only fliutting the Stable Door after the Steed was ftoln. 
Whereas, when they Jook'd on the Colony of the other 
' two. there was ithe very Face of Induftry and Succefs 
upon all they did ; tlierc was not a Weed to be feen m all 
their Corn, or a Gap in any of their Hedges; And they 
on the other Hand veiifyd Solomon's Woids in anotlicr 
Place, That the diligem Hand makes rich ; for every Thing 
grew and thriv'd, and they had Plenty within and with- 
out; they had more tame Cattle than the other, more 
UtenfUi 



Hosted by 



Google 



(7o) 

Utenfils and NccdSries witlin Door;, and yet more 
PJeafure and Diverfion too. 

1 T it true, the Wives of the three, were very handy 
and cleanly within Doors, and having learn'd the IMgUjh 
Ways of Drefling and Cooking from one of the other 
Bnglifhmen, who, as I laid, was Cook's-Mate on board 
the Ship, they drefs'd clieir Husbands Viiluals very nicely 
and well ; w^hereas the other could not be brought to 
underftand it; but then the Husband, who, as 1 JaiJ, had 
beenCook's-Mate,did ithimfelfj butasforthe Husbandsof 
the three Wives, they loitcr'd about, fetch'd Turtcls Eggs, 
and caught Fifli and Birds; in a Word, any Thing but. La- 
bour, and they fer'd accordingly. The Diligent liv'd well 
and comfortably, and the Slothful liv'd hard and b^garly; 
and &> I believe, generally fpeaking, it is all over tlie 
World. 

But now I come to a Scene, different from all that 
had happen'd before, either to them, or to me; and the 
Original of the Story was this: 

EflRi.Y one Morning there rame on Shore five or fix 
Canoes of Indians, or Savagu, call them which youpleafe; 
and there is no room to doubt that they came upon the 
old Eirand of feeding upon their Slaves: But that Part was 
row & familiar to the Sfxmards, and to our Men too, 
tlut they did not concern themfelves about ir, as I did i 
but having been made icnfible by tiieir Experiences, that 
their only, Bufinefs was to lie eonceal'd, and that if they 
were not feen by anv of the Savages, they would go off 
again quietly vjhen rheir Bufinefs was done, having as yet 
not the leatt: Notion of theic being any Inhabitants in the 
Illandi 1 lay, having been made ienfible of this, tlicy had 
nothing to do but to give Notice to all the tliree Planta- 
tions, to keep within Doors, and not fhew themfelves, 
only placing a Scout in a .proper Place, to give Notice 
when the Boats-went off to Sea again. 

This was without DouVt very right; but a DilafteT ' 
fpoii'd all theJe Meafures, and mode it' known among the 
Savages, tiiat tliere wetc Inhal'itants the:e, which was 
in the EndiheDeJbJation of almoftthewholc Colony; after 
Ithe Canoes with the Sava^ were gone off, the Simi^is 
peep'd abroad again, and Ibme of them had the Cmiofity 
to go to the VSfx wJwre they had been, to fee what thq" 
hw 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



(?■ ) 

had been doing: Here, to their great Surpize, they found 
three Savages left behind, and lying fed afleep upon tlie 
Giound i it was fuppos'd, they had either been ib gorg'd 
with their inhuman Feaft, that, like Beafts, they were a- 
fleep, and would not ftir when the others went, or they 
were wandei'd into the Woods, and did not come back 
in Time to be taken in. 

The Sp/tniards vras greatly furpria'd at this Sight, 
and perfectly at a Lofs wliat to do ; the SpamnrJ Gover- 
nour, as it fcippen'd, was with them, and his Advice was 
ask'd, but he profcG'd he knew not what to do; as for 
Slaves, they had enough already, and as to killing them, 
they were none of tliem ioclin'd to that ; The Spaniard Go- 
veraour told me, they could not think of fl-.edding inno- 
cent Blood, for as to them, the poor Creatures had done no 
Wrong, invaded none of their Property, and they thought 
they Iwd no jufl Quanel againft them, to take away their 

; Akd here I muft. in Jufticc to thefe Spaniards, ob- 
ferve, that let the Accounts of Sfanijh Cruelty in Mtxico 

' and Peru, be what they will, I never met with fiventeen 
Men of any Nation whatfbcver, 'in any Foreign Country, 
who were & univerfally Modeft, Tcmparate, Virtuous, 

1 fo very good Humour d, and fo Courteous as thefc Sp»- 

\ niardsi and as to Cruelty they had notiiing of it in their 
very Nature; no Inhumanity, no Barbarity, no outraga- 
ous Paffions, and yet all of^them Men of great Couiage 

' and Spirit. 

Their Temper and Calmnefs had appcar'd, in their 
bearing the unfufferable Ufagc of the three Engliflimmi 

I and their Jufticc and Humanity appear'd now in the Cafe 
of the Savages, as above: After fomc Confultarion, they 
Tcfolv'd upon this, that they would lie ftill a while longer, 

- 'till, if polTible, thefe three Men might be gone; but then 
the Govemour Spaniard recollefted, that the three Savages 
had no Boat, and that if they were left to rove aliout the 
Ifland, they would certainly difcover that there were In- 
habitants in it, and fo they fhould be undone that Wsy. 

Ui'ON this, thoy went back again, and there lay the 

Fellows faft afleep ftill, & they r^lv'd to waken them, 

and take them Prifoners, and tliey did foj the poor Fel- 

bws were liiangcly frighted when they were feiE'd upon 

and 



Hosted by 



Google 



(70 

and "bound, and afraid, like the Women, that they fliouU 
be muither'd and eaien; fiw it fecms thofi People think all 
the Woild do as they do, eating Meni Fleih ; but they 
were foon made eafy as to lliat, and away they carry'd 

It was very happy to them that they did not carry 
them Home to their Caflle. I mean to my Palace under 
the Hill; but they carryd them firft to the Bower, where 
was the chief of their Country-work, fuch as the keep- 
ing the Goats, the planting the Com, !^c. and afterwards, 
tliey carried them to the Habitation of the two Englijh- 

Here they were fee to work, tho' it was not much 
they had for them to do: and whether it was by Negli- 
gence in guarding them, or that they thought the Fel- 
lows codd not mend therafdvcs, I know -not, but one 
of them run away, and takmg into the Woods, they could 
never hear of him more. 

They had good Reaibn to believe he got Home again 
foon after, in feme other Boats or Canoes of Savages, 
who came on Shore three or foiu- Weeks afterwards, and 
who, carrying on their Revels as ufual, ■went off again in 
two Days time: This Thought terrify'd them ciiceed- 
inglyj for they concluded, and that not without good 
Caule indeed, that if this Fellow came fafc Home among 
hi? Comrades , he would certainly give them an Ac- 
count that there were People in the Ifland, as alfo how 
few and weak they were; for this Savage, as I obferv'd 
before, had never been told, and it was veny happy he 
had not, how many they were, or where they liv'di nor 
had he ever fcen or heaid the Fire of any of their Guns, 
much lefs had they (hewn him any of tlieir other leiird 
Places, fuch as the Cave in the Valley, or the new Re- 
treat which the two 'ErtgUfhmtn had made, and the like. 

The firft Teftimony they had that this Fellow had gi- 
ven Intelligence of them, was, that about two Month'ii 
after this, fix Canoes of Savages, with about feven, or 
eight, or ten Men in a Canoe, came rowing along the 
North-fide of tJie Wand, where they never ufid to come 
before, and landed about an Hour after Sun-rife, at a con- 
venient Place, about a Mile from the Habitation of the two 
£ngliJhmen,whsK this efcap'd Man had been kept : As the 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(7J ) 

SpaniarJ Goverfiour laid, had they been all there, the Ds* 
mage would not have been fo much, for not a Man ot' 
them would have cfcap'd i but the Caie differ'd now very 
much, for two Men to fifty were too much Odds : The 
two Men had the Happinefs to difcovcr them about a 
League off, fo that it was above an Hour before the/ 
lantfid, and as they landed about a Mile from their Hut^ 
it was fome time before they could come at them: Now 
"havmg gfeat Reatbn to believe that they were bctray'd, 
the firft Thing thej- did, was to bind the Slaves which 
were left, and caute rwo of the three Men , who they 
brought with the Women.who it Jeems prov'd very faithful 
tothem, to lead them with theirtwo Wives, and wliatever 
they could carry away vr'ah them, to their rctir'd PIac« 
in the Woods, which I have fpofcen of above, and there 
to bind the two Fellows, Hand and Foot, till they heard! 
feriher, 

1 n the next Place, feeing the Sav^s were all come or 
Shore, and that they bent their Courfc direftly that Way, 
they open'd the Fences where their Milch-Goats were 
kept, and drove them all out, leaving their Goats to fti ag- 
gie into the Wood, whither they plcas'd, that the Sava- 
ges might think they wei-e all bred wild j but the Rogue 
who came with them was too cunning for that, and gave 
them an Account of it all j for they went diredly to the 
Place. 

When the two poor frighted Men had&cur'd their 
Wives and Goods, they ient the other Slave they had ot 
the three, who came with the Women, and who was 
at their Place by Accident, away to the Spaniards, with 
all Speed, to give them the Alarm, and defjre fpeedy Help ( 
and in the mean Time they took their Arms, and wiiac 
Ammunition they had, and retreated towards the Place ia 
the Wood, where their Wives were fcnt, keeping at a 
Diftance, yet fo that they might iee, if pofiible, whicli 
. way the Savages took. 

They had not gone lar, but that, from a rifing Ground 
ti«iY could fte the little Army of their Enemies come on 
diteftly to their Habitation, and in a Moment more, could 
fee all their Huts and Houihold Staff flaming up toge- 
ther, to their great Grief and Mortification) -for they Jad 
,i very great Lois, and tothem irretrievable, stleafl for Ibmo 
D Timd 



Hosted by 



Google 



(74X 



Time. They kq^t their Statiori for a while, 'till jhey 
found the Savages, Ul:e wild Beafls, fpread themfclves ai! 
over the Place, rumaging every Way, and every Place they 
could think of, in fearch for Prey, and in particular for the 
People, of whom it now ptaJBly appear'd they had Intelli- 

Thc two ^ngrijlimirt feeing this, thinking thcmfelves 
not Iccure where they flood, becaure as it was likely fome 
of the wild People might come that Way, fi> they might 
come too many Wither, thought it proper to make ano- 
ther Retreat about half a Mile ftirther, believing, as it af- 
rcrvrards happen'd, that the farther they ftroll'd, the few- 
er would be together. ' 

The next Halt was at the Entrance into a very tliick 
grown Part of the Wood', and where an old Trunck of 
a Tree flood, which was hollow and lallly large i and in 
this Tree they both took thtu- ftanding, refolvmg to il« 
there what might offer. 

They had not flood there long, but two of the Sa- 
vages appear'd running direflly that Way, as if they had 
already had Notice where the) flood and were coming up to 
attack thems and alittieWay ferther, they Ipy'd three more 
comtagafter them, and five more hejond them, all coming the 
fame Ways befideswhich, they lawieven or eight more at a 
Diftancc, running another Way ; fiar in a Word, they ran 
every Way like Sportfnien beatingfbr their Game. 

The poor Men were now in great Perplej:ity, whether 
they fl.ould ftand and keep their Fofture. or fly : But af- 
ter a vcrv fl'brt Debate with themfclves, they confidcr'd. 
that if the Savnges rang'd the Country tliu's heibtc Help 
came, they might perhaps find out their Retreat in the 
Woods, and then ail would be lofl; fo they refolv'd to 
(land them thene i and if there were too many to deal with, 
then they would ^ up to the Top of the Tree, fom 
whence theydoubttd not to defend themfclves. Fire exccpt- 
'td, as long as their Ammunition lafted, tho' all the Sava- 



, which V 



r fifty, were t' 



■ Havi nc relHv'd upon this, they next confTder'd, whe- 
'theithcy Ihould'fircat the firft two, or wait for the three, 
and & take middle Party, by which the two arid the five 
jjjat fbllow'd would be fejiaratedi at length they reiblv'd 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



C7S) 

to let tfie two iirft pafs by, unlefs they fliould fpf tlani 
in the Tree, and come to attack them. The two firffi 
Savages alfo confirm'd theni in this Refolution, by tum- 
ing a little from them towards another Part of the Wood ; 
but the three, and the five after them, came forwards di- 
reaiy to the Tree, as if they had known the Englifime» 
were there. 

Seeing them come lb (trait towards them, they r* 
iblv'd to take them in a Line, as they camcj and *s thej» 
reCiIv'd to Pre but one at > Time, perhaps the fir.1 Shot 
might hit them all three; to which Purpofc, the Mafi 
^ who -was to fire, put three or four BuDets into his Piec% 
»nd having a fair Loop-hole, as it were, from a broken 
Hole in the Tree, he took a fare Aim, without being 
fcen, waiting till they were within about thirty Yards M 
the Tree, fo that he could not miis. 

While they were thus waiting, and the Savage* 
came on, they pbinly faw, that one or the three was tht 
Run-away Savage that had efcap'd from them, and they 
both knew him diftinitlv, and re&lv'd, that if pofi"ible, ht 
Ihould not elcape, tho' tney (hould both fire; to the other 
flood ready with his Piece, that if he did not drop at the 
firft Shot, he (hould be fure to have a fecond. 

But the firft was too good a Markfman to mifs his 
Aim; for as the Savages kept near one another, a little be- 
hind in a Line; in a Word, he fir'd, and hit two of 'em 
diredly: The foremoft was killd outright, being (hot in 
the Head : The frcond, which was die run-away InUiaoi 
was ftioi thro' the Body, and fell, but was not quite 
dead : And the third had a little Scratch in the Shoulder, 
perhaps by the fame Ball that went thro' the Body of the 
icconj, and being dreadfully iVighred, tho' not much hurt, 
fat down upon the Ground, skreaming and yelling in I 
hideous manner. 

The five that were behind, more frighted with the 
Noife, than fenfible of the Danger, flood ftill at firft; for 
the Woods made tlie Sound a Thoufind Times bigger 
than it really was; the Eccho's rattling from one Sicfe to 
another, and the Fowls rifing from S\ Parts, skreaming 
and making, every Sort, a icveral kind of Noile, according, 
ts their Kiad, jiift as it was when 1 tir'd the foil Gun, 
Di thrt 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(70 

that perhaps was ever (hot off in that Pkce fince it waj 
an Ifland. 

HowEvEJi, ail being filent again, and they not know- ! 
ing what the Matter was, came on unconcern'd, till they 
came to the Place where their Companions lay in a Con- 
dition miJeiable enough: And here the poor ignorant Crea- 
tures, not ieniiUe that they were within Reach of the 
Cune Mifchief, flood all of a Huddle over the wounded 
Man, talking, and, as may be fuppos'ti, enquiring of him 
how he came to be liurt; and who, 'tis very rational to 
believe, told them, that a Flalli of Fire firft, and imme- 
diately after that. Thunder from their Gods, had kill'd 
thoie two, and wounded iiira ; This I fky, is rational ; 
for nothing is more certain than that, as they fiw no Man 
near them, lb they had never heard a Gun in all their Lives, 
orfb much as heard ofa Gun; neither knew they any thing 
of killing or woutlding, at a Diftance, v/ith Fire and Bul- 
letsi if they liad, one might reafonably believe, they would 
not have flood fo unconcern'd, in viewing the Fate of 
their Fellows, without fome Apprehenlion oF their own. 

Our two Men, tho'as they confefs'd to me, it grieved 
'cmtobecb'ig'dtoIdiUb many poor Creatures, who, at the 
fame Time, had no Notion of their Danger; yet having 
them all thus in their Power, and the lirlt having loaded 
his Piece again; tefolved to let fiy both together among 
themj and fingling out, by Agreement, w^hich to aim 
at, they Ihot togetlier, and kill'd or very much wounded 
four of themj the fifth, frighted even to Death, though 
not hurt, fidl with the reft; fo that our Mmi feeing them 
idl fill together, thought they had kill'd them all. 

The Belief that the Savages were all kill'd, made our 
two Men come boldly out from the Tree before they 
had charg'd their Guns again, which was a wrong Step ; 
and they were under fome Surprize when they came to the 
Place, and found no lefs than four of the Men alive, and 
of them two very little hurt, and one not at all; This 
oblig'd them to fall upon them with the Stocks of their 
Muskets J and firft they made fure of the run-away Sa- 
vage, that had been the Cauie of all the Mifchief, and 
otanother that was hurt in his Knee, and put them out 
of their Paini then the Man that was not hurt at all. 
Mine and koeel'd down to them, with his two Hands 



Hosted by 



Google 



(77) 

held up, and madepiteous Moan to them by Geftures and 
Signs, for his Lifcj but could not'fay one Word to them 
that they could underftand. 

However, they fign'd to him to Rt down at the 
Foot of 3 Ti-ee thereby; and one of the Englip-mm, vi-iih 
a-Piece of Rope Twine which he had, by gicat Chancff, 
in his Pocket, ty'd his two Feet lilt togeHier, and his 
two Hands behind him, and there tht-y left him ; and> 
with what Speed they could, made after the other twro, 
whidi virece gone before; fearing they, or any more of 
them, fliould find the Way to t&u- cover'd Place in the 
V-'oods, where their Wiveo, and the few Goods tliey hid 
left, lay; TJiey came once in Sight of the two Men, 
but it was a ^eat Diftancci however, they had the Sa- 
tisla^on to fee them crofs over a Valley towards the Sea, 
the quite contrary Way from that which led to their Re- 
treat, w^hieh they were afraid of; and being fatisfy'd w^ith 
that, they went hack to the Tree, where they left their 
Priibner, who, as they iijppOE'cl, was ddiver'd by his 
Comrades; for he was gone, and the two Pieces of Rope 
Yarn, with which they had bound him, lay juft at the 
Foot of the Tree. 

They were now in as great a Cmicem as before, not 
knowing what Courie to take, or how near the Enemy 
might be, or in what Numbers; fo they rciblv'd to go 
away to the Place where their Wives were, to Ice if all 
was well Ithcre, and to make, them eafy, who were in 
Fright enoiLgh to be fure; fortho' the Savages were tiicir 
own Country Folk, yet they were moft terribly afiaid 
of them, and perhaps tlie more, for the licowlcdge they 
had of them. 

When they come there, they found the Sawaecs liad 
been in the Wood, and very near that Pbce, but had not 
fcund it; for it was indeed inacceffibic, by the Trees 
(landing fo thick, as iefore. unlefs the Perfons fceking it 
had been direiied by thoie that knew it, which theie did 
not; they found therefore every Thing very (afc, only 
the Women in a terrible fright: While tliey were here, 
ihey had the Comfort of ieven of the SfaniarJs comeingto 
their Afliftance; the otiier ten, with their Servants, and 
old rriJay, I mean FriJafs Father were gone in a Body 
W deScad their Bower, and the Corn, ana Cattle that was 
D J kept 



Hosted by 



Google 



f78 ) 

-jiept ttere, in Cafe the Savages iTiouH have rov'd over ft» 
thar Side of the Countr)', but they did not fp;-ead lb far : 
"With the feven Spaniards came one of the Sava^s, who, 
as I iaid, were their Pviftmcrs formerlyj and with them 
alio came the Savage, who the ZngbJIimen had left bound 
Hand and Foot at the Tree; for it teems they came that 
Way, law the Slaughier of the fcven Men, and unbound 
tlie eighth, and brought hun along with them; where 
iiowever, they were obKg'd to bind him agMn, as they 
Jiad the two others, who were left when the thitd run 

The Piifoners began now to be a Burthen to them ; 
,«nd they were (b afraid of their elcaping, that they 
thought they were under an abfolute Neceflity to kill 
them, for their own Prefervation: However, the i'pd- 
iiiurd Governour Vfould not confcnt to it, but order'd 
that they fhould be fent out of the V^ny, to myold Cave 
in the Valley, and be kept there with two Spaniards to 
guard them, and give them Food, w^hich was done; and 
they were bound there Haad and Foot for that Night. 

When the SpMniards came, the two "EngUfhrnen'^at 
fo encourag'd, that they could not fitisfy themfelvcs to 
ftay any longer there; but taking five of the Spaniards, 
«nd themfelves, with four Muskets and a Fi/tol among 
them, and two iiout Quarter-Starves, away they went in 
tjucft of the Savages; And fitli they came to the Tree 
where the Men lay that had been kill'd; but it was caTy to 
fee, thatllbme more of the Savages had been there ; for they 
had attemptet! to carry their dead Men away, and had 
dragg d two of them a good Way, but had given it over ; 
From thence they advancd to the firit riling Ground, 
where they had flood, and feen their Camp deftro)ed, 
tnd where they had the Mortification ftill to fee fome of the 
Smoak; but neither could they here feeanv of theSavages: 
They then re&Iv'd, tho' with all polTible Caution, to go 
forward towai-ds tlicir roin'd Plantation: But a little before- 
itliey came thither, coming in Sight of the Sea Shore, 
they Jaw plainly the Savages all embi'aking again in their 
Canoes, in order to be gone. 

They feem'd forry at firft that there wa^ no Way to 
come at them, to give them a parting Blow: But upon 
the whole, were very well iatisfy'U to be rid of them. 

TBI 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(.19) 

The poor ZngUJhmen being novf twice ruini.!, and al 
tiieir Improvements d^ftroy'd, tiie reft ail agreed to come 
and help them rebuild, and to aiTift them with neeilfu! 
Supplies. Their three Countrymen, who were not yet 
noted for having the Icaft Inclination to do any Good, jet 
as loon as they heard of it (for they living remote Eaft- 
ward, knew nothing of the Matter 'till all was over^ 
came and offer'd tlicir Help &nd Aflifiance, and did veiy 
-friendly wwk for feveral Days, to reitore their Habita- 
tion, and make Necellaries for them : and thus, in 3 litilt 
Time, they were fet upon their Le^s again. 

About two Days afier this, tney hail the farther Sa- 
tisfaftion of feeing thi-ee of the Savages Canoes com* 
driving on Shore, and at fonie Diftance fiom them, 
two drown'd Men i by which they had rcalbn to believe, 
that they had met with a Stoim at Sea, and had overfeC 
fome of them ; for it had blown very hard tlie very Night 
after they went off- 

HowEVER, as Ibmemight mifcarry, fo on the other 
Hand, enough of them efcap'd to inform the red, as well 
of what they had done, as of wjiat happen 'd to them ; 
and to whet them on to another Entcrprizeof theianieKa-s • 
ti're, which they, it feems, refolv'd to, attempt, with fuf- 
ficient Foree to carry all before them, for except what the 
fiift Man had told them of Inhabitants, they could lay lit- 
tle to it of their own Koowlcdgei for they never lav? 
one Man, and tlie Fellow bemg kul'd that had affirm'd it, 
they had no other Witnefs to confirm it to them. 

I T was live or fix ftlonths after this, before they heard 
any more of the Savages; in which Time otir Men wer« 
in Hopes they had either forgot their former bad Luck, 
or given over the Hopes of better ; .when on i fuddca 
they were invaded with a moft formidable Fleet, of no 
lefs than eight and twenty Canoes full of Savages, arra'd 
with Bows and Arrows, great Clubs, wooden Swords, and 
fuch like Engines of War; and they brought fuch Num- 
bers with them, that, in ihort, it put all our People into 
the utmnft Coniler nation. 

A £ they came on Shore in the Evening. 3nd at the 
Eafter-moft Side of the liland, our Ma\ had That Night 
to confult and conlider what to da; and, in the fiift Pace,' 
liowing that their bemg entirely conceal'd, was their our 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(So ) 

ly Sflfety before and would much more be Co now, <vfiile I 
tfie Number of their Enemies was ft> great, they therefore 
reiblv'd firft of all to take down the Huts which were | 
built for the two Znglijiitnen, and drive away their Goats 
to the old Cave; becaufe they fuppofrd the Savages would 
go direftly thither, as ibon as it was Day, to play the old 
Gam'e over again, though they did not now land withiii 
two Leagues of it. 

1 N the next Place, they drove away ill the Flock of 
Goats they had at the old Bower, as I cali'd it, which 
tciong'd to the Stitmariisi and, in Jfiort, left as little A^ 
yes:ance of Inhabitants any where as was poffible; and 
the next Morning early they polled themfelvcs with all 
their Force at the Plantation of the two Men, waiting 
for their coining: As they guelVd, fo it happen'd; thete 
new Invaders Jeaviog their "Canoes at the Eaft End of the 
Ifland, came ranging along the Shore direftly tow.^s the 
Place, to the NumlOT of iwo hundred and fifty, as near as 
our Men could judge. Our Army -was but fmall indeed* 
but that which was worle. they had not Arms for all 
thdr Number neitheri Tie Vih>\i Afcount itfcems, Rood 
^us : Firft, as to MeOj 

17 Sfaniardi. 



1 Old Friday, or FriJi^s Father. 

3 The tJiree Slaves taken with the Women, wlft 

prov'd very faithful. 
3 Other Slaves who liv'd with the S^aninrds. 

To Arm thele they had. 

^ I Muskets. 
f Piftols. 
5 Fowling-Pieces. 

f Muskets or Fowling-Pieces, which were taken ,, 
by me from the mutunous Seamen, who I re- 

3f Swords. 

3 OW Hafcerds. 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(8. ) 

To their Shves tKey did not give either Musket or Fu- 
Mc, but they had every one a Halberd, or a long SfafF.like 
a Quarter-Staff, with a great Spikeof Iron fjften'a into each 
End of it, and by his Side a Hatchet; alio every one of 
our Men had Hatchets : Twp of the Women could not 
be prevail'd upon, but they vrould come into the Fight, 
and they had Bows and Arrows, whicli the Spaniards liad 
taken from the Savages, when tlie firft Aftion happen'd, 
■which I have fpoken of, wJiere the Indians fought witli 
one another, and the Women had Hatchets too. 

The Spaniard Govemour, who I have delcrib'd fo of- 
ten, commanded the wholej and M^Uiam Atkins, who, 
tho' a dreadful Fellow for Wickednels, was a molt da- 
rbg bold Fellow, commanded under him. The Savages 
came forward like Lyons, and our Men, which was the 
worft of their Fate, had no Advantage in their Situation; 
only that Will. Atkins, who now prov'd a moft ufiful 
Fellow, with fix Men, was planted jufl hehitid a finall 
Thicket of Bufhes, as an advanc'd Guard, with Oiders to 
let the firft of tliem pais by, and tht-n fire into the mid- 
dle of them ) and, as loon as he had fir'd, to mifce his Re- 
treat as nimbly as he could round a Part of the Wood, and 
fo come in behind the SpifiiarJs wliere tlicy flood, having 
a Thicket of Trees all bemre them. 

When the Savages carne on, tliey run fttap^ling alwut 
eveiy way in Heaps, out of ail manner of Oider, and Ifll- 
Uam Atkins let about fifty of them pafs by hira, chcn fte- 
ing the reft comfe in a very rliick Throng, he orders three 
ofhis Men to fire, having loaded their Mufque!s with fix 
or feven Bullets a-piece, awwt as big as large Pil>oI Bullets.. 
How many they kill'd or wxiunded, they knew not, but 
the Confternation and Surpr!?.c w^ inespreflible among- 
the Savages; they were flighted to the hift Degree, to JiCir 
iiich a dreadful Noife, and &a their Men kill'd, and others 
hurt, but iec no Body that did it j when in the middle of 
their Fright, William Atk-ns. and his other iluee, let fiy 
again among the thiekeft of them ; and in tofs than a Mi- 
nute the firft three, being loaded again, gave them a third 
Volley. 

Had William Atkins and his Men rctir'd immediately, 

as (boii as thej' had fir'd, as they were Drder'd to do; or 

tid the reft of the Body been at Hand to have pour'd in 

l> >: their 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( s» ) 

Uieir Shot continual!)', the Savages had been cffeftuaHf 
rojlcd i for the Tenor that was among thcro, came prin- 
cipally from this, (vU.) That they were kill'd by the Gods 
wi'h Thunder and Lightning, and could fee no Body that 
hurt them; but WilUatn jitiins flaying to load again, dif- 
covcr'd ihe Cheat i Some of the Savages who were at a 



tnd kill'd above twenty, retiring as fad as they could, yet 
they wounded Atkiru himJclF, and kill'd one of his Fel- 
low Engtijhrnea with their Arrows, as they did afterwards 
one Sfanmrd, and one of the Indian Slaves who came with 
the Women; this Slave was a moft gallant Fellow, and 
fought moft defperately, killing five of them with his 
«wn Hand, having no Weapon, but one of the arm'd 
Staves and a Hatchet. 

Our Mea being thiis hard laid at, Ackim wounded, and 
two other Men xill d, retreated to a riling Ground in the 
Woodi and the Sfamardi, after firmg three Vollies upon 
them retieatcd alio ; for their Number was lb great, and 
iixy w^ot fo defpciate, that tho' above fifty of them were ' 
lilld, and more than fo many wounded, yet they came 
. on in ihe Teeth of our Men, fcailefs of Danger, and (hot 
ihetT Anows like a Cloud; and it was obferVd, that their 
■wounded Men, who were not quite difabled, were made 
OUtragious by their Wounds, and foueht like Madmen. 

■\Vheh our Men retreated, tlKvleft the Spaniard and 
the Engiiflimun that were kill'd behind them ; and the Sa- 
Tjges, when they came up to them, kill d them over again 
.in a wretched manner, breaking their Arms, Legs and Heads, 
■with tbeir Qubs and wooden Swords, like true Savages : 
But finding our Men were gone, they did not fecm to 
purfue them, but drew themielvcs up in a kind of a Ring, 
■which is, it fcems, their Cuftom, and ftioured twice in 
Token of thrir Viaory: After which, they had the Mor- 
lificawon lo fee feveral of their wounded Men M, dying, 
with the jnete Lofs of Blood. 

The Spaniard Governour having draw« his httle Body 
«p together upon a rifine GiounJ, Atkim, tho' he was 
wcuiwed, would have had him march d and charg'd them 
again altogether at once: But the Spaniards repl)''d, Seig- 
juor Atkim.ywi fce how their wounded Men figfit, let 'em 
alofic 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(83) 

a]onc tin Morning; all thefe wounded Men will be (lifFand 
fo^e with their Wounds, Mid feint with the Lois of Blood i 
and lb wc iliall have the fewer to engage. 

The Advice was good: But Ifl8. Atk'ms repiy'd mcr- 
rilj', That's true. Seignior, and fo fl;all I too; and that's 
the Reafon 1 would go od while I am warm, WdU 
Seignior jitkin], fays the Spamiirdi, you Jiave beliav'd gai- 
lanily, and done your Part j we will fight tor you, if you 
cannot come on, but I think it belt to flay 'tiUMoining 
fo they waited. 

Bur as it was a dear Moon-light Night, and th^ 
found the Savages in great Dlforder about their dead ana 
wounded Men, and a gieat Hurry and Noile among rheni 
where they lay, they afterwards reibiv'd to fall upon them 
in tlie Night, efpecially if they could ceme to give them 
but one Volley before they were difcover'd : This. they 
had a &ir Opportunity to do, for one of the two Ewg-. 
lifimen, in whofe Quarter it was where Hie Fight began, 
led tliem round between the Woods, andtlieSea-lideWdt- 
ward,atKJ then turning flioit South, they came fo nearwh^e 
(he thickeft of theis. lay, that before they wee feen oc 
heard, eight of them fii'd in among them, and did diead- 
ful Execution upon them; in halt a Minute moie, eight 
others iir'd after them, pouring in their finall Shot in tuch 
a Quantity, that abundance were kill'd and wounded; and 
all this while they were not able to fee who hurt them, 
or which Way to fly. 

The Sfmiardi charg'd again with the utmoft Expedi- 
tion, and then divided themfclves mto three Bodies, and 
rcfolv'd to fall in among them altogetlier : They iiad in 
each Body eiglit Pcilbns, that is to lay, 14, whereof were 
21 Men, and tlie i Women, wlw, by the Way, fougl« de- 
iperateiy. 

They divided the Fire-Arms equally in each Party, 
and io of the Halberds and Staves: Tftey v.'ould lave J»d 
the Women keep back, but they faid they wcie refolv'd 
to die with their Husbands, Having thus form'd their lit- 
tle Army, they march'd out from .imong the Trees, and 
came up to the Teeth of the ^emy, (hoaiine ami 
holbwing as loiul as they couM ; t!^ Savages flood alroge- 
thcr, but were in the utmoft Coiifulion, hdring tlie NoiJe 
of our Men fliouting from thtee Quaiteis together; ther 
wouLl 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



t84) 



'ft'ould have fbught if they hadfecnus: Andasfoon as vff 
eame near enough to be feen, fbme Arrows were Ihotj 
Slid pooi' o!d Friday was wounded, tho' not dangeroufly : 
But our Men gave them no Time ; but running up to. 
them, fit 'd among, them three Ways, and then fell in with 
the Biit-ends of their Muskets, their Swords, arm'd Staves-, 
and Hatc&etsi andkH ^at them fowell, that, in aWord_ 
tJley fet up adiCnal Skreaming and- How]ing, flying to' 
five dieir Liwss.wtiicfe wi^ foever they could. 

Ou-H, Men-, were- tirU with the Executibni and kiFd 
or mortally wounded'^ io the two Fights, about 180 of 
'^cma the reff;, being frighted out of their Wits, fcoui-'d 
tJljoi taaWoodsi.anJover theHill?, with all the Speed and. 
^M* that nihiblte peetcgukli help them to do ; and as we 
did; not> trouble onrSws much to putfuc them, they got 
aUogother to. tfic Sea-fidfc, where they landed, and where 
tilojr: Canoes lay:; Bat their Dififter was not at an End 
ytg-,; for it Mew 3 terrible- Storm of Wind that Evening 
li'pjn t]te Sea-wardi & that it was impoiriblc for them to 
go.offv nay; rlie Stornt: continuing- alTNight, when the 
"©de came up, theif Canoes were moft of them driven by 
riiBjSurgc-of the Sea fo high upon the Shoie, thatitre- 
quir'd uiiinite Toil to get them off : and feme of them 
were even dafh'd to Pieces agai:^ the Beach, or againil 
one another.. 

Our- Men, tW glad of "their Vicftory, yet got little 
Reft that Nighty but having refredi'd tlicmielves as wiW 
as they could, they tefolv'd to march to that P^t of tire 
I/land whertfthe Savages were fled, and fee wlar Pofture 
thC)> were ift. This neceiTaiily led them over the Place 
wheie the Ti'igh^ had been, and where they found fcverai 
of the poor CreatuieB notouile dead, and yet paft rerover- 
ing-Lifej a Sight diSgreeabic enough to generous Minds; 
for a truly great Man, tho' oblig'^ by the Law of Bat- 
tle to deltroy bis Enemy, takes no Delight in his Mi- 

HowEVER, there was no need to- give any Orders ' 
in this Cafe j for their own Savages, who wci-e thtir 
ServantSi di^atcJi'd, thpfc poor Creatures with thrir 
Hatchets-. 

A T lergth they came iii View of the Place where the 

jpoic oiiieiatle Remains of the Savages Army lay, where 

Uiert.- 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



f 8; ; . 

tSere appear'd about an hundred ftill; their Pofture was ge^ 
nerally fitting upon the Ground, with their Knees up to- «■.. 
v/ards their ftfouth, and the Head put between the two 
Hands, leaning down upon the Knees. 

When our Men came wiiliin two Musket- Shot of 
them, the Spaniard Governonr order'd two Musltets to be 
fir'd without Ball, to alarm them ; this he did, that by their 
Countenance he might know what to expeit, -uiz,. Whe- 
ther thej were Sill in Heart to fight, or were & heartily 
beaten, as to be difpirited and difcourag'3, and folie might 
nianage accordingly. 

This Stratagem tooR ; for, as foon as the Savages heard 
the firft Gun, andfaw the Flafli of the fecond, they rtaitcd 
up upon their Feet in the gieatcft Conlteination iniagini- 
ble; and as our Men advanc'd' fwiftly towards them, they 
all ran skreaming and yawling away, with a kind of a 
howling Nolle, which our Hen did not underftand, and 
had nevei' heard before; and thus ihcy ran up the Hills i^- 
n> the Country. 

A r firft, our Men had much rather the Weather had 
been calm, and they had all gone away to Sea : But they 
did not then confider, that liis might prohaMy tiave been 
the Occafion of their coming again in fiich Multitudes, as 
not to be reiifted; <«, at kail, to come lb many, and fij- 
often, as would quite Jefoiate the IJland, and ftaive them ; ■ 
IfiU. Atk'ms therefore, who, notwithlhnding hii Wounds 
kept always with them, prov'd the bcft Counfellor in this 
Cde: His Advice was,, to take the Advantage that ofTcr'd, 
and dap in between them and their Boais, , and fo depiwc 
them of the Capacity of ever returning any mo; e to plague 
'the Illand, 

They confulted long about this, and fome were againft 
it, for. fear of making. the Wretches rly to the Woods, and 
live there dclperatei and lb they il>cujd liavc them, to hunt 
lite wild Beafts, be afraid to (Hr out about their Bufincfs, 
and hav J, their Plantations, continually ■■ iileJ, all their tame 
■ Goats^eftroy'd, and, io Jhoit, be reduc'd to a Life of con- 
tiaaal Diftrefs. 

H^iU. Atkins toldthem, they had better have to do with 

aji hundred Men, than with an hundred Nations: That as 

UK.y muft dellroy thcix Boats, & they muH dcftroy the 

McB, 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



. C so 

Men. or be aU of them deftroy'd themfelves. In a Word, 
be Jliew'd them the Neccflitj' of it lb plainly, that they all 
cante intb it; fd they wentio work immediately with 
the Boats, and getting' forte dry Wood together from a 
dead Tree, they try'd to let fome of them on fire, hut they 
were lb wet, thatthey would not burn; however, the Fire 

he " . ■ 

fwimmiag i 

.-what they vrerc about, fome of thcin cs.rm running out 
of the Woods, and coming as near as they could to our 
Men, kneel'd down and ery'd, 0», On, IVm-amekoa, and 
fome other Words of their Language, which none of the 
others underftood any thing of ; but as they made pitiful 
deibires, and ftraiige Noiles, it was eafy to undcrftand, 
they begg'd to liave theur Boats Ipar'd, and that they would 
be gone, and never come there again. 

But our Men were now (atisfied, that they had no Way 
to prefervc themfelves, or to lave their Colony, but effec- 
tually to prevent any of thefe People from ever ffoinghome 
againj depending up<Ki this, that if ever & ftiuch as one of 
them got back mto their CoQiitry to tell the Story, the 
Colony was undone; lb tliat letring them know that they 
Hiould not have any Mercy, tticy fell to woik with their 
Canoes, and deftroy'd them every one, that the Storm had 
not deftroy'd before; at the Sight of which, the Savages 
Tais'd a hedious Cry in the Woods, which our People heard 
plwn enough ; after which they tan about the idand like 
dilbaited Slen; fo that, in a Word, our Mea did not reai. 
ly know at firll what to do with them. 

Nor &iL ths Spaniards, with all their Prudence, conli- 
dcr, that while they inade thole People thus de^Jwate, 
tliey ought to have kept good Guard at the fame Timr 
upon their Plantations; for tho' it is true, tl^y had driven 
away their Cattle, and the luiSani did not find out their 
main Retreat, I mean my old Caltic actlie Hill, nor the 
CavQ in the Valley, yet they found out my Plantation at the . 
Bower,and pull'd it ail to Pieces, and all the Fences and Planting 
about it; trode all the Com under Foot; tore up the Vines 
atul Grapes, being jufi theJi almort ripe, 'and did our Men an 
■ ineftimable Damage, iho' to themlelvcs not one FaithingV 
worth of Service, 

Tho' 



Hosted by 



Google 



(8?) 



T K o ' our Men were able to fight them upon all Oo 
safions, yet they were in no Condition to puriue them, or 
hunt them up and down ; tor as they were too nimble of 
Foot for our Men, when they found them fingle, fo. our 
Men durftnot go ibout lingle, for fear of being uirrounded 
with their Numbers : The beft was, they had no Weapons, 
for tho' they hadBows, they had no Arrows left, nor any 
Materials to make any, nor bad they any edg'd Tool or 
Weapon among them. 

Th e EKtremity and Dilbefs they were reduc'd to was 
great, and indeed deplorable i but at the fame Time, our 
Men wae alfo brought to very bad Circumftanccs by 
them i for tho" their Retreats were piefetvcd, yet their Pro- 
vifion was deftroyed, and their Harveft fpoilnl, and what 
to do, or which Way to turn themfelvcs, tiiey knew not : 
The only Refuge they had now, ivas the Stock of Cattle 
they had in the Valley by the Cave, and Ibme little Com 
which grew there; The three Englijkmen, WiiUatn At- 
kins and his Comrades, were now reduc'd to two, 
one of them being killd by an Arrow which ftruck him 
on the Side of his Head, juft under the Temple, fo that 
he never fpoke moiC; and it ,vas very remarkable, that 
this was the fame barbarous Fellow who cut the poor Sa- 
vage Slave with his Hatchet, and who afterwards intend- 
ed to have muithcr'd the Spamardi. 

lLO0K*Dupon their Cafe to have been worfe at this 
Time, than mine was at any Time, after I firft diicover'd 
the Grains of. Barley and Rice, and got into the Method 
of plantmg and railing my Corm. and my tame Cattlej 
for now they had, as I may fay, a hundred Wolves upon 
the IHand, which would devour every Thing they could 
come at, yet couH very hardly be come at themfelves. 

Th e nril: Thing thiy concluded, when they iaw what 
their Cireumftances were, was, that they would, if polfi- 
ble, drive them up to thefiuther Pari of thelfland, Sottth- 
, Eajl, that if any more Savages came on Shore, they might 
not find one another : Then, that they wouU daily hunt 
and harafs them, and kill as manj^ of them as they could 
come at, till they had i-cduc'd their Number ; and if they 
could at bft tame them and biing them to any Tiling, 
they would give them Com, and teach tliem how to plant - 
and live upon their dally Labour. 



Hosted by 



Google 



(88) 

Ik order to this, they Co follow'd them, and lb terrify'J 
them with their Guns, that in a few Days, if any of them 
fired a Gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he 
would fiill down for Fear ; and Co dreadfully ftighted they 
were, that they kept out of Sight ferther and farther, till 
at laft our Men following them, and everv Day almoft 
killing and wounding fo!iie of them, they kept up in the 
Woods and hollow Places lb much, that it reduc'd them to 
the utmoft Mifery for want of Food ; and many were af- 
terwards found dead in the\Voods, without any Hurt, but 
mecrly (laived to Death. 

When our Men found this, it made their Hearts re- 
lent, and Pity mov'd themi efpeciaUy th^e Spaniard Gover- 
nour, who was the moll Gentleman-Kkc gcneious-minded 
Man that ever I met with in my Life; and he propos'd, if 
poflible, to take one of them ahvc, and bring him to un- 
Serftand what they meant, fo far as to be able to adl a^ 
Interprete'", and to go among them, and fee if they might be 
brought CO fonie Qjoditions, that might be depended up- 
on, to lave their Lives, and to do us no Spoil. 

It was foRie while beibre any of them could he taken; 
but beuig weak and'li-'J' ftarv'd, one of them was at laft 
iiirpii?. (Tand made a Pjifoner; he was fullen at iiriT:, and 
wi^uld ndther eat aor drinJc, but finding himfelf kindly 
"ofed, and VitSiiiaL; given him, and noViolence offetM him, 
•he at laft g-e-w traflable, and came to himfelf. 

They brought old Fridad to him, who talked often 
' with him, and toM him how kind the other would be to 
- them all i that they would not only five their Lives, but 

■ Would giverhpm a Piir of tlie'Ifland tolive in, provided 

■ they would give Satisfoftion, tliat they woiild keep 
in their own Bounds, and not come beyond them, to in- 
jure -01 prejudice others ; and that they iliould have Com 
given them, to plant ar.d make it grow for their Bread, 
and ibme Bre?d given them fiw thcrr prelcnt Subfiftance s 

■ and old aridity tad the Fellow go and talk with the reft of 
his Countrymen, and fee WMt they iaid to it, aiTuring ' 
them, that if they did not agree immediately they ft.ouid 
fce ail deft) o/d. 

The poor Wrctcjjc^ throughly hun-Lkti, and reduc'd 
in NumKr to about tlu;ty icvcn, dos'd with the Piopofil 
at die firft Ofler, and bcgg'd to liavc- Ibmc Food given 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



tbem ; upon which, twelve SpaniarJs, and two Englijhmen 
well arm'd, and three JniA!iiKi Slaves, and oid Vriday, march- 
ed to tlie Place where they werci the three indmn Slaves 
cai-iicd thep! a laige Quantity of Bread, and fome Rice 
boiled up to Cakes, and iky'd in the Sun, and three live 
Goats; and they wwe ordered to go to the Side of a Hill, 
where they fat down, eit the Provifions, very thankfully, 
and were the moft fiitJiful Fdlows to their Words that 
could be thought of ; for except wlrai they came to beg 
Viiftuals and Diredions, they never came out of their 
Bounds i and there they lived when I came to the Ifland, 
tnd I went to fee them. 

They had taught them hoth to plant Com, make 
Bread, breed tame Goats, and milk them ; they wantedno- 
thing but Wives, and they foon would have been a Na- 
tion : They were confined to a Neck of Land, fiirround- 
cd with high Rocks behind tliem, and lying piain towards 
the Sea berore them, on the South-Eilt Comer of the 
Ifland : They had J^and enough, and it was very good and 
fiuitfiil, for they had a Piece of 'and about a Mile, and 
half broad, three or four Mile in Length, 

O o R Men taught them to ma'-w wooden Spades, fuch 
■s I made for my felf, and gavethem among them twelve 
Hatchets and three or four Knives ; and there they liv'd 
the moil fubjeitcd innocent Creatures, that ever were 

After this, the Colony cnjoy'd a peifcil Tranquility 
with reipea to the Savages, till I came to reviiit them, 
which was in about two Years: Not, but that koto ani 
then, fome Canoes of Savages came on Shore for their tri- 
umphal unnaiural Feafts,»but as they were of feveral Na- 
tions, and perhaps liad never heaid of thote that came be- 
fore, or the ReaJbn of it, they did not make any Search 
or Enquiry after their Countrvmen ; aiid if liey had, 
it would have been very harcl for them to have found 

Tinis, r think, I liave given a full Account of all that 
happcn'd to them, to my Rcturnj at lead, that was worth 
Notice. The Ind'mns or Savages were wonderfully civi- 
Bz'd by them, and they frequently went among them, but 
ibrbidi on Pain of Death, any one of the Indians coming to 
thein^ 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



'them, becaufe they would not have thdr Settlement be- 
tray "d again. 

One Thing was very retnatkabk, fit. that thev taugk 
the Savages to make Wicka-work, or Baskets; but they 
ibon out-did their Mafters j for they made abundance of 

' moft ingenious Things in Wicker-woik ; paiticulaiiy, all 
Sorts of Baskets, Sieves, Bird-Cages, Cup-lmaids, ^c. as 
alfo Chaiis to fit on. Stools, Beds, Couches, and abundance 
of other Things, being very ingenious at iuch Work, when 
they were once put in the Way of it, 

M Y coming was a particular Relief to thefe People, be- 
cauJc wefumifli'd them with Knives, Sriflars, Spades, Sho- 
vels, Pide-sKes, and all Things of that Kind which they 

" could want. 

With the Help of thele Tools they were fo very han- 
dy, that they came at lail to build up their Huts, or Hou- 
les, very handfomely ; raddling or working it up like Ba- 
sket-work all the Wa^ round, which was a veiy extraor- 
dinary Piece of Ingenuity, and Jook'd very odd, but was an 
exceedbg good Fence, as well againft Hear, as againll all 
Sorts of Vermine; and our Men were lb taken with it, 
that they got the wild Savages to come and do the like for 
tliem i (a that wlien I came to fee ihe two ^igUfumtn's 
Colonies, they look'd, at a Diftance, as If tlieyliv d all like 
Bees, in a HivC; and as for Wiil. jftkins, who was now bo- 
come a veri^ induftrious, necelTay and fober Fellow, he 
had made himfeif fiich a Tent of Basket-work, as I be- 
iieife was never feen; it was no Paces round in the out- 
fidc, as I meafur'd by my Steps ; the Walls w^cte as dole 
work'd as a Basket in i'anncls, or Squares of ;i in Num- 
ber, and very ftrong, flajidiug thoul (even Foot high; in 
■the middle was another not above ii Paces round, but 
built ilronger, being F.ight-fquarc in its Form, and in the 
eight Corners flood eight very ftrons; Ports, round tlie top 
Of which he laid ftrortg Pieces pinny togetliev with woo- 

_den Pins, from which he raifed a Piramid for the Roof of ' 
eight Rafters, very handibme, I alfurc you. and join'd to- 

gher very well, tho' he had no Nails, and only a few 
n-Spikes, which be Iwd made himfeif too, out of the 
old Iron that I had left tliere; and indeed this Fellow Ihew'd 
abundance of Ingenuity In feVeral Things, whici) he had 
to Knowlede ofj he made himielf a Forge, with a Pa!r_ 



Hosted by 



Google 



(?• ) 

ef wooden Bellows to blow the Fire ; he made himfelf 
Charcoal for his Work, and he form'd out of one of the 
Iron-Crows, a middling good Anvil to hammer uponj in 
this Manner he made many Things, but e^cially Hooks, 
Staples and Spikes, Bolts and Hinges: But to leturn to the 
Houfe i after he had pitch'd the Roof of his innermoft 
Tent, he work'd it up between t2ie Rafters wirh Basket- 
work, fo firm, and thatch'd that over again &> ingeniouHj' 
with Rice-ftraw, and over that a iaige Leaf of a Tree, whicn 
cover'd the Top, that his Houfe was as dry as if it had been 
til'd or flated. Indeed he own'd that the Savages -iiadc the 
Basket-work for him. 

The outer Circuit was cover'd, as a Lean-too, ailround 
this inner Apartment, and long Rafters lay from the two 
Ind thirty Angles to the top Pofts of the inner Houfe, be- 
ing about twenty Foot diftant ; (b that there was a Spac« 
like a- Walk, within the outer Wicker-wall, and witliout 
the inner, near twenty Foot wide. 

The inner Place he partition'd off with the ilme Wick- 
er-work, but much feirer, and divided it into fix Apart- 
ments, fo that he had fix Rooms on a Floor; and out of ev* 
ry one of tiefe there was a Door, firft into the Entry or 
Coming into the main Tent, and another Door into the 
Space or Walk that was round it; lb that Walk was aW 
divided into f.s equal Parts, which ferv'd not only for R*" 
treat, but to ftore up any NeceiTaries which the Family had 
occafion for. Thefe fix Spaces not taking up the wliole 
Circuml^encc, what other Apartments the outer Circle 
had, were thus order'd: As foon you were in at the Door 
of the outer Circle, you had a (hort PafTagc ftrait before 
you to the Door of the inner Houfe, but on either Side 
was a Wicker- Partition, and a Dcor in it, by which you 
went, firft, into a large Room or Store-houfe, twenty Foot 
wide, and about thirty Foot long, and thro' that 'into an- 
other not quite fo long_i lb that in the outer Circle was 
' ten handfome Rooms, fix of which were only to be come 
at thro' the Apartments of the inner Tent, and ferv d as 
Clo%s or retired Rooms to the refpeitive Chambcis of 
the inner Circle ; and four large Wjre-houfes or Barns, or 
whaf you plcafe to call them, which went in thro' one an- 
other, two on either Hand of the Paffage, that loi thro' the 
outer Door to the inaei' Tent. 

S»CM 



Hosted by 



Google 



Soc" aPie« of Basket-work, I believe, was nfverrea 
in ihc World ; nor a Houfe, or Tent, & neatly contriv'd, 
much iefs, Co built: In this great Bee-hive livd the ihiec 
FamjiicE, that is to lay, ffill. Atkins and his Companion ; 
the tliird was kill'd, but his Wife remam'd with three , 
Children ; for flie was, it leans, big with Child when he 
dy'd, and the other tv/o were not at a]l backwai-d to give 
the Widow her full Share of every Thing, J mean, as to 
their Com, Milk, Grapes, ^e. and wlien they kill'daKid, 
or found a Turtle, on the Shore ; fo that tliey all liv'd well 
enough, tho' it was true, thoy were not fo induftrious as 
the other two, as has been oblerv'd already. 

One Thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz.. That as 
for Religion, T don't kno >v tliat there was any Tiling of 
that kind among them i they pretty often indeed put one 
another in Mind that there was a God, by the very com- 
mon Method of Seamen, -vix.. Swearing by his Name : 
Nor were their poor ignorant Savage Wives much the better 
for having beenmarry'dto^hrillHans, as wemuft callthemi 
for as they knew very iitUe of God themftlves, fofhey were 
utterly uncapable of entriug into any Difcourie with their 
Wives about a God, o^to talk any thing to them concern- 
ing Religion. 

The utmoft of "all thf Improvement which I can % 
e Wives had made for them, \,-ss, chat they had taught 
-nem to ipeak Ryglijh pretty well, and ail the Children they 
had, which was near lo m all, were taught to fteak £e^- 
IjP) too, from their firft learning to ipeak, tlio' they atfirft 
Ipoke it in a very broken Mannei', like their Mothers. 
There were none of thefe Children above fix 'Years old 
xvhen I came thither, for it was not much aboi-c Jeven 
Years that they had fetch'd thefe five Savage Ladies over, 
but they had all been pretty fmitful, ior they liad all Chil- 
dren, more or lefi : I think the Cook's Male's Wife was 
big of her fixth Child ; and the Mothers were all a good 
Sort of well-govern'd, quiet, laborious Women, modcftand . 
decent, heip&l to one anotiier, mightv oblcrvant and fub- 
]c& to then- Maftets, I cannot call them Husbands; and 
wanted nothing but to be well inftrufted in the. Chriftian 
Religion, and to be I^Uy niarry'd; both which werehap- 
pily brought about afterwards by my Means, or, at leait, 
oy the Confequence of my coming among them. 

Hatin* 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(9J) 

Having thus given an Account of the Colony in g*^ 
neral, and pretty much of my five Runagate Englijhmen, I 
muH Jay ibmetliipg oi the SpaniMriii. who were the main 
\ Body of the Family ; and in whole Story there are fome 
I Inisdents aiib remarkable enough. 

I HAD a great many Difcourfts with them about theu- 
( Cii cumftances, when they were among theSavagcs: They 
I told me readily, that they had no Inftauces to give of their 
Application or Ingenuity in that Country; tiiatthey were 
a poor miferablc dejefted Handfiil of People ; that if Means 
had been put into their Hands, they had yet ib abandon'd 
ihcmfelves to Delpair, aud fo funk under the Weight of 
their Misfortunes, that they thought of nothing but Star- 
ving: One of them, a grave and very icnfible Man, tokl 
nie, he was convinc'd tney were in the wrong ; that it 
was not the Part of wife Men, to give up themfcives to 
their Miiery, but always to take hoU of the Helps which 
Reafon offer'd, as well for prefenc Support, as tor future 
Deliverance ; He tokl me, that Giicf was the moft foifeleft 
infignificant Pafllon in the World ; for that it regarded only 
Things paft, which were generally impolTible to be recaU'd, 
or to be remedy'd, but ted no View to Things to com*; 
and had no Share in any Thing that look'd like DeliveiaBce, 
j but rather added to the Aftliftion, ihan propoled a Reme- 
dy : And upon this, he repeated a Spanijh Proverb^ which 
I though I cannot repeat in juft the lame Words that he 
' fpoke it, yet I remember I made it into an Etiglijh Pio- 
'. verb of my own, thus : 

I In Trouhk to he trouhfd. 

Is t9 hifve your Trouble danH'd. 

' He ran on then, in Remarks upon all the little Improve- 
ments I had made in my Solitude ; my unweary'd Appli- 
cation, as he call'd it, and how I had made a Condition, 
y'hich in its Circumflances, was at fitft, much worft than 
theirs, a thoufand Times more happy than theirs was, even 
now, when they were all together ; He told mc, it was 
remarkable, that EnsHP-imen had a gi-eatcr Prclence of Mind 
in their Diftrels, than aqy People fliat ever he met withi 
that their unhappy Nation, and the Soringutfe, were the, 
worft 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( ?4 > I 

Worft Men in the Worici to ftruggle with Misfortunes ; for 
tliat their firft Step in Dangers, Jter common Eftbrts are 
over, was always to defpair, lie tlown under it, and die, ■ i 
without roufmg their Thoughts up to proper Remedies I 
for Efcape. 

I cold him, their Cafe and mine difFeT'd exceedingly, that 
they were call upon the Shoie without Neeeflarics, with- 
out Supply of Food, or of prelcnt Suftenance, 'till they 
could provide ; That it if true, I had this Diftdvantagc ; 
and Difcomfbrt, t]iat I was alone; but then the Supplies I I 
had providentialiy throAvn into my Hands, by the uncx- 
pcdt«t driving of the Ship on Shore, was fueh a Help ai 
would have encourag'd any Creature in the World to have 
apply'd himfelf as I nave done ; Seignior', lays the Spaniard, 
had we poor Spam^rdj been in your Cafe, wc (hould ne- 
ver have gotten half thofe Things out of the Ship as 
you did ; Nay fays he, we (hould never have found Means 
to have gotten a Raft to carry them, or to have gotten a 
Raft on Shore without Boat or Sail j and how much lei's 
frould we liave done, laid he, jf any of us had been alone ? 
Well, I dctir'd him to abate his Compliment, and go on 
\vith the Hiftory of their coming on Shore, where they 
landed; he told me, they unhappily landed at a Place where 
there were People without Proviiions j whereas had they 
had the common Senfc to have put off to Sea again, and 
g6ne to another Iflanda little farther, they had found Pro- 
viiions, tho' without People ; there being an Ifland that 
Way, as they have bceoitold, where there was Proviiions, 
tho no People ; that is to fay, that the Spaniards of Tri- 
nidad had frequently been there, and had fill'd the Ifland 
with Goats ana Hogs at fcveftil Times ; where they have 
bred in fuch Multitude, and where Turtle and Sea-Fowls 
were in fuch Plenty, that rhey could havebeen in no want 
df Flelh, tho* they had found no Bread i whereas here, 
tliey were only fullain'd with a ftw Roots and Heibs, 
which they uiiderftood not, and which had no Subiiance 
in them, and which the Inhabitants gave them ftaringly' 
enough, and who could treat them no better, unlefs they 
would turn Canibals, and eat Mens Fk(h, which was the 
great Dainty of their Country,' 

Thev gave me an Account Bow many Ways thev 

^we to avilize tieSav^es they were with, and toteacli 

thcwi 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 55 > 

(hem ratiooal Cultoms in theordinary V/ay of Living, bat 
in vain ; and how they retorted it upon them, as unjuft, 
thatthey who came there forAffiftance and Support, fliould 
attenipt to ftt up for Inftrudtors of rhofe that gave them 
Bread ; intimating, it fcems, riiat none fhould ftt up for 
the lufttuftors of others, but thofc who could live with- 

T H E Y gave rtie difmal Accounts of the Extremities 
they were driven to i how fometimes they were many 
Days without any Food at all; the Hand they were upon 
being inliabited by a Sort of Savages that lived more indo- 
lent, and for that Reafon were lefs fiipplied with the Ne- 
rcdaties of Lift, than th^ had ReaTon to believe otha^ 

1 were in the iamc Part of the World ; and yet thev found, 

; that thcfe Savages wcrelels ravenous and voracious, tian thofc 
who had better Supplies of Food. 

Also they added. That they could not but fee with 
v.-hat Demonftrations of Wifdom and Goodnefs the gover- 
nmg Providence of God direfts the Event of Things in 
the World i*whieh, they faid, appear'd in their Circum- 
ftancej for if prefled by the Haradiips thev were under, 

' and the Barrennefs of the Country where they were, they 
had fearch'd after a better Place to live in ; they had then 

I been out of tlie Way of the Relief that happen'd to them 
by my Means. 

Then they gavemean Account, how the Savages, who' 

I they liv'd among, eiipefted them to go out with them in- 
to their Wars j And it was true, that, as rhej- had Fire- 
Arms .with them, had they rot had the Dilafter to kile 
fheiv Ammunition, ihey fhould not have been fcrviceable 
only to their Friends, but have made themfelves terrible 

; both to Friends and Enemies ; but being without Powder 

I and Shot, and yet in a Condition, that they could not in 
Reafon deny to go out with their Landlords to their Warsj 
when they came into the fk\d of Battle, they wpre in a 
— - " " ' " ' 1 than the Savages themfelves ; for they 
■s nor Arrows, nor could they ufe thoft 
e them i ib that they could do nqthing but 
ftand Ml, andbewounded with Arrows, till they came up to 
the Teeth of their Enemy ( and then indeed the three Hal- 
bards -they had, were of Ufe to them ; and they would of- 
ten drive a whole little Army before them, with thoic 



woife Goiiditior 
• neither had ^ 
the Sav^es gave 



Hosted by 



Google 



Halbatds and (liarpned Sticks put into the Muzzles of tlidr 
Muskets : But that for all this they were ibmetimes 
fiuTounded with Multitudes, and in great Danger from I 
their Arrows ; till at laft they found the Way to make 
themfelves large Targets of Wood, which they coveted 
with Skins otwild Beafts, whole Names they knew not ; 
and thelc covered them from the At rows of the Savages ; 
that notwithftanding thefe, they were Ibmetimes in great , 
Danger, and were once five of them knock'd doivn toge- 
ther with the Clubs of the Savages, which was the Time 
when one of 'em was taken Pnfoner ; that is to fiy, 'the 
Spaniard, whom I had relieved; Thst at firft they thought 
had been killed. But when afterwards they heard he was 
taken Prilbner, they were under the greateft Grief ima- 
.ginable, and would w^illingly have all ventui'd tlieir Live* 
to have refcued liini. 

. They told me. That when they werefo knock'd down, 
the reft of their Company reJtu'd them, and ftood over 
thera, fighting till they v/ere come to themiqlves, all but 
him who they thought had been dead; and then they made 
their Way with tlicir Halbards end Pieces, Handing clole 
together in a Line, thro' a Body of above a thouland Sa- 
vages, beating down alt that came in their Way, get the 
Vidory over their Enemies, but to their great Sorrow, be- 
cauic it was vjith the lols of thejr Friend ; who, the other 
Patty finding him alive, rarry'd off witli Tome others, as I 
gave an Account in my former. 

They defcrib'd moft affediionktdy, how they were 
furpriz'd with Joy at the Return of their FriendandCom- 

E anion in Mifcry, who they thought had been devour'd 
y wiM Beafts of the worft Kind, (vix..) by wild Menj 
aad yet how more and more they were furprii'd with the 
Account he gave them of his Errand, and that there was 
a Chriftian in any Place, near, much, more one that was 
able, and had Humanity enough to contribute to their De- 
liverance. 

The v defcrib'd how they were aitoniOi'd at the Sight 
of the Relief I lent them, and at the Appearance of Loaves 
(jf Bread, Things they had not fcen (ince their coming. to 
that raiferablc Pkcc; how often they crofted it, and hlelTcd 
i Bread tent from Heavcn.i and what a reviving Cor- 
'- ■■■ Ts to tlieir Spirlw co'taftc itj as nlfo of the other 



dial, it w 



Hosted by 



Google 



( 91 ■) 

Thing? I imd fent for their Supply. And after all, they would 
have tolci me ibmething of the Joy they were in, at the 
Sight of a Boat and Pilots to carry thcni away tothePcrfoii 
and PLice from whenceall thefe new Comforts came; but 
they told me it was impoiliblc to exprefs it by Words, fof 
their cxcelfive Joy, naturally driving them to unbecoming 
Extravagancies, they had no Way to describe them, but by 
telling me thai they bordered upon Lunacy, having no 
Way to give Vent to their Paflion, fuitable to the Senfe 
that was upon them; that injibmc it worked one Way, 
and m ibme another ; and tlut fbmc of them, thio' a Eui^ 
prize of Joy, would burft out into Tears ; others be half 
mad, and others immediately faint. This Difcourft es- 
treamly afleiSeJ nic, and call'd to my mind ¥riday's Es:- 
taey, when he met his Father, and the poor People's Ex- 
tacy, when I took them up at Sea, after their Ship w^ 
on tire: The Mate of the Ship's Joy, wlien hefouiidhim- 
lelf delivered in the Place where he expe£ted to peiiili; 
aiid my owti Joy when after 18 Years Captivity, I foiunj. 
a good Ship ready to carry me to my owii Country : Alt 
thele Thing? made me more fenlible of the Relation of 
tho(e pool Men, and more affected with it. 
. Having thus given a View of the State of Thing*, 
as 1 fbimd them, 1 muft relate tlie Heads of what I 
did . for thele People, and the Condition in which 1 left 
them. It was their Opinion and mine too, that tJoey 
would be troubleii no more with the Savages; or that if 
they were, they would be able to cut them off, it they 
were twice as many as before; To they had no Concern a- 
bout that : Then I entred into a ierious Difcouiie with 
thcSpaniitrd whom I call'd Governour, about their Stay in 
the Uland ; for as I was not come to carry any of thcni 
oif, fo it would not be juft to carry off fome, and leave 
others, who perhaps would be unwilling to (lay, if their 
Strength wa5 diminidied. 

, On the other Hand, I told them. I came to e/Iablifli 
them there, not to remove them ; and then 1 let them 
know, tliac I had brought with me Relief of fiuidry Kinds 
for them i That I hail been at a great Charge to fupply them 
with all Things nccellary, as well for their Convenience, 
as their Defence ; and tiut I had fuch and fuch particular' 
Pcrions with me. ss well to encreaie" and recruit their 
£ KumlcTt 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



Numter, ssbj* the particular neceiSry Employments wliicL 
they were bred to, being Artificers, to aflift them in thofe 
Things, in which, at prefent, they were to fcek. 

They were altogether when I talk'd thus to them; 
and before I deliveiedto'ein the Stores 1 had brought, Iask.'d 
iliem one by one,lf they had entirely forgot,and bary'd the firft 
Animoiities rHat had been among chcm, and could fhakc hands 
■with one another, andengage inaftridiFriendftiipandUnion 
of Inte^ eft, that lo there might be no mote Mifunderft andings 
or Jealoiiics, 

WilUem jitkins, with abundance of Franknefs and good 
Humour, faid. They had met with Affliftions enougli to 
make them all ibber, and Enemies enough to make them 
all Friends ; that for his Part he would iivc and die 
with them j and was fo tar from defigning any Thing 
againft the SfaniarJi, that he own'd they had donenothing 
■to him, but what his own rnad Hurnour.tnadc necelTary, 
and what he would have done, and peihaps much worfc 
in their Cafe j and that he would ask them Pardon, if 1 
delired it, for the fooiifh and brutifli Things he had done 
to them j and was very willing and delirous of living in 
Terms of entire Friendiliip and Union with them ; and 
would do any Thing that lay in his Power to convince 
them of it ; and as for going to EngUnJ, he car'd not if 
he did not go thitlicr theie twenty Years. 

The Spuniards Skid, They had indeed at firft difirm'd 
and excluded IVill. jitkins and his two Countiymcn for 
- their ill Condnft. as they had let me know ; and they ap- 
yeal'd to me, for the Neceflity tlwv were under to do & : 
But that fViiliam jitk'mi had bchav d himfelf fo bravely in 
the gieat Fight they had with the SavagcF, and on fevcra! 
Occaiicnsiinceiandhadfl-,ew'dhimfi-iffofaithfulto,andcon- 
cein'd for, the geneial Inteieft of them all, that they had 
foi gotten all that was part, and thought he meiiiedasmuch 
to Tc trufted with Aims, and fupply'd with Neccflaries 
as any of ihcm ; jnd that they had teftify'd their Satif- 
faction \a Km, ^ «>mmitting the Command to him, ■ 
ii«t to thc'Coyetpour himfilf ; And as they had an entire 
Cwilidence ^a him and all his Countrymen, fo they ac- 
knowfcdgc'd theyhad m'crited that Confidence by A the 
Methods thai honeft Men could merit to be valued, and 
tnilled i and they moft heaitily embrae'd the Occafi- 
on 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(99) 

on of gWing me this Aflurancc, that they would ncva 
have any Intereft ftperatc from one another. 

Upoti thele frank and open Declarations of Friend- 
[hif), we appointed the next Day to dine all together; and 
indeed wc made a fplcndid Feaft ; I cauied the Ship's Cook 
and his Mate to come on Shore, and drcfs our Dinner; 
snd the old Cook's Mate wc had on Sliore, affift- 
cd : Wc brought on Shore fix Pieces of good Beef, and 
four Pieces of Pork out of the Ship's Provifion, with our 
Punch-Bowl, and Materials to fill it ; and in particukr, I 
gave ihcm ten Bottles of French Claret, and ten Bottles of 
EngliJJi Beer ; Things that neither the Spaniai-Ji, or the 
Englijlimnt had tafted for many Years; and which, it niay 
be liippofed. theywere exceeding glad of 

The Sfmiards added to our Feaft five whole Kids, 
which the Cooks roafted; and three of thciii were fcnt 
cover'd up clofe, on Board the Ship, to the. Seamen, that 
they might Feaft on frefh Meat from on.Shoie, as we did 
with their Salt Meat from on Board, 

After this Feaft, at wliich w-e were very innocoitly 
merry, I brought out my Cargo of Goods, w^hercin, tliat 
there might ha no Difpute about dividing. I (hcw'd them 
there was futKcient for tliem all ; and defir'd that they m ight 
all take an equal Quaatity of the Goods that wc-e tor 
wearing! that is to my, equal when made up ,- as firft. I 
diftributed Linnen fuflicient to niake every one of them 
four Shirts; and at the Sfam»rdsKc<\\is& afterwards, made 
ihem up fix; thefe were e>:ceeding comfortable to them, 
having been what, as I may fiy, they had long fmce for- 
got the Ufe of, or what it was to wear tliem, 

I allotted the thin Englijh Shifts, which I mention'd bc- 
(brc, to make every one a light Coat, like a Frock, which 
I judged firteft for the Heat of t!ic SeiTon ; cool and loofc, 
and order'd, that whenever they decayed, they (hould 
make more, as they thought fit: Thelikeror Pumps, Shoes, 
Stockings and Hats, ^e. 

I cannot exprefs what PleafiiTc, what Satis&fHon, fat 
upon the Countenances of all thefe poor Men, when rhcy 
(aw the Care I liad taken of them, and hoiv well I had 
fumiih'd rhem ; they told me, 1 was a Father to theiil, and 
that having fuch a Correfpondent as I was, in Ic reinotc 
a Pare of the World, it would make them forget thattbey 



Hosted by 



Google 



( loo ) 

were kft in a defolate Place ; and they ail voluntarily ei> 
gag'd to me not to leave the Place without my Confcnt. 

Then! pcfcnt&l to them the People I hai.i biought 
■with me, j-aitieulailjr the Taylor, the Smith, and ihe t^™ 
Carjjenters, all of them inoft nccci!ary Pcopk ; but a- 
tovc all; my ecnei^ Artificer, than whom they could not 
Name any Thing that was more ufcfiil to tliem ; and 
the Taylor, to (l;ew his Concern for them, went to work 
immediately, and, with my Leive, made them every one 
a Shiit the firft Thing he did; and which wa? ftill more, 
he taught the Women, not only-how to fow and Hitch, 
and ufc the Ncciilc, but made them aflift to mate the 
Shiits for their Husbands, and for all the reft. 

A s to tlic Cai-pcnters, I fearee need mention, how ufe- 
fiil they wcte, for they took in Pieces all my cluir.fy, un- 
handy Things, and niadt them clever convenient Tables, 
Stools, Bcd-Ileads, Ciip-boards, Lockers, Shelves, and every 
thing they wanted_of that Kind. 

B u T to let them fee how Nature made ArtiScers at 
firft, I canied the Carpenters to fee ffllliam Atlhu's Ba- ■ 
sket-houfe, as I cali'd it, and they both own'd they never 
iaw an Inftance of fuch natural Ingenuity before; nor any 
Thing fo regular, and io handih' built, at leaft of its Kind : 
And one of them, when he law it, after mufing a good 
while, turning about to me, I am fure, (ays he, that Man 
has no need of us, you need do nothing but give him Tools. 

Then 1 brougnt them out all njy Stoic of Took, and 
gave every Man a Digging Srade, a Shovel, and a Rake, 
for we hatl no Harrows or Plows ; and to evtry fepaate . 
riace, a Picfc-ax, a Crow, a bioad-Ax, and a Saw ; always 
appointing, that as often as any weie broken, or womout, 
they ftoSd be fupply'd without gtu'lging- ^"^ "*' the ge- 
neral Stoics that I lett behind. 

Kails, Staples, Hinges, Hammers, ChiiTcIs, Knives, 
ScilTars, and all Ibrts of Tools, and Iron-work, they had 
wiihout Tale, as they rcquir'd, for no Man wotild careto 
take more than they wanted, and he muft be a Fool that would ' 
waft or iboil tliem, on any Account whatever; and for 
thcUfe of the Smith, ricftiwoTonof unwroughllronfor 
a Supply. 

H r Magazine of Powder and Arms, which I brought 

them, was fuch, even to Profufion, that they could not 

but 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(Id r 

but rc;oyce at them, for now they coiikl march as ! ufeJ 
to do, with a Musket jipon each Shoulder, if tliere was 
Occafibn. and wetc able to fight a Thoiifind Sai'agcs, if 
they had but (bme little Advantages of Situation, which 
alfo ihey coi;lil not mifs of, if they hidOccalion. 

1 canyd on Shore with nie the young Mtn, whofc 
Mother was ftarv'd to Death,, nnd the Maid aifoj il.c wSs 
a fober well Educated Religious young Woman, and be- 
hav'dfoinoffenfivcly, that every one gave her a goodWorif; 
(he had indeed an unhappy Life with us, there being no 
Woman in the Ship but herfdfi but (l^cborc it with Pa- 
e ; After a while feeing Things fo well order'd, and 



in fo fine a Way of thriving upon my Ifiand, and conli> 
dering that they had neither Bulinefs orActjuamtance - -' 



the 



JEfl/!-Ifli/i<j,or ReaJbnfortaking folongaVoyage: Ifay, c 
fidering all this, both of them came to me, and delired I 
would give them Leave to remain on the Ifland, and be 
enter'd among my Family, as they call'd it, 

I AGREED to it readily, and they had, a little Plat of 
Ground allotted to them, where they had three Tents or 
Houfeii (et up, iiitroun Jed with a Basfcct-woife, Pallifado'd like 
Atkins's, and adjoining to his Plantation : Their Tents were 
contriv'd, (b that thev had each of them a Room apart 
to lodge in, and a middle Tent like a great Stoie-houfe to 
ky all their Goods in, and to eat and drink in ; and now 
the other two E«^//,'Tjmfu-Temov'd their Hal-itaiion to the 
fame Place, and fo the iJbnd w-as divided into three Colo- 
nics and no more, lix. the Staniards with old fridny, and 
the firft Servants, at my old Habitation under the Hill; 
which was, in a Word, the capital City; and where thc^ 
had fo enlargd and extended their Works, as w^ell under 
as on the outfidc of the Hill, that they liv'd, tho' peifeiftly 
coneeal'd, yet full at la';^ i Never was there fueli a little 
City in a Wood, and fo Jiid, I believe, in any Part of tiie 
World; for I verily believe, a thouland Men miglit haie 
■ rang'd thellland aMonth. and if they had not known tlieic 
was fuch a Thing, and look'd on purpofe for it, they 
Would not have found it; for the Trees ftootl & thick and 
fo dofe, and grew fo fiift raatte'd into one another, rliat 
nothing but cutting them down flift, could difcover the 
Place; except the two narrow Entrances, where they went 
in and out, could be found, which was not very eiiv; wic 
E J of 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



fio. ) 



of ttem was juft down at the Water's Edge on the Side 
of the Creek, and it wis afrerwaids above two hundred | 
Yaids to the Place j and the other was u]> the Lulder at ' 
twice, as I have alreaily fbrmnly delcrjb'd ic j and they had 
a large Wood thick planted alio, on the Top of the Hill, 
which containetl above an Acie, which grew apace, and 
erd the Place fiom all Dilcovery there, with only o 



It eafy to be diieova'd, 



litu's, where 

n tholel hod 

; Savage* 



V Place between two Trees n 
to enter on that Side. 

The other Colony was that of mil. A 
there were four Families of EngUJhmia, 1 mi 
left there, with their Wives and Children; 
that were Slaves; tHe Widow and Children of the Englsjh- 
WHB that was kill'd; the young Man and the Maidj and 
by tlie Way, we made a Wife of her alfo, before we went 
away: There' were alfo the two Caipenters and the Tay- 
lor, who I brought with me for them; alio the Smitiv 
who was a very occeffin' Man to them, e%cially as a 
Gunfmith, to take care of their Arniti and my other Man, 
■who I call'd, ^ack of all Ji-iulei ; who was m himfelf as 
^ood, almofl as twenty Men, for he was rwt only a very 
ingenious Fellow, but a very merry Fellov/, and before I 
went away, we marry'd him to the honeft Maid that came 
with the Youth in the Ship, who Imention'd before. 

And now I fpeafc of Marrying, it brings mc naturally 
to fiy ibroething of thefreiwi Eccleiiafticthat I had brought 
with me out of the Ship's Crew, who I took up at Sea. 
It is true, this Man was a Reman, and perhaps itmay give 
Gffencetoiomehereafter.if Ileave &ny Thing e);traorJinaty 
uponRecoid, of aMao, who, beforelbegi'n, I mull, (to let 
Jiim out in jull Colours) reprefcnt in Terms very much to his 
Diiadvantage, in the Account of Proteftants j asfirfi, that 
he was a Pupi/I j ficondly, a PopUh Prieit i and thirdly, a 
trench Popirfi Prieft. 

B UT Juftice demands of me to give him a due' Charac- 
ter ; and I muft Jay, he was a grave, fober, pious, and moll ' 
religious Perfon ; exaiii in his Life, extenfive in his Chari- 
ty, and exemplar in aknoft every Thing he did j what 
then can any one lay, againft my wing very Icnfible of the 
Value of iuch a Man. notwithffandmg his Profeffion ? 
Though it may be my Opinion, perhaps, as vi?ell as the 
Opinion of others, who fliall reaif this, that he was mi- 
Mm. - , The 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(103) 

The firll Hour that I began to convcrfe wkli him, af'- 
tcr he had agreed to go wirh me to the Enft-IrJia, I found 
Reafon to delight cxctedingly in his Qmve^fition ; and he 
lirft bfgm with me about Religion in the mcfl obliging 
Mann?r imi^naUe. 

S 1 ti, fi.ys he, you have not on!)", under God, (and at 
that he oofs d his Breiit) fiv'd my Life, but you have ad- 
mitt^ me to gn this Voyage io your Ship, and by yoat 
obliging Civility have taken me i;i'o you Family, giving 
me an Opportumry of free Conveifation . Now Sir, fay* 
he, you lee by my Habit, what my Profeflion is, and I 

gicis by your Nation what yours is : 1 may think it is my 
uty, and doubtlefi it is ib, to ufe my utmoft Endeavours, 
on all Oceafions, to bring all the Souls I can to the Know- 
ledge of the Truth, and to embrace theCatholickDoarinei 
but as I am here under your Permiffion, and in your Fa- 
miiy, I am bound in Juftice to your Kindnefs, as well as 
in Iterency and good Manners, to be under your Govern- 
ment; and theietore I fl:riilnor, without your Leave, enter 
into any Debates on the Points of Religion, in which w« 
■m^y not agice, farther than you Ihali give me Leave. 

I T o L D him, Ws Carriage was fo modeit, that I could 
not but acknowledge it i that it was true, we wcrefucii 
People as they cali'd Hereticfcs ; but that he was not tha 
firft Catholick that 1 had conversed with, without filling 
into any Inconveniencies, or carrying the Qneftions to any 
Height in Debate; That he fliould not find himfelf tlw 
the worfe us'd for being of a different Opinion from ui, 
and if we did not eonverle without any Dillike on citha 
Side upon that Score, it would be his Fault, not outs. 

He reply'd, that he thought our Converfition mlgltt 
be cafily fcparated from Difputes : That it was not his Bu- 
fmeis to cap Principles with every Man he diftours'd with j 
and that he rather delir'd me to converfc with him as i 
Gentleman, than as a Religicufej that if I would give him' 
Leave at any Time to djfcoutfc upon religious Subjefls, 
he would reidily comply with it ; and that then, he did 
not doubt but I would allow him alfo to defend his own 
Opinions, as well as he could j but that without my 
Leave, he would not break in upon me with any fiicfi 
Thing. 



F.4 



ll£ 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



C i04 ) 



lli toki me fartJicr, that lie would not ccalc to do nil 
that becaire him in his Office, as a Prieft, a^ well as a 
ptivale Chridiflti, to procure the good of the Ship, and the 
Safety of all tliat was in her j and though peihaj-s we 
■wouiii not join with him, and he could not piay v.iii; us, 
be hop'd he might pray fir us, wliich he would do upcn 
ail Ocealions ; In iliis Manner ^ve convers'd, and as he . 
WAS of a moft obliging Gcnticman-Iike Bchavioi'r ; G> he 
was, if 1 may be allow'd to £iy ft), a Man of good Senfi,', 
and as I'believe, of great Learning. 

H E gave nie a moft diverting Account of his Life, and 
of the many extiaordinary Events of it; of many Adven- 
tures which had befallen him in the few Tears tlwt he had 
been abroad in the World, and particularly this was very 
remarkable, Mx..) That during the Voyage he was nov/ 
oigagd in, he had the Misfiwtune to be five Times fliip'd 
and unihipd, and never to go to the Place wluther any of 
the Ships, he was in, were at firft delign'd : That his f«-{t 
Intent was to have gone to Martinice, and that he went 
on board a Ship bound thither, at St. M*le ; but being 
fbrc'd into Lhbsm, by bad Weather, the Ship rcceiv'd fomc 
Damage, by running a-ground in the Mouth of the River 
TAgus, and was oblig'd to unload her Cargo there; that 
finding a Fertug$itfe Ship there bound to the Muderas, and 
ready to fiil. and fuppofing he ftiould cafily meet with 
X Vellel there bound Co Martimco j he went on board, in 
order to _&iJ to the Maderat j but the Mafter of the Pw/«- 
euifi Ship being but an indificrent Mariner, had been out 
m his Reckoning, and they drove to Fial; where, howe- 
ver he happen'd to find a very good Market for his Car- 
£, which was Coin, and therefore re&lv'd not to go to 
; Maderas, but to load Salt at the Jjle (f May, and to go 
away to UtrrfiunJiand : He had no Rfmedy m this Exi- 
gence, but to go with the Ship, and had a pretty good 
Voyage as fer as the Bioiks, fo they call the Place wheie 
th^ catch the Filli, where meeting with a ¥rcnch Ship, 
bound from France to ^ttebuk, in the River of CanaJn, 
and from thence to Martinico, to carry Provifions, he 
thought he n^ould have an Opportunity to compleat his 
firll Defign: But when he came io Rebeck, the Mafter of 
the Ship dy d, and the Ship proce^S no ferther ; fi) the 
Kit Voyage he (1 tp'd himfclf for Fmkcs, in the Ship 
that 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



that Was burnt, vrhea we took thpm up at Sea, and then 
ihip'd them with us for the Eaft-indies, as 1 hive alreaJy 
^■. Thus he had been diiappointcd in fiv'e Voyages, all, 
flj I may call h, in one Voy^, belides what I Ihail have 
Occalion to mention farther of the feme Pcrfon. 

B u T. I fliall not make pigreffions into other Mens Sto- 
ries, which have no Relation to my own. I return to 
what concerns our Af&ir in the Uland : He catne to me 
one Morning, for he iodg'd among us, all the whfile v/e 
were upon tTie Ifland i and it happen d to lie juft when I 
was going to vilit the E»glijhmen's Colony, at the tai theft 
Kart of the Ifland ; I fay, he cainc to me and told me, 
with a very grave Countenance, that he had for two or 
three Days de^r'd an Opptrtiinity of fome Difcourib with 
me, whichhe hop'd il.oulJ not be dilpleaTingto mc, heranle 
he thought it might in ibmc Meafurecorrclpond with my 
general Detign, \^ch was the Profpcrity of my new Co- 
lony, and perhaps might put it, at leaft more than he yet 
thought it was, in the Way of God's Eiefling. 

Ilook'o a little fuipri'i'd at the kft Part of his Dil> 
courfe, and turning a little fliort, JifliD Sir ! faid I, can it 
bifxid, that we are not in the Way of God's Bleffing, af- 
ter fuch ■vifible AJpflances, and wtnderfut Deiiverance, as 
we have fcen heie, and ef mhich I have given yan a large 
Accoitot ! 

If you had pleas'd Sir, faid he (viih a IVarld of hSodefly, 
and yet mith great KeaMnift) to have heard me, you womIiI 
have found no room to have been difplcafed, much lefs to 
think fo hard of me, that I fiiould fLiggi;!!, that you have 
not had wonderful Afliftanccs and Deliverances j and I 
hope, on yout Behalf, that you are in the Way of Goil's 
Bleirmg, and your Defign is exceeding good, and will prof- 
per : Bat Sir, faid he, iho' it were more fo, ihan is even 
pofliblc to you, yet there may be ibmc amon^ you that 
arc not equally right in their Aftions ; And you know, 
' tint in the Srory of Ifrad, one Acban in the Camp rc- 
mov'd God's Bicfling from them, and tiim'd his Hand fo 
againft them, that fii; andthiriy of them, though not con- 
ce.n'djn theCrime, were the O'aj cits of DivineVengeance, 
and bore the Weight of that Punifhment, 

r WAS fenlibly touchd with his Difcourfe, and toll 
him his Inference was & juft, and tlie whticDdign feemd 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(.106 >- 



fb fincere, and was really fo religious in its own Nature, 
that I was very forry I liad interrupted him, ond b^'d 
him to go on i and in the mean Time, becaiifc it (cenTd, 
that what wc had both to £iy, might take up Jbme Time, 
I told him. I was going to the En^UjItmeis's Plantations, 
and ask'd him to go with me, and we might difcourfc of 
it. by the Way: He toki me, he would more willingly 
wait on me thither, becaulc there partly the Thing was 
aited, which he delir'd tolpeafc tome about; fowcwalk'd 
on, and I prels'd him to be flee and plain with me, in 
what he had to fiy- 

W H Y then Sir, fays he, be plcag'd to give me Leave ta 
by doivn a few Propofitions, as the Foundation of what I 
have to fay, that we may not ciiifer in the geneial Principles,, 
rho' wc may be- of ibme difFciing Opinions in the Piac- 
tice of Partiailars. Firft, Sir, tho' we diSer in ibmc of 
the Doftrinal' Articles of Religion; and tt is very unhappy 
that it is fo, efpecialiy in the Cale before us, as I (liail ihcw 
afterwards ; Yet there are fome general Principles in which 
we kith agree, fwzj /rjJ, That theic is- a God) ar.d'that 
ihi* God having given us fome flated general Rules iot out 
Service and Obedience, w^e ought nor willingly and know- 
ingly to oiiend him ; either by n^lefting to do Vvhat he 
has cwimanded, or by doing what he has exprcfly forbid- 
dvn : And. let our diflerent Religions be what they wilL 
this general Principle is readily own'd by us all,. That the 
BMling of God does not ordinarily follow a preiumptuous 
■ fnning affiinft liis Command ; and every good' Chriftian, 
will be afiefiionately concern'd to prevent any that are un- 
der his Care, living in a total. Ncgleif of God and his 
f Jommraaadst, It is not your Men being Pronfiatits, what- 
tyer my Opinion may be offuchj thatdtfcha-gcs me from 
being concern'd few their Souls, and from cndcavourine, if 
it lies befo:e me, that tliey (hould live in as. little Dilfince- 
ftom and Enmity vrith tkir Maker, as polTible ; efj*- 
cjally, if you give mc Lxavc to meddk: & far in your Cir- 
cait. 

I £ o-u L D not yet frnagine wRat he aim'd at, and toH 
him, I gi anted all he had faid, and thank'd hrm, tliat he 
v.ould io far concern hin-iJelf fw us,- sikJ begg'd he woukf 
«.;rJ2ui tlic PaitJculats of what he had obierv'd, tkit like- 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( r°7 ) 

JdJIiux, to take his own Parable, I mi'glit put away tlic 
accurftd Thing from us. 

Why then, Sir, fays he, I will take the Liberty you 
give me; and there are three Things, which, if I amriglit, 
rauft ftand in the Way of God's BlelTing upon your En- 
dcavouts here, and which I (liould re;oicc for your Sakci 
and their own, to ice remov'd. And.'Sir, fayi he, I pro- 
niifc my&If, that you will fully agree with me in then* 
all, as foon as I name them ; erpecially, bceauic I fliall con- 
vince you, that every one of them may, with great Eale» ' 
and very much to your Satisfiidion, be rcmedy'd. 

H E gave mc no Leave to put in any more Civilities, 
but went on. tirfi. Sir, fays he, you have hae four £»£• 
lijhmen, wlio have fetch'd Women from among tlie Sava- 
ges, and have taken them as their Wives, and have hal 
many Children by rhem all, and yet are not marry'd to 
them after any rfated legal Manner, as the Laws of GoJ 
and Man require; and therefore are yet, in the Saife of 
both, no lefs than AUubenrs, and living in Addtery. T» 
tJiis. St, fays he, I know you will objcil ; that thcie was 
noClc^yman or Pried of any Kinil, or of any ProfeiTioii, 
to pcrfoim the Ceremony; nor any Fen and lult, or Pa- 
per, or write doivn a Contraifl of Mairi^ge, and"havc it, 
lign'd between them. Aiid I know alfo, ?ir, wRat the 
Sfasiitrd Governour has told yon ; I mean of the Agrec- 
raenc that heoblig'd thera to make, wlicn they took iheii 
Women, ("ij^.' That they ilioiiki chule them out by Conr 
fcnt, and keep fepaTarel/ to them ; which, by the Way, 
h nothing of a Maniage, no Agreement with the Womni, 
as Wives, but only an Agreement among tliemltlves, ta 
keep them from onarrelllng. 

B u T, Sir, the Eircncc of the Sacrament of Mati-jmony 
[ib he oill'd it, being a Rermtn) conllfls not only in ihe 
niutua] Conlent of the Parties to take one another, asMan 
and M'lfe, but in the formal and legal .Obligation, that there, 
is in the Contraift, to compel the Man and WornrH at all 
Times, to own and acknowledge each other; ofliginp tKb 
Man to abftain fiom all otiier Women, tq. engsi^ ni no 
other Contraa while thcfe fublift ; and on all Occiil^on^ 
as .Ability jllows, to provide honelily for- them and rhcir 
Childten j and Co o'.lige the Woman to liic lame, or i:V;c 
CoHi^tions, muratii murMfilii, on thtiv SWa: 



Hosted by 



Google 



(lo8> 

Now, Sir, frysbe, thefe Men may, wtcn they pleale, 
•t when Occaiion pieients, abandon theft Women, dif- 
own their Childrenj Ica^'e them to pe)-ifh, and take other 
Women, and marry rhem whilft thefe aic living. And 
hae he addcfl, with feme Warmrh, How, Sir, is God ho- 
nourd in this unlawful Liberty ? And liow ft all a BlelTiiig 
fucceed your Endeavours in this Pbce, Herrner £Ood ia 
l/xmfehri, and hove%eT Jincere myDur Dejign, while thefe 
Men, who at prcfent ate your Subjcfts, uiidei' your abfo- 
lute Government and Dominion, aicaUow'd by you to live 
in open Adultery ? 

I CONFESS, I was (Irucfc st the Thing it felf, but 
much more with the convincing Aj guments he (iipported 
it with; ftw it was certainly true, that though they had 
no Clergyman upon tlie Spot, yet a formal Contiafl on ' 
both Sitfes, made before Witncfles, and confirm'd by any 
Ti-ken, which they liad all agiccd to be hound by, though 
it had been hut the breaking a Stick between tlicm, en- 
gaging the Men to own theie Women for their Wives, 
upon all Occalions ; and never to abandon them or their 
Childicn, and the Women to the fame with their Huf- 
lands, had been an effcflual lawful Marriage in the 
Sight of God; and it was a great Neglcft tliat it was not 

Butt I thought to have gotten off with my young Pried, 
by telling him, tliat all that Part was done when 1 was 
not here, and they liad liv'd lb many Years with them 
now, that if it was an Adulteiy, it was pafl: Remedy, 
ihcy coiJd do nothing in it now. • 

S 1 R, fnyi ht, Asking ytuir Pardon for fuch F h E E - 
oj.o M, you ate light in this, that it being done in 
your Ablcnce, you could not be charged wiih that Pait 
cf the Crime ; But I belcech you, fiaiter not your 
ielf, that you arc not therefoie under an Obligation 
to do your utmoft now?, to put an End to it : How 
can you think, but that, let the Time paft lie on 
>who it will, all the GuUt, for the Future, will lie 
entirely upon you ? Becaufe it is certainly in your 
Power now to put an End to it, and in no Body's 
Power bit yours, 

I WAS fo dull ili 1, that 1 did not take him right ; but I 

.jiiiagin'd, thai by porting an End to it, he meant that I 

fl.ould 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( lop ) 

fhould part them, and not fiiffer them to live together any 
longer: And I faid ro lAm, I coulil not do tliat by an/ 
Means, for tliat it would put the whole liland into Con- 
fuiion'. He lecni'd furprii'd that I fliould lb iar niifiake 
him. No, Sir, fys Jhi, I do not mean, that you il.ould 
now fepaiate them, but legally and cftcdualiy marry them 
now i and as. Sir, my Way of niarrying them may not be 
fo ealy to reconcile them to, tho' it will be as elTeftual, 
even by your own Laws, fo your Way may be as well be- 
fore God, and as valid among Men; 1 mean, by a written 
Contrad, fign'd by both Man and Woman, and by all tlie 
Witneflcs prefait, which all the Laws of Eurvpe w^ouldJe- 
eree to be valid. 

I WAS amaz'd to fte fo much true Piety, and fo much 
Sincerity of Zeal, befides the unufual Impartiality Jo hts 
Difcomle, as to his own Party or Church; and fucha true 
Warmth for the preftrving People that he had no Know- 
ledge of, or Relation to ; I lay, for ptefcrving them from 
tianfeefling the Law^s of God; the like of which, I had 
indcS not met with anywhere : But recollcfting what he 
had laid, of marrying them bj a writtai Contrail, which 
1 knew would fiand too ; I rcturnd it back upon him, and 
told him, I gianted all that he had laid to be juft, and on 
his Part very kind, tliatT would difcourfe with the Men upon 
the Point now, when I came to them : And 1 knew no 
Reafon why they ll;ou'd fcruple to let him marry them all, 
which I knew well enough would be gianted to be as au- 
tlicntick and valid in EngUmd, as if they were marry'd by 
one of our own Clergymen ; What was afteiwaids done 
in this Matter, I Ihalffpcak of it bv it fdf. 

I THEN prels'd him to tdl mewiiat was theficoinJCem- 
fla'mt which he had to make, acknowledging, tliat 1 was 
veiy much his Debtor for thefirfi, and thank d him hearti* 
ly for it. He toH me, he would ulc the fame Ftcedom 
and Plainnefs in the fecund, and hop'd I would rake it as 
_ well : And this was, that notivithftanding tl^fe Entliflr 
Siibjefls of mine, ai ht calld them, had lived with thofe 
Women for almoft fcvcn Years, and hsA taught them to 
(peak En^l'Jh, and even to read it; and that tliey were, a» 
he pciTciv'd, Women of tokraVlc Underftanding, andxapa- 
ble of Inftruftion ; yet they had rot to this Hour taught them 
anything of the Chiiftian Religion j no, not fo mueh as to 
know 



Hosted by 



Google 



Inow tliat tfere was a God, oraWorfhip, or in wliat Man- 
ner God was to be ferved, or that their own Idolatry, and 
worfliippine tliey knew not who, wasfiiifean;1abfurd. 

This, he faiii, was an unaccountable Negieft, and what 
God would certainly call them to account for, and perhaps 
at lall take the Work out of their Hands ; He Jpotc this 
very afleAionately and warmh' ; I am perfwadeci,/ayj he, 
had thofe Men lived in the lavage Country, whnicc their 
Wives canre, the Savages would have taken more Pains t* 
have brought them to be Idolalers, and to worfliipthcDr- 
vil, than any of theft Men, j6/i[r as he ceiddfee, had taJtcn 
with them to teach them the Knowkxigeoftbc true God: 
Now, Sir,fnid he, tho' I do no^ acknowledge your Reli- 
gion, or you tnine, ):etwe-fl-oald be atielad to fee the De- 
vil s Pervaots, and the Subjcfts of his Kmgtlom, taught to 
know the general Principles of the Chvillian Religion ; that 
they miglit, at Icaft, hear of God, and of a Redeemer, and 
of the Reriirreftion, ami of a future State, Things which 
vie all beHcvCj they had at kraft i>cen (b much neaicr com- 
ing inro the Bofom of die trueChurch, than they are no%v 
in the pubJick Profeflioo of Idolatry, and Devil-worOiip. 
I couT.n hohi no longer; I took him in my Aims, and 
embrac'd him with an Kxceiii of Paflion ; He^fur, ftid i 
to him, have I been from undcrftanding the mort eflential 
Part of a C\aMS:\xa, {yiz.,} to love the fiiterea of theChri- 
ftian <;!Ii'.!rch, and the good of other Mens Souls? I fcarce 
have !;"^wn what befongs to being a Chtiftian: O, Sir, 
&o noci?iy fo, reply'dbt> this Thing is not your Fault: No, 
faysl, 'iitwhydidlneverlay ittoHeartaswcllasyou? Tis 
not too late yet, fmd y, be not too fbrwani to condemn 
your JMf : But what can be done now, fitid J, you Cix I 
3m g^ing away ? Will, you give me Leave, fuid be, to talk 
frith ^hoJc poor Men about it? Tcs, \viili all ray Iltart, 
ftid I. and will oblif^e them to ghre heed to what you fsy 
too ; As to that, /a},l he, wc muft leave them to the Mer- 
cy of Chrifti but -tis cur Bulincl^ to aflift them, cr,c&u- ■ 
lagc them, and iaftiuift tJiemi and if you will give me 
tc::ve, and G-rd hii Ble/ling. I do not doubt but the poor 
ignorant Sbuls ftsW 'le bi-oiig!tt home into tlie great Circle 
■of Chri0aiBty, ii" not into "tlic particular Faith that we all 
embrace, and tfiat even while you Hay hesc: Upcm this, / 
-aid, lihall'notooly give yoifcLeavcbut^E/eyouadio^iiJn'.i 
Thank* 



Hosted by 



Google 



(ni ) 

TJuiiks for it i Whit fbllow'd on this Account, I Ihall- 
mintion aiJb ag^in in i's Place. 

I NOW preis'd hini for the third Article, in which we- 
wcie to bkmc ; Why really, fays he, it is ot the fame Na- 
ture, and I will proceed, aik'mg yetir Ltave, with the fame 
Kaiiuiels as before; it is about your poor Savages yonder, 
who are, as I may Jay, your conquer'd Subjeils ; It is a 
Maxim, Sir, that is, or ought to be receiv'd among all Chri- 
ftians, of what Church, or pietendcd Church foever, (msl.)- 
jhat Chrifiimt KnoaleUie ought ta be ffafngnteA hy all faf- 
"fiblt Means, and m i(llp0U Occaf.mis : Tis on this Prin- 
ciple chat our Church lends Miiiionai ies into FerJ/'a, India, 
and Chiax, and that our Clergy, even of die fupetior Sort, 
willingly engage in the moll hazardous Voyages, and the- 
moll dangerous Rclidence among Muithercs and Barbari- 
ans, to teach cliem the Knowledge of the trucGod, and to 
bring tlicm over to embiace mt Chriftian Kaith : Now, 
Sir, you have fuch an Opportunity here, to Jiave fix or fe- 
veil and Tliiity poor Savages brought over tiom Idolatry- 
to the Know Itdgeof God, thrir Maker and Redeemer, that 
I woliderhovi'youcaiiPaGfuchanOccalionof doinffGood, 
ivhich is really worth the Ejipence of a Man's whole Life, 

I WAS now ftiuck Dumb indeed, and had not one Word- 
to fay : I had here a Spirit of true Chriftian Zeal for God 
and Religion betbi-e me, let his particular Principles be of 
what kind Ibever j as Ibi- me, I had not ib much as enter- 
tain d a Thought of this in my Heart before, and I bclieve- 
ihould not have thoudit of it ; for I look'd upon thefc Sa- 
vages as Slaves, and People, who, liad we any Work for 
t)«m to ilo, v/e would ha' ufcd as fuch, or vrouki have 
been glad to have tranlportcd them to any other Part of 
the World ; for our Budnefs -vra.s to eet rid ofthem, an* 
we would all have fcen fitisfy'd, if they had been fent to 
any Country, lb they had revei feen their oivn: But to the 
C/tfe, I fay, I was confounded at tiis Difcouiie, mmJ knew, 
, not what Aniiver to mate him : He look'd earneftly at 
me, fcciag me in Ibme Dlfovdcr; Sir, fryi he, I fiall be 
vciy fijiry, if what \ have faid gives you any Oftence: 
No, no. /jw ;, I am- ofiindtd with no Body but mv 
felf i but I am pcrfeiftly outbunded, not only to think 
that I fl.ouid never take ^T'^ Nodce of. this before, but 
with rcflefting wliat Notice, I am able ta take .of it, 
now i 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



now i You know. Sir, faid I, what CirciimftanccE T am 
in, 1 am bound to the Eaft-In£et, in a Ship freighrcJ by 
Merchants, and to whom it would be an unfufferabie piece 
of Injuftice to detain their Ship here, the Men lyingal] this 
while at ViiSluals and Wages upon the Owner's Account; 
It is true, I agreed to be aliow d twelre Days here, and if 
I fiay more, 1 muft pay 3 /, Slerling per Diem Demorage, 
nor can I ilay upon Dcmorage above dght Days more, 
and I have been We thiitcen Days already, fo that I am 
patcftly unable to enc^ in this Work, unkfs I would 
iufibr my ftlf to be left behind here again, in which Cafe, 
if this fingle Ship fhould mifcany in any part of her Voy- 
age, I fliould be juft in the fame Condition that 1 was left 
in here at firft, and fiom whidi I have been fo wondcr- 
Jiiliy dehvered. 

H E ownd the Cafc was very hard upon me, as to my 
Voyagej but laid it home upon my Confcience, whether 
theBleffing of lavingfevcn and.thiity Souls, was not worth 
my venturing all 1 had in the World for? I was not fo 
fcnlible of that at he vas, and I return'd upon him thus; 
Why, Sir, it is a valuable Thing indeed, to be an Inftru- 
ment in God's Hand to convert Jcven and thirty Heathens 
to the Knowledge of ChiiH, but as you are an Ecckfia- 
fticfc, and arc given ova to that Work, fo that it ieems 
naturally to fall into the Wav of your Piofeffjonj how is 
it then, that you do not rather oftiar your ielf to undatake 
it, than piefs me to ft? 

Upon this he fscd about, juft before mc, aswcwalk'd 
along, and putting me to a full Stop, made me a very low 
Bow; I moft heartily thank God and you, 5\r, fays hi, 
for giving me fo evident a Call to fo bleflcd a Work ( and 
if you think your fclf difcharg'd from i^ and ddire me 
to undertake it, 1 will moft readily do it, and think it a 
happy Reward for all the Hazards and Difficulties of fuch 
a broken, difappointed Voyage as 1 have met witli, that I 
have dropt at laft inioib glorious a Work. 

I discover'^ a kind of Rapture in his Face while he 
fpokc this lo m<i; his Eyes fpaikeld like Fire, his Face 
Clow'd, and his Colour came and went, as if he had been 
falling into Fits ; iu a Word, he wtis fir'd With the Joy of 
b«nK embark'd in fuch a Work : I pus'd a confiderabte 
■wm:, before I could tellw-hat to lay to Jiim, for I was 
really 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



really furpriiM to find a Man of fuch Sincerity and Zeal, 
atiJ caviy'd out in his Ztal, teycnd the orainarj' Rate of 
of Mtn, not of his Pioteffion only, but cvtn of any Pro- 
ftlTion whotfocver ; But after I had conf^dcrd it a wliile, 
1 ask'd him ferioufly if he was in eamcil, and that he 
would venture on the iingic Conlideration of an Ai-tL-nifrt 
on thofe poor People, to be lock'd up in an unpjaiited I- 
flaiid for, pei haps, his Lifcj and at jaft niight not know 
vi'i-.cfber he il.ould be able to do them any good, or not> 
1 lE tui n'd n ort upon me, and ask'd me wl.at ! call da Ven- 
ture ? Piay, Sir, fnid he, what do you think 1 conicntcd 
to go in your Ship to the EMjl-Ii,il:ei for? Kay./j'i/ /, that 
I know not, unlefs it was to preach to the Ijh/jwm : Doubi- 
fcfi it was, /aid he ; and do you think if 1 can convert thefe 
(even and thirty Men to the Faith of Chrift, it is not woith 
Biy time, tho' I (hould never be feieh'd oifthe Ifland a- 
gain? Nay, is it not infinitely of more Worth to fave lo 
many Souls, than niy Life is, or the Life of twenty more 
of the fame Profemon ? Yes, Sir, fays he, I would give 
Chrift and the bleffed Virgin Thanks all my Days, if I 
could be made the Jeaft happy Tnftrument of fiving the 
Souls of theie poor Men, tho* I was neva- to let my Foot 
off this Ifland, or fee my native Country any more: :BuC 
fioce you will honour me, fays he, "v'ith putting me into 
this Work, /<w ■ahkhl will fray for you all the DfCfi of wgr 
Vfci I lu\'e one humMe Pairion to you, faid he, fceiides. 
What is that,.yfiiy J f Why, /ajiAe, it is, thatycu will leave 
your Man Friday with me, to be my Interpi-erer to thetn, 
and to affift me ; for without fome Help I cannot Ipeak 
to them, or they to me. 

I WAS fenfibly troubled at his requefting Friday, bccauft 
I could not think of parting with him, and that for many 
Reafons ; he had been the (Companion of my Travels ; he 
was not only faithfol to me, Imt iincerely_ Afleaionate to 
the lafl: degree; and I had relblv"d to do Ibmetliing confi- 
. derable for hern, if he out-liv'd me, as it was probable he 
would ; Then I knew that, as I had bredFrii/iiy up to be 
a Proteftant, it would quite confound him to bring him to 
embrace another ProfcQion; and he would never, while his 
Eyes were open, believe that his old Maftcr was an Hcre- 
tick, and wfiuld be damn'd; and this might in the End 
ruin the poor Fellow's Principles, and fo turn him back 
again to liis firft Idolatry. H o w- 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



ClI4) 

However, a fudJcn Thouglic rellev'dme in thisSrait, 
afiii it was tlik; I told him I could not ihy that I was 
willing to p3it with Friday on any Account whatever j 
tho' a Wo.k that to him was of more Value thin his 
Liie, ought to be to me of much more Value than the 
tecping or parting vvith a Servant ; But on the other hnnd, 
1 was peifwaded that Friday would by no Means confent 
to part with me, and then to force him to it with- 
out his Confent, would be manifeft Injuftice; becauftlhad 
promifed I ivould never put him avray, and he had pro- 
inis'd and enrag'd to me that he w^ould never leave me, 
'Unlcft I put him away, 

H F, Icem'd very much concetn'd at it, for he had no 
rational Accefs to theJe poor People, leeing he did not un- 
derfhnd one Word of their Language, noi' tliey one Word 
of his. To remove this Difficulty, I told him Friday'!, Fa- 
ther liad leam'd SpaniJJt, which I found he alfo underftood, 
smd he Ihould ferve him for an Interpreter; fo he was 
much better fitisfied, and nothing could perlwadc him but 
he would flay to endeavour to convert them; but Provi- 
dence gave another, and very happy Turn to all this. 

I coMK back now to the firft Part of his Objeaions.' 
When we came fo the Englijhrmn, I tent for them all to- 

f ether, and after ibme Account given them of what I had 
ore for them, vix.. what ncccf&-y Things I had provid- 
ed for them, and how tbey were diftvibuted, which they 
were fenlTble of, and very thankful for; I began to talk to 
dicm of the fcandalous Life they Jed, and gave them a full 
Account of the Notice the Qergyman had ali-eady taken 
of it, and arguing how unchrifliaii and irreligious a Life it 
was : I lirft ask'dthem if theyweremarriedMenor Batche- 
lors? Theyfoon cxplain'd their Condition to me, andfhew'd 
me that two of them ■were Widowers, and the other three 
were fingle Men, or Batchelors : I ask'd them with what 
Confidences they could take chefe Women and He with 
them, as they had done, call them their Wives, and liavc " 
fo many Children by them, and not be marry'd lawfully 
to ihem ? 

They all gave me the AnlWer that I evpeiSed, liz.. 

that there was no Body to marry them ; that they agreed 

before the Governour to keep them as their Wives ; and 

to ieep them and own tbem as thek Wives,- and they 

thought. 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( ••! ■) 

thought, as Things ftocxi with tlwm, they were as legally 
nianifxl as it" they had ttcn ma'iicd by a "Paiiiii, and witS 
«il the Foi-malities in the WoiU. 

_ I TOLD tiietn, tKac no doabt thq' were mairied in die 
Sight of God, and were bound in Confciente lokeep tfiem 
as rlieir Wives, but tiiac the Laws of Men teing ottictwi£, 
they miglit pretend they were not mariied, and ib defcrt 
the poor Women ami Cftildiea hereafter; and char their 
Wives being poor delblate Women, friendkl's and tnoncy- 
lefs, would have no Way to iielp themJel/es: I tiieieforc 
told them, that unlds I was aflur'd of their honci^Inreiit, I 
could do nothing for thetn; but wonld take care !hat what 
I did (bould be for the Women and their Childrdn i-'Stljoat 
them; and that unlefs they would give fome AfTurances 
that they wptild marry the Women, T could not thinit: it 
was convenient they (hould continue togetlier as Man and 
Wife, for that it was both fcandalous to Men, and offen- 
five to God, whothey could not tliink would biefs them, if 
they went on thus. 

All this went on as I expelled, and they told me, e- 
%cially Iflll. jitkm, who feem'd now to fi>cak for th« 
ml, that itey lov'd their Wivesaswelt, as if they had beea 
born in their own Native Country, and would not leave 
thein uponanyAccountwhatever; and they did veriLy believe- 
tlidr Wives were as viituous and as modefJ. and did to the, 
utmoflof their Skill, as much fbrthemindfor their Children, 
as any Women could polTibly do, and they would not part 
with them c«i any Account: And Will. Atkins for his own 
particular added, if any Man would take him away, and 
oQer to carry him home to Sngland, and make him Gtp- 
taih of the oeft Man of War in the Navy, he would not 
go with him, if he might not carry his Wife and Children 
with him; and if there was a Clergyman in the Ship, he- 
would be married to her now, with all his Heart. 

This was juft as I wouJd have it ; the Prieft wras not 
■ with mc at that Moment, but was not far off: So to try 
him farther, I told him I had a Clergyman with me, aiuS. 
if he was lineerc, I would have him married the ne):t 
Mttfning, and bid him confider of ir, and Calk wlththe reft j. 
he fiid, as for himfelf, he need not confidcr of it at all, tor 
he was very ready to do it, and was glad I liad a Minifter 
with me, and he bcUcv'd they would DC all willing alfo : I 
then 



Hosted by 



Google 



< 116 ) 

then tolii him, that my Friend the AliniUcr was a Trtneh- 
r/ian, aiid coidil not fpeik EvgUfli, but that I vcmki aift the 
Clctk bctwern \h~m : He never fo much as 3sk <i me whe- 
ther he V/V.1 a Papift or Pr'cteftant, which was hiiked what 
I was afiaid of: But, I Iky, they never enquired about it. 
So we paiteij, I went tack to my Clergyman, anc? IVM. 
Atk'ias went in to talk with his Companions ; I delii'd 
the French Gentleman not to iay any thing .to tliem, tiil 
the Buf'.ncfi was thorough ripe, and 1 told him v/hat Au- 
fwer the filen had given roe. 

BefoeeI went fiom their Quarter, they all came to 
me, and tcld me, they had been conliderine what I had 
feid i that they weie very glad to hear I had a Clei'gyman 
in my Company, and they were very willipg to give me 
the Satisfaftion 1 defir'd, and to be fbrmalTy matricd as 
foon as I pleas'd, for they were fer fiom deliring to part 
Twith their Wives, and tliat they meant nothing but what 
was very honeft when they chofe tiieni ; fo I appointed 
them to meet me the next Momins;, and that in the mean 
time they fliould let their Wives Know the meaning of 
the Marriage-Law ; and that it was not on]y to prevent 
any ScSnd^ but al!o to o'l-lige them, that they fliouM not 
forfake them, whatcvei- might happen. 

The Women were eaiily made ienfibie of the Meaning 
of the Thing, and were very well fatisfied with it, as, in- 
deed, they had Reaioii to be ; fo they faild not to attend 
all together at my Apartment the next Moining, wheie I 
breu^tout my Clergyman ; and tho' he had not on a Mi- 
niftei's Gown, after the Manner of England, or the Habit 
of a Priell, after tlie Manner of France ; yet having a black 
Veft fomcthing like a Caflock, with a Safh round it, he 
did not took vety unlike a Minifter; and as for his Lan- 
guage, I was liis Inteipretcr. 

B u T the Sciioufnefs of his Behaviour to them, and tlw 
Scruples he made of marryiiig the Women, becaufe they 
were not baptjid, and profelsd Chrifiiims, gwe them an " 
exceeding Reverence for his Perlbnj and the;e waeno need 
after that to enquire whether he was a Clergyman otr no. 

Indeed, I was afraid his Scruple would have been 

carry'd to ftir, as that he v.-ould not have mairy'd them at 

all j nay, notwithftanding all 1 was able to &y to him, he 

' refified me, though modeflly, yet very ftcadily, and at lad 

refuied 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



refufcd ibfcliltely to many them, imlols he had fiill talk'd 
with rlie Men, and the V. omen too ; and though at firft I 
wzf. a little backward to it, yer at laft 1 agreed to it with 
a good Will, perceivbg the Sincetity of iiis Dclign. 

When he came ro them, he let them know, that I 
had acdi-ainted him with their Citcimiftaaces, and with 
the prciimt Deli^ : That he was very willing to perform 
that Part of his Fiinflion, and mairy tliem asl haddefn'dj 
but that before he could do it, lie muft take the LiUrty 
to talk with then : He told ihem, That in the Sight of 
all indiffeicnt Men, and in the Sen*e of tlic Laws of Socie- 
ty, they had liv'd all this wliilc in an open Adulteiy ; and 
that it was true, that nothing but the Cocfcnting to mar- 
ry, ov efteftually feparating them from one another now, 
could ptit ail End to it ; but there was a Difficulty in it 
too, with rcfpoift to the Laws of Chrift'mn Matrimony, 
which he was not fully litisfj''d about, v'l^. Tliat of marry- 
ing one that is a ptofels'dC^rf/I/as, toaSavage, anIdolaCer, 
and a Heathen, one that is not bapciad ; and yet that he 
did not fee that there was Time left for it, to endeavour 
to perfiiade the Women to be baptii'd, or to profcfs the 
Name of Chrifi, whom they had, he doubted, heaid no- 
thing of, and w^ithout which they could not be baptii'd. 

He told them, He doubted they were but indifferent 
ChrilVians themfelves j that they had but little Knowledge 
of God, or of his Ways : and therefore he could not ex- 
peft tlcjt they had faid- much to their Wives on that Head 
yet ; but that unlefs they would poraile liim to uie their 
Endeavours with their Wives, to perfuade them to become 
Chriilians, and would as well as they could Inftruft theni 
ill the Knowledge and Belief of God that inade them, and 
to worfliip Jelus Chriit that redeem'd tlietn, he could not 
marry them ; for he vrouldhiveno Hand in joynitig Chri- 
ftians with Savages; nor was it confiftent with the Princi- 
dles of the Chnftian Religion j and was indeed exprefly 
_fbrbidden in God's Law, 

They heard all this very attentively, and t deliver'd it 
very iaithfiilly to them, from his Mouth, as near his own 
Words as I couU, only fometimcs adding ibmcthing of 
■ i.them how juft it was, and how I 



, was of his Mind ; ai\d I always very feithfully^ diftinguiih'd 



between what I iasA from my Iclf, and what ' 



Cleig/- 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(„%) 



Clergyman's Words, Tliey told me, it was very true, 
wlini rhe Gentleman had fnid, tliat they were but very in- 
ditfL-ient Chr'tfi'mns thcmiclvcs, and that they had never 
talkd to their Wives about Religion: Lord, Sir! lays 
Ifill. Atkins, How Ilioiild we teach them Religion ? 
Why we know nothing our fi-Ives i and belidcs, Sir, Jaid 
he, fliould we go to talk to them of OW, and JefusChrift, 
and Htivutn and Hdl, 'twould be to make them laugh at 
us, and ask iis. What we believe our feives ? And iT we 
fliould tell them we believe ail the Things that we fpeak 
of to them, fuch as of good People going to Heaven, and 
wicked People to tlie De^il, they would ask us. Where 
we intended to go our lelves, who believeall this, and yet are 
iiich wicked Fellows, as we indeed are ? Why, Sir, fiiid. 
Will, 'tis enough to give them a Surfeit of Religion at 
firft Hcai-ing, Folks muft have fome Religion themlelves, 
before they pretend to teach other Peopfe ; tfiil. Aik'm, 
f»id I to him J though I am afraid what you iay has too 
much Truth in it, yet can you not tell your Wife that 
fhc'E in the wrong? That there is a God and a Religion 
better than her own i that her Gods are Idols, that they 
can neither hear nor ipeak ; that thcc is a great Being that 
made all Things, and that can deflroy allthathe had made; 
that he rewards the Good, atulpuniiJ.cstheBad; that we are 
to be judgd by him at hft tor all w^ do here : You are 
not & ignorant, but even Nature it felf will teach you 
that all this is true, and 1 am Jatisfy'd you know it all to 
be true, and believe it your lelf. 

That's true. Sir, laid Atkins; but with what Face 
can I (ay any thbg to my Wife of all this, when ilie will 
tell me immediately it cannot be true f 

Not trtie I faid I, What do you mean by that ? Why 
Sir, fa'id he. She will tell me it cannot be truv, rhat this 
' God (I (Vail tell her of) can be juft, orcan puri/!', or re- 
vrasd, lince I am not puriHi'd, and fenf to the Devil, that 
have been fuch a wicltcd Creature as (i:e knows I have 
been, even to her, and to every Budy elfe ; and that I 
(bould be fufterd to live, that have been always aiiing fo 
contrary to what I mujl tell her is Good, and to what I 
ought to have done, 

W H V, tiuly, Atkins, /aid I, I am afraid thou fpeak'ft 
too much Truth j and with that I let the Qergymao know 

Wll3t 



Hosted by 



Google 



! what Atkins had laid, for Ke was impatientto know ; 0! 
j faU the Pritfi; teD liim thc^c is one Thing will make him 
i the beit Miniftcr in the Woild to his Wife, and that is, 
I Refeatance ; for none teach Repentance like true Penitents ; 
1 He wants nothing but to repent, and then he will be ib 
much the better qualify'd to inftrma Iiis Wife; He will be 
tlien able to tell her, that there is not only a God, and that 
! he is the juft Rewarder of Good and Evil, but that he is 
. a merciful Being, and with infinite Goodnefs and Long- 
fufleting forbears to punifli thoft that offend j waiting to 
j i-e Kscious, and willmg not the Death of a Sinner, l)uc 
rather that lie fliould return and live; that he oftentimes fuf- 
frrs wicked JVlen to go on a long Time, and even refcrves 
Damnation to the gcneial Day of Retribution ; that it is 
I a clear Evidence of God, and of a future State, that righte- 
ous iVIen receive not their Reward, or wtcked Men their 
PuniH-nient, till they come into another World i and this 
will lead him to teach his Wife the Doctrine of the Re- 
furteiftion, and of the lift Judgmcnti let him but repent 
for himfrlf, he will be an excellent Preacher of Repentance 
to liis Wife. 

I rejJeated all this to Atkha, who look'd very feious all 
the while, and who, we could cafily perceive, v/as more 
than ordinarily affcdied with it ; When being eager, and 
ha;dly fuffering me to make an End, I kaea> all this. Ma- 
fifr, fays he, and a great deal more ; but I han't the Im- 
pudence to talk thus to my Wife; when God, and my 
own Confciencc knows, and my Wife wiU be an undeni- 
able Evidence againft me, that I have liv'd, as if I had ne- 
ver heard of a God, or a future State, or any Thing about 
it ; and to talk of my repenting, ALAS! {An4 wiih that 
hefetch'd a Jeep Sigh ; and 1 could lee, that Tears flood 
in his Eye«i} 'Tis paft all that with me. Paft it ! AT- 
KINS, f«id I, What do ft thou mean by that ? T know 
well enough what T mean. Sir, fays he, 1 mean 'tis tco 
late, and that is too true. 

I told my Clcgyman Word (or Word what he faid j 
the poor zealous Pjieft (I muftj call him fo, for, be his 
Opinion what it will, he hail certainly a moftfingular Af- 
feftion fo) the Good of other Mens Souls, and It would 
be hard to think he had not the like for his own ;) I &j-, 
this zealous affectionate Man, could not Tc&aia Tears alio ; 
But. 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 1=0 ) 

But, recovffing hiniftlf, he laiJ to mc, ask IiJm but 
one QuL'ftion, Is ]ie eaf/ that ft is too late, or is he 
doubled, and wiiVes it were not Co ? I put the Queftron 
fairl/ to Atkins, and he anfyvcred wirh a gi-eat deal of" Paf- 
lion, How could any Man be cafy in a Condition tliat cer- 
tainly muft end in eternal Defhuftion ? that he was far 
from being eafy, but that on the coutraty, he beliey'd it 
■would one Time ot other tuin him. 

What do you mean by that ? iaid I, \^'hy, he faid he 
believd he fl.oul.i, one Time or other, cut his mvnThioat 
to put an End to the Terror of it. 

The Clergyman (hook his Head wii h a great Con- 
ccin in his Face, when I told hJm all this ; but turning 
quick to me upon it, fays hi. If tliat be his Cafe, you mas 
allure him, it is not toolace ; Chi ifi will give him Repentance i 
But pray, fitys he, explain this to him, That as no Maii is 
fav'd but by Cliiift and the Merit of his Pailion, pioeu- 
ring divine Mercy for him, bow cao it be too late for any 
Man to receive Mercy ? Dees he think he is able to iiu 
beyond the Power or Reach of Divine Mercy f Pray tel! 
him, there may be a Time when provok'd Mercy will no 
longer ftiive, and when God may refuft to hear, but that 
'tis never too late for Men to ask Mercy ; and we that are 
Chrill's Servants are commanded to preach Mercy at all 
times, in the Name efjefin Chrifi, to all ihofi that finceri- 
ly rtfent j fo that 'tis nevCT too fate to repent. 

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me wjth great Earn- 
(•flnelsj but it icem'd as if he' tura'd off tlie Difcoutfe to 
die tcft ; fw- he laid to me, he would go and have fome 
Talk withhis VSi?c; ib he went out awhile, and weialkd 
to the reft. 1 perceiv'd they were all flupidly ignorant as 
to Matters of Rcllgioni much as I was when I went 
tambling away from my fatliei* i aiuJ: yet that there were 
none ol^hem backward to heai; wfc? liad been.faid i and 
all of theiti rcriouily promis'd that thi^v.vrould talk ^viiJi 
their Wives about JC, aq^l ^ their' Ewleavout to pafuadc,, 
them to turn Chciftians. . '■., 

The Clergyman fmiId"upon mc, when I reported 
what Aniv/er they gave, but fajd nothing a good while ; 
but, at lajl, (baking liis Head, We that are Chiifl's Sei'- 
vants, fayi he, can go no further than, to eiihort and in- 
fttuftj and when Men comply, fubmit to thd Reproof, 
and 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( I'-. ) 

Mil] promile what mjc ask, 'tis al! we can do ; we »« 
bound to accept their good Words: But believe me. Sir, 
fn'id he, whatever you may have known of the Life of 
that Man you call wdliam Jitiins^ I believe he is the only 
iincere Convert among them ; I take that Man to be a 
true Penitent ; 1 won't de^r oi the reft, but that Man is 
^fcftly ftvuck with the Senfe of his paft Life, and I 
doubt not, but when he comes to talk Religion to hi* 
Wife, ]w will talk himfelf effeaually tnfo it i for attempt- 
ing to teach others, is (bmetimcs tlw beft way of teaching 
our felves : I knew a Man, iMed he, who having nothing 
but a fiimraary Notion of Religion himfrif, and being 
wicked rmd profligate to the laft Degree in liis Lifb, made 
a thorough Refoi'mation m himfelf, b^ labouring to con- 
vert « 3^; and if that poor wifiwjb^ins butonccto talk 
feriouffy of Jdtis Chrift to his Wife, my Life ibr it, he 
talks himfelt into a through Convert, m^ikes hirafcif a Pe- 
nitent: And who knows what may follow? 

Upon this Difcourfe however, and their promifing, 
as above, to endeavour to perfuade their Wives to embrace 
Chriftianity, he marry'd the other three Couple; but Will 
Mkim and his Wife were rot yet come in ; After this, 
my Clwgj man, waiting a while, wascurious to know where 
-^(imj was gone j and, turning to me, /jgrj he, lintreat you, 
Sir,letus walkout of your Laoyrinth here, and look; I dare 
fiy, we ihal! find this poor Man lomewhcre or other, 
talking ferioufly to his Wife, andteachii^heralrcadj^fome- 
tliing of Religion. I began to be of tnefame Mindj Co 
we went out together, and I carry'd him a Way which 
none knew but my felf, and where the Trees were ib 
thick fit, as that it was not eafy-to fee thro' the Tliieket 
of Leaves, and fer harder to fee in, than to^ee out -, when 
coming to the Edge of the Wood, I fiw Atkim and his 
tawny Savage Wife fitting under the Shade of a Bulb, ve- 
ry eager in Difcourfej I ftop'd fhort till my Clergyman 
■ cameup to me; and then having fbow'd him where they 
were, we flood and look'd very flcadily at them a good 
while. 

We obferv'd him veryeameft with her, pobting up to 

the Siin, and to every Qiarter of the Heavensj then down 

to the Earth, then out to tlie Sea, then to himfelf, then tu 

her, to the Woods, to the Trees j Now, fiys my Clergy- 

B* maU) 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 122 ) 

man, you fee my Words ai-e made good, the Mm preaches 
to her i mark him, now he is telling her, rhat our Goci has 
jnadchini, and her, and the Heavens, thcEaith, thcSt-a, the 
Woods, the Trees, £^c, I believe he is, /aid I; irametiiatc- 
ly we percciv'd IVrll Atk'ir.s ftart up upon his Feet, Ihll 
iJown oa his Knees, and lift up both his Hands; We fup- 
pofe he laid fomething, but we could not licar him, it was 
too far for that; he did not continue kneeling lialf a Minute, 
lut comes and fits down again by his Wite, and talks to 
hci again ; Wc percciv'd then the Woman vci y attentive, 
tut whether fhe iaid any thing or no we could not tell, 
while the poor Fellow was upon liis Knees, I could fee the 
Tears run plentifiilly down my Clergyman's Cheeks, and I 
could hardly forbear my fdfj but it was a great* Affliction 
to us both^ that we were not near enough to hear any 
thing that pils'd between them. 

Well, nowever, we could come no nearer for fear of 
difturbing them, fo we re&Iv'd to fie an End of this Piece 
oijlill Cowverfation, and it fpokc loud enough to w, with- 
out the Help of Voice : He fit down ^m, aslhavefaid, 
clofe by her j and talk'd again rarneftly to her ,■ and two or 
three times wc couH fee him embrace her palT^dnatcly ; an- 
other time we fiw him take out his Handkerchief and 
wipe her Eyes, and then kifs her again, v/ith a kind of 
Tranfpott very unufual ; and after fevcral of thcfe Things 
wc fee him, on a fiiddea, jump up'itgain and lend her his 
Hand to heb her up, when immediately, leading her by 
the Hand a StHi or two, they bothkncel.d down together, 
and continu'd io about two Minutes. 

Mv Fiiaid cotild bear it' no longer, but cries out aloud. 
Si. PAUL, St. P^UL! behold ^e fmyetHi I wis afraid 
Aik'ms would hear him, thereftjre I ehtreated him to 
with-hdd himfcif a whilCj that we might lee an end of 
the Scene, ivhich to mc, I muft confefs, was the moll: af- 
fc£Hne, 'and yet the moft agreeAle that ever 1 faw in my 
Life; Well, he ftrove with Wmiyf, and contaiiyd'himfelf ■ 
for a while, but was in fudi Riptiires-of Jdy, to thitik 
that tlic poor Heathen Woman was become a' CitA- 
fliau, tliat he was-not able to -contain hiihlelfi' he wept fc- 
veial Times, theti-thrOy/ing up fes Hands anii erofilrig Mis 
Breaft, laid over fevcral Things' Ejaculatory and by way of 
giving God Thanks fiw lb miraculoiu a Tcflimony of the 
Sueceis 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(i'3 ) 

Succefs of our Eiidravoiirs; fome he fpofce foftly, 
it wdl hear; others aiidably, fom 



id I 



could not wdl hear; others aiidably, fomc in Latia, fome 
in French i thca two or three times the Tears of Joy would 
interrupt him, that he could not fpeak at aU: But I beg'd 
that he would conipofc hirafelf, and let us more narrowly 
■and fully obfcrve what was before us, whicii he did for a 
Time, and the Scene was not ended there yet; for aftec 
the poor Man and his Wife were rilen again from thck 
Knees, we obfev'd he flood talking ilill cageily to her j 
and we oblerv'd by her Motion, that (lie was greatly af- 
i'eikal with what lie laid, by her frequent lifting up her 
Hands, laying her Hand to her Btcaft, and fuch otlicr Po- . 
(hires, as uliially exprefs the greateft Setioufiiefs and Attcnr 
tion : This continu'd about half a Qiiartcr of an Houi-, and 
and then they walk'd away too ; fo that we could ice no 
more of them in that Situation. 

I T o o K this Interval to talk with my Clergyman ; and 
firiJ, 1 told him, I was ghd to fee the Particulars wc Ijad 
both been Witnefles to; that tho' I was haid enough of 
Belief in fuch Cafes, yet that I began to think it was nil 
vtny lincere here, both in the Man and his Wifc, howci'cr 
ignorant they might both be ; and I hop'd fuch a Bc^^iu- 
ninz would nave a yet moic happy End i and who kiiows, 
ftidl, but thefc two may in time, bv Inftrudion and Ex- 
ample, work upon forae of the othei's? Sonic of them, 
iiidhe, titrrun^ quid rifou me, 3.j, upon ail eftkemi de- 
pend upou it, if thole two Savages, for he has been btit 
little better, as you relate it, fliould embrace Je&if Chrift, 
they will never leave till they work upon all the reft; for 
true Religion is naturally communicative, and he that is 
once made a Chriftian, will never leave a Pagan behind 
him, if he can help it : I own'd it was a moil Chridian 
Principle to think Co, and a Teftirtiony of a true Zeal, as 
Wcllasagenerous Heart in him: But, my Friend, fiidi, will 
„you give me Leave to ftart one Difficulty here? I cannot 
tell how to objeft the Icaft Thing againft that afleilionate 
Concern, which you llicw for the turning the poor People 
from their Paganiim to the Cliriftian Rdigion: But hoiv 
does this comfort you, while thefc People are in your Ac- 
count but of the Pale of the Cathoiick Church, without 
which Tou believe there is no Salvationi fothat youeftcem 
Fi theft 



Hosted by 



Google 



(.=4) 

tlicte but Hcrcticks ftill, ami for other Reafons as cffecVually 
ivH as the Pagans thcmlirlves. 

To this he anlwer'd witli abundance of Candor and 
Chriftian Charity thus : Sir, I am a Caiholick of tlie Ro- 
ftutn Church, and a Pried of the Order of St.Bei/eJiil, and 
I embrace all the Principles of the Roman Faith ; But yet 
if you wiii believe me, and ihat I do not [peak in Complin 
■mem to you, or m refpeB to my Cirtumfiaitcei tmdyaur Ci- 
t'Uities i i fay, neverthelefs, I do not look upon you, who 
<all your fclves refbim'd, witlwut fome Charity : I dare 
not lay, fix' I know it ii our Ofiit'on in gmeral; I fay, I 
d&'.e not fay that you cannot be la^'d: I will by no means 
limit tlic Mercy of ChtiJl lb ^r, as to thbk tliat he can- 
net receive ycu into the Boibm of his Church, in a man- 
ner to us unj^rceivaLle, and which it is impollible for us 
to know; and I hope you have the fameCha'ity for us; 1 
pray daily for your being all reftor'd to Chrift's Church, by 
whatfoever Methods he, who is jiU-tcife, is plcas'd tn di- 
rtcl: In the mean .time, fuie you will allow it to confiJT: 
with me, as a Roman, to diftinguifh far between a Protc- 
Hant and a Pagin; between one that calls en Jeliis Chrift, 
tho' in a Way \vhich I do not think is according to the 
Hue Faith: and a Savage, a Barbarian, that knows noGod, 
■no ChriiV, no Redeemer at all; and if you are not within 
.tiie Pale of the Catholick Church, -we hope you, arc nearer 
being reftor'd to it, tbii tliofe that know nothbg at all, of 
Goii or his Church : 1 rejoice therefwe when I fee this 
poor Man, who you fay has been a Profligate, and alnioft 
a Murtherer, knee! down and jh-ay (o Jcfts Clirift, as we 
fiippcfe he did, tho' not fully enlighten'di believing that 
(iod, fiom wliom every fuch Workjproceeds, will i«ifib!y 
touch his iieart, and bring him to the further Knowledge 
of ihc Ti uth in his own Time i and if God ftiall inf uencc 
this pcor Man to convert and inftruift the ignorant Savage 
his Wiff, I can never believe that lie (hall be caft away 
■himicif; and have I not Reafim then to rejoice, the nearer" 
any aicbioughttothe Knowledge of Chrift. tho' they may 
not be biought quite home into the Bofbm of the Catho- 
lick Church, jiill at the Time when I may defiie it? leaving 
it to the Goodnefs of Chrift to pcrfeft his Work in his 
own Time, and his own Way: Certainly 1 would rejoice 
it" ail the Savages in Jiffierica were biought like this poor 
Woman, 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( .--f ) 



Woman to pray to God, tho' thev- were to tie all Profe- 
ft.TOts 3t firft, lather ihin they flioiild continue Pa^ns and 
Hc3!hciis; firjTil/ believing, that he who had bcfioiv'd tint 
firft Light upon them, would further illuminate thein with 
a Beam of his heavcnij" Grare, and.hiing thtm into the 
Pale of his Church when he flioold fee gooil. 

I WAS aftonilh'd at the Sincerity and Temper of this tru- 
ly pious Papift, as much as 1 was oppreft'd by the Power 
of (lis Rcafoning ; and it preientiy occur'i^to my Thoughts, 
that if fuch a Temper was univerfal, we might be alTCs- 
tholick Chriflians, whatevCT Church or particular Proftl- 
fion we join'd to, or icin'd in ; tliat a- Spirit of Charity 
would ibon work us all up into rirfit Principles; and, in a 
Word, as he thought that die like Charity would make us 
all CachoHcks, fol told him I bclicv'd, had all the Mem- 
bers of his Charcii the like Moderation, they would Coon 
be ail Protcftants ; And there we left tJiat Part, /or wb 
never difpured at all. 

However, I talk'd to him another way, and iakm£ him 
by the Hand, my Friend, fays I, I wilh all the Cleigy of 
the Romm Church were bkft wit!i fuch Moderation, aud 
ai equal SJiare of your Charity ; I am enti:'ely of your 
Opinion j but I muft tell you, that if you ihouU jMtach 
fijch Doftrine in S/*i/b, or Itxly, they would put you into 
the Inquijitian. 

I T may be fo, frid he, I know not what they niighc 
do in Sfivn and It^y, but I will not fiy they would bf 
the better Chriflians for that Severity, for I am fure rhe:« 
is no Hercfy in too much Charity. 

Well, as tVill Atkini and his Wife were gone, our Bufi- 
nefs there was over: fo we went back our own M'ay,- ar,d 
when we came back, we found them waiting to be cali'd 
in : Obferving this, I ask'd Ely Clergyman if we fl.ou'd 
diicover to him that we had ftcn him under the Buili, 
or no i and it was his Opinion we fliould not ; biit that 
wtt Ihould talk to him firft, and hear what he would lay 
tTT us; fo we call d him in alone, no Body i-eing in the 
Place but our ielvcs, and I began wiih him thus : 

U'ill Athim, faid T, pvithec what Etlucation had you ? 
Wljat was your Father? 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



C:0 

W. ^. A better Man than ever I fh.ili he. Sir. my r*- 

R.C. What Education did he give you? 
W. A. He would have taught me well, Sir; but I de- 
fpis'd aJl Education, Inilruftion, or CorteitJon, like oBealt 

R.C. It's true, Solomon %5, be ihut defpi/ei Refresh 
irutijh. 

W. ji. Ay, Sir, I was brutilTi, indeed, I murther'd my 
Father i for God's lake. Sir, talk no moie about that, Sift 
1 iTiurther'd my poor Father. 

jy. Ha ! a Muitherer! • 

• Here tht Priefi JferttJ (for I interpreted every Word 
as lie Ipoke it) mJ look'dpali ; Itfiems he belie^'d 
that Will had redly kdfdhis oten lather. 

E. C. No, no. Sir, I do not underflanc! him fo; Will 
^ik'm, explain your fflf, you did not kill your Father, did 
you, with your own Hands ? 

fV. A. No, Sir, I did not cut his Throat i but I cut 
the Thread of all his Comforts, and /liorten'd Ms Days; I 
broke his Hcatt by ihe moft ungrateful unnatural Return-, 
for the moft tender ai&fiiohatc Treatment thai ever Father 
gave, or Child could receive. 

R. C. WcU,, I did not sst you abo\it your Father to 
Ottoit this Confeflion; I pray God give you Repentance- 
for it, and forgive you that, and all your other Sins i but I 
«sk'd you, becauie I fee, that tho' you have not much 
Learning, yet you are not & ignorant asfomeare, in Things 
that are good; that you have known mme of Religion a 
great deal than you liave ptattiicd. 

W. A. Tho' you, Sir, did not extort ihe Confeition 
that I make about my Father, Cimfcience does t and when 
evei wc come to look back upon our Lives, the Sins a- 
gaiiifl- our indulgent Parents arc certainly the firft that 
touches «si the Wounds they make lie dL-cpcO, and the- 
Weight they leave will lie hcavitft upon the Mind, of all 
the Sins we can commit. 

K. C. You talk too feelingly andfcniiblyfor \atAthtu; 
I c^nifot bear it.. 

W.A. 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



(127) 

Jf. A. You bear it. Mailer I I dare C&y you know no- 
tliing of ir. 

R. C. Yes, Ack'ms, evciy Shore, every Hill, nay, I may 
iay, every Tiee in t'lis Illand is witnefs to the Ai^illi of 
iny Soul, for my Ingratitude and bafc Ulage ot a good 
tender Father; a Father much like yours, by your Delcrip- 
tion i and I murthet'd my Father as well as you, U'lll At- 
km; but think, for all that, my Repentance is (hort of 
yours too * by a great deal. 

* / luoaW have faid more, if I could hni-e reft rain' d 
my ^ajjiaru; but 1 thought this pocr Mioit Refent- 
/mce Teas fa much ftneerer than mint, that I vjas gv- 
iog to Uave off the Difcourft and rtth-e, fhr I Teas 
farpri'^'d vath ■ah»l h» faid; a«d thought, that infieaJ 
tf my gahtg ahout to tench ktii a^uS him, thf Man 
. . was made a Teacher and Jnjlru^ to me, m d OTo^ 
fwpixmg and mex^e-Bed manner, 

I laid ail this before the young Clergyman, who was 
™- " . ■., - ^^ j-^jj tome. Did I n 

3 converted, he would preach 



greatly affefted with it, and laid to me. Did I not iky. Sir, 
fliat when this Man was converted, he would preach toufe 
ail f I tell you, Sir, if this one Man be made a true Peni- 
tent, here will be no need of me. he will make Chriftians 
of all in the Mand : But having a little compqs'd my fdf, 
I rencw'd my Difirourfe with Will Atkins. 

Bnt WILL.faid 1, How eonnes the Senfe of this Mat- 
ter to touch vpu )uft now f 

W. A- Sir,- yoa have fet me about a Work that has 
ftiQck a Dart thro'' my very Soul ; I have been talking si- 
hoax God and Religion to my Wife, in order,' as you di^ 
reiScd me, to make a Chriftian of her, andfheha^prcach'd 
iiich a Sermon to' me, as 1 (hall never forget while X 
live. 

R. C. No, no, it is not your Wife has preach'd to you ; 
but ■when you were moving religious A^umcnts to hti', 
Confcience has flung them okck. upon you. 

A. m Ay, Sir, with fuch a Force as is not to be re- 
fiOed. 

R. C. PrayfKfl, let us know what pais'd between- 
you and your Wife, fibr I k»ow Ibmething of it ai- 

F 4. mA. 



Hosted by 



Google 



C>8 ) 

W. A. Sir, tt is impolTiiJe to give you a full Accomit 
ef it; I am too flil! to hold it, and yet h.^.vc no To::giic 
to exprefs it; but let her have .laid what fl c v/ili, aniitJio' 
I cannot give you an Accoiuit of it, tin's I can tell you of 
it, that I i-tfolvc to amend and reform my Lift. 

R. C. But tdl us fome of tt. Hov7 did you fcc^ 
fCilU For this has been an extraordinary Caie, that's cer- 
tain i IVc has prcach'd a Sermon, indeed, if ihe liaj 
wrought this upon yeu. 

ff. A. Why, I firft told her the Nature of our Laws 
about Marriage, Md what the Reafbns were, that Men 
-and Women were oMi^d to enter into £ich Compafls, aa 
it was ncitiier in tlie Power of one or other to break -, 
that otherwife. Order and Juftice could not be raaintain'd, 
*md Men would run from tlieii Wives, and abandon their 
'Children, mix confdcdiy with one another, and neither 
Families he kept entire, or Inheritances be iettled by legal 
Pefcent. 

R. C. You taBt like a Civilian, W'U; could you mak« 
iier nnderfland vviiat you meant by Inheritance and Faiiii- 
lies \ they know no fuch thing among the Savages, hut 
marry any how, without Regard to Relation, Cgnfangui- 
iiity, or Famiiyi Brother and Sifter; nay, as 1 Iiavc beea 
told, even the Fathn and Daughter, and the Son and the Ma- 
ther. 

W. A. I believe, Sfr, you are milinform'd, and my 
Wife allures me rf the contrary, and that tliey abhor it ; 
]peihaps, for any farther Relations, they may not be fb ex- 
•a at we aiCi but (he tells me they never touch one an- 
other in the near Relations you fpeak of. 

R. C, WcU, what did (he %,. to what you tokl 
Ijer. 

W. A. She faid, flie lik'd it very well, and- it was much 
better tlian in her Country. 

R. C. But did you tell her what Marriage was? 

W. A. Ay, ay, there began all our Dialogue, I ask'd , 
her if Ihe would be marry d to me our Way? She ask'd 
me what Way that was ? I told her, Maniagc was ap- 
pointed of God ( and here we had a ftrange Talfc togethtf, 
ip4?ed, as eva U^ apd Wife Mi I believe. . 

N.B.. 



Hosted by 



QiOO^z 



f i2j> y 

N. B. This 'D'miogue betieem W. Atkins mi hii 
M-^ife, ai I look it dtnm in Writing, ju^ afttr he laid 

P0fi. Appointed by your God ! why have you a God is 
your Country? .ij 

!V. A. Yes, ray Dear, God is in every Country. 

iVife. No, your Goii in my Country^ ray Gouiitry 
have the great old Benmratche God, 

tf. ^. Child, I am very unlit to Rkw you who God. 
it ; God is in Heaven, and made iheHeavenand tlic Eaiih, 
tlie Sea, and all tliac in them is. 

I0fe. No makee de Earth ; no, you God makce dc 
EirtJf, no make my Country. * 

* W. A. Imgh-daUiilt ut her Expre^on of Co,l K»t 
making htr Country. 

Iflft. No laugh, why laugh me ? TJii; no Thing to 
laugli. f 



fi' 



M jufily refrov'J by his If^fe, for fht w.n n 
ms than he at firfi. 



IV. A, That's true indeed, 1 wiU not laugh any more 
my Dear, 

Wife. Why ypu lay, you God inalte nil ? 

W. A. Yes, Child, our God made the whole V,'o;H, 
and you, and I, and all Things; for he is tlie onfy true 
God, there is no God hut him, he hves for ever in Hea- 
ven. 

W^ife. Why you no tell me long ago ? 

W. A, Ttaa s true indeed, but I have hecn a wicked 
Wretch, and have not only forgotten toactjiiainr rhce with 
any Thing before, but have lived without God in the 
World my felf. ■ 

tVifc. What have you de great Got! m yoa C^ounrry, 
you no ltno"him.? No iay O to liiin ? No dj good 
Thing for him ? That no impQlTibk! 

IV. A. It is too true tho, foi- :ill that, we live -i.'^ if 
F r, ihcf« 



Hosted by 



Google 



r 110, 7' 

there was no God in Heaven, or tli3t he Ifed^no Powa 
on Eanh? 

W'fe. But \yhy, God l<rt yon do ib ? Why he no ma- 
kee jou good live? 

W. A. It is all our own Fault. 

HVt. But you fiy me, he is Great, much^Great, have 
jnuch grc^t Power j can makea kill when hewilUwhy 
he nb roakeo kill when you no ierve him ? No fay O to 
jlim ? No be good Mans ? 

ir. A. That is true ; he niight ftrike me Dead, and I, 
ought lo expeft ir, fot I have been a wicked Wretcii, that 
is truej but God is merciful, and doei not deal with us as 
wc dcferve, 

H^ift. Bijt then, do no you tell God Tankec fiw that 
too? 

W. A. No, indeed, I have n« thank'd God for hh 
Meicy, arty more than I Iiave fisir'd God for his Power. 

Wife. Then you God tiJ Godf; mc no think, believe, 
he be fuch ose, great much Power, Strong; no makee kill 
you tho' you makce him much Angry f 

fK A. What.? Will my wicked Life hinder yon f rom 
believing in Sod ! What a dreadfiil Creature am I ! And 
what aTaJ Truth is it , that the horrid Lives of Chriftians 
hindcis the Converlions of Heathens? 

Wiff: How me tink you have great much God f up 
theie, and yet no do well, no do good Ting f Can ho 
tyi? Sure he no. tell what you do? 

-f- she Jtoinrs up to Hemen. 

IV. A. Ves, yes, he knows and ices all Things ; ha 
hears us (peak, lies what we do, knows what we think, 
iho' wc do not fpcak.. 

U^ifv. What! he no hear you fiveir, curfe,. (peak the 
great Damn ? 

IV. A. Yes, yes, he hears it ail. 

IVife. W"here be then the muchee great Power ftrong? ' 

W. A. He Is merciful, that's all we can fay for it ; 
and.this proves h'm to le the tiue God ; he is God and 
liot Mac ; aii^ thfisfoic wi; are not, confumcd. • 

•HO*- 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



• Hire Will. Atkins ti^d its fie vAi firtttk wiih Hurrtr, 
to think how he could tell hh Wife fo cUarly, that 
God fee:, and hears, and knoms the ftcret Thoughts 
cf the Heart, and all that me da i and yet thiU he 
hud dar'd to Jo all the -jiU Jh'in^i hi had 4<mc. 

Wife. MercifiiU What you c^ dat ? 

W. A. He is our Father and Mdker, and he pities aijd 

- Wife. So then he never makce kill, never atigrjr when 
you do wicked ; then he flo good himfdf, or no great 

IV. A. Tes, yes, my Dear, he is infinitely good, and 
infinitely great, and able to punifh too ; and lometimes to 
fl ew his Juftice and Vengeance, he lets ^y his Anger to 
deftro}' Sinners, and make Examples ; many are cut oil' in' 
their Sins. 

Wife. But no makee kill you yet, than he tell you mfly 
he that he no make you kill, Co you mnke de Bargain wiih 
him, you do bad Tiling, he no be angry at you, when he 
be angry at other Mans ? 

W. A. No indeed, my Sins are al! Prefiimptions upon 
his Goodnefs ; and he would be infinitely juib if he de- 
Itroy'd me as he has done other Men, 

Wff. Well, and yet no kill, no malcee you dead, what 
you lay to him for tliat, you no tell him Tankee for all 
that too ? 

W. A. I am an unthankful, ucgratefui Dog, that's 

Wfe. Why he no makce yoii much good better, you. 
lay he makce you. 

W. A. He made me as he male all the World ; 'tis 
I have defiwm'd my feifi and abus'd his Goodneft, and 
have* made my felf an abominable Wretch. 

Wife. I wilh you makee God know me, I no makes 
him angry, tno do bad wicked Thing. 

Brre Will. Atkins faid hit Heart fimk ifithin him. to 
hear a foor mtaught Creature defire to h; t.iu^ht to 
knes! Cod, and he fuch a wicked Wretch, that he 
eoaid not fy ont Ward to her abom God, bat what 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



f <?J J 



,. ., n Carriagi would muKe m^^ 

hrational to her to bdieve i n^v, that tilre»dy jhe- 
" could mtbelieve in God, bueiitfe he th»t Wiufo wick~- 

ed vai not defiroy'd. 

W. A. My Dear, you mean, jrou wi(h I could teacli. 
Jiou to know God, not God to know you; for he know*; 
jou alread)', and every Thought in your Heart. 

W/ff. Why then he know what I iay to you now ? 
He know me wiJh to know him ; how fiiali me know 
who makee me? 

W: A. Poor Creature, he muft teach thee, I cannot 
»each thee ,■ I'll pray to him to teach thee to know him, 
«id h), forgivt mc that I. am. unworthy to teach 

Tie poor FfUim VM rn.fuch im Apmy nt her dejirmg 
him to make herktiojv Gad, and her -aipiing to know 
Uni,,that, he f«id, he fill doifit mi hii Knees before 
htrf toidpi''<y'd. to God to inli^ktsn her Mi^d -iiiih 
tkej/f^ifg Knojckdgt flf yefiU Ci^ifi, and to ^Ordwt 
lis,Sxn!, and accept <f his being the. wiieortly Infiru- 
meta <f hi^uSiag her in 'the Frmc'iflti ef Relipon ; 
tfter -a-hich he fate down, by her again, and their 
Dialogue loent m. N. B. This was the Tiree 
when we 6w him kneel . down, and' life up his 
Hands. . 

K^fe. What you put down the Knee for? What you 
J(old up the Haiid for ? What you % f Who you fpeak 
»? Whatis-tlm? 

fP'. A., My Dear, I'bow my Knee* in Token of my 
Submiffion tohko that made me; I faid O to him, as you 
«all it, and as you iayj your-old Mendo to their Idolien**- 
■f^Utkie; th.-.t is, I pray"d to him.. 

Wife. Wha you fiy O to him for ? 

W. A. I pr.iy'd to him to open your Eyee, and your" 
UndcvftandJng, thut you may know him. and be accepted 
iSy him. 

»;/f. Can he do that too ?• 

W- A, Yes, he can. he can do allThingSi . 

Wife, . iiut no he iicar whw you lay f 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



C .33 )■ 

W. A. Yes, he has bid us pray to Him, and promi'd to 
Hear us, 

J^'ife, Bid you pray ? When he bid you ? How he bid 
you ? Wiiac ! Yoii hear him Ipeak ? 

W. A. No, wc do not liear him Jpeafc, but he has te- 
Tcal'd him{elf many Ways to us, 

UtTt he Tfos at a great Lefs to make her imilerfiand, 
that God has reveal'd hmfelf to us by his Wordi 
and -ahxt his Werd -aai .- But at Ufi he toldit her- 
thus. 

W. A. God hasfpoken to &mc good Men in former 
Days, even from Heaven, by plain Words ; and God h.m 
inipir'd good Men by his Spirit; and they iiave written aii 
his Laws down Jn a Book. 

Wife. Me no underiland that, where is Bool; ? 

(V. A. AiasI my poor Cearure, I have not this Book) 
but I hope 1 fi;all one Time or otha get it for you to 
read ic. 

Hire ht tmbrA^d her teitk great AffiBion ■, hut -mirh, 
inex^eJfiiU Grief, that he had not a Bible. 

Wife. But how you makee me know, that God teachee ■ 
them to wiitethat Book ? 

W. A, By the fame Rule that w* know him to be 
God. 

Wife. What Rule, what Way yoa know ? 

W. A. Bccaut he teaches.and commands nothing but 
what is good, rehtcous, and holy; and tends to make 



wicked, that is ail. in it felf, or Ecil in its Confc- 

Wife. That me wTiuld undwftand, that me fain lee j 
if he tcachec all goat Thing, forbid all wicked Thin& 
he reward all good Thing, winiih dl wicked Thin^ 
he make all Tiling, he ^ivc alt Thing, he hear me when 
I fiy O to liim, as yougo do juft now; he makce mc 
good, if 1 wifh be goo3, he fpare me, no makce kiU 
mc; when l.ao be g«)dj lU iliis you fty he do^ yes he 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



be great God j me take, think, believe Kim be great GodS 
me lay O to him too wiiti you, my Dear. 

Heue tlis poor Man, /a/JAf, couldforbcarttolongevi but 
raifing Iier up, made lier kneel by him, and he pray'd to 
Goi, aloud, to inftruit her in the Knowledge of hiniftit" 
by his Spirit, and that by &me good Providence, if pof- 
fible. She might fometimc or other come to have a Bible, 
that ihe might read the Word of God, and be taaght by 
it to know him. 

T m s was tlie Time that wc law him lift her up 
by the Hand, and lav/ him kneel down by her, as 
above, 

T H E Y had feversJ other Difcourfes it feetns after this, 
too long to fet ^own herCi and pirticulariy flie made him 
promife, that lince he confefi'd fds ov,-n Life had been a 
wicked abominable Courle of Provocation againft God, 
that lie would reform ir, and not make Godangry. any 
moie, left he fliouid malx him dtud, as fl;c cali'd if, and 
then n^e (houid be leftslone, and never be taught to knowf 
this Goii better i and left he fliould be mifcabfe, as he had 
t-okl Iier wicked Men fl;ould be after Death. 

This was a ftrange Aeeonnt, and very afrfting to us 
both, but particularly to the young Clergyman [ he was 
indeed wonderfully fcrprii'd with it, but under the great- 
efl Affliition imagiasblc that he could not ulk to her, that 
he could not fpeak Znglijh to make her uidffftand him ; 
and as ihe Ipoke but veiy broken Eiglijh, k could not un- 
deiftand her : However he turn'd lumfelf to me, anil told 
me, that he belicv'd tlicrc muft be moiE.to do with this 
Woman than to marry her ; I did not underftaod him at 
firft, but at length he explain'd himftf, .(viz..) that Ihe 
ought to be Bapiit'd. 

1 AGREED with him in tliat Part readily, nnd was for 

ring about it prerenlly : No, no, told Sir, faitl he, tho' 
would have her be haptii'd by ai Means, yet I mull 
obfttve, that Iflll. jitiins, her Huslflnd, has indeed brought 
ber in a wondeitul Marnier to be tilling to embrace a re- 
ligious Life, and has given her juft Ideas of the Being of 
a God, of his Power, Jufticc, ftlercy j yet I dcTirc to 
know of him, if he had laid My Thing to her of Jefijs 



Hosted by 



Google 



Cm) 

FaitE in him, and Redemption hj him ; of the Holy Spt- 
rit, the Refurreition, the kft Judgdment, and a future 
State. 

I c A L t ' D Pf^ill. Atkins again, and ask'd him ; but the 
poor Fello^v fell immediately into Tears, and told us he 
had laid ibmcthing to her of all fhofe Things, but that 
be was himfclf fo wicked a Creature, and his own Con- 
ilfcience lo reproach'd him with his horrid ungodly Life, 
that he trembled at the Apprehenfions, that &;r Know- 
ledge of- him, ilioukl leffcn the Attention ihe ^^,ould give 
to thofe Things, and make her rather contemn Religion, 
than receive it : But he was aiTur'd he faid that her Mind- 
was Co difpos'd to receive due Imprefllons of all thaCa 
Things, that if 1 would but difcourie with her Ihe would 
make it appear to my Satisfaflion, that my Labour would 
not be loll upon her. 

AcGORDiNGtY I call 'd her in! and placing my fcif 
as Tnterpiefer between my religioas Prieft and the Woman, 
1 entreated him to begin with her ; birt fure fiich a Ser- 
mon was never preach'd by a Fopilh Prieft in the& latter 
Ages of the World i. and, as I told him, I thought he had 
all the Zeal, all the Knowledge, all the Sincerity of a: 
Chriftian, without the Errors of a Rotaan Catholick ; and 
that I took him to be fuch a Clergyman, as the Romas 
Biihops were, before the Cburch of Rome alTum'd fpiri- 
tual Sovereignly over the Confciences of Men; 

I V a Word, he brought the poor Woman to embrace- 
tiic Knowledge of Chrjft, and of Redemption J3V him,, 
not with Wonder and Aftonithmert only, as flie did the- 
fitft Notions of a God, but iwith Joy and Faith, with 
an AfEefiHon and a furpriling Dt^ee of Underilanding, 
Carce to be imagir'd. much lefs to be eKpteft d i and at 
her own Requcft flie was baptia'd. 

When he was preparing to taptize her, I entreated 
him that he would perform that Office with fome Cau- 
tion, that the Man nughtnot perceive hewas of theRomtn 
Church, if poflilileviecaufc of othcrillConfcquenceswhich 
might attend a Difference among i;s in that very Religiorij. 
which wc were inftrufting the other in: He told me, that 
as he had no confecrated Chappel, no proper Things for 
tiie Office, I fhould fee he would do it m a Manner, that I 
fliQuki nor know by it, that he vas a Bjimtm Catholick 



Hosted by 



Google 



my-ftlF, if I fad not known it before : And & hc<Biir 
for Jayiaf! only Ibme Words over to himfelf in Latin, 
which I couU not underftand, he poiir'd a whole Diilitul, 
of Water'upon the Woman's Head, pronouncing in French, 
very loUd, MARY, vhicii n/ts the Name, her Hufband. 
dtfrr'd me to give her ; for I Teas her Godfrpher, I baptize 
theein the Name of the Fathei, and of the Son, and ot the 
Holy Ghoft i lb that none could know any Thing by it, 
what Religion he was of : He gave the Benediftion after- 
wards in Lxt'm; but either WtU. Atkins did not know but' 
it was in French, or elle did not take Noticej of it, at 
that Time. 

A s . foon as this was over we marry.'d them ; and after 
the Mairiage was over, he tum'd himfelf to Will. Atkins, 
aijd in a very affeftianite Manner exhorted him, not on- 
ly to pprlevere in that good Dilpolition he was in, but to 
fupportthe ConviiSions that wore upon him by a Refold- 
tion to reform his Life ; told him, it was in vain to fay 
he repentirf, ifhffdid not forJake his Crimes; Reprefent* 
ed to biin, how God had honour'd him with being the 
Inftrument of bringing his Wife to the Knowledge of tlw 
Chriiibn Religion, and that he (hould be careful he did 
■ not tiiftionour the Grace of God, and that if he did, he 
would lee the Heathen a belter Chriftian thaa lumielfj th« 
Savag"^ converted, and the Inftranent caft away. 

H F ftid a great many good Things to them both, and 
■then recommended them m a few Wordi to God's. Good- 
nofs, gave them the Bcncdiftion again, I tepcating every 
Thing to them in Ejj^M, and thus ended the Ceremony; 
i think it was the iMoft pJcalant ^reeable Day to me that . 
ever I paffiid in' my whole Life. 

B u T my Clergyman had not done yet; his Thoughts 
hung continually upon the ConverfiDn of the l^ven and 
timty Savages, and fiin he would have ftay'd upon the 
Ifland to have undert^cn it i but I convlnc'd him, /r/, 
that his Undertakiiig Was imprafticable in it fclf } and/e- 
cmdly, that perhap? l^would ftit it into a "Way of being • 
done, in his Abfcnct,- to, his SiriJ^faSion j.of. which, by 
and by, 

a-Aviva thus brought the .'iftir of tlic Ifland' to- 1 
narrovv Compais, I was prepari"^ togo onbo^; J rfitShJK 
when the young Man who I had taken out of ihe ft- 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 137 ) 

mfHi'd SJiip's Company came to me, aed told me, Kc un- 
undei flood I had a Clergyman with inc, and that I had' 
mifed the Engliflimen to be mavried to tlie Savages, ■whom 
the^_ called Waves ,■ that he had a Match too, which he 
^lired might be finiflVd before I went, between two 
Chriilians-, which he hop'd would not bi; dilagtccable to 
me. 

I K K E w this muft be the young Woman who was hfs 
Mother's Servant, for theic wis no other Chriftian Woman 
ontbelfiandi fblbeganCopeifuadehimnotIco do any Thing, 
ef that Kind railily, or becaiife he fouad himfclF in this {oi*-- 
tary Circumftance : I reprefoited" that he kkd fome coofi- 
^erable Subflancc m the Word, and good Friends as I un- 
flood by him&lf. and 1^ &s Maid al&i that the Maid wu 
not Mily floor, and a Sarant, but was unequal to him, 
fhe being IIk or fevea nuf twenty Tears old, and he not 
above fcventeen or dghteen ,■ that he might vetj prob^iy^ 
with my AlTiftancc, make a Remove from this Wildctr- 
neTs, and come into his own Country i^m, and that: 
then it would be a thouland to one but hp would- reyeirt, 
his Choice ; and the Dillike of that Circumstance mi^d. 
be difidvaniageous to both ; I was going to (s.y mtwe but 
he interruptM roc, fmiling, and told mc, with a great 
deal of MWHftJft-'that T mifiook m my Guefles, th«t.l>e 
had notliing of that Kind in his Thouglits, his prefcnt 
Orcumftance being melancholly and difconfolate enough f. 
and he was very ^d to hear that I had Thoughts of put- 
ing them in a Way to fee their owti Country again, and' 
riiat nothing fhould have put him upon (laying there,, but 
that the Voyage E was goihe was lb excwxlliig long and" 
hazardous, ana would ciriy tiim quite out of the ReacBf 
6f all his Friends ; th^t hi had nochiiig t» defn-e of me^ 
6ut flat I would fittfe him in fbme little Pl-opaty in the 
Kknd where he was, give him a Servant w tw-o and" 
&me few NecefSries, and he .would fittlc himiclf hcrt 
, like a Painter, waiting the good Time, when, if ever T 
rctuTn'd to England, I wtrald redeem him, and hop'd I' 
would not be unmindfi)! of him when 1 came to EagUmfi 
that he would give mc fome Letters to his Friends in Lltt- 
«bo, to let them know how good I had been to him, and' 
ki wiat Part ofthft World,, and wlat Circumftmcc 1 had" 



Hosted by 



Google 



( '3i) 

left hxtn in ; that he promifciJ mc, that when e 
«trem'd him, the Piiniation and alt the Impio 
had made upon it, let the Value be what it would, fi.ould 
be whoJIy mine. 

His Diieourfe was very prettily deliver'd, coniidcrine 
his Youth, and was the more agreeable to me, bccaule 
he told flie pofitiveiy the Match was not (or himfclt' ; I 
gave hiai aU pofliblc Aflurances, that, if I liv'd to come 
lafe to 'EttgUmJ, I would deliver his Letters, and do his 
Bufinds eff-^^aily, and that he might depend I wouli 
never forget the Circumftancc I had left hiin in ; but ftji 
I was impatient to know, who was the Perftm tobeiiiar- 
ried, uponwhichhe told me, it was myjack ^ itiiTtst4»\ 
aiid lus Maid Sufm. 

I w A s moll Mf ee^Hy furpriz'd, when he iiam'd th^ 
Matchj for indeed! h^ thought it very iut^ble; the Cbt-, 
tsfHtx of diat M^ I have eivcn alreidy j a^ as ibi tbc( 
Maid, flic was a very jjonelt, modeft, fober anJ rdigious 
young Woman, had a very good Share of Senfe, was 
agientile enough in h^ Pcruin, ipoke very hand&mly and 
to the Purpoi^ always with DeeeiKy apd ^ood Muijiei*, 
and not backward to ^eak when any Thing requir'd it, 
or impertinently forwam. to fte^k v/hen it yvijt w)t her Bi}- 
(incfs i vei;y handy and ioulewiieiy m any^^^^ tliat was 
before her ; an excellent Maiiager, and fit indeed to have 
beoi Govcmefs to the whole Iflaad ; (lie knew very well 
how to behave haJelf to all kind of Folks (1^ had about 
her, and to better, if flie had found any there. 

T H s Match beii^ propos'd in this Manner, wc fii»r- 
ricd them' the Sme Day, and as I vras Fathe-r af the Akaf, 
as I may iay, aj^ gave her awav, lb | gav4 her a Por- 
tion i for I appointed Jier aijd (i« Hustond a hat»dfi>me 
large Space of Ground for their Plantation ;, and indeed 
this Match, and the Propolal the young Gentleman 
made to me, to give him a fmall Propcity in the 
Ifland, put me upon parcelling it out amongft them, that , 
they nB^it not quarrel afteiwards about their Siuia- 

T H i s Sharing out the Land to them, I left to Will. 4t^ 

Uns, who indeed was now giown a moft ft^cr, grave, 

managing Fellow ; perfeSIy rcform'd, e](i;e(4irig pipUS 

atid religious, and as &r as I may be allow'd to Ipeak po- 

fitiveiy 



Hosted by 



Google 



('i9) 

iiitvcly in itidi a Cafc, I veril/ believe, was a true fiocero 
Penitent. 

He r^ividcii Tlungs Co juflly, and lb much to evaj 
one's Satisfaftion, that they only delired one general Writ- 
ing under my Hand for the Whole, which I cauJcd to be 
draivo up, and figned and fealcd to them, letting out the 
Bounds and Situation of every Man's Plantation, and tcIH- 
fying, that I gave them thaeby, ftverally a Right to the 
whole Polleflion and Inheritance of the relpetftive Planta- 
tions or Farms, with their Imptovements, to them and 
tlicir Heirs, referving all the reft of the Ifland as my own 
Property, and a certain Rent for every particular Pkntatioo 
after eleven Years, if I, or any one from me, or in my 
Name, came to demand it, p:odudng an attefted Copy of 
tbc iame Writing. 

As to the Govemmeat and Laws among them, I told 
diem I was not capable of giving them better Rules, than 
they were able to give therafelvesj only made them pro- 
mife me to live in Love and good Neighbourhood with 
one another j and fo X prepared to leave them. 

One Thing I muft not omit, and this is, that being 
now fettkd in a kind of Commoii-wealth among them- 
fclves, and having much Bufinefs in Hand, it was but odd 
to have fcven aM thirty Iruliani live in a Nook of the 
Ifland, independent, and indeed unemploy'd ; for- c!tcej>ti 
ing the provjdbg themfclves Food, which they had Di& ■» 
fieuliy enough in too, Ibmetimes, they had no manner of 
Buiincis or PioptHty to manage ; I propos'd therefore to 
the Govemour Sfimianl, thsthe fl'.ould go to them with 
Friday's Father, and propofc to them to remove, and ei- 
ther plant for themlelves, or take them into their feveral 
Families as Servants to be mMntain'd for their Labour, but 
without being ab&lute Slaves, for I would not admit 
them to make fhcm Sbves by Force, by any Means, he~ 
caufc they had their Liberty given by Capitulation, and a» 
^ it were Articles of Surrender, which they ought not to 
break. 

They molt willingly embrac'd the Propofal, and came 

all very chcarfully along with liim ; So wc allotted then* 

Land, and Plantations, which three or four accepted of, 

W 1^1 the rc4 chofc to be employ'd as Seivants in tlie fe- 

voral 



Hosted by 



Google 



( r4o ) 
TeraTFamiliet we had fettled ; atn.1 t!iu' m? Colonj v.-rs 
in a Manner ftttjcd, as foiiows ; Th-; Sp-^nmrdi polTcfs d 
my original limitation, which wa.s the Capital City, and 
extendi their Plantations all along the Side of the Broolc, 
which made the Creek that I have ia often defcrib'd, as 
far as my Bower j and as they cncreas'd their Culture 
it went always Eaftward i the En^Hfl llv'd in the 
North-Eaft Part, wliere mil. jitkins and his Comrades bc- 

fn, and came on Southward, and South-Weft, towards 
e back Part of the Spaniards, and every Plantation hacf 
a great Addition of Land to take in, if they found Occa- 
fion, & that they need not joftle one another for want of 

A L L the Weft End of the Ifland was left uninhabitedi 
that if any of the Savages Hiould come on Shore fhcTe; 
only for their uTiial cuftomlry Barbarities, they^ might 
come and go ; if they diftnrb'd no Body , no- Body 
would difturb them j and no doubt but they were often 
aftiore, and went a'way again 5 for I never heard that the 
Planters were ever attack'd or difturb 'd any more. 

I T now came into ray Thoughts, that I had hinted to my 
Friend the Clergyman, that me Work of- converting the 
Savages, might perhaps be let on foot in his Abfenee, to 
his Satiifa^on ; and I told him, that now J thought it 
was put in a fair Way; for the Savages being thus divided 
among tlie Cliiftians, if they would but every one oF 
them do their Part with thofc which came under tlieir 
Ifends, I hop'd it might have a veiy good Effeft. 

H E agreed prefcntly in that, I^ faid he, they will dcx 
their Part; but how,/iiyj he., ftiali we obtain that of them? 
I tokJ him, we w^ould call, them aU together, and leave it 
in Charge with them, or go to them one by one, which 
he thought beft, fo we divided it j he to fpeak to the Spa- 
mardt, who were all Fgpfii, and I to the Biglip, who 
were aU Prof f/JaiWj and wc reeom mended iceamdlly to 
them, and made them promifti that they never would ^ 
make any Diftinftion of Fajiifi or Frmfiant, in their exhort- 
ing the SaVagcs to turn Chrifiians; "but teach them the 
general Knowledge of the true God; atid of their Sai-i- 
our lefus CJirift, and they likewile promii'd us, tlut they 
woidd never have aay Dilferencej or Dilputes one with 
another, about Religion. 

Weh» 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



f hO 



When I mme m if. ^tkm's HoaSe, fl may call itlTo, 
for fucli .a Ilcufe or fiirii a piece 6i Basket- Work, I believe, 
was not ftanding ia the Woild again i) 1%, when I came 
■there, I found the young Woman I have mention'^ a- 
iove, and fK Atkins's Wife, were become Intimates ; and 
.this piuilcnt religious young Woman, had pcrfeacd the 
Work W. Atk'ms had begun; and tho' it was not atoVe 
■four Days after what 1 have related, yet the new baptii'd 
Savage Woman was made fuch a Cliri/Han, as I have fel- 
dom hcaid of any like her, in oil my Obiiryation, orCon- 
vcrfatioii in the World. 

It camencxtinto my Mind inthe Morning before I went 
to them, that amongll all the needful Things I had to leave 
with them, I had not left a Bible, in whidi, I (bew'd my 
felF lefs confidering for them, than ray good Friend the 
Widow was for me, ivhcn lie fent me the Cirgo of an 
hundred Pounds from Usian, whae Sic pack'd up tlu-cc 
Bibles and a Piayer-Book : Houever, the good Woman's 
Chaiity had a grcati-r Extent than ever il-e imagin'd ; 
for they were lefervd for tlie Comfort and Inftniftioii 
of thoie, that made much better Ufc of them tlian 1 had 

I T o o K one of the Bibles in my Pocket, and when I 
came to H^iU ^kms'i Tent or Houle, and found the young 
Woman, and Atkint's baptia'd Wife, had been difcourJing 
of Rclimon together; ftw fflU ji(kim toldme, soith a griat 
Jtal ofjof ; I ask'd if they were together now, and he 
Jaid, Yes ; ib I went intq the Houfe, and he, wiih me, 
and we found them togetlor very earneft in Difcourle ; 

Sir, fiys mil. Atkins, when God has Sinners to recon- 
cile to himfclf, and Aliens to bring Home, He never wants 
% Medenger; my Wife has got a neiv Inftruflor; I knew 

1 was unworthy, as I was uncapable of that Work; that 
young Woman has been Jent hither from Heavens fie is 
enough to convert a whole Idand of Savages j the young 

' Woman blufh'd, and rofe up to go away, but I de- 
fired her to fit. ftillj I told her, flie had a good 
Work upon her Hands, and I hop'd God would bJeii 
her in it. 

We talk'dalittle, andldidnotpcrcdvethcyhadanyBook 
among them, thoughldid not aski but I put my Handio ■ 
jny Pocket, and puS'd out my Bible; hcre,/^j /, to-i*m. 

I hxn 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( I40 

I have brought you an Affiftanttlat perhaps you had notbc- 
forcj the Man was &> confouniled, that he was notable eo 
fpeakftwlbmcTimei buticcovctinehim&lt^ he takes it with 
both his Hands, and turning to his Wife, here, myDeitr, fiys 
hci did not I tell you, our God, tho' He hvcs above, could 
hear what we fiici? Here's rhc Boot I pray'd for, when 
you and I kncd'J down iinder the BuHi; now God has 
heard us, and fent it; when he had faid fo, the Man fell 
into fudi Tranfpotts of a paffiomte Joy, that between the 
Joy of having it and giving God Thanks for it, the Tears 
run down his Face like a Child that was Crying. 

The Woman was iiirprifed, and was like to have run 
into a Mifhike, . that none of us were aware of; for fl-.e 
firmlv tclieVd God had fcnt the Book upon her Husband's 
Petitfon; It is true, that providentially itwasfo, sad might 
be taken lb in a conlcquent Senie; but I bcliev'd, it would 
liavc been fto difficult Matter at that Time to have per- 
fuaded the poor Woman to have belieVd, that an cxprefs 
Meffeiiger came from Heaven, on purpofe to bring that 
individual Book ; but it was t<x) ferious a Matter, to fuffer 
any Delufion to take Place; lb I tum'd to the young Wo- 
man and told her, we did not dcJire to impofe upon the 
new Convert, in her firft, and more ignorant underiland- 
Jng of Things i and tie^d her to explain to her, that God 
may be very propctly ffid to antwer our Petitions, when 
in the Courie of his Providence, fuch Things are in a par- 
ticular Manner brought to pafs, as we petition'd for; but 
we do not ex-pcQ rcttrms from Heaven, in a miraculous 
and particular Manner, and that it is our Mercy, that it is 
not io. 

Tirrs the }i3ung 'Wmnan did afterwards efieiauallyi 
fo that thcw was, if affure ■vou, no Prieitcraft ufed here ; 
and I (bould have thought it one of the moft tmjuftifiable 
Frauds in the Work!, to have had it & ; but the Surprife 
of Joy iq>on iViU. Al!iiB>, is really not to be exprefied; ^ 
and there we may be litre, there vras no Delufion : Sure, 
no Man was ever more tbnkful in the World for any 
THngof its Kind, than he wasfor this Biblei nor I be- 
lieve, never any Man was glad of a Bible from a better 
Prindi^e ; and tnough he had been a moft profligate Creature, 
deiperate, headftrong, outragious, fiirious, and wicked to a 
great D^rtCi ycr^his Man is a ftanding Ride to us all 

for 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 143 ) 

for the wellinftruaing Children, (f/s.) tl>at Parents fliouM 
never give over to teach and inftrucft, or ever dclpair of 
t]ie Succefi of their Endiavours, let the Children be ever Co 
obftinate, refiaitory, or to Aj^earanee, infenfibie of inftiuS- 
ioQ( for if ever God in his Providence, touches the Con- 
fcicucK of fuch, the Force of their Education returns up- 
on them, and the early Inftruiiion of Parents is not loft ; 
though it may have been many Years l»id aileepj but forae 
Time or other, they mav find the Benefit of it. 

T M u s it \vas with this poor Man ; However ignorant 
he ■was, or diveftcd of Religion and Chriflian Knowledge; 
He found he had fome to do with now, move ii^norant 
than hitnfdfi and that the leaft Part of the Inllniftion of 
his good Father th.it could now come to his Mind, was 
of Ufc to him. 

Among the reft it occurr'd to him, he laid, how his 
Father us'd to infift much upon the inexpreffible Value of 
the" Bible; the Privilege and Bietfingof it to Nations, Fa- 
milies, and Peribns ; but he never cntertain'd the kaft No- 
tion of the Worth of it, till now; when being to talk to 
Heathens, Savages, and Barbarians, he wanted the Help of 
the written Oracle for his AITiftance. 

Th e young Woman was very glad of it alio for the 
prefcnt Oecafion, tho' llie had one, and So had the Youth 
on board our Ship among their Goods, which were not 
yet brought on Shore j and now having faid fo many 
TTiings <S" this young Woman, I cannot omit of telling 
one Story more of her, and my felf, which has ibmethiog 
in it very informing and remarkaHe. 

I have related, to what Emtemity the poor young Wo- 
man was reduced j how her Miftfeis was ftatv'd to Death, 
and did die on board that unhappy Ship we met at Sea ; 
and how the whole Ship's Cohipany being reduc'd to the 
laft Extremity ; the Gcntlewotnan, and her Son, and this 
Maid, wercfirft hardly uftd, ife' tt> ProvifWpsj and at laft 
totally neglcacd arid ftarVdi'Mt^\ti?lay, brought to the 
bft Extremity of Hunger. " ' ' 

One Day brfn^ DilcoUrfing Widi'he* Upon tie EiitreT 
raities tlwy fufier'd, I ask'd her if ffi'e CoiiW delcribc'by 
what Ihc hadfldt, What itwas toftffVe, andhow'it ap* 
pcar'di (he told me, (he believ'd ilie could; and ihe tdd 
■aer Tale very diftinftlythus .■ 



Hosted by 



Google 



( 144 ) 

" F I tt s T, Sir, faid fl-e, we had for fome Days fiir'J 
*' exceeding hard, and fuffcr'd very. great Hunger; bizc 
" now ac laffi, we were whoily without Food of any KitiH, 
" except Sugar, and a little Wine, and a little Water, The 
" firfl Day, after I had receiv'd no Food at all, I found 
" my felf towards Evening, firft empty and fickidi at my 
" Stomach, and nearer Nipht mightily indin'd to yawn- 
" ing .and Jleepyj I bid down on a Couch in the great 
'" C3)in to fleep, and flept about three Hout-s, and awak'd 
" a little refrdh'd ; liaving taken a Gkfs of Wine when I 
" lay down ; afcOT beiog about three Hours awake, it be- 
" ing about five a-Cloc£ in the Morning. I found my feif 
" empty and my StomachJickilhagain.andlay'ddownagain, 
" but could not flcep at ail, bcinq very faint, and ill s and 
" thus I continu'd all tiie ftconi Day, with a fttangc Va- 
" riety, firil Hungry, then lick og.iir, \Tith Reachings to 
" vomit; the iecond Night being oUig'd to go to Bed a- 
" gain, without any Food, mote than a Draught of fair 
" Water i and being aikep, I dream'd I was at Bari^doe;, 
" and that the Muiet was mightily ftock'd with Provili- 
" onsi that I brought fome fw my Miftrcfs, and went 
" and din'd very heartily. 

"I Thought my Stomach was as fiill after this, as 
" it would have beeaafter, or at-a j^ood Dinner ; but 
" when I awak'd, I was csceedingly iunk in my Spirits, 
" to find mj Iclf in the cxircmity (rf. Famine: Tiie lalT: 
" Giafs of Wine wc had, I drant, Mid put Suffiu: in it, 
■' becaufc, of its having fome Spirit to fupply Nourifh- 
" menti but therebcingnoSubllanceintheStomachtnrthe 
" digefting Office to wojk upon, 1 found the only effeft 
" ofthe Wine was, to Tiufe diiagrccabie Fumes fVom the 
" Stomach, into the Head } and I lay, as they told me, 
" fhipid, Mid fenfelefi, as one Drunk for fome Time. ^, 

•• Tjie third Day ia the- Morning, after a Night of 
'' ftran^ and confijs'd inconfiftenc &rcame; and ratlii^r 
" dozing than flecpiiu;) I vvak'd, ravenous and furious^ 
" with Hungerj and Iqueffion, had tiot my Underftaod- 
" ingreturn'd and conquct'd it s ^ '' 
" if 1 had been a Mot&er, and b 
^ mc, its Life would have been lafe o 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(14$ ) 

"This kftcd about three Hoursj during which Time- 
" I was twice raging Mad as anj' Creature in Bedlaifi, as 
'/ my young Mafer told me, and as he can now inform 

" In one of thefe Fits of Lunacy or Diftraflion, whe- ' 
" ther by the Motion of the Ship, or fome Slip of my 
" Foot, I know not ; I fell down, and ftruck my Face 
" againft the Corner Of a Palat Bed in which my Miftrcfs 
" lay i and with the Blow the Blood gufli'd out of my 
" Nofe ; and the Cabin Boy bringinK me a litrle Bafon, I 
" fat down and Wad into it a great dcai; ind as the Blood 
" run from me, I came to my felf ; and the Violence of 
" the Flame, or the Fever, I was in »bat«l, and fo did 
" the ravenous Part of die Hunger. 

" Then I grew fick, and reach'd to Vomit, but could 
" not i for I had nothing in my Stomach to bring up: 
" After I had bled fome Time, I fwooa'd, and they aU 
" bcliev'd I was dead; but I came to my felf ibon at- 
" ter, and tl^n had a mpft dreadful Pain in fcy Sto- 
" mach. not to be defcrib'd ( not like the Cktdick, but a 
" gnawing eager Pain for Food ; and towards' NT^t it 
" went off with a kind of eameil Wifhing or Longing 
" for Food i foracthing like, as I liippofe, the Longing 
" of a WomMi with Child : / took another I>aught of 
" Water. with Sugar intt, bat my Stomach kjatlwd the 
" Sugar, mdbrou^t it all upagaini»htiiJ«>okaDraught 
" of Water without Sugar, and that ftaj^d with mcj and 
" / laid mc down upwi the Bed, praying- Hioft heartily. 
" th^ it would jpleafc God to take imeiii«J' i and com- 
'' pofing my Mind in Hope*: of -it, I :ftuiin!er'tJ a while, 
" and tnen leaking, thoi^t my felf dying, being light 
" with Vapours from an empty Stomach, I rccomracnd- 
" ed my Soul to Go4 and^arndlly wifli'd that fome Bo- 
" dy ^-ouki throw me into the Sea; - 

" Ali. this while my Miitrefs lay by rae,-'juft, 'as I. 
-<" thqt^ly:«Entifl^ but bmc'it -mith miich Mote 'Patieiice 
". tfeanlt-j iind g«wo' the lift-Bit of Bread ihe had left ti fieP 
-"■CiSd..'n]y>^|H^ngi Mailer, who would not have taketi 
" it, but ib^ obligS him to eat it i and I believe it fav'd 
" his Life, 

, " Tov/ARDs dieMomiogl llept again, andfirft.wheh 
" I wak'd, I fell into a violent Paflion of Cryingi and af- 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



!' ter that fed a fec^d Fit trf violent Hunger, fo that/ got 
F' up javenpuE, and jn a molt -dreadful Cwidi«OH ; had lii/ 
" Miftrefs bcei).»fc«li ffs Snifch at I lov'd Iter, 1 am certain, 
" / il;ould have eaten a Piece of her Flefli, with as much 
" Relifh, and as uneoncemV as ever / did the Fielh of 
■' any Creature appointed fcff'Food, and once or twice / 
■' was gping to tatc my oWn Arm ; At hif, / ^w the 
'■' Balbn, in:V^hich was the Bhitid / liad bled at myNolb 
" the E)jy b^fcj /ran to itj andfivaHow'dit.with fuch 
" Haftc, and-fu^.p-gr^y. A^etic^' as if / had won- 
" der'd no bqd^ had tafcen-it K&:n«,'aod afraid it fliould 
" be taken frotn ine ao^r. , . ■ r . 

" T I) o.' after it *vm dcftms the Thoughts of it fill'J 
" me with Horror, yet it chccfc'd the Fit of Hunger, 
" and I di^k a Dralij^fof iiit Water, artd was com- 
" pos'd andrefrefli'd tor fome, Hours after it) This was 
''the 4tli Daj,:and"thusi--hild it, till towards Kieht, 
" wiiea w*hio-,thc Compafs'rf.fhtie Hours, 'l had ail 
" tbefe feva^ Cirtdmftihcis wet again; one after ano- 
(' ther, ivitf^), fidk,-.ileepy\ c^ly huuPry, Pain in the 
" Scomachi then -ijvfliious«|^,tkEii'i:3ta^in,- then iu- 
" natick, then trying, tben rayenions' again, aad fo «very 
" Quarter of an Hour ; and my Jtretigth Walled excecd- 
" ly: At Night Mjid me ddw-n, iavmc -no Owrtfbrt, 
" but in tbetiopS'tiMJiftwolidie'bdbre Morning. 

"■Ai.j.iliisNtgiic,-?hadnaSleef-, but tfaaHungerwas 
" now-.nim'd teiw.a Dlltafe; and i twit tnrfele Cholick 
" and Griping,^'*^'ind-ii]ftlid;iWiFVMid,"ha¥ing fiund its 
" Way iBtO'tibc.B«Wck.(^^od I»*iii.Gon4lti»»' li lay till 
;' Mpini^ ,v^ T yrdsiSarpta^d a littli'with The G-ies 
'" and Laihcntati<his'<)fT«*y7'9i^'Mafler,-wlwcall'dout 
" to me, that his Mother -was. dad:: Jlifted my frlf up 
." a littic, fcr-7'ihad »bt Streiteth fo Tife, bur' found file 
<' was not dead, tho' fWwii £le W^^O tiflry'iitrit Stgtis 

"of bifc.-..-: ■-:v,i ..-,:■ --'m A'« -.-:i -j-i^ 
'- "iIiTAD doAiforiiConviflfioiri iniiiijrStenitKte-fofWant- 
^•-of l^cSaftiSialice, tl«tif;dtaJiotitiBferi(jetheriijJ\*it1i 
n''fijchf^eq?cnt!ThramM-'aiidBih«<rfr*pF^,tMtJnb- 
i" thtilg.W( tjie Tortures .of cBemk' ten-mKue f and Tn 
" this Condition / was in when ; heard the Seamefa 'above 
■" try buc> SMk-t. S»ik find'' Wijwtaid'j**'?''**"^^ " 
f .if they were SiiWtcd. . jI 1 . , . ■ - - 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



f 147 ') 

*' I w A s not able to get off from the Bad, and nvy 
** Miftrefs much lefs j and my Mailer ivas ib Ikk, 
" that / thought he had been expiring j lb we could not 
'" open the Cabin-Door, or get any Account what it was 
*' that occafion'd fuch & Combuftion, nor had we any 
" Converlation with the Ship's Ctmipany for ttvo Days; 
" they having told us they had not a Mouthful of any thaig 
" to eat in the Ship j and they told us afterwards, they 
" thought we had beoi dead. 

"It was this dreadful Condition we were inwhenyoii 
" were fent to ikve our Lives ; and how you found us, 
" Sir, you know as well as 7, and better too. 

This was her own Relation, and is luch a diftinfl Ac^ 
count of ftarving to Death, as I confers I never met with, 
and was exceeding entertaining to me j I am the rather 
npt to believe it to be a true Accouot, becaufe the Y<wth 
gave me an Account of a good Part of it, though / mud 
own, not fo diftinfl and to feelingly ashis Maid; and the 
rather, becaufe it ieertis his Mo(fier fed. him at the Price 
of her own Life: But the poor Miidi tho' her Goiiflitu- 
tion being ftronger than that of hepAliftrefs, who was in 
Years, aiid a weakly Woman too, (he might Uniggle 
harder with it ; I fay, the poor Maid might be luppo^'d 
to ftel the Extremity fiwnfflhbg Iboaer than her Miftrefs, 
who might be allowed to keep the laft Bits' Jbmething 
longer tl^n ibe parted with any to relieve the Maid. No 
Queftion, as the Cafe is here relatodi if- our Ship or fome 
otiier, had ijotCi pmvideBtially met them, a few Daj-s 
more would hare ended , all their LIkcs. uplels they had 
preveoted it by etting one.another; and ^en that. as, their 
Cate flood, wraild have &rv'd them but a little while, they 
behig foo Leagues frona any Land ; or any Poflibility of 
Relief, other than in the nuraculous Manno- it iiap^'d : 
But this is by theWayj I return to my Difpofition of 
Things among the People, 
• A K n,.:Sirfi, It is to be iWerv^d berft That for many 
Reafbns I did not think fit to kt them inovs' any Thing, . 
of tfaeSloa»Ihid fram'il, and which I thought of fitting "*"^ 
up among them ; for I found, at Uajf at. myfirfi earning, 
fuch Seeds of Diviliioaa among them, that i^iaw it plain- 
ly, had J let up the Sloop, and left it among them, they 
C a vroulj 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 148 ) 

would upon every light Dilguft have feperated, and gone 
away ftom one anoHicr, or perhaps have tum'd Pirates, 
and !b made the Illand a Den of Thieves, inftead of a 
Plantation of fote and religious People, as 1 intended it 
tobcj nor did llcavethe two Pieces of^Biaft Cannpntknt I 
had on Board, or the two Quarter-Deck Guns, that my 
Nephew took extraordinary, tor the lame Reafon: I thought 
they had enough to <juaUry them for a deftnfive War a- 
Minft any that Ihould invade them j but I was not to let 
tiiem up for an toffenfive War, or to encourage them to 
go Abrcad to aitaque others, ■which in the End would on- 
ly bring Ruin and Deft tuition upon themielves and all their 
Undertakings: Ireferv'd the Sloop therefore, and the Guns, 
for tlieir Service another Way, as I iliall obferve in its 
Place. 

I H A V E now done with the Ifland : I left them all in 
good Circuni fiances, and in a flourilliing Condition, and 
went on board my Ship again the Day of 

having been five and twenty Dtys among them ; and 
■as they were aU rdblv'd to flay upon the Ifland 'till I 
rartie to remove them, I promis'd f" ''—"' >''••"' 
I the Brafils, if I could 



; them, I 

/". "' 1 poiTibly 

poitunity j and particularly 1 pnamis d to ieod them fonic 



■Relief fioi 



faid Jijme fijither 
Op. 



Cattle, fuch as Sheep, H<^s and Cows; For a; 
Cows and Calves, which I brought from E>ig/mti, we 
had' been (Alig'd; by the 'Length of our Voyage, to kill 
them at Sea, for want of Hay to feed them. ; 

The' iitxt 'Day; giving them a Sahrte of five Guns at 
Partiii& we fet Sail, and arrive at the Bay of jfii-Smti, 
in tf^Bm^/f, in about 11 Diqs^ - moetiDg nothine re- 
markable in our iPafiage, but this, . That about thiee Days 
afrei" we iailll, fcemg bcealmM, and the Current fetnlng 
ftroiig to t*ie E; N^ B. irunning,' as it were, mto a Bay or 
' Culfih On the I^attd-iidei wt iwetc driven fomething out 
of ourCourfe, and once or twice onr Men cry'ii. Land 
to the Weft ward ; tut whether it was the Continent or. 

■ iCadds, we c»uld™>t tell by any Means. 

Buf thethin] Day tcw»dEEveiiing,theScalmDOth, and 
■the Weather ci^itl. we faw the. Sea, as it were, covered to- 
wards the Laid with fomething very black, not being able 
to difcover what it -was ; but after fome Time, our chief 

■ JMatc going up the main Shrowds a little Way, and look- 

ing 



Hosted by 



Google 



( 149 ) 

hig at tfrcm with a Perfpeaive, cry'd out It was an Ar- 
my; I coald not imagine what he meant lyy an Armj", 
and {poke a little haftily, calling the Fellow a Fool, or 
foETic iiich Word: Nay, Sir, fays he, don't be angry, for it 
is an Army, and a Fleet too; for I believe there lie a thou- 
iand Canoes, you may fee them paddic along, and they are 
coming towards us too, apaccj and fuU of Men. 

I WAS a little furpria'd then indeed, and & was mj 
Nephew, theCaptain; for hehadheard fuch terrible Stories 
of them in the Ifland, and having never been in thoIeSeas 
before, that he couliJ not tell what to think of it, but 
£id two or three Times, we Ihould all be devour'd. I 
muft confela, confidering we vrere becalm'd, and the Cur- 
rent fit ftrongtowards tfe Shore, I lik'd it the worfc ; How- 
ever, I bad him not be afiaid, but bring the Ship to an 
Anchor, as icon as vre came & near as to know that we 
muft engage them. 

The Weather continu'd calm, and they came on ipac« 
towards us j ib I gave Order to come to an Anchor, and 
frule al! our Sails . As for the Savages, I told them they 
haA nothing- to tear but Fire; and therefore they ihould 

Sx their &als out, and Men them, one cloJc by the 
cad, and the other by the Stem, and Mao them both 
well, and wait the Iflue in tbat Poftuie; This I did, that 
the Men in the Boats m^ht be ready with Sheets and Buc- 
kets to put mit any Fire, thefc Savages might endeavour 
to fin upon the Outfide of the Ship. 

In this Pofture we lay by for them, and in a little 
while they came up with us j but never was Rich a hor- 
rid Sight feen by Chriftians ; My Mate was much milU- 
ken in his Calculation of their NumbCT, I mean of 2 
ihoufind Canoes ; the moft we could make df them when 
they came up, being about a hundred and &ii and twenty, 
and a great many of them too 1 fiw forae of them had 
fifteen or feventeen Men in them. Same morr j and the 
ieail fot or fiven. 

When th^ came-nearer to us thay feem'd to be ftnicfc 
with Wonder and Aftoniftiment, as at a Sight which titcy 
bad doubtfcfi never fcen belbie j nor couM they at drO, 
as WB afterwards undcrftood, know what to make of us : 
They Mme boldly up however Tcry neat to us, andl«md 
G3 to 



Hosted by 



Google 



to go about, to row round us ; but we call'd to our Mtna 
in rhc Boats, not to let them come too near them. 

T H 1 s very Older brought us to sn Engagement with 
ihem, without our deliging it ; for five or fix of their 
farge Gtnoes came fo near our Long-Boat, fiiat our Meu 
teekon'd with their Hands to them to keep back, which 
they underlteod Tery well, and went back j Itut at their 
Reticat, about fo Ainnrs cnme on board us fiom theft 
'Boats ; and one of our Men in the Lorg-Eoat was veiy 
■luch wounded, 

JJowEVEN, I caltd to them not to fiie by any Mear.s; 
but we handed down fome Deal-Eoards inio the Bear, 
and the Carpenter preftntly let up a kind of a Fence like 
wafte Boards, to cover them ft«m the Arrows of the 
Savages, if they ihould flioW a^ati. 

About half an Hour :iterwardj they rame all op tn 
a Body a-ftein of us, and pretty near, ib near that we 
could eafJy difcern what tfiey wetc, tho' we could not 
tell their Defign ; I eafily found they Were ibme of taj 
okj Fiiendt, tite lame S^ of Ssvages that 1 had been u- 
fed to engaee widij and in « iiltle Time mote they row'd 
s little SrtBer out to Sea, 'till they came dircftly Broad- 
iidc with us, and dieo' row'd down .ftrcat upon us, 'til] 
they came fo tear ihat they coUld iCw us'^ieak.: Upra 
this I ordcr'd all jny Men to keep- ctefe,' kft they ftould 
flioot any more Arrows, and made" ali our Guns ready ; 
lui being fo near as to bc within heating, 1 meJe fiid*^ 

f> out upon thc-D«!k, and call out aloud to them in his 
onguagc, to know what they meant) which accts'dingly 
ie tUd j whether they uixlcrftood him or n«, tSiat I i-ncw 
jtot : But as ibon as he !»d call'd to- them, -lix of them, 
who were fti the fiaremoft or*nighefl Boat to us, tuins 
their Canoes from uSi and ftooping downi ft:cwd us theit 
naked Baefc-fides, ijuft as if \a Euglljbt faving your Pre- 
fcncc, they iai. iid-Us k^i —— i whether tins was a ■ 
Defiance or Challenge, we know not; or whether it ivss 
Ame in meer Contempt, or as a Signal to the reft i but im- 
jnediatdy Friday esj'A-tSW, they we^c going to iV.oot, 
and unhapjiily fas- him (poor Fellow) they let fly about 
,300 of their ArrtWs, and, to my inexpretTible Grief, kili'd 
poor Friday, no other Man bei^ in their Sigiit. The 
joor Feliew was fliot with ao Icls thanthiee Aiiows, and 
about . 



Hosted by 



Google 



about three more fe'i very near him ; fuch unljcky Marfcf- 
nien rhey were. 

1 vf AS lb cnrag'd with the Lofs of my old Servant, 
the CompaniOTi of all my Sorrows and SoiituJcs, that I 
immedbtcl);, ordei-'d five .Guns to be loaded With fmall 
Shot, and tout with great, .and jave rhetii fuch a Broad- 
iide, IS they had never heard in their Lives before, to be 

They were not above half a Cable's Length off wlien 
we fir'd, and our Gunners took their Aim lb well, thaf 
three or four of their Caooes were overiet, (as we had 
Reafon to beJievc) by one SJiOf onlj'. 

TtLB ill Maimer; of tumiiig'up i^ir-bare Back-fides' to 
Hi, garc us. no gi-eat Oflencc;; neithOT did I ' kaOW "fo* 
ceriam, whether that'-wfiicb wfauld yaf? for the gieatelt 
Contempt among us, mig^ be onderftood ib by them, 
m not i therefore in Return, I had only rclblvy to Iwve 
fir'd loot or five Guns with Powder only, which I kacvf 
would fright them futficiently; But when they ftiot at ui 
diredtly with all the Fury they were capable bt, and efpcJ 
cially as they h»d kill'dmy poo/ Sridny, who I & entirety 
lof 'd aad valu'd, 2nd wbo ifideed £> well defe^'d Jt ; 1 
not only i(3d been juAify'd before God and Man, but 
would iiflve hfleo very glad, if I conldr to have over- 
fit cwry Canoe' tbae, and drown'd every one tjf 
them. . 

1 c A N neither tell, how many wc fcill'd, or how many 
WC wounded, at this Broad-fide j but fureCich aFright and 
Hurry nevw was &en among iuch 3 Multitude; thm; were 
13 or 14, of their Canoes fpit and overibc in all, width*! 
Men all let a fwimming ; the left,' irightel! out of their' 
Will, fcour'd away as Mftss they^ conSn taking but littlo' 
Care to £ivc thoie whole Boats vvwe ^lit or Ipbil'd witb' 
our Shot : So, I fiippofr, that thi^ were rn'any'^ them 
loft : And our Men took up one poor FeHow fwiro-^ 
ming for his Lifc above an Hour after they wete all 

O u R fmall Shot from our Cannon mul} needs kill anij' 
wound a great many 5 but, in flwt, we never kneiv ai*y" 
Thmg liow it went with them ; for they fled ia M, that 
in three Hours, or thereabouts, wc could oot fte above . 
three or four {haggling Qmoes; ntx did weeTer-{ee-the' 
G+ rcfl 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 'n ) 

reft sf.y more; for a Breeze of Wind fpringing up the 
fame Evening, we weighed and (et Sail for tnc Brxjili, 

We had a Prifoncr iQiieed ; but the Creature wns To 
fulkfl, that he would neither eat or Jpeak j and we all fanlicd 
Jic wwild ftarve himfelf to Death; But I took a Way to cute 
him j fori maderhem take himandturn him into, the Long- 
Boat, aod make 'him believe xhcj would tois him into the 
Sea acain, aad fo leave him where, they found him, if he 
would notipeaki Nor would that do, but thev really did 
throw him into the Sea, and came away from' him : and 
then he foUow'd them j for he fwam like a Cork, and 
call'd to them in his Tongue, tho' they knew not one 
Word of what he fiid: Ifowcver, at laft they took him 
in ^;ain, anti then he began to be more traflable j nor did 
1 eva' delign they fhoiild drown lum. 

W E were now under Sail agaiti ; but I was the moft 
diiconfokte Creature alive, for want of my Man Snjay; 
and would, have been very gbd to have gone back to tha 
Ifland, to have taken one oflbe reft from thence for my 
Occafion, but it eouM not be; fo we went on : We had 
pnc PtUiwer, as \ have ^di and 'twas a kmgwhile befoie 
.^ccoukj make him nnderftand any thing, but.'in time, 
^r Men, taught him foHie' 'E»£UJh, and Se \x^n to. be a- 
,Uttle a^St^ii aftervvards' wi: enquir'd what Country he 
4Hi]f ^m, but could nlake aothmg 6i what he fudj for 
his Speech was fo otid, all Gutturals, and fookcn in the. 
ThtMt, in filch an hollow and odd Martner, that vre could 
jsevCT form a Word fiom him ; and we were oil of Opi- 
nion that they might ipeafe that Laaguage as wtil, if they 
iw«-e gagg'd,, as otherwife; Nor could we peictive that 
they hadany Oecalion, either for Teeth, Tongue, Lips, 
«r Palate -, but form'd thdr Wofds juft as a hunting Horn 
forms a Tiitie with 'an, open Throatj he toid us however, 
^me lime after, when we had Kiughl him to ipeak a 
iUtk SngUp, that they were going with their Kings to 
^ight a great Battle. When he laid Kings, we ask 'd him 
ilow many" Kings ? He faij, tliey wete Vivt. N a t i o k,.. 
fwe could not make him uoderfiaDd the Plural^,? andthat 
they all join'd to go againffl Two SM'mi. We a5k'd him 
what made them come up to us r He fiid* f» maku « 
ntat mmdtr Uok ; Where it is to be obferved. That ali 
tlwic Nauv«, as aifo ihofe of jifrka, when tiey.ieam 



Hosted by 



Google 



( i;3 ) 

^£iij!>, they always add two Es at the end of the Words 
where we ufc one, and place the Accent upon the laft of 
them, as mukii. lakie, and the lifcej and we could not 
break them of it j nay, I could hardly make Friday Icjve it 
off, tho' at laft te did. 

Ak D now I name the poor Fellow once more, 1 muft 
take my laft Leave of him j poor honeft triJay ! Wc bu- 
ried him with ail tlic Decency and Solnnnity jjoflible, by 
putting him into a CoiBn, and thiowing him into the Sea : 
And I caus'd 'em to lire eleven Guns for hinii, andib 
ended the Life of the liioft grateful, faithful, honeft, and 
moft affeilionate Servant that ever Man had, 
. W E went now aw^y witK a feir Wiiid for Brafl, and. 
in aboiit twelve Days tiine we made Land in the Latiiuda 
of five Degrees South of the Line, being the North- Eafter- 
moft LaniT of ail that Part of jtmenca : Wc kept on S. 
by E. in light of the Shore four Days, when wc maile 
Cape Si. jiu£H/}hif, and inthreeDays came to an Anchor off 
of iie Bay ^ jtU-Samti, the old Place of my Deliverance, 
&om whence came both my good and evilFaie. 

Never Ship came to this Part that had lefs BuTineA 
than I had i and yet it was with great Difficulty that we 
were admitted to hold the Ica&Cocre^iondence on Shore, 
not my Partner himftlf, who was alive, and made a grcac 
Figure among them; not my two Mcrtiants Truflces, 
nor the Fame of my wonderful Preiervation in- the Iflaml, 
could obtain me that Favour : But my Parmer reii-iembwr 
ing, that I had given f oo Moidores to the Prior of the- 
Monallry of the .^iugi^iiui. and. 371 to the Poor, went to 
the Monaftry, and obJig'd.tbe Vnot that then was, to go 
to the Governor, an4 get leave, for me pcrfoiisliy, with 
the Captain, and one more, belidea eight Seamen, to come 
on Shora, and no more; ami this upon Condition aUb- 
lutdy capitulated for, that wc ihould not offer to land any 
Gocws out of the Ship, or tp carry aay Petfooaway witf(- 
out Licence. 

Yhey were So ftrifl with us, asto kudhig any Goods, 
that it was. with extream Diificulty that 1 got on, Shotc 
' three Bales of Zagiiflj , Goods, . foeh as finp hroad Cbachs, 
StiiiS, and fome Lumcni. which I ia4lirought for. a Prc- 
ient to my Partner,. [ • 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



f rS4) 



Sweet-meats, worth above jo MoidoreSi including fome 
ToMcco, andthrce or tbur fine Medals in Gold : But I was 
even with him iu my Prcfent, Which, as t hare £ud, con- 
Sfted of fine btoad Cloafh, EvgBJli StvfFs, Lace, and fine 
Hollands : Alio 1 ddiver'd him about the Value of i oo /. 
Sterl. in the fime Goods for ether Uies ; and I oblig d 
him to fa up the Sloop which I had l»wighi with me 
from Ettglund, 3S I have faid, for the tJfi of my CtJony, 
in order to fatd the Re&cihinents 1 intended to my Pkn- 

AccoHDiNOLY, tie-got Hands, and finiHwd the Sioop 
m a very few Days, for Ihe was ^ready tram'd, and I 
^ve the Mafter of her fiich Inftrudions,' as be could nOl 
' intTs the Place, ntr did ht mi/} thtm, in I htd nn Atetunt 
from my Turmtf i^tritmii. I got him feon loaded with 
the fmall Cargo 1 had fent thctn j and oiie of our Seamen 
that ted' been on Shore With me the«, offer 'ti to go with 
the Sfoop, an^ fcttiethcre upon my Letter to the Gover- 
nour Stmiurd, to allot him n fofficicnt C^antity of L^and 
for a Plantation j and giving Wm fome Cloaths, and Tools 
for his PUntiog-work. which he iaid ht underftood, hav- 
ing been an -c^ Pkntcr at Mtuyimd, and a Buccaneer into 
the Bargain. - 

I irjcoUBAOEB thfrPdkiw, bygtantingall hcdcfired;, 
and as an Addition, I gave him the Savjge, wWch we had 
taken Prifoner of War, to be hisSlwe, and ordcr'dthc Go- 
TcmouT SMtuard to give him his Share of every thing 
be wanted wi\h the reft. 

Whbn vft cafflje to fit t!w Mm out, my oid Partner 
told me, there was a certain very honeft'FdIow, a Brafiil 
'Pbnter of ttts Acquaintance, wha had faHan into the Dii^ 
pleafuie of the Church ) I know, not what the Matter ij , 
with ium; fi^t if, Wt on myConfcienee, I think he is an 
■Heretick in ffis Heart, and he has been oblig'd to conceal 
titniclt for frar of the Inquifition ; that he would be verf 
ghd of filch an Opptwraniiy to make his Efcape with his- 
Wife and two Daughters; and if I would te them go to 
ji'.y IQ^d, and albt tLem a PhntatioQ. he would give 
theta 



Hosted by 



Google 



tfem a finaH Stock to begin with * fbr the Officers of t^ 
Inqiiilitlon had &h.'A all nts Effeflrs and Eftatc, and ^e had' 
nothing left but a little Houfhold Stuff and two Slaves. 
And, adds he, tho' I hate his Principles, yet I Would noc 
have him fall into theit Hands; for hewould ifTureiily be 
burnt aliFc if he does. 

Teftntly, and join'd my In^liffiman 

Daughters on Board our Ship, till the Sloop put oiit, to go 
to Ses j and tlien (havin? pot ail their Goods on board me 
Sloop, feime'tifnc before) we put them on boird the Sloop, 
after 'he was got oiit of tfie Boy, 

Our Seaman was mighti^ picas 'd with this ne^v Part? 
ner ; and their Stock intfced was much alike rich in 'Tools, 
in Preparations, and a Farm, but nothing to begin With 
but as above: However, they carried ■ ove^ With them 
(whiirh was worth aii the reft) ionie Materiltls for planting 
Sugar Canes, with Ibme Plants of Canes i ivhlch he, I 
mean the Pmugal Man; un'dcrtkiod very wel!. 
. Among the reft <^ the Supplies lent my Teaar»ts la 
the Ifland, I fcnt them by this Sloop, three A^ilch Cb\fs, 
■and fife Calves, about Twenty tWoE&^saraong';emi three 
Sows big with Pig, two Mares, ahd'a Stonfrifoi-fc." ' ".' 

■Fob my SP^m^^, according to my Proffiife, t'ensigy 
three Tertugul Women to go, and recommeraedlttdufcin 
to mairy them, and ufe them kindly. ' t could have '^d- 
"curcd more Women, but I remember'd, that tHe :p>(a'pet' 
■fecuted Man had two Datelner.'!,- and there 'wasbtit Hvp 
cf the Symiitrdi that vrantw; :tiK-rtfthaii'W'ivescf tWr 
■bwri, tho' in another CoUtitrf.' ' '"' . ::' ' 

Ale tlufe Qrgo arriv-'d faie; ind as j'xjii may eidly Kip- 
'pofe, very welcome to my old Inlisbitants,' .Wild' Were noi^ 
■(with this Addition) between fixty and feveoty People, be- 
iides little Children i of which, there was a gfeat many: I 
"found Letters at Lendon from them aUby Way dtLisim, 
when 1 came back to EntUtiJ; being fint back tatheEt-a- 
fili by this Sloop, of whfch.I (hall t^efoiiK Notice in its 
■■Piace. - ■■ 

I H A V E now done with my Ifland, aiid all manucr of 
.Difcpurfe about, it ; and whoever reads, the reft of my Md- 
ntifrandums, would do well to turn his Tliouglits entirely 
■ :,' and expeft to read on^ of die ToDios of an old 



■froair 



Hosted by 



Google 



(• M« > 

Mmi not wam'd by his owd Harms, much kfs by thofe, 
of other Men, to beware of the likci not cooi'ii by almoft 
fort/ Yeais Mifiry aai Dilappointments, notijvisfy'dwiih. 
Piofperity.Wond Espeftation, 'not made cautious by Af- 
fljiSipn aad Diftrefs Eiyond. Imitation. 

I HAD no moie Bulmefs to ^o to. the EAfi-ImScs, Chin_ 
a Maniat fvH Libertj, and having committed no Crime, 
has to go to the. Tuiu-tey at tittv^ate, and dcliie him to 
&ck Iiim up scaoaa the Pii&neis theie, acid Jlaivekim: 
Had I. taken a fci^ VeSeJ. from England, and went d;- 
le&ly to the IJlandi had I loaded her, as I did the oiher 
Vcflel. wia aU the Neceflarics for the Plaitation, and foe 
m/' People, took a. Patent from the Government here, to 
haye-£air"d my Propaty, in iiibjcflion only to that of 
'Bngl^, Which to be iure J might have (*tain'd j had I carried 
over Cascpii. and Ammunition, Seivants, and People to 
I^ant, and takii^ poflclTion ot' the Place, fbttilied and 
flrengtheit'd it in the Name of EnglMnd, and incrcas'd it 
with People, a$ I migiit eaiily have done j had I then ictr 
tied, my ulf there, and ient the Ship back,,loadcn with 
Ipxid Rice, as t might alio have done. in. (ix Months 
time, and order'd mv Fiiends to have fitted her out agaiu 
for our Suroly ; had: I. done this,. and Aaid there my ielf, 
I.had,.at feoft, a/aedjike a Man of common,Senfc.i but I 
Wis-pofli&'d with a wmidring Spirit, fctMned ail Advanta^ 
■ges, pleaied mv filf with being the Patron of thole People 
T.hap pi^eed tUere, and doing tor tbeminalijn^ of haugh- 
ty majaftitjt Way, HJce aa old Patriarchal, Monarch i pra- 
Tjding fi?r. .them, as if 1< hsid been Father of the' wholp 
Famay, afi'weB'aj^ftitcPlintatioci: But I never ib much 
V'4)i«tcndoJ,to. plant in. fhc Nitne of anj; GoTcrnment 
or >fStB3n, or fo admowledge any Prin'cft or to call 
mf Vbofii SnbjeiSs "tp any one- Nation' more than 
aiiother i nay,, t nemsr &■ ranch as gaye the Place 
«.:KafDci; Init.^fi it b5 C fm»d it, £loi^ing to no 
' h^;,and'-tiie I^opI^Minder no Dilcipline or.GovemmeoC 
bat my. ojvnj wfex tho'. IhaianlBfluencc.oyer them as 
'Pather'and* fidncfeiSor. had" no Authority or" Power, to 
.A£t:(« Comipandionc way or other, ferthCT than vo- 
IdntMj Confcnt mov'd tijem to, eomrly ; yet oven this, 
bad Iflaid rheiO( woujd have done well enough; but as I 
iswbid tiom-thcm, and. came^. there no more,,thc.laft.Lei;- 



Hosted by 



Google 



C -57 ) 

Wrs r had from any of them, was by- I*irtner's Meanjp^; 
wlio a£ierwaids lent another Sloop to the Place, and who- 
&nt me wtKd, tho' 1 had not die LeiKr till five Years' 
after it was wiirtcn; that ttey went on but poorly, were 
Mniecontent wirfj their long flay there ;■ chit i*w ^kins- 
wasdeidj that five of the Sfimiardt were Come away, 
aiid that tho' they hid' not been much molclleti by the Sa- 
vages, yet they hid had:&mc Skirmilhes withlhemi that 
the;y bcgg'd of him TO wiite to me, m think of the Pro- 
mile I had made,, to fech 'em away, that they might fie, 
tlKir own Couiitiy agaui b^re they dyd-. ' 

BwT I'was gone K WW Gm/V OWe in^edi and they 
who will have auy mwe of- me; muff be- content to fol- 
low me through a new-Variety o£ Follies, Hard/hips, ajid 
wild Advflutmesi wherein the Juftice of Piovidence may 
be duly obfetved, and. we may lea how~eafi!y Heaven can 

firee us wiih our own Dditw, make the ftrongeff of our 
'ithes to be our AffiiAion, and puniih us melt'dbveTeI;> 
with thole vwy Thii^v which;\ve think^'it would beoiir 
utmoft Happincfe to be allowed in^ 

L E T no wife Man flatter himfilf, with the Strength rf 
Ihs owwi>Jitdg|9aent, »i, if he-was^abde tO'cho^ any particu- 
lar Smion <a -Ufc for him&lf .'.r Afcn,' it a Ihort-fighted 
Creature, iees-iilE. a very httie way; before him ; and as his 
Paflions ue none.af his bell' Friends, lb Hs particular A& 
feiiions, aiegeneraliy hii'wotft Counftltors. 

. 1 SAT this, witEvFclp^ to the impetuous DcHre I had 
,&om a Youth. to;w»nd« ii»o'. thc-Worid'j and Iww evi- 
dent it now was, that this Hinciffc wa* preierv'd m me 
foe my Puniilunmtti.-Hoiv.' iccameon; the Maoner, the 
.Ci[£umllaiice, and the Condtifion of.it, it is'ta:^ to give 
you- hiftoricaUy, and with its.utnH)il.,yacioiy. of Partioi- 
,ms . Bwthe wGr^Ends-of Divine Providmce, ia thus pep- 
mictii;^ us -tO: be-, hurry 'd down the Stream of our own 
^DcJires, is only to be anfcftood of thofe who can liften 
to theVmre.^ift-ovidencc. aod.dnwreiitfiousOM^&juea' 
OK from God's Juftice and their own Miftakes. , 
, . Be-ii, Hiad'Bi&ie^'<«Mio-£uiMiai,am»yI wents 'tis. 
,'do tune now to enlarge any fiirthep upon.che. Reafon,. or 
AWunlity of my own Comlmftj but to comcSotheHilto- 
ry, LwM emtoquci for the. Voyage, and'the- Vs^agol 



Hosted by 



Google 



058) 

I SHOULD only add here, that my honeft and truly pi- 
ous Clergyman letc me here; a Ship being ready te go to 
Liiiiin, he ask'd me Leave to go thither ; being flill, m he 
tiferv'd, bound never to finifli »ny Voyage hcbegmi Iww 
happy had it been ffa- me, if 1 had gone with himi 

B u T it was too late now j ail Things Heaven appoints 
are bejl; had I gone with him. I had never bad To many 
Things to be thankful for, and you iiad never heard of the 
fecond Pait of tiie Travels and Adventures of Rebm- 
fin Cru^x; lb I mull leave here the fruWels raclairaing at 
my felt, and go on with my Voyage. - 
■ From tfac Brajili, we niadediie^yaway evo' thc^;- 
Umifk Si*, to tiic Copt lit itn Efftranct, or «s we call it, 
the CtifB e^Gootl Hvpi; and h^ a tolerable good Voyage, 
our Courie generally South-Eaft; now and then a Storm, 
Rod &me cmitrary Winds, but my Di&fters at Sea weie 
at an Endi my ftjturc Rubs and crois Events were to 
befal me.oniShoiej that.it might appear, the Land was as 
■well prcpar'd tq .bc'our Scourge, u the Seaj when Hca^ 
ven, who direfts the CircumftMKcs of Things, pieatb t6 
appoint it ta^bc'lb. ' 

OuB Ship was,oa»Tradiw Voyage, and had « S»j6f* 
C*rgii on board, who was to flireii all -her Motions after 
.fhe arriv'd at the CeBij only being limited to ceitMn Num- 
tcrs of Days, for Jl»y, by Chirter-pwty, at the ieveril 
Ports (be was to go to; This wa« nwia of my BuiineTs, 
aieither did I .mediae witjh it at alii ray Nephew, the Cap- 
tain,,and the pti^ta Citrgth, adjuaing ill tlioff^T^itigs be- 
lw«:n:thein, ^ they JiKJ^hc fit." .J' ■■ ■ 

Ws madciio ftay at.the Ca^, k>ng« th* -wis needful, 
fto take i^ &efli i^aterj but made thu b^ -of olir' -vray, 
■for Eiie CoalV'bf drMtnub^i 'We *«Pe ii^^ewi informed, 
that a Irmch Mm of War offifty^GiBis, andtwo large- 
.Merchant Ships, were gone for the In^ts, and as I knew 
we ivete at War. with Frmet.l had fomC Apprehenfions 
■of them-i bit they went their «wn Way, ajid we heardno 
more of them. 

1 SHALL not pefto- my AwwiRt, or the Reader, with 
Dcfcriprions of Pkces, Journals' of our Vopges, Variari- 
.«ns of the Gompafi, Latitudes, Meridian Diftances, Trade 
IWind«. Situation of Ports, and the liice; fuch-a» almoft all 
the Hiftories of long Navigurion (ire full of, and which 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(■-55) 

make the reaifing tirefome enough, and are peffrfilv ua- 
profitable to all that read, except oaly ro tboft, wfio are 
to go to rhoft Places themfdves. 

It is enough to najwe tlic Ports and Places, \vhich we 
touch'd at, and what occur'd to us upon our palTing from 
one to another : Wc touch'd firft at the Illand of Mni/is- 
Safeur ; where, tho' the Peoplc^pe fieice and treacherous, 
»nd in particular, ver^j well arm'd#/ith Launces and Bows, 
w^hich they ufe with inconceivable Dexterity, yet we fared 
vei-y well with them a while; tlicy treated us very civil- 
ly, and for fomc Trifles, which we gave them, fuch as 
Knives, ScifTars, ^e, they brought ui eleven good ht 
Bullocks, middling in Site, but very good in FlelTi i whicii 
we took in, partly for frcfli Provifions for out prefent 
^lending, Hid the reft to £k for the Ship's Ufe. 

W E were obliged to liay here Come time, after we had 
fiirnilli'd our felves with Provifions ; and I, that was al- 
ways too curious, to look into every Nook of the Woild 
whia-e-<ver I came, iNfas 'for going on Shore as often as t 
could : It was on the Eaft-fide of the liland that we went 
on Shore one Evening, and the People, kIk by the Wkf 
ate ■ufry mttmrous., came throngine about us, and ftood 
eazing at us at a Diitance: As we nad traded freely with 
them, and had been kindly ufed, we thought our telves ia 
no Danger ; but wlien we faw the Pee^le, we cut three- 
Boughs out of a Tree, and ftuck them up at a Diftance 
from OS, which it feems, is a Mark in the Country, not 
only of Truce and Friendfbip, but when it is accepted, the 
other Side fet up three Poles or Boughs alfo, wiiich is ft 
Signal, that they accept the Truee too i bot then, this is a 
knoW-n Condition of the Truce, that you are not to pafs 
beyond thcirthrce Poles towards them, nor they comepaft 
yeur three Poles or Boughs, towards you ; fb that you are 

efieflly fecure within the three Poles, and all the Space 
iveen your Poles and theirs, is allovv'd like a Market, 
lor free Convcrfe, TraiBck and Commerce ; When yougo 
there, you muil not carry your Weapons with you; and if 
they come into that Space, they JKck up their Javeknes and 
LaunCes, all at the firft Pokij and come oo unarm'dj 
but if any Violence is offer'd them, and the Truce thereby 
l^oken, away they run to the Poles, and lay hold of their 
Weai«B£, and thoo the Truce is at aa EwL 

It 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( i6<s ) 

It happen'd oneE»eniiig when we went onShore, rhat 
a greatCT Number of chcir People came down than ufual, 
butallwasveryfriendlyand civil: They bi ought with rhcm 
fcvctal Kinds of PiOvilioiis, for which we Satisfied theni, 
with iuch Toys as we hadj their Women alio brought us 
Miifc, aud Roots, and fcveial Things very acceptable to us, 
and all was qukt ; and vfc made us a little Tent or Hut, 
ot' fome Boughs and Srecs, and lay on Shore all that 
Night, ■ 

1 K N o w not what was theOccallon, but I was not fa 
■ well fatisfied to lie on Shore as the reft,, and the Boat ly 
ixig at an Anchor, about a Stone's Caft from the Landj with 
two Men in her to take Caic of her ; 1 made one of them 
come on Shore, and getting fomc Bwjghs of Trees to co- 
ver us alio in the Boat, I ipread the Sail on the Bottom of 
the Boat, and lav under the Cover on board of the Branches 
of the Trees all Night. 

About two a. tSock in the Mtoning, we heard oneof 
fHir Men. make a terrible Noiiir on the Shore, wiling ou( 
for God's Sake, to bring; tlie Bo»t in, and come and help 
thnn, for they were aSlike to murther'd.j. at the iame 
Time, I heard the firing of five Muskets, which was the 
Number of the Guns tSey had, and that, three Times o- 
ver , for it fccnis, the Natives here were not lb ealily 
fii^tedwithGlms, as the Savages wne ia jtmtrica, where 
I.&d to do~w«h than. 

All this whik, I Itooff ngt what was. the Matter; but 
touzing immediately from Sleep with the. Nolle. I caus'd 
the Bqat to be.thruft in, and relblv'd. with three Fuiilswe 
bad onbo^, toland, and nfllft our Men- 

W E got tlje Boat jbon to the Shore, but our Men were 
in two much halfe : For being cooieto the Shore, they 
pjdng'd into the Water, to get to the Boat, with all the 
ExpolftiDn they Could, bring purfued by between three and 
four hundiW Men : Our plen, wcte but nine in all, and 
only five of them h^ Fufils With them ; tiie reft indeed 
had Piilbis and Swords, but th^.wae of fmaLU& to " 
them. 

W E took up feven of our Men, and v/itfi Difficulty 

Bnough too, three of them being verv ill wounded ; and that 

which was ftill worie, was, that while we flood in theBoat 

to take our Mai-in, we.were.in at much-Danger is th«y 

via* 



Hosted by 



Google 



were in on Shorc-j for ihej-poui'd their Arrows in upon usCa 
thick, tliac we were &in to barricatle the Side of the Boat 
Bpwith the Benches, and two or thiee looli: Eoaids, which 
to our gieat Saiisftftion, we had by meie. Accident, «" 
FroviJmce rMhtr, in the Boat. 

And yet; had it been Day-light, they are, it fiems, 
fuch ejad Maikfinen, that it' they could have &a\ but the 
leaft Part of any of us, they would have bren fuic of usj 
we had hy 'he Light of tk; Moon a iiftle Sight of tliciii, 
as they ftood peitiug us fiom the Shore widi D,iits ami 
Arrowsi and having got ready oar Fiie-Arms, we gave 
them a Volley, and we could hear by the Cries of Jome 
of them, that we had wounded tveral j however, they 
ftood thus in Battle- Array on the Shore 'uli Break of Day, 
which we liippofe was, th^t they miglir Ice the tetter to 
fc^e theii: Aim at us. 

In this Condition wc lay, and coiU not telt how to 
TVtigh our Anchor, or ftt up our Sail, beaiuic wc mull 
needs ftand up in the To,', . and they v/e;c as fure to hit 
us, as we wcie to hit a Bird in a Tree with irnail Shot; 
Tvc made Signals of Drels to the Ship, which, though we 
lode a Latgue off. yet my Nephew, the Captain, fcaiing 
our Filing, and by Gkllcs, . petceiving the Poftuic jve lay 
ih, anJ that we hr'd towards the' Shoce, pretty well un- 
deiftood us; and weighing Anchor, with all Speedy heJlood 
as near Clie Store as he durft with the Sliip, and then 
lint another Boat, with ten Hands in her, to ailiU us^ but 
wc call d to them not to ccme too ncvr, telL'ng tlicm >vhat 
Condition we were in : Howiver, tlic^' ftopdin neaii?' tO' 
us ; and one c^ the Men, tailing rhe Euii of a Tow-Line, 
m his Hand, and ieeping oui- Boat between htm and the. 
Enemy, Jb that they could not po-fc€ily fee him,^rwjyn on 
biMrd us, and moi^ tl>e Line nB to UieBoat jupon which, 
we flipp'd our little Cal>le, and' leaving our. Anchor behind, 
they i&wA us out of the. Reach of the ^yrrows, we all. 
* the wiiile lying clofe behind tlic Bariicado we had 

As.'fixm as we woe got from between the Ship and' 

the sWe, that ibc could lay (ler Side to the Shore, the. 

run along juft by them, and we pour'd in a Btoad-fide a.- 

Oiong thtm, toadcn with Pieces of Ivoa and Lead, fmall 

Bullets* 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 1^2 ) 

Bullet?, and fuch,Stuff, befiJcs the great Shotj'whichmaJ« 
i terriUvc Havock among them. ^ 

When we were got on board, and out of Danger, xvc 
had Time to examine into The Occaiion of this Fraj" j and 
indeed om Sufra-Carge, wlio liad ban often iti thple Parts, 
put me upon it i for he laid, he was fure the Inhabitants 
would not- have touch'd m, after we had made a Tiuce, 
if we had not done fomething to provoke them .tp, it; At 
length it came out, (^iz.) that an bid Woman, who ijad 
come to fell us fome MiJk, had broiight it within' oar 
Poles, with a young Woman with her, who alfo brought 
Come Roots or Herbs ; and while the old Woman, whir- 
ther (he was Mother to the young Woman or, no, the/. 
Could not tell, wiis, feBijig us the Milk, one qrf ojir Meo 
effer'd fome Rudei^fs to tte Wench that wae with her, 
at which the old Woman made a great Noiie: ■ Hoy/ever, 
the Seanian would- not guit his Ptue.but cyited her out 
of the old Woman's Sighf, ' among tlje Trees, it being sl- 
moft dark i the oki Woman' wo^away without her, and 
as we fuppofc, made an Out-cry among the People (l.C 
came from; who upon Notice, rais'd this greM Army, up- 
on us in three <x four Hours; and it wa* great oMh but 
■we had been ali deftroy'd. i_ 

■One of our Men' was killed, with a Laiino?, that.ivas 
tfux)\vri at him, jufl at the Beginnio* of shjt.Atfacl;, as .he 
filley'd gut of the Tent Ve l^aa, m&df: i th^ veil came off 
free, ah but the Fellow who was the Occafion of all the 
Mifchief, who paid dear enough For his, black Miftrdsi for 



We could not hrar what became of him, i 



jFS 






lay upon the Shore two Days after, though tjie Wind pre-, 
iiited, and hiade Signals for hini ; made our Boat fail ua 
Shore and down Shore,- fcveral Leagues, but in vninj jo 
we were oblig'd to give him over, apd if he :4Mehadluf- 
fh-'d for it, the I^liad beerl the jcis, 

I COULD not &isfy my lelf, however, without ven- 
turing on Shore once more, to try if I could learn atiy ■ 
Thing of him, or them ; it was the third Night after the 
Aflion, that I had agreat Mind to Icain, if 1 could by any 
Means, what Mifchief we had doiie, and ht>w thf Game 
flood on the lu^ms Side : I was. carefoi t-o do it in the 
dark, left we iliould be aCfaou'd a^in; but I ought indeed., 
tb lave been fure,' that the Men I went with, had been un- 
der 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( i«3 ) 

dcr my Command, before I engag'd in a Thii^ fo hitar- 
dons and mi&hievous, as I wa^ biouglitiuto hy it, without 
o\y Knowledge or Delign. 

We tooic twenty ftout Fellows .with us as any in the 
Ship, befides the Supra-Car^ and m^ lelf, and \ve landed 
two Hours before Midiiight, at the iame Place jvlwrc the 
Indians floot! drawn up the Evening tcfiarej I landed here, 
tccaufe my Ddlgn, as 1 have fiid, was chiefly to fee if 
they had quieted the Kidd, and if they had left any Marks 
behind them of the Mifchicf we had done them ; and I 
thought, if we could fuiprize one or two of them, 
perhaps we might get our Man again by Way of Ek- 

W E landed without any Noifr, and divided our Men in- 
to two Companies, whereof. thc.Boatfwain commanded 
one, and I the other : We neither ctwld hear nor fee any 
body ftir when we landed, fo we march'd up, one Body M 
a Difiance from the other, to the Field of Battle : At fitll 
we coulii ftc nothing, it \:ems very dark i but by and hy, 
our Boatfwain, thatled the firft Party, ftumbicd and fcU 
oyer a dead IBoy; tiiis made them halt a while, for know- 
ing by the Circumftanccs that they were at the Place whcre- 
the InMatu had ftood, they waited for my' comirig up j 
here we concluded to halt 'till the Moon began to rile, 
which wc knew wouH be in lefs than an Hour i and then 
we could cafily dilcern tl>e Havock we had made among 
them i we toM two and thirty Bodies upon the Grouncf, 
whereof two were not quite dead ': Some had an Arm, 
and fome a L<^ fhot off, and one his Head ; thoifc 
that wierc wounded we fuppos'd, they had carried a- 
way. ■ - 

When we liad made, as ! thougbt.a full Ditovety of 
of all we could come at the KnowIc;lge of^ I was for go- 
ing on Board again ; but the Boatfwam and his Patty of 
ten, fcnt me Word, that they were refolv'd to make a Vi- 
•fiC to the InSim Town, where thele Dogs, m thty. cali'i. 
thenty dwelt, and defir'd me to go along with them ; and 
if they couU find them, as ftill they fimfied they fhould, 
they did not doubt, rh^ [aid, getting a good Booty, and 
it might be, they might find Tho. Jtfrj there, thM »«i 
tbt Man's Ninni we bad lofi. 

Had 



Hosted by 



Google 



Had 'they lent to ask my Leave to go, I knew weli 
enough what Anfwei- to kive given ttem ; for I would 
iiave commanded rhem inftantly on board, knowing it was 
not 3 Haioid fit for us to run i who haii i Ship, and Ship's 
Loading in our Charge, and a Voyage to make, which de- 
pended very much upon tlie Lives of the Men j but as they 
ient me Word they were telblvcd to go, and only ask'd me 
and my Company to go along with tnem ,■ I politively le- 
fUE d. it, and role up, for I was fitting on the Ground, in 
oi dcr to gp to tiie Boar ; one or two of the Men, began to 
importune me to go, and when I ftiU lefus'd poiitively, be- 
gan to grumble, and lay they were not under my Com- 
mand, and they wouU go ; Come y^ck, fays one of the 
Men, will you go with me? I'll go for ones ffch laid he 
w-ouid, and another followed, and then another ,■ and in a 
Word, they all left me but one, who, with much Difficul- 
ty too, I pctfinded to ftay; ib thcSuprit-Ci^^c and I. with 
lire third Man, went back to the Boat, where, I told them, 
we would ftay for them, and take Cave to takein as many 
of them asftould teleft ; for 1 teU 'tm itwas a mad Thing 
tfiey wfere going about, and fnppoled moA of 'era would 
lun the Fate of Th. ft^ry- 

Thev lold me, 'like Seamen, they'd warrant it t.Vy 
would come off again, and they would take care, 0=c. So 
away they went : I entreated 'em to confider the Shipand 
the Voyage ,■ that their Lives were not their own, and 
that they were entrufted with the Voya^ ip fomc mca- 
fiire i. that if they mHcarry'd, the Ehiy might be loft for 
want of theii- Bdp. and that they could not jnfwer it to 
God Or Man r I laid a gieat dc-al more to 'km on that 
Head, but I might as well have talkd ro tlie Maifl-Maft of the 
Ship, they were mad upon their Journey, only they gavo 
me good Words, and begg'd I would nor be angry ;' laid, 
they would be very cautious,' and thuy did not doubt but 
they wouU be back again in about an Hour at farthcft i 
for the Iniban Town, they (aid, was not above half a Mile • 
elf : 7ho' they fvund it nitv'e tiri) MiUi bifire they, g«t to 

Well, thty all went away, a above j and tho'thc 
Attempt was de§«iate, and fuch, as none but Madmen 
would have gone i^ut, yet to give 'em their due, they 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



Ci«s ) 

went about it warily as well as boldly^ They were galunt- 
ly armed, that's true j for they had every Man a Fuzee or 
Musket, a Bayonet, and every Man a Pifloi ; Come of them 
had broad Cutlafles, fome or them Hangers and rhe Eoat- 
fwain and two more had> .Pole- Axes : Bdides all which, 
they had among them Thirteen Haiid-Grcnadoes ; Bolder 
Fellows, and better provided, never went about any wick- 
ed Work in the World, 

When they went our, thdr chief Defign was Plunder, 
and they wcrein mighty hojics of findingGold there ; but a 
Circumftajice which none of them were aware of. Jet 
them on fire with Revenge, and made Devils of them all : 
When they came to the few Indium Houfes, which they 
thought had been the Town, which was not above half a 
Mile off; they were under a great Dilappointmcnc , for 
there were not above ii or thirteen Houfes, .and where 
tlie Town was, ov how big, they knew not ; They con- 
fukcd therefore what to do. and were fome time before 
they could relblve j For if they fell upon thcfc, they muft 
CUE all their Throats, and it was ten to one but fome 
of them might efcapc, it being in the Night, tho' the 
Moon was up ; and if one efcapcd, he would tun away, 
and raife all the Towns, ib tliey IliouIJ havca whole Army 
upon them i Again, on the other hand, if they went a- 
way and lefl; thofc untouch'd (tor the. People were all 
aJleep) they could not tell which Way to look for the 
Town. 

HowEVER,.tklaft was the bell Advice i fo they re- 
folvod to leave thofc HouTes, and look iox the Town as 
Well iis they could : They went on a little way, and ftwnd a 
Cow tied to a Tree; this thtfy preieutly concluded, would 
be. a good Gifide to them; for t\m iaio, the Cow ccitain- 
iy.bc&oged to the Town before them, or the Town be- 
,hind them.i aiid, if cbsy untied her, they Ihould fee which 
Way Ihe went t if lli&went back tlwy had nothing to fay 
. to her; !>ut if (he , went forward, they h?d nothing to do 
but to follow her, fo they cut the Cord, whwh was made 
of twUkd Flags, and the Cow went on before them ; in 
, a Word, the Cow led them dircilly to the Town, which 
as rfi^ reported, confifted of above loo Houles, or Huts ; 
and in Some of thde, they found fevctal Fanulies living 
together. 

Herb 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( !««) 

Here they found all Silent; as profoulidly rccure, as 
Sleep, and a Country that had never fcen an Enemy of 
tlwtKind, could make themj upon this, they call'd another 
Council to confider what they had to do ; iid in a Word, 
they reiolv'd to divide themielves into three Bodies, and to 
ftt three Houles on Fiie in thrw Parts of the Town ; and 
as the Men cameout, toleii^tbem and bind them 5 if any re- 
fifted, they need not be ask'd what to do then, and lo to 
ftarch the reft of the Houles for Plunder; but they re- 
folv'd to march lilcntly tirft, thro' tlie Town, and fee what 
Demenfions it was ofj and Confider if they might ventu e 
upon it, or no. 

They did ib, and deJperately refolv'd that they would 
venture upon them ; but while they wctc aiiimatbg one 
another to tlie Work, three of them that were a little be- 
fore the reft, call out aloud, and told them they had found 
Jiorn. Jefry ; they all ran up to the Place, and lb ii was 
indeed, for there they found the poor Fellow, itang'd up 
naked by one Arm, and his Throat cut; there was an 7b- 
diaa Houfe juft by the Tree, vrfiere they found (ixroen or 
feventeen of the principal ladiaai who had been conrcMi'd 
in the Fray with us before, and two or three of them 
■wounded with our Shot ; and our Mem found they weie 
awake, and talking one toanotho" in that Houie. but knew 
not their Number. 

The Sight of .thrir poor mangled Comrade ft cnrag'd 
'era, as before, that they fwore to one anotlier they would 
be reveng'd, andtliat tiotan lailiM) who came into their 
Hands fliould haveQijftrter, and to iwork they went imme- 
diately i and yet nta lb madly as by the Rage and Fury 
they were in, migjit be expeacd : Their firft Care was to 
get fbmclhing that w?ouid fbon take Fire, but 'after a little 
fearch, they found that woiiH be to-ijo purpoft, for moft 
■of the Houfes wire lowj' and Thai^h'AwttlrFhgj <w Ruflies, 
of which tlie Cwrntry is full i fo they yrcfently msde ibme 
'Wild Eire, « we cMt it, by wetting a little Powder in the • 
Pahns of their. 'Hands, andtna quatter of ii^-Hour Aey 
-ftt the ' Tdwn on Fire in fijur or fire. Places ; and part icu- 
■larly that Houfc where tiitlnHamt Were not ^onc to Bed. 
;As ibon as the Fire began to blaze, the poor-frightedCTea- 
■tures b^into rufli out to five, their tires ybw met with 
their Fate in the Attempt, aad efpecially aitheDoori-wbere 
they 



Hosted by 



Google 



C i«7 )■ 

they drove them back, the BoatiWain Iiimfilf killing one 
or two with his PoIc-Ak ; The Houfc being brge, and 
man)' hi it, he did not care to go in, but cali'd for a Hand- 
Grei^do, md threw it among 'em, wljich at firft frighted 
'cffl i but when it burfl:, maSe fuch Havock among ,em, 
that they cried out in a hideous itianncr. 

1 N fnort moil of the Indians who were in theopen Part 
of the HoufCi were Itiii'd or hurt with the Grenado, except 
two or three rhore whoprefi'dto the Door .which theBoat- 
fwa'n and two more kept with their Bayonet s in tlie Muiilej 
of their Keees, and difpatch'd all w^ho came that Way. But 
thae was auotherApartmeiit intlie Houfewherethe Prince 
or King, or whatfoevcr iie was, and fevcral others were, 
and thele thcv kept in till the Hou&, which was by this 
time all of a light Flame, fell in upon them, and they were 
fitiother'd or burnt together. 

All this while they fir'd not a Gun, becaufe they 
would not waken the People fefter than they could maftcr 
them i but the Fire began to waken them iail enoi»h, 
and our Fellows were gkl to keep a little together in bo- 
dies i for the Fire grew^. foraging, all the Hoiiies being made 
of light combuftibk Stuff, that they could hardly Iwar the 
Street between them, aoA their Bulineis was to fWlow the 
Fire for the furer Execution ; As ftft as the Fire cither forc'd 
the People out of thofe Houfis which were burning, or 
frighted them Out of others, our People were ready at their 
Doors To knock them on the Head, ftill Calling and hol- 
lowing to one another to'Temenibcr The. Jj^'- ■ 

While this was'doing, I mui? corifeis 1 was very un- 
tzff, and (•l^ialty when 1 JSw the Ramcstsf the Town, 
which; it beirtg Night, ieem'd to be juft by me. 

■ M T Nephew, the Captain, who was rouz'd by his Men 
Vaoi feeing foch a Fhe was i - . - . 

WWtfht flatter' w^, >. __ . - , - 

ally JieariiW the Gtms t»o, for by Jhiatime'thcy began to 
1 triff'their Flte-Arms ; 3 tfioiiland Thoughts opprcft his 
Mftfd ■cOnteniing me, and thc"Sirora-<^argo, Wfet iliould 
bftitmiBOftisrMfl at felt,- Though he could ill fpare any 
faiotfMto, yet not"fcrtowrng what Exigence We might bp 
in, he takes another Boat, Mid with rj Men imd h^nfelf. 
comcs'titt Sftoto to- me. 

Hi 



was very uneafy, not knowing 
rVlat Tiaitgcr t Was in i eQieci- 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



( • 



J 



H E was furpri-i'd to fee me Dnd tJic Supat-Corgo in the 
Boat with no more than two Men, for one had been left: 
to keqthc Boat ,■ and tho' he was glad rhat we were wfjl. 
yet he ivas in the iame Impatience with us to know what 
WAS doing } for the Noift continu'd and the Flame «t- 
crcas'd : I ConTcrs, it was next to an Impoflibility for any 
Men in the World to reftrain their Curiolity of knowing, 
what had happcn'd, or their Concern for the Safely of the 
Men : In a Word, the Capt^n told me, he would go and 
help his Men, let what would come : I argu'd wiMi him 
as I did befor* with the Men, the Safety of the Ship, and 
tlte Danger of the Voyage, the Intereft of the Owners and 
Merchants, ^c. and told him, I would go and the two 
Men, and only fee if wc could at a Diflance learn what 
was like to be the Event, and come back and tell him. 

I T 'was all one, to talk to my Nephew, as it w^s to 
talk to the reft before ; Iw wouid go, he faii, aud he only 
wifii'd he had left but fen Men in the Shipj for he could 
not think of having his Men loft for want of Help, hehad 
rwher, he faid, loote the Ship, the Voyage, and his Life 
and all ; and lb away wtiit he. 

Nor was i any more able to ftay behind now, than I 
was to perfuade them not to go before s fo in Jhort, the 
Captain order'd two Men to row back the Pinnance, and 
fetch twelve Men more from tlw Ship, leavhig the Long- 
Boat at an Anchor, and that when they came back, lix 
Men fhooki keep the two Boats and fix more come after 
us i fo that he left only i6 Men in tiie Ship; for the whole 
Ship's Company confiftrd of dr Men, whereof two were 
loft in the nrA C^iarrei, which brought this MiCchicfoo. 

Being now on the march, you may be liirc we felt 
little of the Ground we trode on ; and being guided by the 
Fire, wc kept no Path, but went dhe^ly to the Place of 
the Flame : If the .Noift.of the Guns was furpriiiing to us 
before, the Cries of the poor Ppople were i\av/ o? quite 
another N^thre, and filTd us with Horror ; £ moft -con- . 
fcfs I never wjs at ^lieking of a Citj, or at d)e .taking 
of a Town, bf Storm. I have heard .oi oUver Cnmw^ 
taking Dregheda in Ireland, and killing Man. .Woman and 
Chikl; And I had read of Count Tilly, lacking of theCity 
of M'^de^HTgh, and cutting the Throats of iiooo of all 
Sexes; 



Hosted by 



Google 



( 1«9 ) 

Sexes; But I never had an Idea of the Thing iticlf before, 
nor is it poiTible to di;rcribc it, or the Hoiror which was 
Upon oar Minds at, hearing it. 

However, wc went on, and at length came to the 
Town, tho* there was no entring the Srrects of it for tlic 
Fire : Tlic fiift Ob;cia we met with, was dw Ruius of a 
Hut orHoufe, or radier the A'hes of it, for theHoufcwas 
confum'd; and juft before It, plain now to be feen hy the 
Light of the Fire, lay Soar Men and three Women kill d j . 
ana as we thought, one or two moic lay in tlie Heap i- 
mong tte Fire : In fliort, there were fuch Inftaiices of a 
!iage aitogetier barbarous, and of a Fury, fomcthiiig be- 
yond what was human, that we thought it inipollible our 
fVfcn could be guilty of it; or if they were the Autliorsof 
it, wc thought that every one of 'cm ought to be put to 
the Worft of Deaths : But this was not all, we faw the 
Fire encreasd forward, and the Cry went on juft as rlii: 
Fire went on, fo that wc were in the utmoft Coufufiou; 
We advanc'd a little Way faithcr, and beheid, to our Afto- 
niihment, three Women naked, crying in. a moffdiead- 
ful Manner, and flying, as if they had ioiictd had Wiuirs, 
and after tJ^m iixteen oc Siveateea Men. ^'uiives, in ilie 
lame Tenor and Confternation, with three of our EagUfli 
Biitchers, _^ I cm caU thtm mhntr, in. fheir Rear ; who, 
when they could not overtake them, fir'd in among ihcni, 
and oiie that was killd by their Shot ftil down in our 
Sight; when the reft ^w us, believing ut^rabe ilieir Ene- ■ 
iii_ies, and tlwi we would murthcr t^ip a&wdl es thofc 
tW purfued them, -they fet up a irjollil^eadful Shieik, e- 
fpecially the Women i and two of tiem fell down as if 
already dead with the Flight. , . ; - 

M V very Soul iJirunk within me, aoA my Blood run 
chil in my Veins, when 1 law thisj pnd I believe, had the 
three Eniiijh Sailois, that purfued them, come on, I had 
niadepurSlen kill them all; However, we tDak,ibmc Ways 
• to let the popr flymg Creatures know, that we would not 
hihtthem, ^nd in) mediately they came up to iis,andkned- 
ii^ down, wifl} fhek Hands lifred up, iwade pitious La- 
niEntationro us, to five them, which we let thcut know 
we wouU do i Whereupon they kct>t altogethei in a Huddle 
c\oCe behind us Ibr Proteftfoh ; I left my Men diawn up 
togetbct, and charg'd them to hurt no body, but if polfible 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(no) 

to get at &me of our People, and fee wimt Devil it was , 
paffe*s'd tKs'm, and what they intended to dot and, in a 
Word, to command ahem oft; afSiring.them, lIKai if they 
fiaj-'d till Day-light they would hare an itiindiiiii ihoufilid ' 
Men about their U^s: I fiy, IWt'tliein, and wditatnpng , 
thofe flying People;' tafcite only 'two of our. Men VvitS 
Bic i and there was indeed "€ Jiitiotis Spcftadc among (hem : 
Some of them had their Feet terribly burnt with trampling 
ami running ihro' the Fire, others their Hands burnt, one 
ot.the Women had feillen down in 'thfe Fire, aid was al- 
nioft burnt to DfcWh befofe (lie could'get out again ; two 
or three of tliC Men had Cuts in tKeiP Backs and Thighs 
fiom our May piM^uitw ; and anotfWr was fKot chto' the 
Body, and died while f was there.' ' 

I WOULD fein-have leameif what the Occa (ion of all 
this was, but I could not underiland one Word they faid j 
tho' by Signs I perceieved chat forae of them knew not 
what was the Occafion themfelvcs : I was fo terrified in 
my Thoughts at this outrageous Attempt, that I emilJ not 
flay there.liut went back to my owri Men ; I told them 
my Refolution, and commanded them t6 fbUoW me, when 
in the veryMonieot came.four of oiw Meii with' the Boa- 
fwain at tfieir Head, roving o\w the Heaps of Bodies they 
had kill'd, all cover'd vHth Blood andDult, asif they want- 
ed more People to fnalEcrc, when our Meniiallow'd to 
tiiem as loud as ticy could hallow, and with much ado 
one of them made tliciii. hear j ia that they knew who\ye 

As iiwn as [he ''Bttetfvvain faiv u?, lie fet Up. a Hallow 
like aShout irfTtTfeiiph, for having, as he thought, more 
liclp come, and wifliout btaring to tear me. Captain, ya)'j 
he, Noble Captain, I am glad you are comcj wc have not 
half dorc yeti'VilMns'lHell-Iiomid Dogs! HI kill as many 
of them as poOT torn, has Hairsupon his Head. We have 
fwoin to fpare none of them, we II root out the very Na- 
tion of 'em from thfe Earth ; and thijs he run oij, .out of 
Breath too With AtSfioii, and would riot give us Leave to 
Ipeak a Word.' "■ j ■ ■ 

Ar'laft, railing my V6ic« that I might' fiIer(Ce' him a ' 

littfci Barbarous ^'l/a/^ I, what are you do&g ? I won't , 

bave one Creature touch'il rti6rrj'UpMi.PaJn ot Peath : I 

ch»r£t 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



Hosted by 



Google 




Hosted by 



Google 



tharge ym Mpm ytur Life, to ftop your I^nds, ami flmi 



fiiltlsn. 



dtltd MM tkis MmOti. 



, Sir, lays he, Dojoh kmv jcbtit- you do, er ivb/U 
thef have <lmi ? If you want a Rcafoa for wlat we have 
done, come hither ; and with that he ihew'd me the 
poor Fellow hanging upon die Tree with Ws Throat cut. 

I CONFESS, I was urg'd then my fclf, and at another 
Time (hould have been forward enough (but T thought 
they had catriedtbeir Rage too&r, and thdugJit of ^awi's 
Words to hisSonsS'iOTMiJ and Levi ; Cuffed be thiir.Aiigeri 
fir it was fierce j md their Wrath, far it wits eruei : But 
I had now a new Task upon my Hands i for vrften . the . 
Men I cartiedwiti me fiwthe Sight as I had done. Thai 
as much to do to reftrain thntl. as Ifhouid hSve had with 
the other,- nay, my Nephew himfelf firl! in iviih the:n, and 
- told me in tlidr hearing, that he was only concerned fbr 
ftar of the Men being oyerptrwer'd, for as to the People, 
he thought not one of 'em ought to lire ; for they had 
all glutted themfelvcs with the Morthcr of the poor Han, 
and^that they ought to be uftd like Murtheiers : Upon' 
thefe Wotds, away run eight 'of my Meh vi.'ith tlK Boat- 
fwain and his Crew, to cotnplcat their bloody Worfci and ' 
I feeing it quite out of my 'Povra- torreftraitt ttiem, came 
away penfive and .lad) for I,could'a«beafThcSighf,tnuch ' 
Icfs ihe horrible Noifr and Cries of tfif poor Wretches that 
fell into their Hands. 

I G o T no body to come back with' tiie bntr tlie Su^a- 
Car^o and two Men j and with theft I walk d bsclc to 
the Boats : It w«i a very great Piece' of Fdlly m nici' 
I confefi. to- vcn'tiire back, aS it were ^wie ; for as ic 
began now to be almoll Day, and the 'Alarai had runf 
over the Ctountry, thcie ftood' about 40 Men arm'd with 
Launces and Bows at the little Place . where the 1 1 or t y ■ 
Mou&s flood menti'on'd before i but by Accident I mifi'J , 
, the Place, and came dircftly to the Sea-fide, and by the 
Time I got to the Sea-fide itwai Iwoad Day; immcdiaCcl/ 
I torfc tfe Pinnace; and went a-boarti, and ient her back to, 
afflft fhe Men in wlit mie^t ha^»i, 

I ob^erv'd that about the Time I came to the Boat-.' . 

■ fide, the Fire was pretty well out, and the Noife 3-"» 

tntedj' but in ^hont calf an Hour after I got on boaid, I 

b^ii a V»^ of OBT Men's Firc-Aims, and law a great- 

'. ■ "' H » Smoak( 



Hosted by 



Google 



(-72) 

Sraoak ; tliis, as I ocderftood aftwwards was our Men f-J- 
Jiiig upon the forty Men, wbo, as I laid, flood at the ftw 
Houfus on the W.sfi of whom they kill'd llxtcen or fevcn- 
tcen, and fct all tliofe Houfcs on File, but did not meddle 
with the Women or Children. 

D Y that Time rhe Men got to the Shore again with 
the Pinnace, out Men begaa to appear ; they came diop- 
ping iiij fome and fome; not in two Bodies, and in Form 
at tney went out, but all in Heaps, Hiaaglmg here, and 
there, in Ilieh a Manner, that a fmall Foi cc of reiblute 
Men might Iiave cut them all off. 

B u T the Dicad of them was upon the vvliole Country : 
The People were amat'd, and furpri^'d, and fo flighted, 
tliac I believe a hundred of 'em would have fled at tlie 
Sight of but five of our Men, Nor ia all tliis terrible ftc- 
tion was iheic a Man who made any confideiable De- 
fcuc'e; they were fo furpriz'd between the Terror of the 
tire, and the fudden Attaquc of our Men in the Dark, that 
they knew not which Way to tun\ themfelves ; for if 
they fled one Way, tlicy were met by one Party, if bark 
again, by another! ib that they were every where knock'd 
down : Nor did any of our Men receive tlie lead Hurt, 
except one who ftrain'd his Foot, and another had one of 
his Hands very much burnt. 

I was very angry with my Nephew the Captain, and 
jndttdwitli all the Men, inmyMind, butwith Hmiii par- 
licujai i as well for his aiiing fo out of his Duty, a; Com- , 
nijijidcr of the Shi|), and having Ae Charge of the Voy- 
age ii^h him, as in iis prompting, rather than cooling, 
the Rage" of his Men, in lohloixly and cruel auEnterpriie : 
My Nephew "aiiiWcr'd roc very reJpeiiifuny, but to.d me, 
tJiat when he iay the Body of the poor Seaman, whom 
they lud miJithcr'd Ih fuch-' a cruel and barliarous Manner, 
he was not Ajaflcr of hmiCdf, neither could he govern his 
Viffion : He, own'd, he flitjild hot have done &, as he 
\«as Commander of the Ship i but as he was a Man, and 
I>i^tuie ttiov'd liiin, he could not bear it : As for the reft 
of the Men, they were not Cibjcia to n 
ktww it w^ enough i Jb they tiJok no n 
like. 

iTBE.neW DaySte fet Tail, to we never heard any more 

of it; Our Men differ'd in the Account of the Number 

they 



e at all, 



U, and. they 
ofin|Dif- 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(rn) 

thrf kiil'd ; Sonic faid one Thing, /bme another ; but a;- 
cording to t!ie beft of their Accounts cut altogether, 
tliey kiil'd oi dclboy'd about ifo People, Men, Wo- 
men, and Chiidien, and left not a Houfe ftanding in the 

As for the poor Fellow, Hm. Jeffrys. as he was quite 
dead, for his Throat was ib cut, that his Head was half 
oft, ir would do him no Service to biing him away, ib 
they left him \vhere they found him, only rook hi:ii 
down from the Tree where he was hang'd by one 
Hand. 

HowEVEH juflourMenthowghtthisAiiiontohe, Iwas 
againll them in it ; and I always after that Time, told 
tfiem, God would Waft the Voyage, for I look'd upon all 
the Blood they ftied that Night to be Murther in them : 
For tho' it is true, that tl;ey had kiU'd Jt*. Jfffrys, yet it 
was as triic, that 'f'ff''p was the Aggreflbr, had broken 
the Truce, and had violatetl or debauch d a young Woman 
of theirs, who came to our Camp innocently; and on the 
Faith of their publick Capitulation. 

The Boatfwain defi^ded this Quarrel when wewcrcaftcr- 
wardson board: Heiaid, Itwastrue. thatwcfccm'dcobreak 
the Truce, but reaHy had not, and that tlic War was begun ■ 
the Night before by the Natives themfelvcs, who hiidlliotat 
us, and kiil'd one of our Men without any juft Provocation j 
ia that as we were in a Capacity to fight them, we might 
alio be b aCapacityto do our lelves JufHce upon them, in 
an extraordinaiyAtener; that tho' the poor &!anhad taken 
a little Liberty with a Wench, he ought not tohavc beetimur- 
thci'd, and tliat in fuch a villainous Manner : And ttat ihey 
did nothing but what was juft, and what the Laws of 
God allow d to be done to Mmtherers. 

One would think this ft.ould have hxa enough to have 
;, againft going on Shcue among Hearhens afid 
J But it IS impoflible to make Mankind wile, 
eir own Espence,' and tlicir Experience ftems 
to be alwayi of moft Uie to them, when it is dca:c!t 
bought. 

We were now' hound to the Gulph of PeijEi, and fropi 
thence to the Coaft of Canmandrl, only to touch at Sitr- 
rat: But the chief of the i'«/r*-C,if«"s Delign by at rfic 
Bay of Bcn^alt, where, if he mifs'd of his Bufjicf- out- 

H J ward ' 



fiaj-baiia. 



Hosted by 



Google 



('74) 

ward bound, he was to go up to China, and return to tfce 
Coaft as he came Home. 

The firft Dififler that befcl us, was in the Gulph of 
Ttrjuf, where five of our Men venturing on Shore, on tlic 
jirabiati Sideof the Gulph, were furrounded by the Arabs, 
and either all V.WA, or canied away into Slavery j the reft 
.of the Boat's Crew were not able to relcue them, and had 
fcut juft Time to get off their Boat , I began to upbiaid 
ihem with the juft Retribution of Heaven in this Cafr, 
tut the Boatfwain veiy warmly told rae, he thought I 
■went farthei- in my Cemures, than I could (hew any War- 
rant for in Scripture, and referr'd to the ijth St. Lnke, 
Verft 4lh, ■wheie our Saviour intimates, tiat tho& Menj 
on whom the Tower of SiUam fell, were not Sinners a- 
bove alj the C/tliUans ; bat that which indeed put me to 
Silence in the Cafe, was that none of thele five Men, who 
were now loft, were of the Number of thoie who wenr 
on Shore to theMalTacre oi MadagafeMfi (p> I alvayictiU'd 
it, tho' eur Men could ms tt»r tbi W6rd Maflacre «ith any 
Patience:) And indeed, this hi\ Circumflance, as 1 have 
,iaid, put me to Siimcc for the prdent. 

B o T my frequent preaching to them on this Subjcfl:, 
.had worfc Conl^uences than I cxpe^cd ; and the Boat- 
fo ain, who had been the Head of the Attempt, came up 
boklj)' to me one Time, and told me, he found, that I 
coniiniially brought that Afiair upon the Stage, thai I made 
unjull Reflexions ipon it, end had ufed the Men very iil 
on that Account, and himlclf in paiticular ; that as I 
wa? liiir.a Pallenger, and had no Command in the Ship, 
or Coiirtjn in the Voyage, they were not oblig'd to tear 
ir ; that they did not inow, but I might have forae 
ill DeTign in my Head, and perhaps to c3l them to Ac- 
count for it, when they came io/Er^landi ^nd that thae- 
fore, unkfi-I would refolve to have done with it j and al- 
aKb, not to concern mylelf any fcrther wiih him, w 
any of his Affairs, he would leave the Ship i for he 
did not think it was laic to ^1 with mc among 
them. 

I HEARB him patiently enongh till he had dope, and 

tlen told him, that I did confefi i had all along «>ig>os'd 

ib&Uagacree of I^/^^a/ob:, for iiich I would always call 

itj 



Hosted by 



Google 



07!) 

tt; and that I had on all Occafions fpoken my Mind free- 
ly about it, tho' not more upon Iiim than any of tlie reft j 
that as to my having no Command in the Ship, that 
was true: nor did I cxcreilt any Autlwiity, only took my 
Liberty of fpcaking my Mind in Things which pubiickly 
concern'd us all, as to what Concern I Sad in the Voyage, 
that was none of his Bufinefs; I was a confiilerdile Owner 
of the Ship; and ia that CUim I conceived I had a Right 
' to Ipeak, even farther tliati I had yet done, and would not 
be accountable to him or any one elie, and begun to be a 
iittie warm with him : He made but Ijttlc R^rply to nic at 
that Time, and I thought that Affcir had been over : Wc 
were at this, Time in the Road of Bengal*, anJ b«ng wil- 
ling to fee thfcPlacc I went <mi. Shore with the Supra-t.aigo 
in the Ship's Boat^ to divert my IHf, and towards Even- 
ing, was preparing to go od' Board, when one of tlie 
Men came to me, and told me, he wouki not liavc mc 
trouble my felf to come down K> the Boat, for tliey had 
■ Orders not to carry mc on Board j any one may gueft 
what a SurpiiiE? I .wasini at£) irtfoJent a Mel&ge -, and I 
^asVd the Man, Who bad him,deJiver that Errand ta mc ? 
' He told me, , the Cockrvrain : 1 laid ■ no more to the Fel- 
;low, bvit bad him let them know he had deiiver'd his MeC- 
Age, and that I had given him tto AnTwer to it. 

I immediately vreat and found out theSupra-Cargo, and 
told him the Story, adding what 1 prcftntly foreiaw, (^is^.) 
That there would certainly be a Mutiny in the Sliip, and 
intreated him to go immediately on Board the Ship in an 
Indian Boat, and acquaint the Captaan of it -, but I might 
ha' fpar'd this Intelligence, for before I had fpoken to 
him on Shore, the Matter was effefted on Boilrd, the 
Boat fwain, the Guimer, the Carpenter; an^, .in a Word, 
.all the Inferior Officers, as ioon as I waseono.bff in t!»e 
Bftair, came up to the Quarter-Deck, and defir'd to fpeafc 
.with , the CaptaiBj and thercthtrBoatfwab makaig along 
Hajapgue, fiw the FcUow talk'd very well, apd repeating 
air hp Iiad laid to tne, tf^ (he Cfapt^ in firw Wortls, 
tha\,as I was now gonn pgi^^y oniShofe they wei'C 
;!q3tla to uft any.VitjIq^^i witl([lm^.cw]udj,'jf 1 lad-nc* 
gbrio on Shore, they would otlwrwSti feVcd<)nfeito abiige 
me to have gone; They thefcfprc Jt^oiight, ^tia*cH him* 
that as they lliipp'd thcmielves to fovc in the Slap under 
H 4 his 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( >7< ) 



hi.; CommMcl, ttev would perforai it faitlifuilv, Biit if I 
woiiid noC quit the Ship, or the Caprain oblige me to 
tjuit it, fliey would all [cave the Ship, and fail no fcrther 
with him j and at that Word ALL, he turn'd his Face 
ahom towards the Main-iraft, which was it feems the 
Signal agreed on between them ; at which all the Seamen 
being got togetlwr, they cry'd out, Om and ALL, One 
and ALL. 

My Nephew, the Captain, was a Man of Spirit, and of 
great Prefencc of Mind, and tho' he was furprii'd, you 
may be fure, at the Thing. )'et he told them calmly, that 
he would confider of the Thing, bat that fie could do no- 
ihiiig in it, till tie had fpoken to me ab^t itj He u^'d 
Ib-ne Arguments with them, to fliew th«n the Unreafon- 
ablcnefi and Injuftire of the Thing, but it was all in vain, 
they fwore and ftook Hands round, beibre his Face, that 
they would go all on Shore, uijcis he would engage to 
them, nottoliiffer me tocojne onboard the Ship- 

T H I s was a ha-d Article upon Hm, who knew his Q- 
bKgarion to me, and did npt-kno.w how I might take it.; 
So he began- to lalk rtValnSly to, them, told them that I 
■was a very confiderabfc Ownqr of the Ship, anJ tHat in 
JuHice he coirkl not put me oitt of my own Hqufe; that 
tfaLs was nejrt Door ro (erving me, as the famous Pirate 
Kid had done, who made the Mutiny in a Ship, fct the 
('aprain on Shore in an uninhabited IfLmd, and rue awiiy 
with the Ship ; that let them go into what Ship, they 
voiild, if cveP they came to En^nd again, it would colt 
ihem dear; thattheShip was mine., anathat he would not 
put me oiit of JE ;' apd-.that he wouH rather lofe the Ship 
and the Voyage too, than difofilige me fo mucit; fa they 
might do as tney pleaW : f lowever, he would go on Shore, 
and talk with m« on Shore, gnd invited the Boatfwain to 
BO wtrh Juin< 4nd perhaps they might accommodate th^ 
Mattrer with me. 

Bi;t they all re^eiSed thePropoIal; and laid, they would 
h.ive nothing to do with me any more, neither on boaitf, 
nor on Shore) and- if I came on board, they wouW go on 
Shore; Wril, iWd the .Captain, if you arc allon thisMind, 
let me go Dn<ShoTc and talk witlt hitn ; Sa away he came 
to nmivith this Account, a little (fhn- the McHage had been 
brought to me fto» the Cockiwain. 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



f •77 ) 

I WAS verj- ghtJ to fee my, Nephew, I mull confbfsj 
for I was not without Apprehenirons, that they would 
confine him by Violence, fet fiit, and run away with the 
Ship, and then I had been (Iripd naked in a remote Conn- 
try, and nothing to help my fcW: In (hort, I had been in 
in a worfe CalS than when I was all alone in the Uland, 

But they had not come that length, it feems, to my 
great Satijftftion i and ■when my Nephev? told me what 
they had feid » him, and how they had fvvorn, and Shook 
Hands, that they would ont and nil leave the Ship, if 1 was 
iufter'J to come on board, I told him, he (houkl not te 
concem'd at it at all, for I would ftay on Shore ; 1 only 
deiir'd he would take Care and lend tne all my necciiary 
Things on Shore, and leave me a fufficient Sum of Mo- 
ney, and I would find my Way to Sn^Und, as well as t 
cout). 

This was a heavy Piece of News to my Nephew; fiit 
diere was no Way to help it, but to comply with it; So, 
Jo (hort, he went on boord the Ship again, and latisfy d 
the Men, thit his Uncle had yielded to their Importunirv, 
and had fent for his Goods m»m on boaid the Ships to 
the Matter was over in a very few Hours, the Mm ic- 
tum'd to fheir Duty, and I be^ to conlider what Couric 
Ifhouldfteef. 

I vAs now alone in the remoteft Part of the World, 
M I thiah I miff call it ; for \ was near three thou£ind 
teagoes by Sea farther off from England, than 1 was at my 
Iflandj only it is true, I might travel heie by Land over 
the Great Moguls Coimtty fo Sarafte, might go Ircm 
thence to Sapra by Sea, up the Gulph of Ptrjia, and f^om 
thence might take theWayof theCaravans-overtheDdarfs 
olArai'a to Alepfe and Seandaroca ,- from f hcrtce hy Sea agaiij 
to Italy, and ib over Land moFrMc; and rhis pii' toother 
might be at leaft a flill IXamcter of the Globes but if it 
were to be meafur'd, \ iuppofc it would appear to be a 
great deal more, 

I H A D another Way before me, which was to Wait for 
Ibme Eaj/i/i!> Ships, which were e«ming to Sngifli fiom 
Aeftm on the Iflami rf Smiutra, ar.d get Patlage on board 
them fotEnglanJ: But asl'eame hither without any Con- 
cerfr with the Zn^li^ Ee^lmiid'Cotnyinyi fo it Would be 
difficult to go from henre wnhc^ ' their Licenfc, unlcfs 

\l g '^ " -^ with ■ 



Hosted by 



Google 



f «7*? 

with great Favour of the Captains of the Ships, or o 
tlw Company's- Faiiois, and to 'i>oih, I was an utt 

. H E R E I had the particular Pleafiire, Jpeaking by Con- 
traries, to lee the Ship fet fail without mej a Treatment, 
i think, a Man in my Circum fiances firarce ever met witl^ 
except fiom Pirates running away with aShip, andietting 
thofe that wouki not agree with their Viliany on Sbotc, 
indeed this was next Door to iff both Ways ; however, 
my Nephew left me two Servants, or rathCT, oncCompa- 
aion, and one Servant, the firft was Cicrk to the Purfer, 
who he cngag'd to go with me, and the other was his 
«wn Servanti I took mc alliba goodLodging in theHouft 
of aniii^'i/^Woman, whMefeweraiMerchantslodg'd; fomc 
French, two ItMinat, or rather Jens, and one Eagiifimim : 
Here I was handfomeiy cnougli entertain'd ; and that I 
might not be faid to run raihly upoa any Thing, I ftay'd 
here above nine Mwiths, confidering wiat Courfe to take, 
and how to manage my fclf : I lad fome £nghjh Goods 
with me of Value, and a confiderabic Sum of Money, 
my Nephew furnilhing me with a liouinnd Pieces of 
Fight, and a Letter ofCiedir for miwe, if! bad Occa- 
iion> that I might not be Ibaiiea'd whatever might hap- 

I Q^u 1 C K L Y difpos'd of .m^v Goods, and" to Advantage 
too; and, as I originally iatooded, I bought here finne ve- 
ry good Diamonds, whidi^ of, dl, other Things was tho 
moA proper for in*, in my Citcum fiance^ bei^jic 1 might 
dways cany my whole Eflate about me.. 
. A F T E R a iMg Stay here,- and many f^opol]^ made for 
my Return to, £tfgl«nd. bur none felling to my Mind, the 
Inglijh Merchant who bdg'il with me, and with whom 
I had contracted' an intimate Acquaintance, came to mo 
one Moinii^ :: Countryman, y^» ht, I have a Projei^ to- 
fommusintc Co.you, which, as it fiiits with my "llioughts, 
enay, for ought I know, fuit with yours alfo, when yoa 
fl:sll h»ve thorougfily confitiaod it. 

' H E R I we are pofied. Aj-j h,. you by Accidtxit, and T 
bv my ftwa Choiee, in a Part of the World very remote 
6om our own Country ; but it is in a Country, where,, 
by us who underfiand Trade and BuTmefs, a gr^ deal ot 
jrtcni^ i&tttba^Lif you will put a.chouti«af(Hiads te> 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



my thouJaud PounJs, wc will 'hire aShip terc, the firftwc 
can get to our Miiids-j yOu ihall be Captain, I'll be Mer- 
chant, and we will go a Trading Voyage to Chmx ; fot 
what ftiquld we-ftanS' ftill for ! The whqk World is in 
Motion, rowliiig round and round ; all the Creatures of 
God, heavenly Bodies and earthly, are bufy and diligent. 
Why fhould we be idle? There arc no Drones, yajj Ac, liv- 
ing in the World but Men, Why (houki we be of that 
Number? , ,■ 

I ti ti'D hi? Rtopofal verj" well, and the ifa'ore, iiemufe 
it feemld-to be expr^fs'd withi& much good Will, and in 
fo&iciidlj a Manna; I-wilinot iay„but that I might, D^ 
aiy kwfe and unhiog'd Circumftanccs, bcthe fittw k> ctil- 
brace a ^ropofal for Trade, and indeed for any Thing elfei 
or, otherwilc, Trade vfasnone of my Element: However, 



i might p^h^s fay with fome Truth, "that if Trade w 

my Kement, RamwiDg was j 

Fart.of the'World wftich 1 tad never 'ieen before; coul'l 



oPropolal for feeing any 



poiTibly ^me ami& to a 

It. was, ho^wflV^, Jome tijnefceforewe could ^ aShrp 
to oiii^ Mindsi. and wh<!ii we had got a VeltH. it was not 
eafyto get ^t^Ufk Sailors ; that is to lay. ffimany as 
were neceflary to govern the Voyi^, and minage the Sai- ■ 
Ws w^ch w^e fliould pick up iherc: After -fome tifnc we 
got a Male, a Boat fwain, and a Guhner. ^vrlijh ;'z Dutch Ca- 
.penter, and -three (Rnyf^jfKft'eFojei-niatt Afch ; wichthefe 
wc-fowid, wecawld floWdl'Cnaa^i.'han'ing toalKn Sea- 
men, iUch as tjiey «*,■«(, inatre up; ... ' ■ - 
.'^T«EjiEare-fii,,j«aiy TraveHetsi whorhave written the 
Hiftoty, x)f iiita Vo^gcs and Trav'eW riiis Way, that it 
-WouU.be bur very httte Diverfion to anybody, to giUfe 
a long 'Accountof the Places wt went to, and the People 
'who inhabit there : TholeThrngs I leave to ottiers, 'and 
lefer the Reader to tfabfe Joumaia and Travels of Englijh- 
t8«fc^-,wfcGh, manji'I find are puHiih'd, ' and mofepro- 
inl'ffid every Day ; 'tit enongh^fbr ore te tell youi that we 
matJe.the Voy^^ to utf^M. hr t^ llkad' of Swhatta firit 
■nd from'Chfmre to Xrim, 'where we exchang'd ibt)ie of 
our Wares- 6» Opiwrn, and for fome Arrack-, the. firft, a 
Cemmq^y whjnt beats. a great Fiice ambng the CiCimc^ 
^id which at thatTime, was very much wanted rheres in a. 
Vord, we went up to Sujhan, made a very great Voyage, 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( .80 ) 

wa? d^ht MoonchsoHt, and retum'i! to Smgafi,,atid I was 
ye ywell'feiisty'd with rtiy Adventure: I obftrvethat our Peo- 
ple in inglMtd, oftm admire how the Officers which 
the Company iend into Jrid<» , ami the Merchants 
which gene. ally flay there, get fiich very great Eftates as 
tlKy do, anil Ihmerimes come Home wonfi 60, to. 70 and 
,100 [hoiriaud-Poumla ar a Time^ 

But it is-no Wonder, or at leaft we Ihaij &e & much 
ferther into-iR wbea we.- confider the innumerable Ports 
and Places where rhcy have a free Commerce, that it wHl 
then t'e mnW<nJ(tcr i; and' much lefs-wiH i^bl^ fb, whea 
we confitl*",. the at all thole Places and Ports, where the 
Eri£li.ir ShijjfcOome.- there is lb much, and 13ch conftant 
Dwiariiftt tteGrovcrh of all 'othcp Countries-, thattherei? 
jLCcrt*)i«.ViSit-fbr the Returns, as well as a Market -abroad, 
fw tfte Goods catritilout. 

Tn Hott, vre made a vBj good- Voyage, and fgot Co 
imidi-.tSoBCj bj- the litii' Adventure, and fuch an Inlight 
fero rTio ifcihod cftgctEingmo e, that, had I hten twenty 
T«ii younger, 1 fiioiiM !ia'/e beervrempted- to have flaid 
foe^aW" laoKtit-BO fether, for 'malting »y Fornmej but 
whM was all this, to a Mw-on the wrCTigtSiac of threc- 
froic^T^t was. ii«h enoiighi and- came abroad more lA 
Obedjenc^n* a rcftieii DeJire of fteing the World, than a 
c0ve«>aj.BefireBf. getting A'it -, andindeedT think, *tlis 
with.peQl/Jwfticc^'thst.JinoiMMllit a rdiiefi Defirei fof 
it wajifci. »}wn F-was.* 'HOm« I wa*refllefi to go a- 
Woadii, 3Al':ryio». ttsm»< ab-oad, I wac relTlciS to Be at 
KoDie: Jfiy, What was-this Sain to nw ? I was.rich. 
aicn^h ske&diy, noc tad'l'any^irteafy- De&cs ahoM getting 
KffiCi Mocty ; andtherdbrc, tl« Profits oftlie Voyage to 
me, ■vrer*. Thing* of no .great Porce, for> the' prempting - 



;. fcrwatd-'to- fariiier Ondertakings ; Hence I thoughti 
It by. tins 'Voyage, i^dmade-no Ptogiefs at all i be- 



that b)' tJris' V»yage. i^dmade-no Progiefs at all i 

■ - tright caU It, to the Place 
fjoBiwheiKW-I.^anwf-affito iHome,- wharesB, my Eye, 
whichiiiw-thitf i»hirf» iW»«e» fteaks of.-wnj ntvtrf/itis- 
fiiJ,.-miA.SetitiSi: *« ftilKinore.<iriirous of ■Wand'rfng.and 
Sceii:^ i I'-was -coine intoa-Part (^ the-'^^lorld, trhtch I 
W3t\^never in bctbiec and that Partjn partifuhu-," v^ch I 
ltid.^WvJ..iRt;cii of J and was rdolv'd tO'.&e as.n^tictl of it 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



as I ctwid i smd then 1 thoughr, I m^t fiy, I had lent 
all the World, that was wOTth fteiag. 

But my Fellow Traveller amJ I, had diferent Noti* 
ons i I tlo not nainc this, to iatUt upon my own, for I 
acknowledge his was the Trio& juft and the moft fuitcd to 
the End of a Merchant's Life t who, when he is abroad 
upon Adventures, 'tis his Wifdom to {tick to that, as the 
Keft Thing for him, whieh he is liket» get the moft Mo- 
ney by ; My nevr Friond kept Imnfelf to the Nature of 
the Thing, and would have been content to have gone like 
a Carrier's Horfe, always to the fime Inn, bickvi^d and 
forward, provided he could, as he calW-it; jfej hii Accomt 
h i/ i on the oth«r Haud, mine »s aid «. / iww, was the 
Noiionof a mad rambling Boy, that never cares to iee a 
Thing twice ova-. 

But this was not all j I had a Kind of Impatience 
upon me to be nearer Home, and yet. the mofl unfrttlcd 
Reiblution imaginable, -which Way togaj in the Interval 
of thefc.QmiijJtations, my Friend, wi» was always upon 
the Search fcr Buiineii, propos'd another Voyage to me\ 
(visi.) antong the :Spice,inands i aod to. bring Home a 
Loa<^ng o^ Ooves from- the MMtuUiu, or thraeabouts i 
Places where indeed the Dutch do Trade, but the lilands, 
belotK partly to, the SfatuarJt j iho' we went not & - 
fer, but to fbme other, where they haws.- not the whole 
Power as they hive at BMowa, Cey/oa, &c. We weiv not 
long in .'preparing for this-Voyj^j ithe~chief Dtfliculty 
was in bringing rae to come into it jihowevw, « laft no- 
thing eHc' offering; aai finding that really ftirring about 
and Trading,. shc.Profit being lo.gTat,i(and"as I may &y 
certain, had tiibre f leaJufB'in it^ and mwe Satis^Aion to 
the Mind, than littii^ ifili* whi'i.M m* tfftcitiUy, was the 
unhappi^ft Part ofLife:Ire]iiIv'donthi5 Vc^ge tpo.wliich 
vtc' made very fucceiliully, touching at Svraea^ and ieveral 
in^s, whole Kames Ido notreaiembcry and came Honie 
Jn abotit tiveMpnthsi we fold our Spica, which waschif fly 
Cloves, aod ibme- Nutmegs, to thcPwiXw McrchMti,wf» 
ctrried them away, for the, GuipJi ;. and mating near five 
of one, we roaUy got a great deal 4if Money. 

M T Friend, when we made up tha J\ccount fmil'd 

it roe i ,we!l now, laid hr, . with a Jort of an agfee^te in-- 

fiJt upon my indoleni Temper i is not thia- Setter than 

walking^ 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(• .so 

Walking atoat here, like a M^ of mthhtg -w Jo, and 
ijsending our Time .in flaring at "the NoiSciife 'and , Ig- 
noniBce of the fagam ? Whf trtily. lays I my Friend, I 
think it is i and I begin to be a Coni'ert to the Principles 
of Merchandizing) but Inioft tdi'you, laid I, b/thcWay, 
you do not know what I am a doing, for if once I con- 
quer my Backwardnefs, andimtarfc hatijyi Mold as lam, 
-J lliall harrafs you up and down the World, 'till I tire j'oii j 
for I ihall purfiie it & eagerly, "I fliart never let you lie 
flill" . ■■ ■ 
■ But to be fhortwithmy Spccuiatioijsi alittle whileaftcr 
this, there came in a natch Ship iVoni iat:ayid -, ftc viia 
B Coal^, not an Earepeau Trader, and of abotittwti hun- 
dred TuD Burthen : The Men, ar th^ tntendtd having 
been ib iickly, that the Captain had not Men enough togo 
to Sea with, he lay by at Sepgnk; and as if having got 
Money enough, or Iwing willing lor other Riaions, to go 
'foe EUftfe, he gave puMefc N6tice, that he would iell his 
Ship ; Thw-camc to my E*s befbrertiyncW'T^i'tnerhcar^ 
ofiti and iIrada'gre*'Mfldlb buy ft. fi'I goes Hotae 
to-h^; a|M] »oa lii«' of ft '; he'irolifiders ;f -vihilc, forlw 
,was no ralh Mm urfth* J bdt' rtiuiiog {ohi^tHric, he re- 
.flfd, '/Iw'is 4 litrie WWtbig, butliowever, we wiDhave Iter: 
Accordingly we b6a0.t uit Ship, and agredog wi'di the 
Jil^iier, we paid for her, and toot PcfliSion j when we 
h^dcmc foi w**oftl!v'd to enhhtain theMeii if we;could, 
to jjjhi'ihem' with thtife we-'Trid, for the pdtf^iing- Our 
Bufinefs; but on a filddeii, they "having tticti-wedBdt fl^eir 
-Wages, -but th^r-fh*e«f^he Money,- as "*?^' afterwards 
karnt, ndt»nB'»f^Slfln'\was''W .k founif ;'^e Cn^nir'd 
much about'ihew/'ink'at .kiigth .ikrere told,' that diey' wcie 
all gofic t<^her by Laiid to ^p-a, the great City of the^ 
iMeXtWa Refidence ; and from' thence were to travel to 
Suritttt, and fo by Sea. to the Gulph of Vfrpa. 

NorniMG had fo Ktartily trotbfed me % good while, 
V that I ntlft'd the Otwwtanlt^ df going with thtW ; for 
fecha'Rambic I- thought-,' and m fii^ cSrapiny as would 
both havfi guiu-ded me, and diverted me, would -have fuited 
mightily w ith niy great Defign ; and I fliriuld toth have 
Seea thcWftrki, Midgone homewards loo; buti waimuch 
better &tisfied a few DaJ-s after, whcn'l cameto know 
-what ^t of Fellows they were ; for m Jhta-t, their HiKtf- 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



fy was, that this Man tliey call'd Captiin was the Gunnrf 
only, not the Commander ) that they had been a Trading 
Voyage, in which, tliey were attaqu'd on Shore, by forae 
of the Mitlletifiim, who had kili'd the Captain and three of 
his Men ; and that after the Captain was kili'd, thefc Men, 
Eleven iii Number, had relblir'd to run away with tlic 
Ship, which they did j and had brought her in at the Bay 
of Bengale, leaving the Mate and five Men more on 
Shore, of whom, we ihai! hear ferther, 

Wei.(,, let them come by the Ship Iiow tfiey would, 
we caifie honeftly by her, as we thoHght ; tho' we did not, 
1 cot^efs examine into Things fo exaftly as we ought, for 
we never enquired any Thing of the Seamen ; who. if we 
had examinU would certainly have feuiter'd in thdr Ac- 
counts, contradiifted one another, and perhaps contrad!fti:J 
themfclvesj or one how or other, we ihould have feen 
Reafon to have fulpeifted thera i but the Man (hew'd us a. 
Bill of Sale for the Slup, to one Emanuel Clojlerjhovm, or 
fome fuch Name; for I fuppoie it was all a Forgery, and 
call'd irimfelf by that Name, and we could not contradtft 
him i and being withsd, a little too unwary, or at Icaft, 
having ho Su^don of Ui Thing, we went through witli 
our Bargain. 

HowEvEH wepfek'd up feme StigU/hSeimen here after ■ 
this, and ibme Omchi aijd now we refoh-ed for a fecond 
Voyage to the South-Eaft for Cloves, ^c. that is to fay» 
among the Tbilif^e and MaUucm Iflesi and, in fhort, 
not tn to this P^t of my Story with TriHes, when what 
is yet to corner is fo remarkable j I fpent from firft to laft, 
fix Tcirs in thb Country, trading &om Port to P»rt, back- 
ward and tbrWanJ, and with' vCry good Sticccisj and' w^ 
BOW the laft Year wkh my IVtner, going in. the Ship a- 
bovcmention'd, on a Voyage to ChmM-^ but defining firft 
to Siam to buy Rice. 

I N this Voyage, being bv contrary Winds oblig'd to 
beat up and down a great while in the Straits of MtUMccit, 
and among the Mlandsj we were no- iboner got clear ot 
thofe difficult Seas,, but ive founrf our Ship haA ftrung » 
Leak, and we werenot able by all ourlnduttry to find out 
where it was : This tiwc'J us to make for fome Port, anA 
my Partner, who tacw the Country bettei thaal did, d[- 
reftci 
I 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( r84 ) 

tefled the Ciptain to put into the River of Camto£if, fiir 
I had madt tht Englilli Mait, one Mr.Tiiomlbn, Capla'm, 
net ie'm^ viliing to take the Charge of tht ShifupM m^.Jelfi 
This River ^cs on the North-fide of the great Bay or, 
Gulph, which goes up to Siam. 

While we wcie here, and going often on Shwe for 
Rcfielhment, there comes to me one Day an EngUjhman, 
and he wasiticems a Gunner's Mate on board an EngUJlj 
£afi-InMa Ship, whicli rode in the fame River, up at, or 
near tlie City of CamioiUif, what brought him hither we 
knew not; but lie comes up to me, and Ipeaking SngUflj; 
.Sir, iays he, vou are a Stianger to nw, and \ to you; but 
I have Ibmetfiiug to tell you, that very nearly concerns 

I Loos'n (Icadily at him a good while, and he thought 
at firft I had Ihiowh him, but 1 did not ; if it very nearly 
concerns me, faid 1, and not^your ielf, what moves you to 
.tcll.it me.? I am znovcd, fays he, by the eminent Danger 
you are in, and for ought I lee, you have no Knowledge 
of it i I know no Danger 1 am in, £iid I, but that my Ship 
is leaky,. and I caano^ find it oiU; but Lpropofe to lay her 
a-Ground to Morrow, to ice tf I can find it; but, Sir, 
lays he, leaky, or not leaky, find it or not find it, you will 
Jie wiler than lo lay your Ship on Shore to Morrow, when 

£u hear what I have to iay to youj do you know, Sir^ 
i he, the Town of Cinneodia Ucs about fifteen Leajgues 
up this River? aiid there are two large Englijh Shipsafout 
five Ij^guea on this Side, and tluee Dutch i -weSyfiad I, 
and ^liat-is that to me?.Why, Sa.ftVfi be, is it ftlraMan 
that is .ufioii fut;h' Adventures as you are upon, to come 
into a Port, and not examine fiift what jhips there are 
.titec, JQji. whether he is able to deal with them? I fup- 
poie.yoji don't thinly. jou area Match for them,; I was 
'amulSl"fti y'mucJii at his DifonXrle, but not amai'd at it, 
fixr 1 cQuld not conceive whit he meantf and I tutn'd 
Ihort upon him, and- laid. Sir, T'wilh. you would exp[ain 
your felfj I cannot imagine what Reafon I have to be a- 
ifraHl of any of i he Company's Ships, or Dutch Slups j I am 
no Intetlopci, What can .they have to.iay t< 



E look d like a Man half. Mgiy, balfplcasd.a 

iing a. while, but fmilingj wellrSjr, fofi he, if you think 

your felf fecure, you muft take your Chance ; I am lorry 

your 



Hosted by 



Google 



Hosted by 



Google 




Hosted by 



Google 



( .85 ) 

your Tate (lioulj blind you agiinftgooiJ Advice; but a(T5re 
your ielf, if j-ou do not put to Sea immediately, you will 
the very next Tide be attaqti'd by five Long-Boats fiiH of 
Men, and perhaps, if you arc taken, youTI be hangM for a 
Pirate, and theParticuiarsbeexamin'dafterwards; Ithoii^^ht 
Sir, added he, I ftiould have met with a bttter Reception 
than this, for doing you a piece of Sorviceof fudi Impir- 
tance: I can never be ungrateftil, /aid I, ftir any Service, 
or to any Man that ofes tne any Kindriefs, hit it is pail 
my ComprcheniiMi, /aid I, wJiat they fliould have fuch a. 
Di-'iign upon me for; however, fnce ysu fay, there is no 
Time to be loft, and that theie is fome viUainous Defign 
in Hand ^inft rne. Ml go on board this Minute, and pac 
tQ Sea immediiteiy, if my Men can ft«p the Leak, or if 
we can fwim without ftopping it ; But, Sir, Gid I, (hall 1 
go away ienorant of the Reafon of all this ? Can you ^w 
me no ferHier Light into it ? 

I c A N tcU you but Part of the Story, Sir, fiys he, but I 
have a Butch Seamen here with* me,- and T believe I couH- 
peifuade him to tell you the-ceftj but there is fcarce Time 
for it; Butthe (hortof the Stotv-js-this, the firft Part of 
, which, J fuppofe, you know wtU enuu^ (vix..) that yoa 
"was withthjsShip ari'«»»»J»'Jii.tfiottheteyourC!^inwas 
mutther'd b7 the M/tUmant, with three of his Men ; and 
that you, or &me of thofc that were on board with you, 
ran away with the Ship, and are fince turo'd E IRATE Si 
this is the Sum of the Story, and you vwll be all feia'd as 
Pirates, lean aiTure you; aoJ executed with very little Ce- 
remony i for'you. know. Merchants Ships )h»w but little 
■ Law to Tir,at<i, if they get them' in their Power, , 

Now you fpeafc plain En^li/fr, fiirf I, andVthank you; 
ioi tho' I know nothing, that we have donoj Jilte what 
you talk pf, but wn fure we came honelUy- attl ftirly by 
the Ship, yet feeing Cich Work is a doing as you fiy, an J 
that you fcern to mean honeftty. Ml be upon my Guard; 
nay, Sir, &ys he, do not talk of being upon your Guard j 
the beft Defence iB to be out of the Danger j if you have any 
Regard to ymir Life, and the Life of ajl your Men, put 
out to Sea without ftil-ftt High- Water, and as you have a 
whole Tide befwe you, you will bo gone too fer out before, 
they can come down, for they wiff come away at Hi^ 
Water , and as they have twenty Miles to come, you gM 



Hosted by 



Google 



near two Hours of them, by the Diffetence of the Tide> 
not reckoning the Length of the Way j belides, as tiKy are 
only Boats, and not Ships, they will not venture to foUovw 
you fer out to Sea, efpecialiy if it blows. 

WelI, fey! I, you have been very kind in this, %vhat 
fliail I do for you, to make you Amends ? Sir, ptp he, 
you may not be fo willing to make rae any smetws, be- 
cause you may not be convinc'd of the Truth of it ; I'll 
lUake an Offer to you ; I have nineteen Months Pay due 
to me, OQ board the Ship———, which I came out of 
Xngltoid in i and the Butchmim, that is with me, has feven 
Months Pay due to him ; if you will imke good our Pay 
to MS, we will go atongwith you ; if you find nothing 
more in itj ivc will ddire no morej but if we do con- 
vinco you, that wc have fiv'd vour Lttes, and the Shi{), 
and t]w laves of allthcJico in oer, we will le»ve the rdl 

IcoKflEKTEDto this readily, and wenf immediately 
■i)n board, and the two Men v/ith me f as fi>on as I came 
to the Ship-fide, my Ptrtper, who was on board, came out 
«ii the Quarter-Deck, and call'd to me with a greit deal of 
Joy, Oho! Ohe! ive have fiofp'd the ItAk! vthivefioff'd 
'sht Ittik I Sxy you fo, Jaid J, thank God, " but weigh the 
.Anchor then immediately i Wd^! Sayhe: What & fo^i 
mean by that? What is the Matter, jiy* Aif AsknoQtfC- 
ilionsiMiJ I, but all Hands to work, and wci^h, without 
Jofing a Minute: He was furprii'd, but however, he call'd 
the Captain, and he ijnmediatdy order'd the Anchor to be 
got up f and tho' the Tide was not qfiite doiK, yet a little 
I.and-Breeze blowing, wc flood out to Sea i then I call'd 
him into the Cabin, ' and told him the Story at large, and 
wc call'd in. the Men, and they toid as the reft ofit ; but 
as it took us up a great deal of Time, fo before wtf had done, 
» Seamiui eomcMo (he CabihlWorj 'and rtUs out to us, that 
the Captain bad iiim tell us, we wtte chas'd; cka'd, fap 
I, By whoy and -bji what? By five Skxrfis Or Boats, fays 
th* Fellov, fill! of Men j Very Weil, /aid I, then if is ap- 
parent thK« is ibmcthing'in lit: In the next HSce 1 or- 
der'd all our Men to be eSfdu^, abd toW'them,. tktthcie 
wtsi Defieo toimethc Ship,, aiid .to is'ki Ms 'ff^'Ftrstti, 
Md.ask'd fljem, if thejr would ftand by xxf, and by one 
^tter I The Men snfwtT'd chearlully, that one ahd-an. 



Hosted by 



Google 



(i87) 

rhc)" would live Mid die with us: Then I ask'd tlic Captain, 
what Way he thought beftforus to manage a Fight with 
them ? For rcfift tnem I refblv'd we would, and that to 
the laft Dropj he laid readily, That tlie Way was to keep 
them off with our great Shot, as long as we couM, and 
then to fire at them with our fraall Arras to keep them 
fiom boarding us ; but when neither of thefe wouU do 
any longer, we iliouki retire to our doie Quarters ; per- 
haps they hat! not Materials to break open our Bulk-Heads, 
or get in upon us. 

The Gunner had in the mean Time Order, to bring 
two Guns to bear foreand aft, out of theStecra^, to dear 
tJie Deck, and to load them with Mufijuit-Bullets and fmall 
Pieces of oM Iron, aad what next came to hand, and thus 
we made ready ftff Fight ,■ but al! this while kepi out to 
Sea, with Wind enough, and couM fee the Boats at a Di- 
ftance being five large Lmg-Boats, foUowing us, with bB 
the Sail they could make. 

Two of thefe Boats, vriiich by our Glafles we couli 
fee, were En^UfSi, had out-iaikd die re£t, were near two 
League] a-head of them, and gatn'd upon us confideiablirf 
& that we found they would come up' with us t upon 
which we fired a Gun without a Shot, to intimate, that 
they ftouU bring too, and we put out aFhg of TVuce, as 
a Signal for ParSy ; but they kept crowding after us, till 
they came within Shot: Upon thw we took ia our white 
Fkg, they having made no Anfwcr to it, hiing out a ral 
Flag, and fired at, them with a Shot ; notwithftariding this, 
they came on, till they were near enough to call to them 
with a fpeaking Tnmipet, which wc had on UmA; fa 
we call'ti to them, and bid them keep off at their Peril. 

I r was all one, they crowded after us, and endeavouf- 
ed to come under our Stern, fo to board us on our Qyar* 
Icr; upon which, feeing they were refolute for Mifchief, 
and depended upon the Strength that follow'd them, I or- 
dered to brirg the Ship too, fo that they lay upon our Broad- 
fide, when immediately we lired five Guns at them ; one 
of whici!, had been levelled (o true, as to carry away the 
Stern of the hinddrmoft Boat, and bring them to the Ne- 
celTity of taking down theirSail, and running al! to the 
Head of the Boat to keep her from finking, £b Jhe lay 
by. and had enough' of itj but feemg theftM-emoft Boot 
aQwd 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( i88 ) 

Crowd ftiil OQ after us, we made ready to fire at her inpar- 
ti-cuiar. 

While this was doing, oiie of tfie thvee Coats rhut 
tvas behind, being forwatiler clian the otlicr two, made iio 
to the Boat which we had difabled, to relieve her, and wc 
could afterwards fee her take out the Men; vre call'd again 
to the f«r(;moft, .Boat, and ofler'd a Truce to parley again, 
and to know what was her Bufincfi with us; but had no 
Anfwcr, only flie crowded ciafe under our Stern ; upon 
this, our Gunner, who was a very desterous Fellow, ran 
out his two Chafe-Guns, and fired again at her; but the 
Shot mifling, the Men in the Boat ftiouted, vrav'd their 
Caps, and tame on; but the Gunner gettigg quickly rea- 
dy again, fir'd among them the fecond Time j one Shot 
of which, tho' it mi£*d the Boat it £61, yet fell in ainong 
the Men, and wc could ealily fee, had dene a gicat deJ <5 
Mifchief among them t but we taking no notice of that, 
war'd the Ship again, and brought our Quarter to bear up- 
on them ; and firing three Guns mor^ we found the Boa t 
was Iplit almoft to Pieces j ia pm^tieular, her Rudder, and 
a Piece of her Stern was (hot quite away, lb they handed 
their SaiJ immediately, and were in great Dilbideri but to 
compkat their ftlislortune. our Gunner let Ry two Guns 
at man. agun i where he hit them vk could not tell, but 
we iouai the Boat was linking, and fome of the Men al- 
rcatly in the Water ; upon this, I immediately man'd out 
our Pinnace, which we had kept-clofe by our Side, with 
Orders to pick up fome of the Men if they could, and 
five them fr-om drowning, and immediately to come on 
board with them j becaule we £iw the reft of the Boats 
bi^a to come up; our Men in the Piunace followd their 
Orders, and took up three Men ; one of which vii^s juft 
.drowning, and it was a good while before wc could reco- 
ver himi as ibon as they were on board, we crowded all 
the Sail we could make, and ilqod iarther out to Sea, and 
we foiihd that when the other three Boats came up to the 
firjl two, they gave over rheir Chace, 

Being thus deliver'd fiom a Danger, which though 1 
luiew' not the Rralbn of it, yet fecm'd to be much greater 
than I t^prchended ; I cook Care that we would change 
€)ur Courft- and not let any one imagine whither we were 
going j ib we ibod oiU to Sea EaAward, quite out of the 
Comle 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( i89 ) 

Courfe ef ail Btrctran Ships, whctfier they were bound to 
Chma, or any wheie elle, within the Commerce of the 
Earoftan Nation?. 

W H E N we were now at So, we began to confuitwith 
the two Seamen, and enquire firft, Wlut the Meaning of 
all this fliould be - The Dutchman let us into the Seoct 
of it at once i telling us, that the Fellow that fcrfd us the 
Sliip, as wefitid, was no more than a Thief, that had nin 
away with her: Then he told us, how the Captain, whole 
Name too he told us, tho" I do not reraemlTcr it now, 
was treachcrouily murther'd by the Natives on the Coaft 
oiMaUiua, withthreeof huMoii and tliathe, this Dutth- 
tnim, and four more got into the Woods, where they wot- 
deied ^xiut a great while ; till at lenffth, he in rajticular, 
in a miraculous Manner, made his Eirapc, and fwam off 
to a Dutch Ship, which filling near the Shore, in its Way 
from China, had lent their Boat on Shore for frefli Water; 
that he durft not come to that Part of the Shore where 
the Beat was, but made (hift in the Night, to take into 
the Water &rthcr off, and fwimming a great while, atlaft 
the Ship's Boat took him up. 

H E then told us, that he went to Bnttmia, where two 
ofitheSeamen helMiging to the Ship itadirriv'd, having de- 
fected the reft in their Travels, and gave an Account, that 
the Fellow, \i'ho had run away with the Ship, fold her at 
Beii£ale, to a Set of Pirates, which were gone a Cmiling 
in her ; and that they had ah^dy taken an Eaglijh Ship and 
two DMch Ships very richly laden. 

-This latter Part, we found to concern us direfUy, and 
tho' w-e knew it to be 6ift; yet, as my Partner ^d very 
well, if we had fellen into their Hsnds, and they had had 
ftich aPrepofielTionagainftusbefore-iiand, it had been iu 
vain for us to have delended ourfelves, or to hope for any 
giMxlQuarreT'sat their Hands; efpecially confidaiiu; thatbur 
A*Ailcri had been our Judges, and that We could h^e ex- 
' peftecf nothing from them, liut what Rage . would have 
diitated, and ^mgovemcd PalTion haveexecutedj arid there- 
fore iC'^Was his Opinion, we fhould ^ dueftly back to 
BenMfo, from whence we came, without putting Jn at a- 
ny Port whatever ; bfcaule there, wc cOuld, give an Ac- 
count oFoui l£lve$, and could prove whwe wcwerc when 
tho 



Hosted by 



Google 



( '90 ) 

the Ship put in, who we bought her of, and the like; 
and, which was more than all tic reft, if we were put to 
the NeceiTity of bringing it before the proper Judges, wc 
fl'.ould be fure tohave feme Juftice, aiKl not be hai^'d firlV, 
and judg'd afterward. 

I w A s fometimc of my Parmer's Opinion ; but after a 
little more ierious thinking, I told him, I thought it was 
a very great Haiard for us to attempt returning to Bm- 
galt, for that we were on the wrong 'Side of the Straits 
of Malacca ; and tliat if the Alarm was given, we fhouU 
be fure to be Way-laid on every fide, as we]! by the Batch 
of Batiavia, as the EagUfh die-where ; that if wc ihould 
he taken, as it were, running away, we flioiild even con- 
demn our, felves, and there would want no more Evidence 
to deftroy us ^ I alfo asked the Englijh Sailor's Opinion, 
who faid, he was of my Mind, and that we fliould cer- 
tainly be taken. 

This Danger, a little ftartled my Partner and all the 
Ship's Company ; and we immediately rcfoked to go a- 
way to the Co^ of TmUjui'!, and ib on to Ch'ina. and 
from thence purfuing the firft Defign, as to Trade, find 
feme Wayor other to difixtle of the Ship, and come back 
in feme of the Veflels of the Country, fuch as we could 
get : This was approved of 25 the beft Method for our Se- 
curity; and accord ingh' we ileeted awny N.N.E, keeping 
^boye fifty Ln^ues oft from rfie ufual Courft to the Eaft- 

This however put us to feme Inconveniences; for firft 
the Winds, when we came to tliat Diftance from the 
Shore, leem'd to be ■ mc«r fteadily «gainft us, btowing al- 
moft Trade, af we caU it; from the Eaft, and E.N.E. fe 
that ■we vvere a bog while upon our Voyage, and we were ■ 
but ill provided with Viftuals for lb kmg a Run ; and, 
which was ftill worfe, there was feme Efcngcr, that thoft - 
E^ffMW liMtch Ships,' whole Boaft purfued us, wheitof 
feme were bound thi Way, might be got in hefore us; 
and if not, feme other Ship, bound toChinm, might have 
1nbtmation<of us from tnem, and patfue Us with the 
Jame Vigour, i 

I M D « T conft&, I was now very unealy, and thought ' 
my fclf, including the late Efcape from the Long-Boat». 
U-iavc been in toe moft daagerotis Condition that ever J 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



' ( 1,1 ) 

was in>- thro' aU my paft Life; for whatever il! Circum- 
ftances I had been in, I was never puifued for a Thief 1»- 
foie; nor had I ever done any Thing that tumterf the Name 
o( Diilionefl: or Fraudulent, much Ids Thjcrilh : 1 had 
chiefly been mine ovni Enemy, or, as I may rightly %, 
I Jiad beea no body's Enemy but my own ; But now I 
was embarrafs'd in ihe word Condition imaginable j for 
tho' t was petfeiftly innocent, I ivas in no Condition to 
make that Iqnoccnac appear : And if I had been taken 
it had been under a fuppofed Guilt of the worft Kind ; 
at leafl, a Crime eltecm'd Gt among the People I had to do 

This made me veny anxious tomake an Eicapc, tho*, 
which Way to do it, I knew not ; or what Port or Place 
we (liouM go to : My Partner fteing me thus deje£ted, 
tho* he was the molt coneem'd at iirll, began to encourage 

i mc i and dderibing to me the ieveral Ports of that CoalS, 

I told me he would put in, on thi: CoaA of ciochinckina, or 
the Bay of Tmqitm j intendii^ to eo afterwards to Mttcaa, 
a Townoncein the Porteflion of iaaPortugfiezf, and where 

. ftill a great many Eurtftan- Fanlilies rdided, and particu- 
larly the Miflionary Prieftsr uiiiaJly went th'i^er, in order 

I to their goifig forward to China. 

I Hither then wc lefolvcd to go 3 and accotdingly, thrf 

■ after a tedious and irr^ular Couric, and very much ftraiti- 
ncd for Proviiions, wc came within Sight of the Coaft ve- 
ry early in the Morning ; and upon Rcfleffion, upon the 
paft.Circumftances wc were in, and the Danger if wc had 
not cfrapcd, we refolv'-d to put into a fn-iall River, whicli, 
howevO", lod a Dqith eibsogh «f Water forJus, and to fee 

^ if we could, either over Landr"<w by the ShEp's Pinnace, 
(ome to know what Sh^ were in .any Port thereabouts. 
This happy Step ! was indcedi our Deliverance ; for tho" 
w-e did not immediately fee any Eurasian Ships in thejay 
of Tmtjieiit, yecthe next Mtnningt therecame into tft^^y 
two Dutci Shipis and a third without any Colours ftrcad 
out, but which wc bdiev'd to be'i nutehijan, pafs'd by at 
about two Leagues DiftancR fleering for thS Coaft' of Chi' 
«it-i and in th* Aftemooa went by two Engiijh Ships, ' 
fteering the iame Courfe ; and thus, we thought, wc law 
our fclves befct with Enemies, both one Way and the o- 
thcf. Tbe Plxccwc-wewin was wild tud-barbarous, die - 
People 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



C 19a ) 

People Thieves, even by Occuparion or Profeffion ; ■and 
tho' it is true, we kid not much to leek of them, and ex- 
cept getting a few Provifions, card not how little we had 
to do with Them, yet it wa& with much Djflicult/, that 
we kept our fclves trom being infiilted by them feverai 
Ways. 

W F, were in a fmiJI River of This Country, within a 
few Leagues of its utmoft Limits Northwardj and by our 
Boat we coafted North-Eaft to the Point of load, which 
opens the great Bay of Jinqum; and it vns in this Beating 
up along the Shore, that we difcover'd as above, tliat, in a 
Word, wewere fuiroundedwithEnemies. TliePeopIe we 
were amcmg, were the moft barbarous of all the Inhabi- 
tants of the Coaiti having no Coirefpondence with any ci- 
ther Nation, and dealing only in Rth, and Oil, and fuch 
grois Commodities ; wid itroav be particularly fe;n, t]i;it 
they are, us I fi*id, the moft bartarous of any of the Inha- 
bitants, {wz..) that among other Ciiftoms they have this as 
one. That if any VeflH have the Misfortune to be Ship- 
ivreck'd upon th«r Coaft, they prefentiy make the Meii 
all Piifoners, that « i" ("y^ Skvesj and it was not long be- 
fore we found a Spice o^ their Kindnefs ^s Wayj on the 
Occalion following. 

I H A v E obiers'ed above, that our Ship Tprung 3 Leak at 
Sea, and that we could not find it out; and however, itliap- 
pend, that at I havcftid, it wasftop'd unexpeiftedly, in the 
happy Minute of oar being to be fcii'd, by the Dutch and 
En^/iyJ Shi ps, near the Bay oi Siam; yet as we did not find 
the Ship Co perfedlly tight and ibund as we delir'd, vve re- 
folv'd, while we were in this Place, to fay her on Shore, 
take out what heavy Tilings we had on board, which 
weie not many, and to wa(h, and clean her Bot- 
tom i and, if poflible, to find out where the Leaks 

AecoRDiNGLV, havingiightnedtheSiiip, and brought 
all our Guns, and otha moveable Things to one Side, we 
try'd to bring her down, that we might conic at hefBot- 
Moi j for on Tecoad Thoughts, we did t»t cate to lay her 
dry, a-ground, neither could we find out a proper Place 
for it. 

The Inhabitants, who had iievef been acquainted with 
focbaSighi, came wooderjng down to the Shore, to look itt 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



us ; and Oxma the Ship lie down on one Side in fuch a 
Manner, and heeling towards the SliorCj and not ieeing 
our Men, who were at work on her Bottom with Stages, 
and with their, Boats on the off Side, tliey prelcntly con- 
cluded, that the Ship was call awav, and lay fo veiy lali 
on the Ground. 

O N tiiis Suppofition, they came all about us in two or 
three Hours Time, with ten or twelve large Boats, haying 
&nie of them eiglit, fome ten Men in a Boat, intending, 
no doi^t, to have come on board, and plundcr'd tlie Ship, 
and if the/ had found us tlicre, to have carry'd us 
away for Slaves to their King ; or whatever they call 
him, tor wu knew nothing, who was their Gover- 

W H E N they came up to the Ship, and began to row 
round hei', they dlJcover'd us all hard at work, on thB 
Out-fide of the Ship's Bottom and Side, wafliing, and 
eiaving, and flopping, as every Sea-faring Man kuows 

They flood for a while gazing at us, and we, who 
were a little furprii'd, could not iraigine what their De- 
fign was i but being ftilUng « bt Jure, wc took this Op- 
portunity, to get fome of us into the Ship, and others to 
liand down Arms and Ammunition to thofc that weie at 
work, to defend themielves with, if thae ihould be Occa- 
sion i and it was no more than need ; for, in kls tJian 
a Quarter of an Hour's Confiiltation, they agi'ced, it items, 
that the Ship was really a Wreck, that we were ail at 
work, endeavouring to fave her, or to fave our Lives by 
tlie Help of our Boats, and when vtc handed our Arms in- 
to the Boats, they concluded, by that Motion, that we 
were endeavouring to fave Ibme of our Goods; upan this 
they took it for granted, w^e all belong'd to them j and a- 
way they came direflly upon our Men, as if it had bcenifi 
a Line ot Battle. 

OvR Men, fteingfo many of them, kgan to befright- 
edj for we lay but m an ill Poftuie to fight, and cry'douc 
to us, to know what they fhould do? I nnmediatcly cali'd 
to the Men, who work'd upon the Stages, to flip clicm 
down, and get up the Side into the Ship ; and bad thoie 
in the Boat to row round and come on board; and thofe 
fcwof tis. who woe on board, woikdwithall theStiength 
I ^ 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( '94 1 

and HaniJs we h^, to bring the SJiip to rights; buthow- 
evcr, neither the Men upon the Stage, nor thoft in the 
Boars, could do rs they vnrt ordet'd, before the Cochinchi- 
tirjfes were upon them i aud with two of their Boais boarded 
our Long-BoM, and began to lay hold of the Men as ilwir 
Prifoners. 

The firft Man riiey laid hold of, was an 'EngUJlj Scz- 
mari, a flout ftrong Fellow, ■who having a Musket in his 
Hand, ncrer offcr'3 to fite it, but laid it down in the 
Boar, like a Fool, ^s I tben^ti But he underftood his B«- 
flnels bcttei- tiian I could teacit him, for he grappled the 
Tng^n, and dragg'd him by main Force, out of their own 
Boat into ours -, where, takirg him \fj the two Ears, he 
bear his Head fo againft the Boats Gunnel, that the Fellow 
dy'il inliantly in his Hands ; and in the mean Time, a Dutch- 
man, who Itood next, took up the Musket, and with the 
But-end of it. So laid about him, that he fcnock'd down 
five of rheni, who attempted to enter the Beat; but this 
was doing iitile towards lefifting thirty or foity Men, 
w^ho fearkfs, bccaufe ignorant of their Danger, began to 
throw themfrkes into tfie Long-Boat, where we Iiad but 
five Men to defend it.- But one Accident ^vc our Men a 
CompleatViftory, which defirv'd our Laughter rather than 
any thing elfe, and that was this: 

Our Caipentcr, bring preparing to grave the Out-fide 
of the Ship, as well as to pay the Seams, w^here he had 
caulk'd her to ffop the Lteks, had got two Kettles juft let 
down into the Boat; one fill'd with boiling Pitch, and the 
other with Rofin, Tallow, and Oil, and luch Stuff", as the 
Ship-Wiights ufe for that Worfc; and the Man that tend- 
ed the Carperter, had a great Iron Ladle in his Hand, with 
•which he fupply'd the Men that were at work with that 
hot Stuff i t\"fo of the Enemy's Men entred the Boat juft 
where this Fellow ftot)d, being m the Fote-flieets ; he im- 
mediately fainted them with a Ladleful of the Stuff, boil- 
ing hot, which fo burnt and fcaBed them, being half na- 
ked, that they roar'd out like two Bulls, and, emag'd with 
the Fife, leap'd both into the Sea: The Caipenter law it, 
and cry'd out. Well done, y^rk, give them fome more of 
it i when fieppiog forward hinifSf, he takes one of their 
Mops, and dipping it in the Pitch-Pot, he and his Man 
threw it amiJng them & plentiMy, that, in (hort, of all 
'--i . tbo 



Hosted by 



Google 



(■l9S > 

Ac Men in three Boats, there was not one tfiat^ was not 
fcalded, and burnt with it in a moft frightful pitiful Man- 
ner, and made iach a Howling and crying, ttiat I never 
heard a worfc Noife, Mid indeed nothing like it ; for it is 
worth obietving, That tho Paitj namrally makes all Peo- 
ple cry out, yet eveiy Nation have a patticiJar Way of 
Excbmation, and make Nolfes as different from one ano- 
ther, as their Speech; I CMinot give the Noiie, thefe Ciea- 
tures made, a better Name than Howling, nor a Name more 
proper to the Tone of it ; for I never heard any Thing 
raoic like the Noife of the Wolves, which, as I have 
faid, I heard howl in the PoreR on the Frontiers of Lab- 
ptedec. 

I w A s never pleas'd with a Viftory better in my Life ; 
not only as it was a perte>fl Surprize to me, and that our 
DMger wai imminent before: But as wc got this Viftory 
without any Blood-Ihed, escept of that Man the Fellow 
killd with his naked Hands, and which I was very muc^ 
concern'd at ; for I was fick of killing fuch poor Savage 
Wretches, even tho' it was in my own Defence, knowing 
they came on Errands, which thCT thought jnft, and fcnev/ 
no better i and that tho' it may be a juft Tiling, 'beciufl 
neceflaty, for there is ho neceflary Wickednefs in Nature! ' 
yet 1 thought it was a fid Life whtn wc muft be always 
oblig'd to be killing our Feltow-Cieatures to prefcrve our 
leives, and indeed,! think Ibftilli andl would even now fiif- 
fer a great deal, rather than I would take away the Life, 
even of the w^orft Perion injuring me ; I belicvS alio, aH 
eOnfidering People, \*fho know the Value of Lrfc, Would 
be of my Opinion, if they entrcd ferioufiy into the Conlf- 
detation of it. 

B u T to return to iny Stoty ; all the while this was do- 
ing, my Partnw and I, who manag'd the reft of the Men 
on board, had with great Dexterity brought the Ship al- 
moft to rights ; and naving gotten the Guns into their 
■Fhces agaih, the Gunner cali'd to me, to bid our Boat geC 
out of the Way, .for he would let fly amohg them: I c^'d 
tack again -t6 him, and bid |him iiot difef ,to fire, for tlic 
Carpettier wotliJa' do the Work withtmt Mni i ' hat baJ him 
heic a'nother Pitch-Kcttlc; wWch o.ur-Coofc, who Was oh 
boards wwk Gwe of: But the Enemy wis fi) terrified with 
li ■ whis 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( IP«) 

what they met with in their fitft Attaque, that they would 
not come on Again j and fome of them tliat were tarthell 
ofF, ieeing the Ship iwim, 3e it were uptight, begun, as 
we fuppoied, to fee their Miftate, and give over the En- 
teipriie, finding it was not as they expeifted : Thus we 

fit clcai' of this meiTy Fight i and having gotten Ibnie 
ice, ar.d fome Roots, and Bread, with about lixteen good 
big Hogs on board, two Days before i we refolv'd to ftajr 
hcie no longer, but go forward whatever came of it ; for 
we made no Doubt ^ut we (hould be fiirrounded the next 
Day with Rogues enough, perJiaps more than oui- Fiich- 
Kittk would difpofe orfor us. 

W E thei efore got all oiu- Things on board the ftijie E- 
yqiing, and tlie next Morning was ready to Jail i iii the 
mean Time, lying at an Ancfiir fomc Diftance fioni the 
Eho^e, we were not fo much concern'd, being now in a 
fighting Pofture, as well as in a fiiling Foltuic, if any E- 
nemy nad prefcnted ; The next Day having linifli'd our 
Work within board, and finding our Ship was perfeftly 
heal'dof all.her teaks.wefet fitii we would have gone 
into the Bay of TfWi^HWi fot we wautctl to inform our lelv« 
of wliat was to lie known copceming the Dutch Shipsthal 
had been there ; but we durft not -fbnd in there, becauie . 
we had feen fevei-al Sh^s ga in; as we fuppos'd, but a lit- 
tle befote; Jo we kept on N.E. towards the Ifle of For- 
ma/a, as much afiaid'of being feen by a Dutch or Englipf 
Merchant Ship, as a Dutch or Englijh Merchant Ship in the 
MeStermean is of ia -Algtrme Mail of War. 
, , win EN we were thus got to Sea, we kept on N. E. 
,as if yve would go to the Manillas or the FhiUffineUhniis; 
"and this we did that we raighfnot ftll into the Way of 
Viv-ofthe European Slaps ; and then we fteer'd North a- 
^ain, till wc came to the Latitude of ii Degiees, lo Mi- 
nutes i by. which Means wc made the Ifland of ^arnfofn 
direftly, wJicre we came to. an Anchor, in order to get 
Waterj^nd fieflrProvilions, v?hich the People there, wTio 
are very j^ourteous and civil m their Manners, fuppty'd us 
Avith wiiirigly,, and-deait very fcirly and punftually with 
.us in aK their AgreaneDts and Bargains^ whichis what we 
did not find among ot^er People ; and may be owing to 
the Remauisxif C&iftjanity, which was once planted nerp 
. by a X>ituh MiJConary of Srattfimts, and is a TelUmony 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



of wkic I haveofrenoSfo-v-d. i/z.'. That rhe CIiriHianRe-,. 
Jigion alvvays civiliz,es the People, and rdwms ihrir Mah- -^ 
Ders, ivheie it is recciv'd, whether it works laving EHeils 
upon them or no 

From hence we fail'd ft'll North, keeping the Coaft of 
G6«w at an equalDiftance, lili we hiirvv we were bcvoud 
all tlie Ports of Chinn, where our European Ships iiiuall}' 
come i being rc&lv'd, if pofTihle, not to fell into any of 
tlieir H.inds, efpecially in this Country, whore, as our Cir- 
cumftances wcie, we could not Eiit of being entirely ruin-, 
ed; nay, lb gi'cac was my Fear in pariicxilar, as to my be- 
ing taken by them, that I believe firmly, I would much 
rather have chofen to fail into the Hands of the Sfanljh 

fl E I N o now come to the Ijtitudd of 3 6 Deg-ci:?, w« 
rdblv'd to put into the firft Trading Port we ftibuld come 
at i and (landing in for the Shore, a Boat came off two 
Leaguesto us, with an oldTor/i^wfte Piloton board, whb- 
knowing us to be an European Ship, came to ofTet his Ser-' 
vice, which indeed wc were "Ci-y glaii of, 'and took him 
onboard j uponv/hich, without askiiig us, whither wc- 
would go, he diiinifs'd the Boat he c^me iuj ajid fint it 
back. ■ " - - 

1 THOUGHT if was now fo much in our Choice, to ' 
make the old Man carry us whither we would, thit I be- 
gan to talk with him about cirrying of hs to the Gulph 
of Nun^uiit, which is the moft Northern Part of the Coaft 
of China .- The old Man faid he knew the Gulph of Nau- 
tmin very well ; but, imiling ask'd uS, vtlax we would do 

I T OL D him, we would ftll otir Cai^, and purchilc 
CAflia-Wares, Callicoes, Raw-Silks, fea, Wrought-Silts, 
0-c. and fo would return by tJitf fa'me Courfe we cams.- : 
He told us our beft Port liad been to have put in at Ma- 
em, where we could not fail of a Market for our Opium, 
to our Sacisfaftion, and might for our Money have pur- 
chas'd all Sorts of CAJ^a-Gooils, as cheap as we could at 

No T bring able to jiut the old Man out of his Talk, of' 

which he was very opinionated, or conceited, I told him, 

we were GenEfcmcn, as well as Merchants, and chat we'' 

had a Mind togoand fee the great City of Pefe/a^and th; 

I J famous 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



fjimous Court of cha Monarch oF Cbinn. Why then, ftys 
the <>I<1 Man, you. (hould go to Ningf*, where, by the Ri- 
ver which runs into the Sa. there, you may go up within 
five Lcagiies of the Great Canal : This Canm is a Eaviea>. 
bie ir.att.^Strcam, which goes thorough the Hcatt of that 
vaft Empireof ciiaa, crows allithe Rivets, paife fomecon- 
iiderabje Hills, by the Help of Sluices and Gates, anJ goes 
up to the City of Peking, being in Length near 170 
Learacs. 

W « L L, iaid I, Stignior "SarmgHfff, but that is not oui 
Bui^nds now; The great Queftion is. If you can cirry uj 
HP to the CityofJJiHi^wi, from whence we can tiavel to 
itching iftervfqrds?, Ycsj he_laJd,.he ceiiM do Jo I'ety vJdt 
and there was a great Dutch Ship gone up that. Way, j«ft 
before^ Tbis.gaTflmca little Shock ,-. a Bwwi'^Ship Was 
DOW our Terror, and we had much rather have itaet tie 
Pevil J at leaft, if he had not eomc in too ft^btful a Fw 
gure; we depended upon it, that a Ditteh Sh^ would b* 
our DcflruaioQ, fopwewere ia no Condition to fight themj 
all the Ships they trade with in tho& Farts being of 
great Bvithen, aaii [^ imjch - greater Fwce thao we 

The old Man found me a little confiis'd, and under 
Ibmc Concern, when be naai'd a DWrt&Ship, and fetd to 
me. Sir, you need be under no Apprthenfion of the Dniekr 
1. fuppole they ju« not now at War with your Nation : 
No, frys I, that's true ; but I knoW not what Liberties 
Slen may take, when tjiey are Out of the Reach of the 
Laws of their own^Cptintryj Why, fij^s lie, jmi urs na 
Tiratei, what need your fear? They will not meddle wkh 
peaceable Merchants fure. 

I p I had any Blood in my Body that did Got fly tp into 
my Face at that Word; it was hiiKiev'd by fttme Stop" ia 
the Vcflels, appointed b) Nature to circulate itj for it put 
me iato the grfiiteft, Difordcr and Confufion imaginable ; 
Nor was it polTible for me to conceal it fii, but that the 
old Man eafily pefceiy'd it. 

Sir, lays he, I find you a'-e in ibme Diibrder in yoiir 

'Thoughts at niy talk, ^jray be 'pleas d' to go which Way 

you tnjijt lit.^and d«pcnd upon it, I'll do you ^1 the Set- ' 

¥ice I cin :' Why, SeJgOiior. faid I, it is tni, I »n a little 

linlottlei 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



Hosted by 



Google 




Hosted by 



Google 



*in(etfW iffl my Refolution at this Time, wtttlw to go fti 
.jMrCiciJar , and I am £>mething- more fo, for wliat you 
iaid about Piratei, I iiope there are no Pirates in tlicfeScas; 
' ' we are but in an ill, Conditioa to meet with tticm, for you 
fee wc have but a iinalJ Force, and but very weakly 

O, Sir, fayi he, do not be concern'd. I dd not know 
tilt tlie.c hat been any Piiates in thcfc Seas thefc fifteen 
Years, except one which was feen, as I h«r, in the Bay of 
Siaff}, about a Month fincci but you ir.ay t,e affiired ftiets 
•gone to the Soathwaid ; nor was the a Ship of uny gteat 
.Forde,- or fit for the Work ,■ fte was not built for a Prr- 
.vatecT, but tvsS-tun away witii by a Reprobate Crew tKit 
-wcreon Board, after the Captain and i«me of his Men liai! 
-been murther'd by ^ MiAnymtt, at or near the lUaiid of 
Sitmatra. 

What! S^ID l,Jimmngto kmw lidihing ef the Mat- 
.tir. Did they iriurthcr the Captain ? No, faid ke, 1 da not , 
. «nikiftand thatdicy murther d hrm ; but as they afterwards 
;rttn away, with the Ship, it is generally b^i^'d they bc- 
■tray'd him into the hWIs of tie Midnygru, whotKd mnr- 
thra him, and peihaps they procw d them to do it: Wh^ 
then, faid /, they de&rvc Death a^ much as if they had 
done rt themfelvcs; Nay, fa^ eie ^tdMm, they Ho deiervtf 
it, and they wilt ccrbunly have it, if they iight upon any 
EngliJ!) or Dutiit Ship i for they have all .■^leai ro^ctfeer, 
that if they meet that Rof^uc, they willgtve him no 
Qviarter, ' 

But, fitid I to him, you &y the Pirate is gone out of 
tilde Sos, how can theyinect with hiia then? Why, that 
is true, fays he, they do fiy & i but he ^'as, as I tell yoii, 
in the Bay of Siam, in riicRi»er Camitdia, and was dit 
covcr'd there by tbffle Dtttiij Men who telong'd-to rbc 
Ship, and who vi-ere left on'Sfaoie whea they nm aw-aj 
with hcTj a»d ftme EH^AyS asi-TtUtch TratteisbeiQginihc 
: RivB", they were within aji«il of taking him: tiay,faij 
he, if the ibrenaft Boats lad been Welf ftcooded by the . 
reft, they had certainly taKoi two ; but Iw finding only tiv* 
Boats within Reach of him, tack'd nhaat and fir'd at thofc 
-two, and di&blcd them, befbre the (iriier came up, and 
then ftaniiing off to Sea, the other weie not able to follow 
him. and fo he gof avray: Bui ttey haver i^ fo vxi&t 
1 ^ Dcfcrif lion 



Hosted by 



Google 



( 200 ) 

Deftription of the Ship, that tbe^ will be iiire (o know 
him; arni ^vhe^c-ever they find him, tJiey have vow'd to 
give no Quaiter to either the Captain, or rhe Seamen, but 
to hang them all up at the Yard-Arm. 

What! lays I, ■will they CKecute them right or v/rong, 
hang them firit, and judge them afterwards ? O, Sir ! lays 
tlie old Pilot, there's no need to make a fijrmal Bulinefs of 
it wirh fuch Rogues as rhofe, ict them tie them Buck to 
Back, anil Jet them a diving; 'tis nomoic than they right- 
ly defer ve. 

1 KNEW I had my old Man fall a-board, and that he 
coiild do me no Harm, fo that I turn'd ihort upon him ; 
Well, now Seignior, faid I, and this is the very Rcaibn, 
why I would have you carry us up to Nanquin, and not 
lo put back to Macno, or to any other Pait of the Coun- 
try, wheie the Englijh or Butch Ships come; fbr be it 
known to yon, Seimior, thofe Captains of thsEnglijh and 
Dutch Ships, arc a Parcel of rafli, pi*oud, infolent Feltows, 
that neitter know what belongs to Juftice, or how to 
behave themfclves, as the Laws of God and Nature direil; 
but being proud of their Offices, and not underftandinfi 
their Power, they would aft the Murtlierers to puniln 
Robbers ; would take upon them to mfult Men fallly ac- 
cufcd, and determine them guilty without due Enquiry j 
and perhaps I may liife to call fotne of them to an Ac- 
count for it, where they may be taught how Juftice is to 
be executed, and that no JVlun ought to be treated as a O i- 
mbal, till fome Evidence may be liad of the Crime, and 
that Ik is the Man. 

With this I told him, that this was the very Ship ihcy 
had3ttack'd,3ndgovehim a full Account of liie Skiimiili we 
had with their ^ts, and how fooliflily antl cowaid-llke 
they behavd : I tokl him all the Story of our bnving rhe 
Ship, and how the Uutehmta ftrveJ us : I told him tJie 
Reaftras I had to believe that rfus Story of killing the Ma- 
ftcr by the Malayans was true ; as alio the runnitig away 
with the Ship; but thit it was all a Fiition of their own, 
to fuggeft that the Men were turn'd Pirates; and they 
ought to have feen fuie it was ib, before they had. vcn- 



Ls by Surprize 
■nld have t! 
IT juft Defence, t< 



■s to re;lft 't 



who 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



The oid Man was amaa'd at this Rdation, and tolil 
us, wu were very much in the right to go away to the 
Norlh, and that if he might advife ii5, it ftioiiia be to feU 
the Ship in China, which wc might very well do, aiid buy 
or build another in the Country; and, faid he; tho' you 
will not get fo good a Ship, yet yoir may get one able e- 
nough to carry you and ail your Goods back again to Bf"- 
geile, or any where elfe. 

I TOLD him, J would take his Advice, when I carae 
to any Port wheit I could find a Ship for my Tuvn, or- 
get any Cuftomer to buy this: He leply'd, I iliould mecf 
with Cuftomcrs enough f(x the Ship at Nanquiti, and that 
a Chmt/e Junk would ferve me vei-y well to go Irack a- 
gain; and that he would pocure nie People, both to buy 
one, and fell the other. 

Well, hut Seignior, fays I, as you fay they know the 
Ship, lo well, I may perhaps, if I follow j-out Mcafurcs, 
be iiiftrumental to bvibg fome hdnefl innocent Hen into a 
terrible Broil, and perhaps to be murthefd In cold. Blooiij 
for whcr»'ever they find the Ship, they will tarove'the- ■ 
Guilt upon the Men, by proving this Wa^ ttftSh^', «nd Car ■ 
innocent Men mar probably be overpower'd and murther'd : 
Why, fays rheoldMan, rilfind otita Way to prevent tliaf-. 
alfo ; liDr as 1 know all thofi: Coiiimanders you fpeak of very 
well, and ihall fee them all as they pafs by, 1 will be fure 
to fet tliem to rights in the Thing, and kt them krtow 
that they had been fo much in thcfWriJiigi. fhirt tho' the 
People; who were on board at lirft, might r&ii away wiih 
the Ship, yet jc was not true that they ha'J tufned Pirates; - 
and that in particular, thefe Were not the MoV that firif 
went off with the Ship, but innocently bought her for 
their Trade; and I am perluaded they %tili to ftr believe 
me, as at lead ro a£t more cautioufly lor the time to come.- 
Well, j%j I, and v/ili you dtfeep one Meflage to them 
■fiont. me > Yes,! will fnyi M if'T«i'Wfll"J;iv(-it'under 
fmf Hand in Writing, tlwt.i niay'beaHS tbpovcitcame 
fromryoiv-iand not out.iof my OWnHead-: I anfwwed; 
that I wwiid readily give it hirti'Mfldcr iny Hand; fo 1 
look.a Pen, and Ink', and Papci', and *note athrgc'tlK 
Stoi^ of aflaulting me with rheL'is^-Boats, i^c; tne p:t;- 
tendL-d Reafon ot it.and tlie vmj'uft cruel Deli^ cf it; and 
concluded ta the. dpmmaudcrd, that they had don? wha - 



Hosted by 



Google 



thty not onl^ fliQiiid. have been aftiaray ofi twt 'alfo, ffeit 
if ever thpy came to England, and Iliv'tl co fte them there^ 
dtfy (htyildali pay dpaily for it, if the Laws df Iny Coun- 
try were not grown (lut of U& b«fiwe I arriv'd tterc. 

M Y dd Pilot read this over and over agiin, snd ask'd- 
mc fcveral Times if I would ftand to it ? 1 anAvev'd, I- 
would ftand to, it as long as I had any filing left in the- 
World, being feniiblc thar I iliould one rime or other finit 
an OpptMTiaW)', to pot it home to them : But we had ho.J 
<>ccafion «ver Co lecthc P)l*i caTiy.,t]iis Letter; for he nw- 
ver weiw bac^ agaja ; While thofe things were pifiingbe--: 
tween us, ty '"'^J ^ KitcooJlfe -we-wonc S>rw»r<l, direft- 
]y for 2ffjj»5««, ■ jnd jn'abour thiiteen Days Sail cailie to an 
Anchor at the So,Qj:h-Weft Point of ihs great Gulph of 
Sanijuin; wb^e, by the Way. Tcame by Accident to un* 
de^ftand, l^iif i^e t>vo D««/i6hif aweve gone tbailcngthbe- 
fere nie^'si^that 1 flideld cettamly Minto riieir ilindsj 
I confoir^.tijyi-PtttnCT agah> in t!ii« ExSgentyt anil hcwas 
as ipmh jih^lfPis aj i was, and would Very gMly hivo 
been i»£c,<it^.Sfetw.iJn>crilany'j»-herSih*rtvewT, i was not 
infiichPirj^eiiflF.wither. bat I ask'd.ii* okJFilat, ifiihere 
was no Cieet. Ipr Harbour, which t might put mto, and 
puiC)e mji BuJioefs with the Chetufe privatel^, and be in 
no Danger of th* Enemy : He told me if I wonld fail to 
the Soucjiwai^ atwat two and forty Leagnes, there vjm i 
liltli Ptfft caU'd ^mchmg, where ihc Fathers "of th* 
MiffipD uiutJly^lajtded.fronai JM-ie-w./on thiit Prosrcfs to- 
tesch the Chrut^ R*ligioa to the Chhiefit, and whrte tiA 
Ettromit Ships:f«er put id i and":f I thought to put in 
thcie, I tais^ «»ifid«r what firther Courfe to take when 
- I was on Shoreii He confcfs'd, he fiid, it was not a Place 
for MerchaWfi, except tha? at fome certain Times, they 
had 1 kind of a Fair ihoe. when tlie Merchants from- 
Vfliiw «2Spc ov]^ tliiihw, ro buy ^ht Ch'mtft MenchandiM*. 

. W B all aa-W''.K>S» ^fc to tlu^ R^'^ i ■ *^ N«n*e of 
the Phrt^. aa'^edl'i^it. I »i»r P^'^'%"**'"^' ^^ 
do not pirticulavty ranpjnbcr. if. having loft this, togetho* 
with The Names of many dthir Places, fct down in a lit-i 
tfc Pbckct-Book, wiiifh was fpoil'd by the Water, on an 
' Accidcot. which 1 'V^ relate in it's Oderj but this I re- 
member, that the Oftsj/c or J'.^imtf' Merchants we cofi 
refroodol with, calld it by a.difering Name &om that 

^ - , w-hieb 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



wliich our Tmngaeze Pilot gave it, and^pronouac-'d it as- 
above, ^u'mchxni. 

this Pbce, we wcigh'd the nCJit Day, having only goiic 
twice on Shore, where we were to get frcfli Water ; on 
both which Occaiions, the People oF the Country were 
very civil to us, and brought us abundance of Thinj's ta 
ftU to Hi ; I mtan^ ^ Provifioas, Plaff.s, Rcors, Tea, Ric^ 
Mild Come Fowls; but nothing without Money. 
' 'W.E came to the other Port, (the Wind being contiary) 
not till five Days, but it was very much to our Saris&dti- 
on; and I was joyful, and I may dj thankful, \vhcii I let 
my Foot fafe on Shcffe j relblving, and my Partner too, 
that if it was poffible to difpoJe ot .oui- fLlves and EftL-as, 
any other Way, tho' not every Way to our Satisfaffion, 
we would never fee one Foot on board that unhappy Vef- 
fel more; and indeed I muft acknowledge, that ot all the 
Circumlbticcs of Life, that ever 1 had any Experioice 
ot", nothing makes Mankind fo compieatly mifeiaVle M 
that, of bMTig in conftant Fear; Well does the Sctipruid 
{ay, tit Fear tif Mim br'mgi a fuwe ; it is a Life of IJeath, 
and the Mind is lb entirely fuppreft'd by if, that it is ca- 
pable of no Relief; the animal Spitits link, and all' the Vi- 
gour of Nature, w^hich ufually (upports Men under other ' 
Affliflions, and is prcfait to them in the g;eateft Exigen- 
cies, fails tiiem here. 

Nor did it fiui of its ufnal Operations upon the Fancy, 
by hdghtening every Danger, rcprefenting the En^lifh aod 
Tmtch Cafttains, to be Men uncapable of hcaiing Reafon, 
or of difttnguifliing between honeft Men and Rogues i o^ 
between a Story calculated for our own Turn, made out 
of nothing, on purpofe to deceive ; and a true genuine Ac- 
count of our whole Voyage, Piogrefs and Dcfign ; for wc 
might many Ways have convinced any reafonable Crea: 
ture, that we were not Pirates i the Goods we had oh 
board, the Courfi we flcer'd, our frankly (licwing our 
Jclves, and eatriiw into fuch and fuch Ports; even our ve- 
ry Manner, the Forte we had, the Number of Men, the 
few Arms, little Ammunition, fbort Piovifions ; all thele 
would have lerv'd to convince any Men, that we were no 
Pirates ; the Opium and other Goods we had on board, 
wouM make it appear tltt Ship had been at Brngult ; tltc 
Dutchmin, 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



Dutehmta, who it was £aii, had the Names oF all the Men- 
that w-as in the Ship, might eafily iee that we was a Mi.f- 
tLire of Englijli, Ferii^ueze, and InMns, ar.dbut two DMch- 
mcn CQ B(ait3: Theffi, and rmny other particular Ciicum- 
fiances, might liave mfde it fvidcnt to the Undciftanding 
of any Commander, whofe Hands wc might foil into, that 
we were no Pirates. 

But Fear, that "bfod u&kCs Poffion, 
TVav, and ihi'cw us into the Vapouis ; 
Undeilandirgs, and iet the Imagination 
a thoufand tfrrible Things, that peiliaps 
pen i we fiift fupposd, 
i, that the Seamen 



work'd another 
t be wild led out 
woik, to form 
J . ight never hap- 
indeed eveiy Body iiad lelated 
board the Engiiji and Dutch. 



Ships^ but e^ecialj/ the Dutch, were lb engaged at the 
Name of a Pirate, and e&ecially at our beating of their 
Boats, and efcapingi that they would not give themfelvea 
Leave to enquire, whether we were Piiates or no ; but 
would execute us off Hand, as we call it, wiihour giving 
us any Roonrfor a Defcncei we refleftcd, thattheie was 
really fo much apparait Evidence before tbem, that they 
would force entjuire after any moiej as&ft, that theShfs 
was certainly the fame, and that Icme of the Seamen a- 
mcng' them knew her, and had been on board her; and,. 
fecoidly^ That when we had Intelligence at the River 
Catniodia, that they were coming dovro to examine us, 
we fought their BtMts and fled ; fi that we madcnodoubti 
but ticy wcie fully fatisfy'd of our being Pirates, as we- 
were fatisfy'd of the conttary ; and 1 as often &id, I knew 
not but I ftould have been apt to have taken the like Cir- 
cumflaitces for Evidence, if the Tables were turn'd, and 
my Cafe was theirs, and have made no Scruple of cutting 
all the Crew to pieces, without belicvitig, or perh^s con- 
fidering, what they might have to offer in their Defence., 
B u T Ifl: that be How it will, thoft were our Apprehen- 
Hom; and both iny P^tner andl too, icarcc flept aNight, 
without dreaming of Haltcrj, and Yard-Aims j that is to 
6y, Gibbets i of fighting, Md being taken j of killing, and 
and being kili'd; and one Night I was in luch a Fury iii- 
my Dicam, fancying the Dktchmeti had hoarded us, and I' 
^as knocking ore of theit feamcn down, iliatlilxuckmy 
double rift againft the lide of the Cabin I- lay in with fuch 
It Fate, as wounded myHar.d moil giieTOuflj, btokemj 
Kauckles, 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 20J ) 



Knuckles, and cut and bruilcd the Flellii Co that it not oti^ 
!y waky me out of my Sleep, but I was once attaid I 
fliould hare loft two of my Finj^eis. 

'^ ■' ' IS of the cnielUfiigc. 
tell into theit Hands j 
my Head, and how- 
5 they did our Coun- 
r Men by Extremity 



R Apprelienlioi 
■we ftioiild meet with from them, if v, 
tl'.en the Storjr of Ambayu* came (nl 
the Dutch might peihaps toiture us, 
trymen there ; and make fonie of ( 

or Toitme, confcfs thole Crimes they never were guiltv 
of i own themfelvcs, and all of us to be Pirates, and ia 
they would put us to Death, with a formal Appearance o£ 
Juftice; and that they might be tempted ro do this, for 
the Gain of our Sljip and Cargo, ^vliich was wovth fouc 
or fivethoufand Pounds, put altogether. 

These Things tormented me and my Partner too. 
Night and Day; nor did we confider that the Captains of 
Ships have no Authority to aft thus ; and if we had fur- 
renderd Priibnets to them, they could not anfwer the de- 
ftioying us, w tonuring us, but would be accountable fcff 
it, whoi they came intotheir own -Country : This I fiy, 
gave me no Satisfeiftion ,■ for if they will aft thus with 
us, what Advantage would it be to us, that they would be 
call d to an Account for it ; or if we were firft to be mur- , 
theied, what Satisfeftion would it be to us, to have them 
puniH.ed wheir they came Home? 

I cannot lefiain taking Notice here, what Rcfledions I 
BOW had upon the pail Variety of my particular Circum- 
ftancesi how hard I thought it was, that I who Iiad fpent 
forty Years in a Life of continu'd Difficulties, and was at 
Uft come as it were to the Port or Haven, which all Mca 
drive at, (yU.) to have Reft and Plenty, ftiould be a Vo- 
luntier in new Sorrows, by my own unhappy Choice; 
and that I, who had eCrapedtbmanyDangeis inmy YoutJs 
ftiould now come to be hang'd in my old Age, and ia lb 
remote a Phce, for a Crime T was not in theleaft incjin'd 
to, much leis gii'.hy of) and in a Place and Ciicumftanc^ 
where Innocence was not like to be any Proteftion at all 
to me. 

. A E T e n thele Tliouglits, ibmething of Religion Would 
come in [ and I ftiould be conlideiing, thst tins ftcm'd to 
Bie to be a Difpofition of immediate Providence, and I 
«ughl tirlook upon it, and fubmit lo it as liich ; that ai^ 
.tho' . 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



tho' I was innocent as ta Moij I was far from being in- 
nocent as to mj' Maker ; and I ought to look in and ex- 
amine, what other Crimes in my Life, were molt obvi- 
ous to me; and for which, Pjovidence might juftly inflift 
this PunifViment, as a Retribution, and that I ought tofub- 
mit to this, juft as I would to a Ship-wreck, if it had 
pleated God to have brought fuch a Dilafler upon 

In its Turn, Natural Courage would ibmetimes takes its 
Place ; and then I v/ould be talking my ielf up lo vigoi ous Re- 
fohitiwif^, that 1 ■would not be taken, to be barbaroutly uled 
by a Parcel of mercilcis Wretches, in cold Blood; that it 
w«e much better to have fallen into the Hands of the Sa- 
vages, who were Men-Eaters, and who, I was lure, w^ould 
feaft upon me, when they had taken me; than by rhofe, 
vfho would periiaps glut theit Rage upon me, by inhuman 
Toitures and Barbarities i that in the Cafe of the Savages, 
I always reiblw d to die fighting, to the laft Gafp, and why 
Ibould I not do fo now, leeing it was much more dread- 
ful ro me m iM/l, refliinli: of tailing into thcle Mens Hands, 
than ever it was to think of being eaten by Men ; for the 
Savages, give them their due, would not eai a Man tSl he 
TTasdead, and kill'd them firft, as we do a Buiteck ; but 
that theft Men had taany Arts beyond the Cruelty of 
Death i Whenever thei£ Thoughts pTevail'd, I was fiire to 
jut my fetf in a Wnd of Fever, wrth the Agitations of a 
flrppeftd Fjgliti my Blood wouldbeH, andmy Eyesfpafkk 
as it'I wasengag'dj and I always refolvM tnat I would, 
take no Quarter at their Hands, but even at laft, if I could 
refill no longer, I would blow up the Ship and all that 
Was in her, and leave them but Iftrle Booty to boaft of 

B T how much the greater Weight tJie Anxieties and 
Perpteficies of theft Things we to our Thoughts while we 
■were at Sea, by fo much the greater was our Satisfeftion, 
Vvhen-we few our iSves on Shore ; and my Partner told 
Hic he dream'd, that he had a very heavy Load upon his 
Back, which he was to carr^'up a HiQ, and found chat Ik 
was not able to ftand long under it j but that the FtrmgittzJ 
iP(/« came and took it off las Back, and the Hill difap- 
pcar'd, the Ground before him (hewing all finooth arid' 
flain; and truly it was Co, we were all iite Men, who had 
« Loail taken oif their Backs. 

Faa. 



Hosted by 



Google 



( 207 y 

■ FoS my Part, I had a Weight taken off from myHratt,' 
that I was not able aiiy longer to bear; and, as I fiJLi above, 
we refoiv'd to go no more to Sea in that Ship; When we 
came on Shore, the old Pilot, who was now our Friend, 
got us a Lodging and a Ware-HoufetbrourGoods, which 
by the Way, was much the fame; it was i littie Houle of 
Hur, with a laigc Houfe joining to it, all builtwirhCnne^, 
and pallifadocd round with large Canes, to keep out pil- 
fering Thieves, of which, it Iceras, there were not a, kvr 
m that Counti'yi however, the Magiihates allow'd us alio' 
a little Guard, and w^ I^ a Soldier with a kind ofHalbert, 
At HalP-pifce, who ftood Sentinel at out Door j to whom, 
we allow'd a Pint of Rice, and a little Piece of Money 
about the Vaiue of three Pence per Day, fo that our Goods - 
were kept very iafe. 

The Fair or Mart, ufiiiHy kept in this Place, had been 
ever Jbme Time ; however, we found tliat there were three 
or Four JunKs in the River, and two Jn^anneti ; I mean. 
Ships ft&m Jm^n, with Goods which they had bought in' 
Cinna, .and were flot gone away, having Ja^ffe Mer- 
chants on Shore, 

Tm firft Thing our old Fartugutx^ Pilot did for us, 
was to bring us acauainted with three miffionary S.om'iJh- . 
Priefts, who \VCTe in the Town, and who had been there 
Ctme time, converting the People to Chriftiany ; but we 
tJraiight t'tiCY made bift poor work of it, an'd rftade themi 
but ioiTy CftrilVians When they had dtine ; however, that 
was none of our Butineft ; One of thefe was a Freachmant 
whA tli^ cali'd Father Srwen; he was a Jolly well condi- 
fioir'd Man, very free in his Converfation, not fceming fo 
fcrious and grave as the Other two did ; one of whom was 
i Fomtguiae, and the Other a Gtmefe ; but Father SiiHoa 
was courteous, eafy in his Manner, and very agreeable 
Conipany ; the other two were mote referv'd. feemy ri- 
gid and auterei and apply'd ferioiifly to the Work they 
catne about, (wx..)' to ralk with, and infiiiuate themfilvcs 



confcfs, the Cbnverfion as they call ir, of the Ckimfii t6 
Chriftianity, is fo ftr from the true Converfion, reouir'it 
to bring Heathen People tothcFaiihof Chrift, thatitlceiDS 



Hosted by 



Google 



to aracnmt to little move, chan letting them lnow the 
Name of Chrift, fay fome Prayers to the Virgin Mmy, anJ 
her Son. in a Tongue which tlicy underiFand not, and 
to ciofs themlelves and the like j yet it mull be confefs'ii 
that thefe Religious, who we call Miflionaiies, have a firm 
Belief that thele People (Vall befav'd, and tliat they are the 
Inftrumcnts of it ; and on this Account, thev undergo not 
only the Fatig;ue of the Voyage, and Hazaias of jiving ift 
fuch Places, but oftentimes pcath itfelf, with the moft vio- 
lent Tortures, for the Sake of tlus Work ; and it would be 
a great want^of Chat ity in us, wIiaTevcr Opinion wc iwveof 
the Work it&lf, and tlie Manner of their doing it, if we fliould 
not have a good Opinion of their Zeal, who undertake it 
with ib many Haaaids, and who ha\'e no Profpe£t of the 
leaft Temporal Advantage to thcmfelves, 

B u T to return to my Story j this French Prieft, Father 
S'tTtmi, was appointed it feems, by Order of the Chief of 
the Miffion, to go up lo Fthmg, the Royal ?cat of the 
Chmefe Emperor, and waited only for another Prieft, who 
was order'dto come to him from Macao, to go along with 
Him 1 and we- fcarcc ever met together, but he was invi- 
ting me to go that journey with him, telling me, bow he 
would fhew me all the glorious Thbgs of that mighty 
Empirci and among the reft, the greateft City in the 
World; a City, faidhe, that your Ltiidon and our Faris 
[tut together cannot be equal, to ,a This was tlie City o£ 
Peking, which 1 confels is vwy great, and infinitely full 
of People'i , but as I look'd on tli<^ Things with diiFcrent: 
Eyes fioni 'other Men, {b I fhdl'give my Opinion of them, 
in few Words, when I come in the Courfe of my Tra- 
vels, to '^eak more particulaily of them. 

But firll, Icometo my Fryar, or Miffionary ; dininjj 
wi':hhimoneDay, and being very merry togetber.Ifhcw d 
&mc little Inclination to gp with him, and he prcls'd niq 
3nd my Fanner Very hard, shd-with a gieat many Pcrfya-! 
fions to confcnt i ■why'Fatlier Simon, fays my Partner, 
Wh^ Riould yOLi dejirq ourCompany fo piudi; You know 
we are Hereticfcs. and you do notlovc 11=, nor, cannot keep 
' (IS Company wi;h'anv Pleafure ; O ! fiys he, you may 
pethaps be gooJ'Cachollcks in time ; my Bniinels liere is 
to conve.-t Fleatflens, and who knows but 1 iimy convct^ 
you too i'Very well radiei-'£i^ I, fo' you wjilpreadi to 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 






( 20P ) 
Us all the Way ; I won't be t'ouWefome _tO ycu, fayt he, 
our Religion does not diveft us of good Pvlmncrs ; beiidcs, 
iays he, we are here like Countrymen, and Co 
eompaied to the Place we are in ; and if you are 
nots, ard 1 a CathoKck, we may be all Ch'ifKans a 
at Icaft, laid he, we are all Gentleracn, and we may con- 
ve- fc Co, wiiho'.it being uneafy To one anorhcr : I lik'd 
tho.t Part of his Difcourfe very well, and It bepian to put 
me in Mind of my Pricit, that I had left it! the Br?/'/j j 
but this Pather Ximon did rot come up to his CrniaiS<a-, 
by a great deal j for tho' Father Simon had no appea-.aoce 
of a Criminal Levity in him neither, yet he had not that 
Fund of Chriftian Zeal, flrift Piety, and finrere Afieftion 
to Religion, that my orhcrgoodEcclefiaftiekhadj of whom 
1 have Sid ib much. 

B u T to leave him a little, tho' he never left iis, t»r So- 
Hciting us to go vi-ith him ; hut we had fomcthing el& 
before us at that time ; for ive had all this i^-hile our Ship, 
and our Merchandize to difpole of, and we b^n to ce 
very doubtful whit we fliould do, for we were now in -a 
Place of verj" little Bufinefs ; and once I was about to ven- 
ture to fail for theRivctof ijl»m, and the City of Nan^/n ; 
But Providence {ecm'd now morevillbly, as I thought, than . 
ever, to concern itfelf in our Affair ; and I was encou- 
r^;ed from this very Time, to think, I (hould one Way 
or other, get out of this tangled Circumftance, and be brought 
Home to my own Country again ; tho' Ihad not the feaft 
View of the Manner, and when T began Ibmetimes to 
think of it, could not im:\gine by what Method it was to 
be done : Providence, I fay, began here to clear up out Way 
a iitritf i and the tirft Thing that ofercd was, that out old 
Forru^u"^ Pilot brought a ^itpn JMeflnrt to us, who 
be^n to encjuire wh>t Goods we had, and in the firSi 
Place, he bought all our Opiu n, and gave us a very good 
Price for it paying ns in Gold by Weigh', Ibme in fmall. 
Pieces, of rh^ir own Co'n a d fo n fmall Wedges, of 
aboiit ten or eleven Oun ea I Wl I we were dealing 
with him for our Opium can m o my Head, thaE 
he might perhaps deal h u fo he Ship too, and h 
ordeied the Interpreter o p opofe o hinii he (hninb 
up his .Shoulders at it wh w firft propos'd to 

Km j but in a few Da at e he ame to me with ono 



Hosted by 



Google 



C 2IO ) 
of the MilTionary Prieils for his Interpreter, and told me, 
he had a Propola] to make to me, ana t!iat ivas this ; he 
had bought a great Quantity of GooUs of us, when he had 
no Tlioughts for PropoJals made to him) of buying the 
Ship, and tlat therefore, lie had not Money enough to 
pay tor the Ship ; but if I would let the fiine Mot who 
v/ere in the Ship navigate her, he would hire the Ship to 
go to fnfMh and would fend them from thence to the 
Philippine Iflands with anolLej' Loading, which he would 
pay the Freight of, before they went from fifm \ and 
that at thew Return he ^vouH buy the Sliip : 1 began to 
Men to his Fcopoial, and £> eager did raf Head Aill run 
upon Rambliiw, th^ 1 could not but begin to entertain a 
Notion myfelfof going wkh him, and fo to fail from the 
ihilmmt Tllands, away to the South-Seas ; and accordkg- 
lylask'd the ^Mpunefi Merchant, if lie would not hire us to 
die Fbhifpme Iflands, and difchirge U£ there ; he faid, no 
be couw not do that, for then he could not have the Rc- 
tam of bis Cariro ; hat he would difcharffe us in ya-paa, 
ite faid, at the .Sjiip's Return ; Well, fiill I was for takiug 
tim at that PrOToial, and gwng myfclf ; but mv Partner, 
wii» thfla myfelf, perfuaded me fiom it, reprcleirting the 
Dangers, as well of the Seas, as of the yafom/m, vno sra 
a faUe, cruel, and treacherous People ; and then of theSps- 
m«rth at the Fhilippinis, more falfc, more cruel, more trca- 
chetous than they. 

B u T to bring this long Turn of our Affairs to a Con- 
clufion ; tiic firft Thing we had to do, was to confultwith 
the Captain of the Ship, and with his Men, and know if 
they were willing to go to ^span j and while I was do- 
ing this, the young mSi, who, as I faid, my Nephew had 
kft with me as my Companion for my. Travels, came to 
me, and told me, rhathethoughtthatVoyagepromifcd very 

re was a : " ,- ^ P . . 
he would be very giad ii 
Would not, and would give him leave, he would go as a 
Merchant, or how I plcas'd to order him -, that if ever he 
came to England, and I was tliere, and alive, he would 
rendw me a feithful Account of his Succcls, and it Ihould 
be as much mine as I piea^'d, 

t was really loth to part with him, but confide! ing the 

Profpeft of Advantage which was really coofideiable, and 

that 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 



r^t ) 

that h« was a'yoimg Ftllow, as likely to do well in it, as 
.Miylknew, lindin'd te let him go ; but firftltokl him, t 
^ would foBfult mv Partner, and' give him ati AnAvcr the 
next D^y ; ray Parmer and I diicoiirs'd atoiit it, and my 
Parrnerfnadea moftMiWous Offer i' he ttJJ'mc, you know 
k hss been an unliSrfty SMp, and we both reiblve not to 
igo to Sea in itagainj if your Steward, yo ht call' J my Man, 
will venture the Voyase, I It leave my Shave of the Veffej 
■ to him and let him make the bciT: of h ; and if wc live to 
'meer in EngianJ. and he meets with Succefs abroad, he 
'ftall accbUBt f«- onehalf ofthtProftiof the Ship's Fright 
,fo us, the OTher fliaB" bo his own. 

I r mf Patrncf, ■ who was no Way concerned wrrh my 
"yomigMao, madeiim&ch'ariOftT, 1 M>uld do oolefs thra 
iofSee him the feie ; and fSl ihe Ship's Company being 
wffiag to go with him, we nrade over half the Ship to 
fcm in Property, and took a Wrrring from him, oWigiBg 
him to account for the <«:her, aiid,awa,y he went to 5**- 
'f0i-. Thty^i^a/t Merchant pror'd a vety .panGuai hmelt 
)Mao to h&nj pi^efted him at 7"?*". and ^t him a Li- 
i eaift n* come on Shtrttf, wfeich the Euro^caiti in general 
fhave iKrt- lately obtained ; pay'd him his Freight very 
':-fan€tK^y', fint him tO' the PhillppirrK, loaded vr\xhfap/Oi 
Wd C/i^X-WSres, and a Supra-Cargo of their own, who, 
trafficking with the Sfiaiixrih, brought back Etvopean 
Goods agaan, and a great Q^ian' tiy of Cloves, and other Spice; 
and Ihere he was not or.Iy pay'd Hs Freight very well, aoJ 
It aVery mod Vrice, but being not wilhng toiell the Ship- 
then, tlie Merchant ftimifh'd him wfth Goods, on hiiowtf 
Account i' that' fbr ibme Money, and ibme Spices of his 
avm, which he brought wirh nim, lie went back to the 
Mimiila'), t(J the Sfani»rJs, where he ibid his Cargo Very- 
well ; Here having gotten a good Acquaintance at idMniUa, 
he got his Ship tniSe a free Ship ; and the Goveraour of 
MuniUf hired him, to go to Acafulci, in America, on the 
Coaft of Mexico, and gave him a Liccnic to Land there, 
and tiavel to M'xici, and to pafi in ixiy-Spanip) Ship to 
Surffft, with all his Men. 
. Hi made the Voyage to AccapHka very hapfjil)', .and 
I there he SM his Ship ; and having ittere alio otnairied Al~ 
I lovnnce to travel by [.and to forta Btuti, he found' Means 
I fome how or other, to get to famma, with all his Trea- 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



ri; 



c ; and a'jout eiglit Yesis after came- to ^vglanJ 
■i^iiig rich : Of which, 1 fl:all take Notice iil its 
the mean Time) I tecarp to our partitular At- 



now to part with the Ship, and Ship's Compa- 
ny; it (.amc befoie, us of Couite, to conltder whatRecom- 
pence we fao\M gi/e to tlic two Men, that gave tis fuch 
tiinel7 ^foti^e of the Delign a-rainft us in the River of 
Camlodiii : The Truth, was, they had done us a conlidc- 
ble Service, and deferv'd wcil at our Handsj though, 6y the 
Wgy, they weie a Couple of Rt^jues too ; for as they I'e- 
licv d the Stoi7 of our being'Pirates, and that we had rCaliy run 
away with t!ie Ship, they, came down to us, not oiijy lo 
betray t>ie Deliga that was formti agawft us, but to go to 
Spa with us as Piratfs; and one of thctn confefs'd after- 
wards, that nothing die but the Hopes of going a Roga- 
ing, brought him to do it : However, the Service they did 
us was not the lefs; and ihetcfore, as I had promis'd to be 
gratefiti to them, I firrf prder'd the Motiey to be pay'd to 
them, which f5icy iaid was due to them on, board thdr 
terpeftive- Ships ; that is to fiy, the Engtifiimim nineteen 
Months Pay, and to the Dutchman fevenj, and over and a- 
fcovc that, I gave them, each of them, a fmall Sum of 
Money in Gold, and which contented tliem very well; 
then I made the Eagli/'hman Gunner in the Ship, the Gun- 
ner being aow made Second*Mkte, and Purfer ; the Dhtch- 
toan I made Boatfwain j fo they were both very weU 
pjeas'd, and ptov'd,very lerviceablc, being both able Sea- 
men, ami very ftout Fellows. 

W E were now on Shore in Chinit ; if I tJiought my 
fdf banifh'd, and remote fiom my own Country at jE(«b- 
^aU, where ! had niary Ways to get horae for my Mo- 
ney i what could I think of my Idf now ? When I was 
gotten about a thoulaiui Leagues farther off from Home, 
and perfeftly deflicute of all manner of Pioipcia of Re- 

_A L L wc had for it was thi;, that in about four Months 
Time, there was to be another Fair at the Place whtie we 
were, iuid then wc might be able to purcbalc all Sorts of 
die Manufefiures of the Country, and withal, might pof-- 
fiblf 6nd Ibme Chhufi Junks or Veliels from Nunqu'-a, 
that woiJd be to be fold, and woukl carry us and our 



Hosted by 



Google 



( "3 ) , 

Goods, whither we pIcasM ,■ this I lik'd very well, and re- 
ftilv'd to wait i bdiiles, as our parriciilar Perfons were not 
olinoxious, lb if any En^UJIi or Dutch Ships came thither, 
pcihaps we might have an Opportunity to load our Gooiis, 
and get PafTage to fome other Phce in India, nearer 

U 1' o N theie Hopes wc refolv'd to continue here ; but 
to divert our felves we took two or three Journeys into 
the Count! y ; firft we went ten Days Journey to &e the 
Ciiy oi Nanqnin, a City well worth feeing indeed ; they 
Jity it has a ^liilion of People in it j ivhich. however, I do 
iiaC believe; it isregularly built, theSti-ects all evaiftly ftrait, 
and erois one another, in direct Lines, wliich gives the Fi- 
■gure of it great Advantage. 

But when I came to compare the miferahle People of 
thefe Countries with ours ; their Fabricks, their Manner of 
Living, their Government, their Religion, their Wealth, 
and their Glory, { as lojiie call it ) I mult confeis, I do 
not fo much as think it worth naming, or worth my 
while to write ot, or any that iball come after me to 

■ I T is very obierveablc that we wonder at the Grandeur, 
the Riches, the Pomp, the Ceremonies, the Government, 
the Manu&ftutes, the Commerce, and the Cooduft of thefe 
Peoplej not that it is to be wonder'd at, or indeed in the 
Icaft to be t^rded ; but bccaufe, having firft a Notion of 
tlic Barbarity of thole Countries, the Rudenefs and the Ig- 
norance that prevails there, we do not eypeit to (ind any 
fuch Things & &r off. 

Otherwise, what are their Buildings to the Palaces 
and Royal Buildings of Ewrofr .' What" their Trade, to the 
univerialCommerceof Engiaml, JHeiland, Prance snAspifirt? 
What their Cities to ours, for Wealth, Strength, Gaity of 
Apparael, rich Furniture, and an infinite Variety ? what 
are thei^ Ports, fupply'd with a few Junks and Barks, to 
our Navigation, our Merchants Fleets, our large and pow- 
erful Navys f Our City of Londen has more Trade than all 
their mighty Eropire : One EiKli/h, or Dunh, or Frtnch 
Man of War of 80 Guns, would fight with, and deftroy 
all the Shipping of China : But the Grcatnefs of their Wealth, 
their Trade, the Power of their Government, and Strength 
of [heir Armies, is iiirpifmg to us, becaufe, as I have uid. 



Hosted by 



Google 



conrniering them as a barbarous Nation of Pagans, littU 
better than Savages, we did not cxpcS fuch ThJngsamong 
thcHi ; aiid this inileed is the Advantage with wiiich m 
then Gicatnels and Power is i-epreiented to us; jatherwiie 
it is in it &lf nothing at ail j for as I have feid of their 
Ships, fo may be tiid of their Annies and Troops i all the 
Forces of ihcit Empire, tho' they were to bring two Mil- 
lions of iMeo into the Field together, would be able to do 
nothing but ruin the Coiintiy, and flarve thtmfelves : If 
thejr were tobeliege a ftroogTown mFlnriMrs, or to fight 
a. difciplin'd Army, one Line gif Qermtm Cu) idSiers, or a 
trench Cavalry, would overthiow all the Hotfe of China; 
a Million of their Foot could not ftand before one em- 
battled Body of our Infantry, ported fo as not to he fur- 
rounded, though they were not to be one to twenty in 
Number ; nay. I do not boaft, if I fav, that joooo Ger- 
man or EK^tip! Foot, and looco Ftench Horfe, would fair- 
ly beat all the Forces of Chinx ; And fo of our fortified 
Towns, and of the Ait of our^ Engineers in aflaulting and 
defending Towns j there's not a fortifiid Town in China, 
cxiuld hold out one Month agaiiift the Batteries and At- 
taques of an Eurofimi Army i ind at the lame Time, all 
the Armies of CAiBaiCOuld Beyer takeliicha Town as 
Dunkirk, posided it was not iiiiv'd ) ■ no, not in ten YearJ 
Si^. They have Firo'Arms, 'lis true, but they are awk- 
ward, eluinly.andunceicain in going off; They have Pow- 
der, but it is of no Strength; They have neither Difcipline 
in tlw Field, Exercife to their Arms, Skill to attaque, or 
Temper to retreat ; and theiefoie, T .muft coirfefs, itfean'd 
flrangc to me. when 1 came home, and heard our People 
lay fijch fine Things of the Pqwcr, Riches, Glory, Magni- 
ficaica,andTtadcoftiieC6tneyei,b«aufeHkwandkiiew, diat 
they were a cwitemptiMeHerd, or Crowd of ignorant for- 
did Slaves, fubj^Sed to a Government qualified only to rule 
ftich a Peoplcj and, in a Word, fori amnowlauHdiyquite 
beJide my Defign, I fay, in a Word, were not its Diiiance 
incoooeiveaHy great frotn'JWj^i^, and wns-not rheJUB/t^J 
■viu Enjpite almoft as rude, impotent, and'ill ^vetn'd a 
Crowd of Slaves as they,; tiieCij»-ofM<»/-*iy might with 
much Eafe drive them all odt of theii- Couiitryi and conquer 
them in one Campaign i and had the Ciar, wJjo 1 lincC 
kar is a.gtowing Fnncctiaod bcgitu to appear lei-midabie 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(«1S ) 

in the World, fallen this Way, inftcad of attaquing the 
Wailike Srseiles, in which Attempt none of the fbwers of 
Europe wouki have envy'd or interrupted him ; he aright 
by this Time have been Emperor of China, inftead of be- 
ing beaten by the King of Sweden at l^iarva, -when the 
latter was not one to iij; in Number : As their Strength 
and their Grandeur, fo their Nai'igatior, Commeicc and 
Husbandry, is imperfeft and impotent, compar d to the 
fame Things in Eitrope i alfo in their Knowledge, their 
Learning, their Skill inthe Sciences; they have Gltriies and 
Spheres, and a Smateh of the Knowledge of the Mathema- 
ticks i but when you come to «iquite into their Know- 
ledge, how {hort-lighted aie the wiftft of their Students! 
tlicy know nothing of the Motion of the Heavenly Bodies i 
and lb grofly aUurdly ignorant, that when the Sun is e- 
clips'd, they think 'tis a great Dragon has allaulted and run 
away with it, and they fill a clartei ing with all the Drums 
and Kettles in the Country, to fight the Monfler away, 
juft as we do to hive a Swarm of Bees. 

A s this is the only Excuifion of this kind which I have 
made in all the Acount I have given of my Travels, fo I 
iliall make no more Dcfcriptions of Counttiesand People, 
'tis none of my Bulinefs, or any Part of my Dei^gn; but ■ 

fiving an Account of my own Adventures, thioiieh a 
lite of inimitable Wandtings, and a long Variety cf Chan- 
ges, which perhaps few mve heard the like of, 1 fl;all lay 
nothing of the mighty Places, defart Countiies. and 
numerous People, I have yet to pals throiigh, more llian 
relates to my ovro Story, and which my C^cern among 
them will make nccelTaty ; I was now, as near as I can 
compute, in the Heart of ChiTia, alwut the Latitude of 
thirty Degrees North of the Line, for we were rctutn'd 
from Nanqmn ; I had indeed a Hind to fte t!ie City of 
Teking, which I had heard fo much of, and Father Simon 
importun'd me daily to do it ; at length his Time of go- 
» ing away being fet, and the other Millionary, who was 
to gowithhim, being arriv'dfrornMitfaD, it wasneceflaty 
that we fhould refoive, either to go^ oi not to go ; fo I re- 
ferr'd him to my Partner, and left it wholly to his Choice, 
who at length relblv'd it in the Affirmatirc, and we pre- 
par d for our Journey ; We let out with very good Ad- 
vantage, as to finding the Way, for we got Leave to travel 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(2I«) 

in the Retinue of one of tlieir Mandnrins, a Itind of Vice- 
roy, or piiiicipa! Magi(l;aic in the Province where they 
relije, and who take great State upon them, travelling 
with great A ttoidance, and wiih gicat Homage fiom the 
People, who are fomctinies greatly impovetilh d by them, 
becauicall the Countries they pafs tJiio' are oblig'd to fijr- 
nifii Piovilions for them and all tlieir Attendants : That 
■whirJi I particularly olifeivd, as to our travelliiig with his 
Baggage, w^as this, that tho' we received fulBdcnt Provi- 
&VDS, both ibr ouj- iclves and our Ilorfes, from the Coun- 
try, as belonging to the Madarin, yet we wcreoblig'dto pay 
for every Tiling we had, after the Matket-Pricc of the 
Country, and the Madarin Steward, or Comnufiaiy of 
the Piovilions, coIlcAed it duly iiom usj fo tliat our tia- 
vdling in the Retinue of the Mandarin, tho'il was a very 

fieat Kiiidiiefs to us, was not iuch a mighty Favour in 
im, but was indeed a gieat Advantage to him, conlidering 
there were about thirty othei- People naveli'd in the fame 
Manner beiides us, tmder the Piotei3:ion of his Retinue, or 
as we may call it, under his Convoy ; This, I lay, was a 
great Advantage to him, for the Country futnilh'd all 
the Provilions Tor nothing, and he took all, our Money for 
them. 

W E were five and twenty Days travelling to Peking; 
through a Country infinitely populous, but miierably cul- 
tivatea; the Husbandly, Oeconomy, and the Way of Jiving, 
all very mifirable, tho' they boafl To much of the Indullry 
of the People ; I lay, miferable ; and fo it is, if wc who 
underftanii how to live were to endure it, or to compare 
it with our own, but not lb to theJe poor Wretches who 
inow no othet : The Pride of thefc People is infinitely 
great, and exceeded by nothing, but their Poverty, which 
^ds to that which I call their Mifery : I mizft needs think ■ 
the naked Sav^es of America live much more happy, be- 
caufe, as they mve nothing. & theydeliie nothing; where- 
as thefe are proud and inlolent, and in tlie main are meer 
Begars and Drudges ; tlttir Oftcntation is inexprefilble, and 
is chiefly ftiew'd in their deaths and Buildings, and in the 
Itecpmg Multitudes of Servants or Slaves, and, which is to 
the laJl Degree ledicuious, their Contempt of all the World 
but themtelves. 

I MUIT 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



Hosted by 



Google 




Hosted by 



Google 



("7) . 
I MWST eonkCs, I traveU'd more pHfantly afterward; in 
thcDefirtsand vaft Wademcffes of Grand TaT'lary. thm 
heit i and yet the Roads hcrearewell pav'd. and wellkepc, 
and TCiy convenient for Travellers ; but nothing was moie 
aukward to me, than to fee facha haughty, imperious, in- 
folent People, in the midft of the grof&ft Simpliaty and 
Ifflwrancc, for aU ihcir 6m'd Ingenuity is no more ; My 
Triend Father Si»«. and lus'd to^ very merry upon thcic 
Occafions, to fee the bc^arly Pride of thofe People ; for 
Example, coming by the Houfe of a Country Gentlman. 
M Father Simm caff d him, about ten Leagues off of the City 
ofNomxin, we had firft of all the Honour to rule with 
the MaHer of the Houfe, about two Miles ; the State he 
rode in. was a perfba Don ^ickcti/m. being a Mixture ot 
Pomp said Poverty. _ ^ 

TiiF Habit of this greafy Don wai very proper for a 
■ Scaramouch, or Merry- Andrew j bdnga dirty Callicoc, with 
all the tawdry Trappings of a Fool's Coat, ftich as Hang- 
ine-SIeves, Tofiels, and Cuts and Slaves iJmoft on every 
SiJei it covet'd a tichTaf&ty Veft. as greafy ^ a Butcher 
and which tcftify'd. that his Honour muft needs be a moft 
cxquifitc Sloven, ,,,,,<- r- ^~. . 

H 1 3 Horfc was a poor, lean, ftarvd. hobbling t-^^eature, _ 
fuch asinDJiiJiJ.'mlght fillibrabout 3oor4oShillrags. 
and be had two Slaves fclloWd lum on Foot, to dnvc &= 

Kor Creature along j he had a Whip in his Hand, and he 
labour'd the Beati as M about the Head, as his Slaves 
did about the taa, and thus he rode by us with about 
ten or twelve Servants, and we were toH Ik was going 
from the aty to !iU Country-Seat, about hJf a L^uc 
before us: *c tmell'd on gently, but th« Figure of a 
Gentleman rode away before us, and ai we ftop d at a Vii- 
h&t about an Hoor to rcfiefh us, when vn came by the 
iSuntry-Seat of this great Man, we &w him in a htcte 
Place, before his Door, eating his Repaft ( it viras a kind 
of a Gardtn, but he was eafy tp be l&B. and we were gi- 
TM» to undSlteid, that the mtw we look'd on him, the 
. heitcr he would be pleas'd. . „ , ~^ ■ 

■ H E fit under a Tree, ibmethlnglike the Palmetto Tree, 
which eftftualiy (haded him over the Head, and on the 
Eouth Sides but under the Tree alfo, wasphc'da UrgeUm- 
bella. which made that Pan look well CMK^h ; he at 
lolling back in a great Elbow-Char, being a heavy cor^ 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(2lS ) 

lent Maft, and his Meat being brought tim by two Woit>cii 
Slaves ; he had two more, whote Office, T think, few 
Gentlemen in Etirafe would accept of their Ser¥icein{^jJ:.) 
(3ne fcd the Squire with a Spoon, and the other held the 
Difh with one Hand, and Imp'd oiF what he ict fiiil upon 
his Worlhif's Beard and TaflaCf Vcft, with the other j 



'hilc the gicat ftit Brute thooght it below him to employ 
Hands in any of tliofe fatniiiar Offices, which 



icings and Monrachs wouM rathei' do, than be troubled 
with the chimry Fingers of their Scrvaits. 

I TOOK this Time to think what Pain Mens Pride 
puts them to ■.andhowtroublefomeahaughty Temper, thus 
ill-manag'd, muft be to a Man of common Senfi ; and 
leaving the poor Wretch to pleafe himfclf with our look- 
ing at him, as if we admir'd his Pomp, whereas we really 
pity d and contemn'd him, we purlb'd our Journey i only 
Father Simon had the Curiofity to flay to mfoim himfelf 
what Dainties the Country Juftice had lo feed on, in all 
lu! State ( wlueh he fiid he had the Honour totaile of, 
and which was, I think, a Doft that an EngUfh Hound 
wouM fcarce lave eaten, if it 1^ been offer'd himi (■viz..) 
a Mcfs of boil'd Rice, with a great piece of Garlick in it, 
and a little Bag fill'd with Green Pepper, and another Plant 
which they iSve there, Ibmething like our GinBCr but 
fmclling like Musk, and tailing like Muftard j all tnis was 

et together, and a fmall Lump or Piece of lean Mutton 
il'd in it i and this was his Worfhl'p'i Repaft. four or 
five Servants more attending at aDifiancc. If he fed them 
. meaner than iic vas fed himfelf, the Spice excepted, they 
mud ftre very coar&ly indeed. 

A s for our Mandarin, with whom we travell'd, he was 
tcipedled like a King* furronndcd always with his Gentle- 
men, and attended in alt his Appearances with fuch Pomp, 
that I law Utile of him but at a DillaBce; but this I ob- 
fcrv'dj that there was not a Horle in hb Retinmc, but that 
oQr Garnets Pack-Horfcs in S-ntlani feem to me to look 
much better, but they were \a eoyer'd vrith Equipage, 
MajitlCE, Trappings and fuch-like Trumpery, that you can- 
not fte . wteuier they arc fet or lean ; in a Word, we 
could rijc fcaroc any thing but their Feet and their 
«eads. 

I W AS now light-hearted, and all my Trouble and Per- 
plexity that I have givni an Account of bong over, I had 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



«D Aniiious T^MghB about me, whicli made tliis joflp- 
ney much the pleaSnter tu me ; nor had I any ill Acci- 
dertt attended mc, ody in tht pafTing or fording a fnlall 
River, my Horfe fedl, and made me free of the Country, 
as they rail it,- that it tof^, tlirew me in; the Place was 
not deep, but it wettKt mtf aSi over; I mention it becauie 
it fpoil'd my Pockct-BOok, wherein I had fit down the 
Names of feveral People aid Places which I had Occafion 
t-O remember, and which, not taking due iCare of, the 
Leaves rotted, and the Words were never after to be read, 
10 my great Lofs, as to rtic Names of fome Places whici 
I touchM.at in this Voyage. 

At length we arriv'J at Vekint; I had no Body with 
md but the Youth, who my Nephew, the Captain, hail 
g!?en me to attend me as a Servant, and who proved very 
trufly and diligent; !Uid my Partner had no Body with 
him but one Senrant, who was a Kinfman ; As for tlic 
Pariugeit Pilot, Iw being defirous to Ice the Court, we 
gave him his Paflage, that is to iay, bore his Charges, fcFf 
Sis Company ; and to nft hJm as an InteijMtcr, for he un- 
derftood the Laiigu^ of the Country, and Jpokc good French, 
and a little £%tf^i and ftidecd, this<AJMan wasimoftufi- . 
ful Impliment to us every where ,■ for we had not been a- 
"bove a Week at Ftkmg, whert be came iaugtrng, j^, Seig- 
rtifr Ingtiic, lays h^ / ha^e fimtthing to teUyou , will make 
ytur Heart glkd .- ^ HtMt glud, fays I, What ctm that 
iel I Jon't itiint m^ i^g ra thit Comttry can either give 
nt* Jbj tr Grhf, tv a>^ great Dtp'te : fes, yts, iaid thcoH.^' 
Slan, m broken EngUfl!, rrmke ym slid, tne forro-w ; ferry 
he would have faid. This made mc more inguilttive. Why 
iiud I, wJii tt Wdjte yatfiitri ? Beeaufe, £id he,^» have 
brtHghi me here if Day! J-otaney, and mil Itjrvtmi to ga 
iAck alene, Mtd -ivhich lnyJhaU I £ltio my Tort afleriBarJt 
■nithout » Ship, without » Serfe, leithoM Pecunc * So he 
called Money, being his broken Llitin, of which he had a- 
' bundancG to make us tnerry v^Uh. 

, In Ihort, he told us there was a great Caravan of Muf- 
avitt and FtUJh Merchants in the City, and they were 
jtejmlBa to &t out on their jOUmey by Land to Mujiny, 
writhin four or five Weeks, and he was iiire we would take 
theO(>pwtunify to goilvhh them, and leave him behind t»^ 
gobackallaione; I confefs, Iwas rurpriz'dwithhisNcwSiti'. 
« Icact Joy Iprcad it felf over my whole Soul, which I 
K X cannot 



Hosted by 



Google 



( 230 ) 
cannot ddcrittc, and never felt before or fince, and I had no 
Power for a good while to Jpeafc a Word to the old Man ; 
but at laft 1 tum'd to him ; How do you know this, kid 
'I, are you furc it is triKf Yes, Ciys he, I met this Morn- 
ing, in the Street, an old Aojuaintancc of mine, an jlrmt- 
nitm, or one you call a Grtcian, who is among them ; he 
came bft fvotn Aflracim, and was defining to go to Ton- 
qniri, where I formerly knew him, butlias altcr'tT his Mind, 
and is now rcfolv'd to go back with (he Caravan toMw/fcw, 
and ftdownthe Rivcrof H^ija to jt/lrtum : Well, Sit^ior, 
Jays I, do not be uneafy about bciiig left to go back aktne, 
if this be a Method tor my Return to Engtatid, it (hall be 
) our Fault, if you go back to Maeno at all : We then w/ent 
la confuting together what was to be dtaie. and I ask'd 
my Partner what he thought of the Pilot's News, and 
wficrher it would (uit wifli his Afiairs ? He toid mc he 
would do juft as I would, for he had letled all his Aflairs 
fo well at Betigale, and left his Efftfts in fiich good Hanii^, 
that as wc had made a good Voyage here, if he could vert 
it in Chmn Silks, wrought and raw, fuch as night be 
%vorth the Carriage, he would be content to go to England, 
and then make his Voyage back to Bengult, by the Com- 
pany's Ships. 

H a V I N a rciblv'd upon this, we agreed, that if our 
FffrtHgal Pilot would go with us, wc would bear his Char- 
ges to Mfifiaw, or to England il he pleas'd; nor indeed were 
wc to be eftenn'd over generous in that Part neither, if 
we had not rewarded him ferther, for (he Service he had 
done us was rcallv worth all that, and more; for he had 
notonlybeenaPilot to us at Sea, but he had been alfo like a 
Broker tor us on Shore ; and his procuring for as tlxcfapaa 
Merchant, was fome Hundreds of Pounds in our Pockets ; 
So we coufultedte^lier about it, and being willing to gra- 
tify him, which was indeed hut doing him Juilice, and ve- 
ry willing alfo to have him with us beiides, for he was a 
moil neceffitr^ Man on all Occaiioos, we agreed to give 
him a Quantity of coin'd Gold, which, as I compute it, 
came to about lyj- Pounds Sterling between us, and lobear 
all his Charges, both for himlelf aod Horiie, cxctpt only a 
Horfi to carry his Goods. 

Having tectlcd this amone our fiives, we call'd him 

to let him know what we had reiblVd -, I told him, he 

hidcomplain'dof ouibeinghketolethim goback akme. and 

1 was 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



Hosted by 



Google 




Hosted by 



Google 



( "I ) 

1 was now to teB him we was refblv'd he fhoulJ not go 
back 3t all: That a? we had rdblv'd to go to Europe with 
the Caravan, we rdblv'd alio he (liould go with us, anJ 
that we call'd him to know his Mind; Heihook his HcaJ, 
andfaid, it was a long journey, and hehadnoFecBaito car- 
ry him thither, or to fiiblift himfelf when lie came there : 
Wc told him, we beKev'd it was fo, and therefore we had 
rcfolv'd to do fomething ft»r him, that ibould let him lee 
how fenfible we were of the Service he haddoneus, and at- 
fi) how agreeable he was to us j and thai I told him what 
■we hadre&lv'd to give him here, which he might lay our 35 
wewould do our own ; and that as for his Charges, if he 
would go. with us, we would Tet liim late a-f>iOie, ( Life 
and Cduallies excepted) cither in Mufcny or England, 
which he would, at our own Charge, except only the Car- 
riage of his Goods. 

H E receiv'd the FVopolal like a Man tranfported, and 
told us he would go with us over the whole Woild ; and 
&, in Ihori, we all prepar'd our Iclves for the Journey ; 
However, as it was with us, fo it was with the other 
Merchants, they had many Things to do, and infead of 
being ready in five Weeks, it was four Months and Jbmc 
odd Days before all Things were got together. 

I r was the Begijinbg of Felfftmy, our Stile, when wc 
let out from Peiiag; myPaitner ancfthe old Pilot had gone 
exprefs back to the Port \vhcre v/e had firll put in, to ■ 
difpofe of ibme Goods which we had left there ; and I 
with a Chmeft Merchant, who 1 had Jome Knowledge 
of at iJanijuhi, aftd who came to Pekiitg on his own Af- 
ixirs. If/cat to N/mtpim, where I bought ninety Pieces of 
tine Damasks, witn about two hui^ied Pieces of other 
very fine Silis, of feveral forts, fome mix'd with Gold. 
and had all tbeft brought to ftking agalaSt my Partnei's Re- 
turn i belides this, wc bought a very large Quantity of 
Raw Silk, and fome other Goods, our Careo amounting 
in thefo Goods only, to about three thou {and five hundred 
Pounds Sterling, which, tether with Tea, and fbme fine 
Callicocs, and three Camel Loads of Nutmegs and Cloves," 
loaded in all eighteen Camels for our Share, bcfules thofe 
wc rode upon i which with two or three fyme Horfes, 
and two Horfos loaded with Proviiioos, made us in H.ott 
1^ Camels and Horles in our Retinue. 

The Comfany was vacy great, and, as near as I can re- 
K J member 



Hosted by 



Google 



< 222 5 

jneaiber, made between 3 snd 400 Horfc and Camels, and 
upwards of a hundred and twenty Men, very weil armed 
and provided for all ' Events ; For as the Eaftem Caravan* 
are (ubjcft to be attacked by the jiraks, ib arethele by the 
TMturs; but they arc not alioKthet fo dangerous as the 
Arabs, nor fo barbarous when they prevail. 

The Company conGfted of People of leveral Natiwwi 
iiich Es, MMfcBvitf! chiefly, for there were above Sixty rf 
them who were Merchants or Inhabitants of Mnfanii, ii^' 
irf them Ibmc were thmuaas, and to our particular Satil- 
feftioB, Five of them were S^itfs, v<rko appeared alfo to be 
Mea of OTcat Experience in Bufineis. and Men of very good 
■Subflance. 

W H E N we had travelled one Days Iomiict, the ,QuMcs, 
■whfl were Five in Number, called an the Geotlcmen and 
Merehants, that is to By, all the Paffengers, oiceptrtie.Ser- 
yants, to a great Coujid!, as theycalld it: At tjiis.g^t 
Council, evo'y one depoSted a certain (fatuity of Money 
toacommonStocV, {iff the ncceJTary &:pence of buying 
Forage on the Way, wliere it was not otljerwkc to M 
Sad, and for iatisfyiiig the Guides, getting Horfes, ^nd the 
like : And berethej' conftitutcd the Journey, as thcycall'd 
it. {■viz.') They named Captains and, Officers, to draw us 
all up, and givethe Cpmniand in cafe of «n Attacjc, and' 
gave every o»ie' thar Turij' of Comuiatld-, Nor was .this 
forming us into Order, any more than' what we fbutiA 
needfiil upon the Way, as (hall be obferved in its Place. ' 

Th e- Road all on this iide of the Country is very po- 
pnloiH and s fiiil of Potters and Eanh makers, ttiat 
IS to fiy People that tsmper d the Earth for the Cl/a/i 
W^t lUid 09 r Was CDtrt ngaJoBg ourPiirW^^/P lot wtto 
li»t alivflvs Iblneihmg ot oHicr Va fa to make us mer^ 
came fn-er ng to n e «id tpld nje he would (how jae the 
^tefl Rarity in ^ the-Ojuntry and tipt I iho«H have 
2i *i te Ia)f of Chm after aU wp ill humour d Things E 
hai liiid of ir thpt I had (cm om Thing which was not 
to 6ft (cert n U^ the W o Id bdidt I was very poftu 
la e to Itno f \ hat ir vas, at laft fce told me ^t was a 
CenrtetnaH s Hou& ftiilt att with C* na-lfan Well. 4> * 
I a e not Hie- Miweria!^ of thcit Suriding the Prwjuft of 
their own CountiT and £> it is all Chna-lVart js it ntJt f 
tfd. n6 layi he 1 mean it « a HouJe all madp of Chan 
tfirt Sigh irm aS {^ttL.SDff9H^, t? a* i( if c^4 m 



Hosted by 



Google 



C "5 ) 

our Coitntry, TcrctUam : - Wtll, lays I, fucli a tMng majr 
bci how big is it f Can ive carry it in & Box upon a Ci- 
md? If we can, we will buy it ; Up«n « Camd! fcysthtf 
old Pilot, holding up botli his Hands, viy there it a Fum- 
ly rtflhiriy ?eopU lines in it. 

I WAS then curious indeed to fee it, and when X cime 
to it, it was nothing but this ; it w^s a Timber Hoidlv 
or a Houfe built, as wc call it in England, with Lath and 
Tlaifter, but all the Plaiftcring was really Chini*-Ware, tliat 
is to lay, it was phiftcr'd with the Eardi that makes China- 
IVare. 

The Outfide, which the Sun Hione hot upon, was gla- 
zed, and look'd very well, pafeS white, and painted with 
blue Figures, as the large China-Ware in England is Joint- 
ed, and hard, as if it had been butat: As to the Inlide, all 
the WaUs, inftead of Wainfcot, were lined up with har- 
den'd and painted Tiles, like the liftic fyuare Tiles we ca]l 
Galley-T^es in England, all maie of the liueli China, and 
the Figures exceeding line iodeed. with extraotdinary Va- 
riety of Colours najx^d with Gold, many Tiles making but 
one Figure, but join'd & artifidally, the Morter being madp 
of thc^reie Earth, that it was very hioA to fee where the 
Tiles met ; The Fkwrs of the Rooms were of the fame 
Compofition, and as haid as the earthen Floors we have in 
uft \a feveraj Parts of En^lmJ, eijwcially Lmecln^iri, Net- 
$inghai»jhirt, tsicefterjhirt, &c. as liard as Stww, ami 
fmooth, but not bnrnt and painced, except fame fmaller 
Rooms, like Qofcts, which were all as it were paved with' 
the fime Tile; the Cieliogs, and, in a Word, all the Plai- 
ftering-Work in the whole Houfe were of the lame Earth; 
imd, after all. the Roof was cover'dwith Tiles of the lame, 
but of a deep lliining black. 

This was a China Waie-houfc indeed, truly and liwraJ- 
ly to be call'd lb ; and W I not been upon the joumcy, I 
coutd have ftaid ibme Days to fee wu) examiiw the Parti- 
culars of if. Th^ told me there vrere Fountains and Filb- 
ponds Iq the Garden, all paved at tiv; bottom and fides 
with the lame, and fine Statutes let up in Rows on the 
Walks, epdre'y fpcui'd of the Ftretl^ Earth, aud burnt ■ 
whole. 

A's this is one of tbc Singularities of C^a*, fotbeymay 

ht allow^'d to excel in it j but I ain^ very lure rhey excel in 

ifi their Accounts ot it ; For they told iXkc''ludi mcreJible 

&+. Thbgs 



Hosted by 



Google 



C 324 ) 

Things of iheir Performance in Crackery-lVare, fiir fiidi it 
Is, that I care not to relate, as kitowing it couid not be 
Truej tfey tolii tne in particular of one Woikmasi that 
macle a Ship wirti aU'its Tacldc, .and Malls, iuid Sails, in 
FAtf hen- Ware, big enough to carry Fifty Men ; If he had 
told me he launched it, and. made a Vojuge to^afvm in it, 
T might have laid ibmctljii^ to it indeed; but as it was, J 
kr.cw the whole Story, wmch was in IhtKt, asting Par- 
don for the Word, that the Fellow lied j £> I fmiled. and 
faid nothing to it. 

This odd Sight tept me two Hours behind the Cara- 
Tan, for which, the Leader of it fot the Day, fined me a- 
boutthe Vahieof three Shillings, and toldmc, if it had been 
three Days Journey without Uie WaJl, as it wis three Days 
within, he mu(l have tinel me four times as much, and 
made me a^k Pardon th? next Council Day j ib I pwmi- 
led to be more orderly ; for indeed 1 found afterward tlic 
Orders made for keeping abt^ber, were ibiblutely nectf- 
iary for our common SSety. 

I H two Days more, we pafs'd the great Cihui Wall, 
made for a Fortification ;^nil tiie Tariari ; and a very 
great Work it is, going OTcr Hills and Mountains in a 
ncedtcls Track, wheie t^ Rocks arc impalTible, and the 
Precipices fuch as m)_ Enemy couW poffibjy enHr, or indeed 
climb up, oi' where jf they did, no Wall could hinder 
tfieni : They tcE us, its L^^tb ii neai a Thoufcnd Etizlijb 
Miles, but that the CtMiatry is five Hundred in a ftraie 
BicaiorftT Line, which the WaE txiunds, without meafiir- 
itig the iVindings and Turning it takes;, 'tis about four 
Farhoffl higH. and as many thick in ibme Places, 

I sVpoD ilill an Hour or thereabout; wifbout treipaf- 
finfr" oiiT-Oiiers.fin-fo limg.tht Cia-»-uan viu in pii£mg tht 
G^ti I'fa;y, Iflood ftill anflourlfiy tolopk at it on ewry 
£r<fr>neaf, !lti'd\%of1i Imean, what was withaifny Views 
and^etJuSdeof our Caraean,, whto Iiad been extolling it 
for 'ffie^-'W'onite of the World, was i^igbty eager to liar 
my O^inibn.of iti f totJ Jumitw^anjoSexccUcot tliii^ 
to keep off rbe' tiWtArs, ;, whic^ he b^pcn d not to u»de> 
!ketiAi%\n\emt it, and foixwkit foraComplimenti'ibHtiiie 
eWTilot feugh'd : .O S6pKO!: JngUfe, fiys ha, you fpe^io 
Colours :InC6kiursJi«Xl»wbatdojou,meanby that? Why, 
j^ ipwk wliat 'boks v;;Wte tth T»ity, and. black that fay t 
gsf mt v»j, aii4 dull oBvthtr -^aj; you tell him it itaspod 



Hosted by 



Google 



Wan tt> k«p out Tm-tKrt -, you Tell roc hy that, it is gooJ 
for notMng but to ke^ out Tartars, oc it will keep out 
none but Tartars} I undrrAiod rou. Seignior lagieft, lun- 
derllaml you, ftys he JoSiing, but Seignior Cir.neft iiuder- 
ilind ycMi his own way. 

Well, fiys I, Sn^iior. do you think it would Hand 
(Kit an Army of otir CSuntry People, with a good Train 
of Aitilleryi or our Engineers, with two Companies of 
Miners ; ■would not they batter it down in ten I^ys, that 
an Army might enter in Battalia, or blow it up in the Air, 
Foundation and all, that there fhould be no itgn of it left? 
Ay, ay, &ys he, I knowthat. The Chinefe warned mighti- 
ly to know what I Giid, and I gave him leave to tdlTiim 
a fewf Days after, tor we was then almofl out of theit 
Country, afxi he was to le^ve ui in a little rime afterward ; 
but when he knew what 1 had 0id, he was dumb all the 
reft of the Way, and we heard no more of his fine Story, 
of the Chirt^e Power and Gm; nets, while he flay'd. 

After we had paA'd thi^ mighty Norfin^.caiiy 3 Wall, 
(bmethitie Iik< the PiW* Wall, fo famous in KDrthuvtbrr- 
land, and t)uilt by the Remam, we began to find the Coun- 
try thinly inhabited, anil ti\e People rather confined to liie 
in fortified Towns and (Cities, as being fuL>jei2 ro the In-, 
roads and Depredations of the Tartars, \who ta'j in gea: 
Armies, and tlierefore are not to be refiftei by die c^ei 
InhaUtants of an open Country, 

And here 1 be^n to find the NecetTiTy of keeping to- 
gctkef in a Cirftvan as we travdlal ,• for we Jaw fiv^ 
Troops of Tarcari roving about; but when I cametofct 
them diftimSiy, I wonder'd more that the Ctoe/e EmpirS 
could be contjuet'd by" fiictj rontemptiWe Fe!]o\vsj for ttey 
aiw a meet HoOtd or Cro<\'d of wili FciioWs, kaepiog no 
Oi>der,|andonderftandi(ig noDifcipline, or (ilaniierof Fight. 

■T« 1 1 ft Hoifo arc poor leaa' ftarved CreaturiK, taught 
nothing, And are fit fiir nofliingi and this \ye found the 
lirfl &y we Siyr them, which was after we entrej tlie 
wiUer fttt W the Country ;■ our T.«dcr for the Day, ^avff 
iMvt fei- about fl)lt«hdfi!B"to'^ aWuming, as theyci^ 
k'c and whafwb, this But hinifttaerf Sheep; Jiowcver, it 
m3j» be tall'ii -Hunting fcw'; fcr H«; CrcltureSarc rJ^ wili- 
eft. ibJl iwifteft-" of Foot thit ever 1 fiw df (bcirKind; ou- 
^'thq' wi» not mn a great Viray; atiJ you arc lure of 
^?Oil-T»blHy«o begin (he eh*ei;"forthey ajtpear gmcral' 



Hosted by 



Google 



hr thirty or ffitty in a Flock, and i*e. tn»- Steep, «lM* 
keep together when they fly, ■ •" / 

I If Puifuit of tMi pda fwt of G^rap, it Wis osr Hap to 
5ie«^ with- about forvti»-MM*,yr&tfap %y WOT hant- 
mg Mbtton as we were, 6r wheth^ tW ioolt'a. for aa- 
«thta?, kind ot Pk7( I, ti^iw npti but as Ibon as they fiw 
ns, one.of th^ Hew a kind- of a.. Hqm verv kmd, but 
Witha baib^ous Souqd, that IW never herd betorc. and by 
the way, never care to hear again : We all fi™)os'd tiii 
was to call their Fricnas about them, aod-fo ii wasi'for 
»Jers- than half a q_aarteE of ao Hour, a.Trpop gf fprty m 
Sfi^ inorc wpcar'd, at about a Milf dift«)c<, buE que Work, 
vas over iicft, as it bffiipeo'<ti 

1 of rbo Seels Merchants of M^wp, happen'd to 
. ngft us, and as ioon as ha heard the Horn, he told 
, Fi fhoit, that wBhad nothwg to dp, but to chargethem- 
ipmediatclx. without lois of Time i an^ drawine us up in 
ii tinq, he ask'd if^we were re&lv'd.! We toB hi^ we . 
w(5« ready to follow him; fo he rodedireftlyup tothcm- 
fhfff ftood^zing at us [ike a mecF Cto,\vdi drawn up in 
no Order, nor ihewing the Face of ipy Order at allj but- 
as i&on a^_ they favf tis advapce, they let ^y their Arrows, 
which however mifs d u?. very happilyi it Ifenis they mi- 
.(took tiot rheir Aifn, but their Diftance; fo; theit Arrows 
aj! fell aJittlc ftort of-'us., but witi & trUp' a^-Ainj, that 
Biid'tt'c been about twenty Yards neaier, we mijfttuYe.hadv 
^VKaJ- Men woyadcd, if not klU'd.'. '" 

Im.medi-^t'eLv VvehalteiCajid-tho' it.waS W.a arttt- 
Billihce, we tk'd, andfoitthem Lcj^ten Mds ibi ■W:<wdai 
JJni^s^ follpwitjg our Shot M.Gajlop, rdplring tn ■SJl 
a among t>ra gWord in Hani fer ,1b, osr b«ld Sei>r tkt 
*d P? d!Te«ed; He -was indeed but a Merest, buthebe- 
.. ^y:d WS:h that Vi^and bravery On (his Qgc469q,.and 
Yer.,ijtai^ ach.» cool-Cpurage to^, tfetf I never fey.aiiy 
Ug» ffi AOipi diier for ComniMd: As fopi, a» we-caoie 
np_ t9 fhcni. .wt firy"-6uE Pi^is ip (hei^-j'^, apsJ then 

ths.qiily m^^ any.pf them ma^e, .wii^^inpw:, Right, whoic 

and't&ir Bows, hanging ^t flwif feki^fe ; ,0^ hrtye Cbia-- 
,iniiid^,,wi(}lDUfr asking any.,Dpdy to ipltoiy flim -^few 

«j4<* to rtm, »wl«Jt!(,tij.r«5sji^ m^Sb^" 



Hosted by 



Google 



f 117 ; 

off lils Hbrfc, kili'd the fecond with his Pifto!, atii! the 
third lan iway, and thus ended our Fight; but weJiadthis 
Misfortune attending it, (-y/*.) that^ our Mutton that we 
hadinchaccgotaway : WehadnotaMankiK'd or hurt; but 
as for the Terturs, there was about five of thcni kill'd ; 
how many were wounded, we knew not ; but this we 
knew, tW the other Party wasft) ftighted with the Noife 
of our Guiis, that they made off, and never made any At- 
tempt upon us. 

We were ali this while in the Ch'mtfe Dominion, and 
therefore the Turteri were not fo bold as afterwards ; bur 
in about five Days we enter'd a vaft great wi)d. De0rt. 
which held us three Days and Nights March; andwewwe 
oblig'd to carry our Water with us in great Leather-Bot- 
tles, and to encamp all Night, juft as I Eivc heard they do 
in the Deliuts of Arabia. 

I ask'd our Guides, Whofe Dominion this win in ? 
and they told me, this was a kind of Border, that might 
be call'ti Kd Man') Land ; being a Part of the Great Karit- 
katbdy, or Grand Tartary, but that however it Wis recko- 
ned to China -, that there was no Care taken here, Co pic- 
letve it ftom the teoards of Thieves, and tiierefoti? it was 
leckon'd the worft Dcfiri in tJtc wlwJe Maichj tho' we 
were to go over foroe much larger, 
. In jiailing this WiMernels, which, I confefs, wns at the 
firft View very fiightfii! to me. welawtwo or throe times 
little Parties of t^ Tartan, Ujt they feem'd to be;, upon 
their ovni Al&irs, and to liave no D^gn Upon us; and iat 
Bke the Man who met the TDcvil, if th^ had nothing fo 
6y to us, we had nothingtoiaytotlKiai «'elettheni g«. 

Once however, 3 Piity of ihem came fo nwr, as,p) 
ihnd uid eaie at us i whpclKr it was to coafidfr whjrt" 
they Six»M do, iuix,.) to attack, ns, or not attack uf, tJet 
we knew not; but when W;e were pais'J at fome diftanee 
by them, we made a Rear-Guard of fwtjf Men, ami ftood 
ready for them; lettipg the Caravan pais half a Mije, or 
thtreabouts, before usi after a wJufc they miucji'd^ofti on- 
ly we fiwnd they a^hed t^s wjth fivc.Arrows at (heir 
pai'tina ; one of which, wouod^ a Hotfi;, pi that it dif 
abfcd Hipii and we left.hiin (hi? next pjiy, poor Crqature, 
in great need of a good . Farrier ; we fuppoft they "wight 
flioot more Arrows, which OT^^t fell fhort of us, but we 
,|lw lUMsarejUiows W Ji*rtiiri, thitt time. 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( M«5 

^B travell'd nor a Month after thi(, the Ways being not 
fo gooid as ai (iTitr tto' ftifl in-tfai Domiaions of the Em- 
feror of CAi'ni, W Iby; for .th« moil: i^ait in Villages, fiime 
of w;hi^ were fortifioj, becauie of tjie liicurJions of the 
Tarlari .- When we came to one of theft Towns» (it was 
about two Days and a haif^'a Joamey before we w;-ere to 
«ome .td'the City of N«»)«) } wanteit to buy a Camri; ot 
whicli' there are plenty lo be &U aJLthc Way upon fhat- 
RoatJ, and of Hoifts alio, fiicfr as they are; becaule fo ma?- 
ay Caravans coming that way, they are often wanted: The 
Pcrlbn that 1 ftoke to to get me a Camd, would have gone 
and fetch'd it ior me, but 1 like a Fool muft fce officious, 
toA go my fclf atong with him : The Place was about two 
Mile* out of the Vill^e, where, it ftems, they kept the 
Camels and Hories fee£ig under a Guaid. 

1 w alk'd it on Feot with my ok! Pilot in- Company, 
and a. Chintfe, being very defirous, forfooth, of a little Vi- 
mty :■ Whai we came to this Place* it vi'aa a low marftiy 
Ground, will'd round with a ftone Wall, piled up dry, 
without Morter or Earth among it, Rkc a Park, wiih a 
Ktile Guard of Cfcwyi Soldiers at tbelJoor. Havingbought 
a Oilnel, and agreed for the Price, I came av.ay, and th« 
Clihttfi Man that went with me, l«l the CameU when «m 
aiiddencameupfive Turtarj oa Horfe-backi two of 'em 
ftii'd the Fellow, and took the Camd ftcwn him, whiic 
^ «ther ttee ftep'd up ito me, and my «^ PfloM Seeing 
tis as-it*ere'uniim'd, ior I Iwrf no Weapon s^iout we, biu; 
aff $Word, ivhicb coukl but ill d^nd me ^^tnft diiee 
Hotfem;^ ; the firfl . jhat cwie up, ftof'd ftwrt upon Ttof 
^wing my ^word(.j(ftir tliey aie, errant , Coward!)bw a 
ktomi. comipg yt^n niy wr, gave me a Blow on tie 
Jieac!, wbichlncverfvllt^C^erwfli'd', and wondered whep 
I came, to my ^, what i^as the mvxa wilh me, .atU 
wIktc 1 wat, for he laid m< flat oa iheGfxnmdi but nqr 
;aeycr-&iling old P%*, the rwMflttae (1^ .■Proiri<fcnce tmj- 
Violftd ter dire^ Delivctances ivarb Pangeri, width to us 
Ha nofn^leen^ had a PiAo^ in ioi Packet, wHch I kflcw 
fio^ag of, aor t^ ,3in-fiVj.Bettber-; if they had, I fup- 
;polb tW; WouM n« have «Baek,'4ufi;But Cowarda.^c 
»t((r^ys&ldeft when there ift;tiq Dsnger, - ■ As-ji 

,Tiil ol4 ManiccJng me down, w}l^a&oMHe»tfl^)fU 

to to ihf Fellow that had- ftruck me, anrf laytog hdkl wf 

lua^jAfA wwh on^ Hasdf. and' puUiagMi<n down^ mtii 

forcci «li«k towBi# liias witlhWptfaer.iw-aMhV 

kto 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 21^? ) 
taeo-tbe Head, and laid him dead upon the SpoT, be ttna 
iminediatdy ftep'd up to tum who bad ftap'd us, as I £rid, 
and before he codd come forward again, (for it was all 
done as it were in a Afoment] made a Blow at him with 
3 Scymeter which he always wore, but mifltng the Man, 
cut his Horle into the (idt of his Head, cut one of his 
Ears off by the Root, and a great Slice down the fide of 
hit Facet the poorBeall enraged with the Wounds, was no 
more to be governed by his Rider, tho' the Felbw fat 
well enough tooi but away he flew, and carry d him quite 
out of the Pilots Reacli, and at ibme diftancc riling upoa 
bis hind Legs, threw down the TitrMr, and fell upon him. 
In this Intaval the poor chiruft came in, who had loll 
the Camel, but he had no Weaptnii however, feeing the 
Titrtar down, and his Horle lailen upon hie), he runs to 
him, and leising upon an ug^ ill-^vour'd Weapon he had 
by his fide, fomething like a Pole-ox, hit n« a Pole-ax 
neittiLTi hewrenchd ic&om \am, and madclhift to knock 
bis Ttmtirum Brains out with it ; But my old Man had 
the third Turtur to deal with flill, and feeing he did not 
fly, as he expc^et), nor come on to 6ght him, as he ap- 
pehended, but flood (lock Aill, the old Man llood ftill too. 
and fells to work with his Tsckfc to charge his Pillo! a- 
gain i but as foon as the Tartar fiw the PifSl, whether he 
uippofed it lo be the fame or another, [ know aof] biic 
away he fcowered; and left my Pilot, my Chiinpidn I mV- 
Ifd him afterward, a comjtet Viflory. ' 

By this time I was a little awake, ^r T thouB^ 
when f Stll h^an to BWakr. thk I had been iS a 
fVeet Keeps but, as. Ifiid above, I wondefcdwhete'Itrai 
bow I nmc upon The Ground, and wfiat wa? tfcMifJer: 
Is sW«id, a ttWMoraeots afier, iii Seuft returned, 1 fift 
Pain.rilo' I tfid notknow iSherCi I cbp'd'iiiy flaii^ ^ 
my Head, and took it tway bloody; then I feK (ivy' HcH 
Bch, and tbeiJ in another Moinent, Memory r^tthned, asS 
evwy tbmg wuf .prefent to me B^jn. ..".-i 

I lump'd tip tipoti my- Feet inftan.tly, and get Hold of 
5iy Sword, but no Enemies ia'riew: I found a XtWitrlfe 
dead', and htj- Horle fiaitdStg Very ouitily by hini'; iilQ 
^lOking farther, I fiw my Cftimjaob aniJ' Eldiytfer,' Wiib 
.%^.'becn to fte what theCkintji haddone,' potftifag fckJc 
widl hu Hajiger in hts Hand; ae oki M^n feeing rae'<^ 
mtfltxtr came nmniiig to fne, ahd 'embtaced me with> 
jreat deal of JAf, beihg't)¥aid<^-^%e that I had been kn- 



Hosted by 



Google 



C 23^ > 
W; !«ri' firing me bbwdj-. wtmld fee how I was hutf, bd( 
it was not raucfa, only what w« call a broken Head ; nri- 
tiier did I afterwards find any great Inconvenience from 
the Blow, other than the Place whidi was Hurt, and which 
waa wdl i^n in two or tliree Days. 

W E made no great Gain however by this Viftory, fw 
wc loft a Camel, and gained a Horfej but that which iwat 
remarJkatle, when we came back to the Village, the Man 
demanded to be paid for the Camelj I dieted it, and it 
was brought to a Hearing before ■ the Chintfi Judge of the 
Place; that is to lay, in Englifli, wc went before a Juftice 
■of the Peace: Give him his clue, he aSed with a great deal 
of Prudence and Inipartialityi and having heard both Sides, 
he gravely ask'd the Chmeft iWan, that went with mc to 
buy the Camel, whole Servant Iw was ? I am no Servant, 
feys he, but went with the Stranger ; At wliofe Rcquell, 
Ays the Juftice? At the Stranger s Requeft, Jays he ; why 
then. Jays the Juftice, you were the Stranger's Servant fot 
the Time, and the. Camel being dciivet'd to his Servant, it 
was delivered to him, and he muft pay for it. 

I CONFESS. the thing was lb clear, that I had not a 
■Word to Jay; but admiring to fee fuch juft Realbning 
upon the Ctmicquence, and lo accurate ftating the Caufe, I 
pay d willingly lor the Camel, and lent for anothe' j but 
jon may obfeve, I fait for it, I did not go to fetch it 
jny Jtifanj- more, I had CDOugh of that, 

THfiCityof NuB/n in aFrontier of the Ciine/i Emwrcj 
they call it fortified, and & it is, as Fortifications go tlierej 
for .this I will, venture to affirm, that ali the TiW-Mr^ inKit- 
■mJiAthsir, wliichi believe arelbmc MillionE, could not battff 
down thf Walls, with their Bows and Arrows; but ro call 
it fttong, if it wwe attacked with CannoDi would be to 
' awkr thalie who underlVand it, laugh at you. 

.W» wanted, ai-I have Aid, abowetwo Days JOumeyof 
diisCSty, when MeflcDgers were ftnt exprcfs to evtrf 
rPaitoi' the Road, to tcSall Travellers and Caravans, to 
fait till thfy had a Guard lent to them j for that" an uiw- 
^-Body of lio-tari, making ten Thouland in all, had ag- 
pcar'd in the Way, about thirty Mtlcsbeyond the City; "■ 
tnis wasTcrvbadNew'stoiTfavellersj hoWe^er; itilMt 
caiefuilydonecrftlicGovemour^andwewercvetyg&dtO'b^ 
welhooidhaveaGuard.; aecortjir^ty tWopavsafwr.WeMd 
■X96 Soldicri IcoMii. &Cim.a..CJ^ri&]ii of OiKCiaitJit, HA 



Hosted by 



Google 



Mir left, and three hundrqi more from the City of Nlwnt; 
wd with chofewc advanced boldly; the three hundred Sol- 
diers from ^Mtm, marcfa'd in our Front, the two hundred' 
m eurRcar. and our Man on each Side of our Camd^vrith: 
nur Baggage, and the- ■whole Caravan in the Center; in this 
Order, aiww^ prepared iot Battle, wc thou^t our fclves 
a. Match tor thcv/holeten thou£uid Mob^h/ DirMrj, if they 
had appear'd,; bwt the next Day when they did- appear, it 
wu quite another Thjng. 

It wa» early in the Morning, when marching from a. 
Utile well fituated- Town called Chungif. we had. a River to 
paft, where wt were oblig'd to. ferry ; and had theljirMM had: 
any Intelligence, then had been the Time to have attak'd 
us, when the Caravan being over, the Rear Gauid was 
bahind i but they did not appear there, 

A B o u f three Hours arteTj when w^c v/ere cntcr'd up- 
aa a Deiart of about fifteen or iixteen Miles over, behold, 
by a Cbud of Duft they rais'd, wc faw an Etiemy was at 
Hind, and they were at Hand indeed, for they came on 
upon the Spur. 

, The Cbintfet. our Guard on the Front, who had talk'd 
fii tug the Day before bwan to ftaggcr, andthe Soldiers 
i&e«ra^tly look'd behind them, which is a certam Sign in ■ 
ilSo)di<ir,.thttheisju(f ready to run a'wayj my old Pilot was 
o£ D» MIb4i >iid being near me, he call'd out, SeigniQi^ 
lpgl»^ (iys he, thpfe Fellows muft be encourag'd, or they 
WlU'Vuin us ^1 i for if tlie T^tan come on, they wiD, 
»CT» ftanditj 1 amof-your Miid,/fl(i'/. but wfat Courfc 
mtift bc.donc? Done \ ff-pht, let fifty of our Man advance 
and flank, them on each Wjng, and encourage them, and* 
they wiS fight 4ike biave Fellow/s in brave cSmpany ; bnf 
yrithotit it, they ,wiU every Man turn his back* tmniedi--. 
ately I rod up to our Leader, and toldhim, wlax was a,- 
t^f of oOT mind j. and accordbglv, fifty of us raarch'd- 
to Ae rtfht'WJng, anJ fifty to the left, and the reft made 
»LiDa of ftefccvei and & we ma^ifd, leavii^ the hA tw^ 
hun4red Men to majce another Body, by thcmiclves, and to 
'guvd. the Camels .j wly tW if need were, they IKbuid 
mJ .a,'_hQndlwd Men, W afiift the laft fifty. . 
w,ttt a,VTOrd,' the 3J»r(»rj cameOn, aod'an innumerable- 
-Conp^y^ they ^wrc j how many, we could not tell, but 
tea Xhoufind-wethmight was the toaft : A Party trf tterp 
WRt-CK At&.aO(^vicyv^«ui' Foftwci.trayeriuig theCround 



ia. 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



in tbe Front c^ our Line i and as we buai dmn wathat 
GuA-flioti our Leader ordered the two Wisgs to advance 
iWiffly, and give them a Salvo on each Winj^ with their 
Shot, which was done ; but they went oS, and I iiippofi: 
went tack to give an Accout of ihc Reception they were like 
to meet >vltli : Aud iudeed that Salute clogg'd their Sto- 
machs, for they immrfiately halted. Ilood a while to coo- 
fidcr of it, and wheeling oft' to the left, they give over the 
Defign, a.od faid no moie to as for that tinne ; which w« 
very agreeable to our Civcutnftances, which were but vety 
indifltreot for a Battle with fuch a Number,. 

Two Days after this, wc came to the City Nauatn, or 
Kaum i we thank'ii the Govemour fot his Care for ut, and 
collefted to the Valueof ahundred Crowns, or thereabouts 
which Ave gave to the Soldieri fcnt to guard us i and here 
we reflcd one Day : TTiis is a Garviibn indeed, and there were 
nine hundred Sofdiers Vept here 3 but the Reaibfi of it was, 
that formerly the Mujctrjite Frontiers lay nearer to them 
tian they do now, the MuJcavUes having abandon'd that 
Part of the County (which lies from this City Weft, for 
about two huodrnl MilesJ as defblate and untit for Ule ; 
and more eQwaally, being ft very remote* and & difficult 
to lend Troops tlather for' its Defence ; foi' wc had m a- 
bove two tlwuiand Mits to Mufcny. properly ft call'd. 

A P T E R thte, we pafi'd fevetal great Rivers, and two 
A^i^Ddarts, one of which wewoe lixteen Z^ys pafllng 
tfttx, and which, asl fiid, was to be call'd No m^i Ijtn4i 
and op the iitb of jifrll we caitie to the Fremtietl of tbe 
Kuh^itt tlominiwis ; 1 think the firft Cfty, <w Town, 
or Fortrcfi, whatever it jnight be call d» that bekmg'd t» 
ijie Crafoi Mufiihj, wajcdl'd -dr^iHh bcii^aa tteWeft 

'X' dUiSd'tuit b^it diicovg: an inS(ike Satis&ftion, thM I 
lins Aby^iititv'd,'[n, as 1 call'd it, a Ckf i^ttan Cwmay, .«r 
«'lia^ln>t;punt:7 ".governed by Oiriftianf.} for tho^ the 

iikfiivf'ti .^,.'in i^t'Op/nim, hut \iiJi defervc theNiUBeof 
'CSriMnsi yet , futh they p-.LtcniJ to be, and ate v<^ ^ 
»wlt,in.thett Vay : It;woiild certainly ,pa;urio any M<9» 
■Wiotl^velsthi .Woiilas 1 have done,,iHiiJ.wi» MmV- 
VovrtT of Reflyftipnyi fiy. it wanUoccwit* -lun^t» 
jeBtit wHit' a'B!cffiog.i£w io bcbi04ght ipto the Wprld,; 
whwe the' Nanie of God, anJof a Rriwmer is knowib 
WOTfiiip'd aod adw'd > aiul roe where the Feople HveAW 
^/.^ ■■ '■ " ^ 



Hosted by 



Google 



C«33) 

hf Heaven to ffirong Deltilions, worflMp the T>evtlt tni 

pnritftte thciriftlvcs to Storks and Stones j woifliip Mon- 
mrs, Elements, horfible Ibaped Animals, and Sttfucs, <» 
Ifliages of MbnKers ; Not a Town or City wc pafi'd thio', 
but had their Pagods, their Idols, and their Temofcs, and 
ignorant Feofde worftiipping even tlte Works of toeirown 
Hands. 

Now we came where at leaft a Face of the Chiifttan 
Worlliip sppear'd, where the Knee was bow'd to TefiiSi 
and whether ignorantly or noti yet the Chriftian Religion 
was own'd, and the Name of the true God was call'iT up- 
on, and adored j and it made the Te*y Reccfles of my S<wi 
rejoice to fie it -. I laluted the Iirave Scott Merchant I men- 
tioned above, with my firft Aekrowlcdgment of this; and 
taking him by the Hand, 1 iaid to him, bleiled beGod, we 
are once again come among Chnflians: i^efmiled, and an- 
fwered, do not rejoice too &on Countryman , theft M>rf- 
(tvitti ate but an odd fott of Chnflians; and but for the 
Name of it, you may fee very little of the Subflanc^ ftir 
ibme Months farther of our Journey. 

Well, iays I, but ftili 'tis better tfian Paganiiin, and 
worfliipping of Devils, Wly, 111 tell you, fiyshe, except 
the B«iEj» Soldiris in Garriwns, and a few of the Inhabi- 
tants of the Cities upon the Road, all the Tcft of this Coun- 
try, fw- above a thoufand MilCs farther, is inhabited by the. 
wwft, and moft igmlraflt of Pagans i and ft indeM wc 
fijund it. . ■_ 

W E were now launch'd into the grcatcft Piece.of S^ 
Earth, if lunderiUnd any thhig of the SurlaceofihcGlobr, 
that is t» be found in any Part of the WorW ,■ wc had at. 
]eaft twelve hundred Miles to the Sea, Eaftw»Ji,,we had 
at lerJt two tboufand to the BottditJ of thcB^tick Sea, 
Weftward; and almoftthree'thoufandMiJes, ifweWt that 
Sia, an^wcntonWcft to the Briii/h and Frtnttdaaa^- 
We had fiill iive thouland MilK to the InJiiin, or PtrfiM 
Sea, S6uthi and about eight hundred Miles to the Fioxen 
Sea, Northi nay, if ibme People' may be believed, tbfM 
ttrighc be tto Sea Ntwth-Eaft. "till^e came round the Pole, 
amconrebiieHtW hito the North- Well, apd fi> iod a .dpR-, 
titlent ttf und into Jtmeripi , no Mortal knows wltne, 
tho'f ciMild give loniie Kd^s, wl^ I b^eve that to be 
fMiftaketoo. ' 

;yV:j We cato'd into tlid Mttfaniu piiQiiiilons, i gMxil 
whik 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( >34 ) 

(wliile Before vfe came to any confideraliii; Town, vre had 
nothing to obferve there but this; firft, Thar all the Rivers 
run CO the Eafti As I underftood by the Charts which 
Same in our Caravan had with them, it was plain, that all' 
)&ofe Rjveis ran into the Great River Yamour, or Gam- 
iPum-: This River, by the natural Courfc of it muft run 
into the Eaft Sea, or Chiuefi Ocean : The Story they teli 
«s, that the Mouth of this Riner is choak'd up with BuQ- 
Jufhes of a monftruous Growth, (i/ia.) three Foot about 
■Kid twenty or thhrCy Foot hig^, I muft be allow'd to fay, 
I believe nothing of i but as its Navigation is of no Ule, 
Jwcaule there is no Trade that way, the Tttrtars, to whom 
-okne it bcdargs, dealing ki Bothin^ but Qittje, To no Body 
«hat ever I heard of, ms been curious enough, either to go 
^wii to the Mouth of it in Boats, or come up from tbe 
-Mouth of it in Ships; but this is certain, that this River 
Tunning due Eaft, m the Latitude of 60 Degrees, cairies a 
•Mfl Concourfe of Rivers along with it, and 6ids an Oceai), 
to empty itfelf in that Latitude) & we are furc of So. 
there. 

Some Leapae« to tlic North of this River, there are fe- 
»eral coniidctaLk Riirers, whole Streams run as due North 
u the lunmr runs Faft , and thele are al! found to join 
<*eii Wawrs with the &-eat River Tartarus, natu'd fo, 
AwM the northermoft' Nations' of the Mangul Tartafi, 
wA* the abiaife fay, wp-e the firft Tartar) in the World j 
■od whti, as our Geographers alledge are the Gag and M*- 
fogi menxioa'i in Gcree! Story. 

'TAEflfi Rivers tunning a]' Northward, as well as ail 
th« othicr Rivers, I am yet to fpeak of, make it evident, 
*hit the Northern Ocean bounds the Land alfo on that 
£ddi ia that it does not feem ratioodl in the leaft tothinlc. 
that the Land can extend itl^f to join with Amtriea on 
tllat Side, or Hnt there is not a Gomdluiiicaiion between 
ibt Northern and tte Eaflern Ocean j bnt of this I fball 
&y no more , it Was my CSrferratibn at tlut Time , and 
tbctefOTr 1 take Notirt of it in thft Place: We now ad- 
V^tedftmn the River ^r^MM by eafy and moderate Jour- 
•*y«, sad were TeryTifibly oHig'd to the Care the Ctw of 
iSnfttnjj has taken to fafvo Cities and. Towns built b as 
ma>y Places as are polHible to^ee ttem, where his Sol- 
diers keep Garrifon fomething like the Stationary Soldiers. 
gdoc'd by the tjmum W ^ 'feaiot^ Ceuotrics of their 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



Empire, fdmc of which I had read were particularly pko'd 
M flrrfiWB for the Security oECommeree,and forthelodg- 
mg of Tiavdlersi and thus it was here; for wherc-ever wc 
came, tho' at thefe Towns and Starjons, the Garri&ns and 
Govemour wee Ruffans, and profefs'd Chrillians, ya the 
Inhabitants of the Country were meer Pagans, ^rificing 
To Ido]s, ami wra-lhipping the Sun, Mooa, and Stars, or aff 
Jhe^ Hoft of Heaven, aijd not only &, but were of all the 
Heaihtni and' J'agms that ever I met with, the mofi bar- 
barous, except only that they did not eat Man's Flelh, a« 
«Ur Say;^ of Amtrict^ did. 

Some Inftances of this we met with in the Cbuntry 
between ^gimn, where w« enter the Mafcmiiu Domini- 
^t, and a City ofTarMrj aadfif^^wj toKthcr.call'd Nar/- 
kiuslrtyj in which Space is a continu'd DeJart or Forcft, , 
.which coft us twenty Days » travel over it: lo a Village 
atar the laft of thofc Places I had the Curiofity to go and 
fee their TTay of Living," which is moft bnitidi andunfuf- 
fcraUe; they h*} I Cippoft a great Sacrifice that Day. for 
riicre ftood out ujwi an oid Stump of a Tree, an Idol 
Blade of Wood, fv^htftii as the Devil ; at ieaft as any Thing 
we can think of to repre&nf the Devil , can be made ; it 
had a Head certainly not Co much as relemblitig any Crea- - 
ture that the World- ever fiw; Ears as big as Goats H.otns, 
and as highs Eyes as big as a. Crown-Piece j a Noii: like a 
CTOolced Raines Horn, and a Mouth extended four eoniw'di 
nkcihat of a Lion, with hoinblc Teeth , hoojted like* 
Parrot's under Bill; it was drefled up iri tiie 6khi.eft Man- 
ner that you could fiippoft; its upper Garment was of 
Sheep-Skins, with thq Wpqi outward, a great Tartar Ban- 
fiet on the Head , with two Horns growing through iti 
it was about eight Foot high, yet I^qo Feet tn- Legs, or 
shtother Proportioti of Pirts, 

This Se»e-crow was fit up at the qut^ Side of the 
Village, and when I came near m it, there ware Sixteen or 
feven^cen Creatures, whether Men or Women I could not 
fell, for they make tK> Difltnftion by their Habits, either*>f 
Body or Head, tbde lay aJL flat on (he GrtHiiidi round 
Oiisibrniid^ Block of IhapctefsWood : IfiwnoMotiona- 
tnong them any inore,than,ir they had bean Logs.of Wood like 
thair Idol ; at firft, I really thought they had been fo j but when 
t came a little nearer, they ftarted up upon their Teeti and 
Bis'd a.howHng€rT,, as if it had beenlo many deep-inouth'4 



Hosted by 



Google 



( =3< ) 

Hounds, and wa!k'd away as if they were difpIeisMat our 
diftttfbing them : A little Way off from this MonAer, aiid 
at riie Door of a Ten: or Hut, made ail of Sheep-Skinj 
and Cow-Skins, dry'd, flood three Butcherj, / thmtghtthtj 
vtrifutk; for when I came neater to them, I found th(^ 
had long Knives in their Hands, and in the Middk of tM 
Tent apwar'd three Slieep kili'd, and oneyoutu Bullockor 
Steer ; Theie, it fecms, were Sacrifices to that fcnfelefi Log 
of an Idol] and thde three Men, Prieils, bekn^ng to itj 
and the ftventcen proftiatcd Wretches, were the People who 
brought the Oi&ring, and were c;ak.ing their Prayers to 
that Stock. 

'1 cofiFEss, I was more mov'd *t tlwr Stupidity and 
this bniitilh Worfhip of a Hobgoblin, than ever I w»s at any 
Thing in my Life j to fee Go&'i moft glcvious aaJ beft 
' Creature, to whom he had granted £b many Advantanges, 
even iyCreatiim, above the reft of tlic Works of his Hands, 
veiled with a realbnable Soul,.and that Soul, adom'd with 
Faculties and Capacities, adapted both to honour his Maker, 
and be honoutcd by him, I fay, to fee it fiuik and d^ene- 
rated to a Degree fo moic iMa Aupid, as to ptoftrate it 
ieif to a frightful Nothing, a meer imagitiaty Objed, 
drefi'd up by themielves, ao(l made terrible to themlSva 
by'their own 'Contrivance j adoro'd coly with Ckwts and 
Rags ; 4n4 tdaj.this ibouH be tlic Efeft of in«« Igno- 
rance, wibiiyit up into helUih Devotion by the Devil fim- 
frtf 'i who envying Jto his Maker) the Homage and Adcd 
tatiort of his'Crfiitures, -had deluded tbcm into iiich groi>; 
iitf&itinj;^ Ibr^ ani3 bruitilh Things, as wic would think 
ftiouia ihocy. plature it iSf. 

Sv-t wtuit;i^'f!i^ all the ^iltaiiinimcnt ag^ gxAedJon 
of Thoughts i u»i it wa*. and I Ijiw it befiye »y -Eyes 
and ti^fq^as lioxoom to W9nderaci£. or thinkk im^f 
lihlcj M my AdnuMtion OMa'd fo -Rap, and i lid dp to 
the fm!Sgif,:<riKb^ttg>.cafl ^ what yoxj.wiH, and withmy 
Svff^d'sat.^te Bonnet ,^t,wa» on iisHead is two in the 
Middle^ lb tlwt "fc,|«^ k|ows 'aj one of the Horns i md '' 
oie (jfiUr Mci]^^^ ,wu with me, took )xAi of the She^ ; 
Skin tl>li:'~CQ;va^ it, and puU'd U it, when, behold' a moft "■ 
hcdlops Outcry and HoL^-liqgnuthro' tkc Villager andtwo 
or'threc Ftiinaied ^bo^ gani« Hoiiex, my -£ai«, fi) that I 
wis glad to fto^r for it i iw we 6w fcmc had Bows and 
Arrows i biit I Vdelvel from that Mosoqit to rtfit tbein 
ta/aa, ■ Our 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 237 ) 

O u B Canvin refted three Nights at tte Town, which 
tvas ghout four Miles ofF, in or^ to provide Ibme Hor^j 
ivhich they wanted, fcvml of the Horles having been lam'cl, 
lod jaded, with the Badnefs of the Way and ourlosg March 
w/fi the kft De&rt { lb we had finite Leifure here to put 
my Pefign in Eicecntion : I communicated my frojcft to 
rhe Scei! Merchant of Mttfcav, of whofe Courage I had 
h»d lufticient TelHmony, as above : I R^ him mat I had 
(een, and With what Indignation I had fince thought that 
luiman Nsture could be ib degenerate : 1 told him, 1 was 
refolv'd, if I could get but four or five Men well arm'd to 
go with tae, to poead deDroy that vile, abominable Iddi 
to let them iec t^t it iiad no Power to help it &lf, and 
confetjuentiy could not be an Objeft of Worihip, or to be 
pT«y'(i to, much lefs hdp them that offer'd Sacrifices to 

iH t bugh'd at me ; fii^ he. Your Zeat vay be good, 
but what do you propole to your felf by it P Propofe ! 
(aid I, to vindicate the Honour of God, which is infulted 
by this Di'vil Worfliip : But how will it vindicate the 
Honour of God,/W t* I While the People will not be 
■sfcic to know wlat you mean by it, unkfi you could foeifc 
to them too, and tdl them ib. aiK] then they will fig^C- 
you too, I'il afltire you, for they tre delperate Fellows, tai 
that e^wcially in Defence of their Idolatry ; Can we not, 
fiiiJ I, do it in the N^ht, and then leave them the Rea- 
ibntandCuifes in Writmgin their own Languwe? Writing! 
Jaidix, why there is not m five Nations ot tfcm one Jim 
that knows any thing of a Letter, or how to rea4 * V W 
in any Lan^u^, or in their own ; Wretdted^oranoe!. 
laid ] to ^im t however, I have ti great Mind to do it i 
pettM^-Nature may draw Inferences ftttan Jt.to (hCoj, to 
let tJiem fie how brutifh they art, to worihip iucb hor- 
rid.Tliings ■. i(»*jw«,Sir, A/^A*, tf jour^^calfwrn^yon 
to jt Jo warmly, yo« muft do it ; Iwt id the nott TTace I 
would have you tonfider, theft wiM l^atlons of Pe<^ are 
fubjfiled by Force to the Cat of Miifrviy's Dominions, and, 
if you douiia, 'ti&ecD to o4e but they wiU come fay Thou- 
£iiM« to che Govefnour of tiwitiiulii^, and compUm, mi 
demmd Sads&Skm i and if he cannot give diem Sads&c- 
tion. 'tit ten to one bur they t^oh, and it will occ^ion a 
new War witbjB.tic Tatws-ln rhe Country, 

T H I », I confcfi, put new Thought* into my Head for 

a while J bat I harpd upon the lame Siring Itill, and all 

that 



Hosted by 



Google 



t xj? ), 
ftat Day T WIS un«fy to put my Pffljrfl ia Exertion : 

Towards the ETtning the ,to« Merchant, met me by Ac- 
cident in our Walk about the Town^ j^ delir'd to (be«to 
r««h mc i I bdkve, A,^ hi. I have put yo» off of nvff- 
\ ?f ^,l' ^^r^ teen a Jktfe co,cfmy ^bgut it Snw, 
i abhor the Idrt and Idolatry as mudi *s, you can do j 
Tn^y /&)'//, yofi Kave piit it off a Urtle ^, ia. the Em«. 
tiMiof It, btityou haFcnot fcutifat alloutof piy Thoiwhtt 
and I believe I Thall do it ftlu before i auit this PkccTlto^ 
I Weri to be deBvej'd up to tlim for, SaMsfaaiaj : No, 
noi/aj-j ht, God forbid they iliould deliver you ap to fucb 
a Crew of Moflflers ^ they ftiall not do that ndiher, that 
wOUUbemurchetingyoumdecd ; Why, /».>, how would 
^t^';,'^^^^l'H?'^°'^}-l''y''^' I'JlTelJyou how they 
^v d a poor Rujpmn, who affionted them in thm- Wor- 
mpjuftasyoli did; and who t6«7took Prifoiieri after 
they had lam d him- with on Arww that ho, fonJJ. tuM nm 
away, they toofc Mm dad ftnpUWftafk naked, and fet 
him upoti the Top of ^IdotMonfler, and iJoodill round 
him, and fhot as ittany Arrows into himas.would ftick 
over his whdle bod v and tfo, they burnt hmi and all the 
Arrows ftiekirig in hi in as a Siaifii^to the Idol : And was 
Aisthe^cldd, faidl'* Yes, A^. kt, thevayfaiBc: Well. 
Ar^ /, m ten you a Stbryi fc I related the S^ory of out 
Men at M«ii.£<w and How they burnt and fick'd the 
ViW therft aiid kiU'd Man. iVoman and ChiW, for thdr 
»Cr7^!.T °T'L'^™V"1='V' iMcUtedbeforci Mid 
When I _had done, r added, t&t I tibughtwe ought to do 
io to this Village, 

He lirttn'd very attehtiveh' to the Story ; but when I 
rdk'd oFdfting fo tothafVil&gei/*,, be. You miftateve- 

Sraudi, It was not this Vi%e,,.it,wa( alnjofi a femdted 
ifci from this Place, but it was the i^me Idtrf, for thev 
carry him sbout tn Profeftion dl over the Country ■ WiD 
mi. thentTiat Idol oi^htto be punilh'dfor it. arid itlhall. 
ftyi I. if I hvc ftjis Higte out. 

I H a Wota, fih3mg me refolutc, (je lik'd the rfef^- and 
ttW me I ftoM not go alone, but S would go A^ 
but he ■WouH go m, and bring a ftout Pdlow, one 
of his CduOtryiflen. to go alfo with us ; and tme. Omtht. 
as tamoiis for his Zeal as you can drlirc any one to be 
agataft fiichdeviiifli Things asthefe: In a Word, hebrouehc 
me hi* Comrade, a Sm-r^nn, who he caU'd Captain fi<- 
e^an^at, and I gave him a foil Account of what I had 
fenj 



Hosted by 



Google 



( 239 ) 

Jeen; and sKo of what I intended ; and he told mc readily. 
he would go with me if it cod him his Life; fi> v " 



o go only"us three : I had indeed propos'd it to my 
KT, but ne declin'd itj he faid, he was ready to afhl 



to the utmoft, and upon all Occafions for myiDcfrncet 
bat that this was an Adventure quite out trf his Way j (b, 
I fey, we refbJv'd upon our Work, only iw three, and. my 
Man-Servant, and to put it in Execution, that Night about 
Midnight, with all the Secrecy im^inabie. 

However, upon fecond Thoughts, we were willing 
to delay it till the next Night becaule the Caravan being to 
ftc forward in the Morning, we fuppos'd the Govcr- 
nour could not pretend to give them any Satisftidon 
upon us when we were out of his Power : The Scui 
Merchant, as (leady in his Refbltition to enterprise it, iS 
bold in executing, brought me a Tartjir's Robe or Gown 
of Sheep-Skins, and « fennet, with a Bow and Arrows; 
and bad provided the Jame for himiclf and his Country- 
man, that the People, if they Skv/ us, fliouU not be able to 
determine who we were. 

A L L the firft Night we fpent iannixing up ibme com- 
buftible Matter with Aqua-vitx, Gun-iwwder, and fuch 6- 
ther Materials as we could get, and having a good Quan- ■ 
tity of Tar in a little Pot, about an Hour after Night we 
Sx out upon our Expedition. 

W E came to die Place about eleven a-Clocfc at Ni^if, 
and found that the People had not the leaft Jeaiouiy (rf 
Danger attending their Idol; the Nkhtwas cloudy, ycc the 
Moon gave us Light cnoughtoftethatrheldDiiiood juftin 
the fame Poihire and Place that it did before; The People 
fiemcd to be all at ^beh Reft, oniy, that in the great Hat, 
Of Tent, as we cali'd if, wlKte wc iaw the three Priefts, 
who we miftook for Butchers, we Ciw a Light, and go- 
ing up dole to the Ooor, we heard People talking, as if 
there were five or fuc of them ; we. concluded tiicrefbrc, 
rtiat if we let Wild-fire to the tdol, thefc Men would come 
out immediately, and run up to the Place to refcue itlrom 
the Dcftruaion that we intended fi>r it. and what to dd 
with them we knew not ; once we thought of carry- 
iBg it away and Jetting Fire to it at a Diflancci oat 
when we came to handfc it, wc found it too. bulky (ot ' 
our Carriage, {o we were at a Lofs ^in -. The &nad 
EcDis-man was for Icttpjg Fire to the Tent or Hut, and 
knocking the Creatures tBaiwnc there on the Head when 
they 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( 1^0 ) 

they came out j fcirt I e<»ild notjoin with that j 1 was 
againit killing them, If it wm poJlible to be avoided : Wfl] 
then, fiid the Sens Merchant, I'll tell you what we will 
do. we wiB try to take them Prifonets, tie their Hands 
and make them ftand, "and fte Iheir Idol delhoy'd. 

A s it happen'd, we had Twine or Packthread enough 
about us, which vras ufed to tie our Fiie- Works togetfer 
with) fii we re&lired to attaque thefe People firft. and with 
as little Noife as we could : The firft Thing we di<l, we 
knock'd at the Door, when one of the Priefts coming to 
the Door, we immediatdy feized upon him. ftop'd his 
Mouth, and ty'd his Hands behind him, and led him to 
the Idol, where we gag'd him, that he might not make a 
Noife i t/'d his Feet alio together, and left him on the 
Ground. 

Two of us then waited at the Door, expefling that 
another wouki come out to fie what the matter was ; but 
we waited fo long till the third Man came back to us j 
and then no body coming out, we knock'd agio gently, 
and immediately out came two more, and we fcv'd them 
juft in the feme Manner, but was dilig'd to go all witii 
them, and lay them down by the Idol tome DJAance from 
one another; when goingbick, we Ibund two more were 
come out to the Door, and a third ftood behind them with- 
in the Door : We S:iz'd the two, and immediatdy ty'd 
them, v/heii the ihitd (hoping back, and crying out, my 
Sioti Merchant went tn aner him, and taking out a Com- 
BoiiticM) we had made, that would only fmoak and ftink, 
Ac let Fire to it, and threw it in amoag them ; by that 
time the other Smfnuai uid my Ma, tSdag Chatee of 
the two Men already bound, and ty'd togidiff a!lb by Che 
Arm, led them away to the Idcj, ud left tCfcin tJierc, to 
&e if their Idol wouJd reiicvt tk^, makingiaiRe bade to 

When tlie Fuze we had thrown in had fill'd the Hut 
with fh much Smoak, that they were almoll fuf&cated,' 
we then threw in a fmall Leather Bag of another kiod, 
which (lam'd like a Candle, and following it in, we fbuiid 
there was but four Pn^je left, who, it ieems, 'were t«*i 
Men md two Women, and, as wefimxu'd, liad beentfxHit 
Ibme of their E^bohck Sacrifices : Thty arpear'd, in flwrt, i 
frighted to Deuh, at leaft ib as to £t trembUng and ftupidi | 
and not able to fpaik neither, for the Smoak. 

I N a Wiord, wc took thnn, bound them as we had the 
othcti 



Hosted by 



Google 



(i;0 :^ 

oilier,. aad all without any Nwfe ; I iTiouM have laid, we 
kvought them wt of the. Houle or Uut firA ; for iadeed 
■ wewere not able to beai ^ SiQoak any rooi« than they 
were : When we had dgoe this, we carry'd them alltoge^ 
ther to the Idol : When ve came Cber^ we fell to work 
with himi smd firrt we daubed him all over, and hisRobcj 
aUo^with Tar, and lueh other Stuff as we had, which wa* 
"tiiSovr mii'd with Brimftone j then we Itop'd his Eyes, 
mdBars, and Moytt fiill of Guo-powier. tlienwf wrapp'd 
Alp a great Piece of Wild-fire n> his BonneE, and. then 
nicking ail the CombuftiUu we hsd bnn^t with us upoa 
him. «ve look'd atxniC to lee if we could find any thn^ 
elfe to help to burn him i wh«i my Smfmnn remembred. 
that by the Tent or HuM where the Men were, there ky a 
Heap of 4Jfy Foraee, whether Straw ot Ruftcs I do not 
rememberi away he and the other ScDtfmnu iim, and 
fetch'd their Armsfuilpf that: Whro we had done this, 
we took all our Priioners,, and brougiit them, haying un- 
■tv'd their Feet, and ungagg'd their fttouihs, and tnatktlicm 
lUnd up> and ict them jult before their mooArous Uoi, and 
then ifX Fitc to the whdc. 

We ftay'dby it a Quirter of an Hour, « thereaboutSf 
'till the Powder, in the Eyes, ud Mouth ■ and E^^ of the 
Idol Mew up, and as we dwjH perceive had fplit and de- - 
ftjrtned the Shape of it; and in 4 Word, 'tiU we&w it bum 
iiKo a meet Block or L(^ of WooJ . and then .feting the 
dry Plorage to it, we fewd it wauld be toon jquiie con- 
&m'd,fowebegaatothiiikofgoingawayi but the Awz/waB 
Jaidno. we nliSnotgo, forthe&.poordetided Wreiches*iU 
all throw themieiypiato the Fire, and bum themiclies with 
the Idol ( & ¥V« reC^wri ta fiay till the Eraafic ivas burnt 
J .__ —■-*-- wc qime away and left Wm. 

ij^r'jl amaw-pur Fellaw Tra- 
„■ in gttti^g rea^. for our Journey i 
lu^ett that wc lad been any where 

. _. Travcllera might be ihppos'd to bt; t» 

■fit thontelves m the Fatigues of that Day's Journey. 

B o Tit did not end ibj .for the next Day came a Eteat 
>lultitude of the Ccwtry People, not only of this ViR^ 
Pi^of a hundrcd;jnore, for ought I Imow, to the Town- 
'Gnte5.,and in a moft outrageous Mann©, demanded Satis- 
niiion of the S/i^W Governour, for die inciting tliek 
Piieftfi, and burning tlKJi Great Cham<:^~Thifimgu,lhch a 
harfl Name they j^ve the moniirous t>eiturc they wor- 
:-■: _ ...,~ . "I* ftiip'dj 



Hosted by 



Google 



I 243 ^ 

{hip'il,; the People of Nertpmk/^, were .at fi^rt in a_great 
Conftertiation, for, tJiey fm, theT^'riari were no leisrhan 
thirty thouiliifl, ahdthrt in a few Days mbife, they would 
be one hundred ■thcwfaod ftrbng. 

■ The Rw^« GoVemAuTfent out Meflengers to.appcaft 
tii«ii,"~and gave them alt the good Words imaginable : He 
afllired thertt, Jie knev*- nothmg of it, and that there had 
not a Soul of his Oartifen beffn abroad: That it could sot 
fce from any body there, and if they Would let him know 
who it was, (hey ftoutd be examplarily punilhcd : They 
return'd haughtily, that all the Qiuntry reverenced the 
Great chMn-Chi-lhaungii, who dwdt in the Sun, and no 
Mortal would have diJcrced to ofter Violence to his ftnagp, 
but fomeChtiftianMifcreant, lb tiiey call'd them, itfeems; 
and they therefore denounc'd War againft him, and all the 
R«*^;«, who, they faid, were Mifcreants and Chviftians, 

The Governoar ftil! patient, and unwilling to make a 
Breach, or to have any Caufe of War aHedged to'be given 
by him ; The Ciar harhig ftraitly charpdthem to treat 
the amqtier'd Country wnb Gentknefs and Civility, gara 
them ftill all the good Words he could ; at laft heloid 
them, there was a Caravan gone towards R«£h thatMoin- 
jng, and perha'psit was fomcof them, who had donetfeem 
this Injury i and that if they would be Citisfy'd with that, 
he would fend after thetfl, to en<jaire into it : This fcem'd 
toappeafc them a little, and atcordiugly the Govemour 
ftrtt iftcr us, *id gave Ufa particular Account how the 
Thing wasi hit jmating witM, that ff any in our Caravan 
had i>ne it, they'fhould niak^ their Efcapej but that, whe- 
thei^ey had dbne !t or rto, we (liould make all the Hailc 
6)! ward that was poftibte ; and that, in the mean Time, 
fcp would keep them in Play as long as he could. 

This was very frientily in the Govemour i however, 
when !t cam'C to tie CarJivan, there was iro body knew 
arty TliinE'of the Matter* and, as for us that were guilty, 
we Were^thri-leaft of all flilj»eacd ; noneib much as ask'd 
lis the QueffioCj- lioWever, the Captain of the Caravan for 
the Tiifie, to^ tlft Hint t^iat die Govemour mvc as, and 
we marched or travelled two' Days find two Nights, with- 
jout any confiderabfcStc^, and then we by at a Village 
call'd Phihtii ;■ bot'AH fee make any long Stop here, hut 
haitai'd on toward s^jwrfipwif, another of the Czar of jW«/^ 
WW's Colwiics, and where we enpeited we fhould be fafc ; 
but it is to be ot^ved, that berc we be^a for two or 
thr« 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



I m } _ ^ 

thl'ce^j's Marcbj'to enter upon a vaft name!ersT)e6rt, rf 
which I Hull iky more in its PJaccj and which, if wehai 
now been upon it, 'tis more than probable, we had beffli aB 
deftroy'd : It was the fccond Days March from PIm/hus 
that by the Qouds of Duft behind us at a great Diftance, 
Come of our Peopfe b^ui to be fejUble we were pur&ed t 
Ve had enter'd die Daarr, and had pafs'd by a great Lake, 
"call'd Schnki Ofir, when wc perceiv'd a very great Body of 
itoift appear on the other Side of the Lake to die North, 
we travcliing Weft : We obfer'd they went away Weft as 
we did, but liad fuppofed we would have taken thit Side 
of the Lake, whereas, we very happily took the South- 
Side i and in two Days more we tow them dot, for thq^ 
believing, wc were ftili before them, puih'd on, till they 
came to the Rivet UMii this is a very great River vvhen 
it pafles ferther North, but where we came to it, we found 
it narrow, and fordabfa. 

The third Dly they either found their Miftake, or had 
Intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us, towards 
the Dusk of the Evening : We had, to our great Satisiac- 
tiwi, juft pitch'd upon a Place for our Camp, which was 
veiy convenient for the Night ; for as we were upon 3 
Delart, tho' but at the B^mning of it, that was above 
five hundred Mih;s over, We Imd no Towns to lodge at, 
and indeed ^xpefled none but the City ^^rjiwem*, which 
wc had yet two Days March to t the Defirt, however, 
had fomc few Woods hi it on this Side, and little Rivers, 
which ran all into t)te great Rivet UJJa .- It was in a nar- 
row Strait betvwen two little, but very thick. Woods, that 
we pitch'd oiir little Oamp Sx that Night, enpeaiog to be 
attack'd in the Night. 

N o body Itftew but our felves, what we were purliiei 
for j but as it Wjw ufua! for the Mmml Tartars to go about 
in Troops lo that Defart, fo the Caravans always fortify 
themfelvcs evwy Night againrt them, as againft Armies of 
Robbers; andit wastheretorerioncwThingtobepurEied. 

B u T we had this Night, of all the Nights of our Tt^ 
vels, a moft advaiitagwiusCamp) for we&y between two 
Woods, with a littleRIvulet nuuung juft before our Front ; 
fo that we could not be furroun^d, or attack'd any way, 
but in our Front or Rear: we took care alio to make our 
Front as ftrong as we could, by placing our Packs, with 
our Camels and Horfts, all in a Line on the Iniide of tJie 
Rivet, aad we M'd fome Trees in our Rear. 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



lu-thk Paflnre we tticamp'd fiw the Night, but the 
f.ittmy was upon lu before we bad fimlh'd our Situatioii'; 
Tbey did not come on us like Thieves a* we ctpefled, 
but tent three Mcflengers to us, to deniaod the Men to be 
deKvcred to them, that bad ibus'd their ftiefls. and burnt 
their God Cham-cM'TiuiMi^ that tiny might tmrti 
them \with FirCj and i^on tiiis, they &ii, tlwy would 
goawajf.anddo usflo ftffchcr Harm, odwrwrifc they would 
bum us ali with Fife; Qur. Merkjocdc'd rcry blatk at thii 
Mcfinge, and hwo to Ihre^t one anotlier. to-lee who 
look'd with ram Guiit in their Face* j but no B** was 
the Word, no body did it: The heaiet of the t^rsviin 
_ fcnt Word,. he was well aflia'd, it was.tta^donc by-any of 
our Camp i that we were peaceable Mcrahants, traveiiing 
onour Buiinefsi that.w^ iadrfwie noharm to them, or 
to an? one ellc -, and chat thereiore tl»;y mirf loot foihcr 
■for lidr Enemies, who had in;at!d them . for we Were 
flot the Pnq>!e-* & delir'd them not to dillurb us, for if 
they did, we Ihouid dcfind out lelves. 

Thet were far Bom bong fatisfy'd with this fot an 
AnfweTj and a ^eat Crowd of them came down in the 
Moving by 'Bmk. of Day to oar Campi but Ctang us tn 
juch BO advamageoiu Situation, they durl^ come no ^' 
thet than the Bio^ in our Front, where they liood add 
Ibew'd UE £ick a lumber, ihat indeed torifyM ns very 
much , for .thcfi; ^t fpoke leaft of them, ipoke c^ ten 
ibouCukI : Herc.fbey ftood and look'd at as a white. Mil 
ilicn fetting up a RfeMrHowI, Aej let fiy a Cloud of Ar- 
ro^fs jimong usi -but "we -wWe well enou^ foitifyd Sot 
ibaxf foe we {hdMr'd under our Sa^ge, and I do notte* 
member Tha^0ne Man of us was huTt> 
. S,oM^ Tipis_a^.this, we fee them move a little to 
«ur Right, .uid.espc^led them i» the Reati when a cun- 
ning 5'™5Wi,,it C^^ttfs.tiKf caB thtra, of^aravtoM, jn 
the- Pay of iJw A(^f«.«,(^aJling to the Leader, tf the: qi. 
fgiytia,S3i^.X6l^m,i'S^&e&ailthdic People away to Si- 
ifi^lH thi;wa»BCit}«. four -or five Days Journey, at lead, 
to,fW^Ut}i, {Ujdj^thor behind lu : So he takes his Bof/ 
IniiAn'Ows,,^ getting co HoMe-bask, he rides away from 
out Rear direiMy, .as -it were, back to Ntrtfmkiif i af-' 
ter this, he takes a gfe« .Circuit abcut, and' oomei to the 
Army of tJieT«Mw/. as If hff had been ient Exprefs to ttH 
theiii a long Story ; that thd People, who had ^umt die" 
CktHTf-eif^ii/am^Ut woe gone to SiiiilH, with aCararan 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



(Hf) 

of MiCseastf. as iie call'd them, that Ii to By, Chri/lians 
uid-^t they werei-rfblVd to bumtheGod SdiMl-Ifrr, h^ 
longing to the Tc^gurfei. 

As this Fellow was hirafelf ameer Tarfflr, andper&ftly 
&oke their L^iguage, he counterfeited io Well, that thejr 
al took it g-ooi him, and away tfacy drove, in i nfoft vio 
knt Hurrj', ra SiMka, wMcb, it ftenw, waB five Days 
Joam^ to rlie Sbutfa, vnd fe kls than three Hoots, the/ 
W«e entire])' out of our Sight, and we neverheaid any 
more of them j nor ever knew whether they went to that 
other Place call'd SHalka, or no. 

So we pais'd lafelytMto theCity of jAr^ieemi, where 
there was aGarri&n of Mufcomei, and there we rcftedfive 
Days, the Gaiavao being exceedingly fatigued with the laffi 
Daj-I hard March, and with want of Reft in the Night, 

Fho M this City we had a frightful Dtfirf, whidrh^ 
tu three and twenty Days March: We fwnift'd our fches 
with fome Teots here, bx the bectv accommodating our 
fidves is the Night; and the Leader of the Caravan, pro- 
cured futeen Carriages or Wa^;ons of the Country, fiw 
carryit^ our Wwer Mid Provifion*, and diefe Can iagcs wit 
our D^nce every Nigid round our little Csmp i lb that 
bad the Tartm-t appeared, unlcfi they hail teea ■<tNj nurne'' 
Tous indeed, tb^ would not have bem able to Jiurt i». 
^ Wb rav) w(^ be fiippos'd to want Reft i^in after this 
long joiuBey ; for in this De£it we fiw neither Houleor 
Trcci or Carcc a Bufb ; we &w mdeed ahundance <^ the 
Safale-HtiDSers, asthvy call'd them.theleiireallT^/^nrof the 
Ueagal Ttrtmj, of vrhick this Couatry Is a Part, and thi^f 
tiequently attack fmall Caravant, but we &w no Kum- 
bers of thnu n^ber : I wbs curiam to Ac the S^lr 
Skmi tbf^carcfa^ hut codd iievtt Qn^ with any ai 
than, for they ihirft not come near' vm neither datft we 
ih^l^ from OUT Company, tia go nest tItAn. 

After wc had |«£'d this Ddert, we canM Into v 
Coimtty pretty weU inkabited t that is to fay,. we fountfe 
Tawns and CalUes, fettled 1^' the Czar of MWf«i7 ; witb 
CarriTiHis of Stationary- Soldiers to proteA The CaravuH, 
and defend the Country againft the Tun»t, who woulif 
atherwifi make it veiy da^erous travclfeig) and hisCtji— 
n/* Majefly has given fiich unSt Ordtrs for the well guard- 
ing the Caravans and Merchants, that if there are any Tmt- 
tms heard of in theCouotry, Detachments of tte Giurifima 
arc alwaysiaat toiee Travellers &fc&omSt}tioa to Statioi^ 
L 1 Ahd 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



*N»lrIiu«rii(i Goveroour of ^nft^m who riudOp- 
poitunitytomakeaVilitto, by. Means of rheirWj Merchant 
who was acquainted with him.offcr'd us aGuaidof fifty Mcii, 
tf wcthoughttherewaEanyDanger to the next Station. 

I THouGitr long before ths, that as we came neaicr 
tp E»r9pt, we il:odd find ibc Country beucr peopled, and 
ihc Pecf ]e more civilized, but 1 found myftlf miltdicn in 
both, for we had >et the. Nation of the Tongitefts to pafc 
tiwough; where we fjw the Jamc TokcM f^ Paganiiia. 
j«iid Battari'ty, or worleiiiian bcfix^j only as they were 
conquer'd by the Mufcovites, and entirely reduc'd, they 
■' wac not fi) dangerous ; but for Rudenel's of Man- 
sers, yolatry, and Mukitlipifjn, no People in the Woild 
«vcr went beyond tbcm :. They are cloathed all in Skins of 
I(eaft«, and their Houfcs are built of lie fame t You know 
Bot a Mao. from i Woman, ocilier by the IVuggedncfs of 
their Countenances te that Cloaths ; and in t& Winter, 
whea tlic Ground i» covw'd with Snow, they live under 
OroundiflHiwfcs like Vaults, which have CavitJetoc Caves 
going from one to anqthw. 

I F the Tiariarihad their Chtm-Cl^-litfmgu fix a whols 
Village or Country, tjiele had Idols ia every Hut and every 
tiive; belidcs they WorAipthfi Stats, the Sunt the Water, ttuj 
Siwvf ,aad,ina Wordrfvcr)! thing that.they ^ notundaftand, 
ind they undwftand but verylicfle; Jpchat alnioflevery Eie- 
BW115; exe*y uni.-oau»9R Thing, iat» thins a.AcriSeioe, 
. ipVT-i am no Bitvet^detecibe Pe^le dua Countties, 
yiy fiitther than my oWjo Story comes to be copoerfted in, 
111 thcni: I met wit}) nothii^jKcoliar to my Jelf inaUihis 
Country ..which 1 j:eckon was fiom tlw Defarr^which I fpoke 
«f laii, ^ fcaa4fioMl^^halfof itteioganotl^r I>;£irt, which, 
tookus q; twejy* pays 4veic traveltng, wichom Houft, or 
Tree, »«■ %gi, bitf .vrere cihg'd ag^i to cacry our.own 
Rovifiona, a? 1^^ W^er as Bread : Afrer we wwre out of 
. l)bi!i £)e%t, uid.haci' narelt^ two Days, we catne to T'**'!' 
Ifnj^ 3 UnfitiAtu Cjty.(w,S^ioa. oi) the great ftivet7««- 
Xj^,; TiiiiRifer tjiey t^U£ parted E*-^ &oraj^ rfw' 
V^Mip-OHinen, 4s I am told, do not agree to it j hfrvr- 

Svttii is cflrtain^ the Eaftpv Boundary of tfcc andeu j^- 
truiy v44^ »*>* makes up a Prasince oidy o£ithe yjift 
^ufctvitf Erapirci but is itW A^B^DBigoelGtotliiswlKde! 
Empire <>f C^rJ — " 



Empire « (ifrJMWft' ^ 

JinD yet here 1 obfin-^ Ignorance and Pteamfin ffill- 

(reya^ q^tcqgt iatJw WwwCanifwisj aTtJie Ccwb- 

trjt 



j^eya^ q^Kt^tatteJUh/AWVACaniTfuisi a 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



,( i47 ) 

fi^ ifnwwn tlie River "g^, and the River fitntz^ is as 
eiitirdy Pagan, and the People as Inrbaroue, astheremoteft 
of the Tartars, nay, as any Nation fw ought I know in 
Afin or America: 1 slCo found, which I oWervd to the 
hUifcovkt Govemours who I had Opportunity to converfc 
xvith, tliat the poor Pjtfsms are not much the wifer or the 
nearer Chrillianity for &ing under the Mufcovite Govern- 
ment i which they acknowledged Was true enough, but, 
they fiid, it was none of their Bufincfs: That if the C^»r 
eypeftcd to convert his SiStriim, or Taamefi, or Tartiir 
Subjefts, ii Aiould be done by fending Clergymen among 
them.notSoMiersj andthcyaddcd, withmoicSincoityihan 
I expc&ed, tliat they found it was not & much the Con- 
enn of their Monarch to make the People Chrl&ians, as It 
was to make them Subjefts. 

P R o M tMs River to the great River Oiy. we crofs'd a 
Wld unculiivarcd Gduncry;.! nuuiot &y 'tis a barbarous 
Soil i 'tis only barren of People, and" good Management, 
otTierwSc it is in icfelf a moft pleafant, fruitful and agree- 
able Country i What Inhabitinta wc found in it are all Pa- 
gans, cxo^t fuch as are fait among them from Rk^j j 
tor tliis is the Country I measonboth fides the River o4r> 
'whithH' the M(^iwtf« Criminals, that are not put to Death, 
arc banilh't^ s^ &om whence it is next to impoflible the/ 
Jhbuld ever come away. 

r'HATE nothiig Material to % of my particular Af- 
fairs, aU'letme to Ti>i«Uld, the Capita! City oi Siitria, 
where 1 continued fomc time on the following Occafion. 

TV E had been, now altntrft fcven Months on our Journey, 
and Winter bean to come on apacej wherwipon my Part- 
ner and I calra a Council ahaat our particular Afiaii^;, in 
^vhlch we found it proper, confideriigthatwewrcrc bound 
fer 'Eiaiatid, and not for Mi^cow, to confider how to dif- 
po£ ofoiir fives: "They tdd. ia of Sledges and Rain-Oecr 
fo carry us over the Snow In the Winter time; and in- 
deed they have-flich Things, that it would be incr«lible to 
rdate the Particulars of. by which Means tl^e RuJ^s tra- 
vel more in the Winter than t&y can in Summer, bccaiifi: 
fc^thcfe SWIs they are aWe-TO ran Night Kid E^yj the Snow 
B&g frozen,- is Qnc-uhiverfi! Covering t(jNa(j)rei bywhidr 
Hie Hills, the Vale*, die.RiverSi the Gkefc-aH are finooth. . 
and hard as a Stone, and they run uwiii the Surfiice, wiih- 
aut any It-egard n> what is und^eath. 
- OvT r^ no occaliba to pufh at aWinKr Journey of 
L+ this 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



( ?.4» ) 

this, kind , I wa$ bpuad to Englatwi, not to MmJcow, ax] 
my Rout lay twB Ways j either I mull go on as the Ca- 
ravan went til! I came to Jna/bvy and then go off Weft 
for Harva and the Culph of Finlmidi anJ to either by Sea 
«r Land xoDantzkk, where I might poffibly jyimyGWiw 
Cargo to gcod Advantage, or I muft leave the Caisvan at 
a BttIeTownontheiJ«w«, fiomwhoice Ihadbut fix Days 
iy Water to jirch-jfyigtl, and. from tfieoce might be fiirc 
ef Shippinc, eithw to EngUnJ, Holland, or HKmturgh. 

Now CO go any of theJe Tourneys in the Winter, would 
^avebeen piepoilerousifbraj^toDaMijcA, the Jfl/f«i would 
be froien up, and 1 could mot get PSffige, and to go by 
land in thofe Countries, was far lefs fifr than among the 
Wmgfri Tartarsi likewife Co go to Arch-jiasel io OSi^er, 
all the Ships would be gone from thoice, atid eveo tBe 
Merchants who dwell there in Summer^ retire South to 
Mufitrm in the Vinici when the Slaps tie ganci Co thu I 
flmuJd hare nothing but Extremity of CoU to encounter, 
with a Scarcity of I^oviiions, asd muft lie there to aa 
empty Town all tlie Winter: So that upon the whole I 
thought it much m j fcettcr way to let the Ciraran go, 
sod to make ProrilHMi to Whita where I was, (vU.fn 
Taieisii in Sibrria, m ^ Latitude ^Siity Degrees, where 
1 fK Aire of tlvee Thit^s to wear out a. cold Winfcr 
"with; fnij Plenty <f Pr6»ifion, &ch as the Country tf- 
lindcdiswa^m Hcuie, with Fueleaoifgh, and nccdient Com- 
■j*^ i of all whKrJi I.ftjflgiite 4 full Amount of in its Place. 

■ r* AS now uj a ,qui» difecnt CBmtM frbiii my be- 
■tot'd ICand, where I never fcb OM. eic^t when 1 had 
tiy Ague i on the eontracy, i had much to do to best 
any Ocachs on my Sick, and never m»de any Fire hot 
Witiiotrt Doorr, ot* for myNcceffity, fndicfTmg myFood, 
(5"e-NowI mjaeiBcthrceeoodVeftt, withbrgeECobesor 
. Gowns over item to hang down to die Feet, and button 
riole' to the WrilJs,^ a? thclc lin'd with. Flin tooK^ 
tJtfm fiifficieiidy wrm. ' ' ' 

Jt»to a warm HouS, I muft oonfefs T grcwfy difliie 
OUT Way in SaflmJ; of making Fire» in every Roofd hi 
ihc Houlc, in open CKmncys, which whqi the Ffre wu 
out, always ktpt the Air in. ^ Room coldastheCHmaiie: 
But taking aa Apactnwnt in a gpod Houfe in the ToWti, 
I order'd 3 Chimney to be built Jtke a FumjKft in the Cen- 
ter of £x Icveral Rooms* like a Stovej the Funnd to rarrj 
tbcSmoofc weac.u^QoeWay, theijom' tocosuutheFire 



Hosted by 



Google 



went in another, ind til the Rooms werc)xpteqttall5wirm, 
but no Fire fteni like as they heat the Bagnio's in EuglnKL 

Br this Means we hadalways the &ncClim3te ia alltlte 
Rooms, and aneqoal Heat vna^nlen'i; an^ how cold lo- 
ever it wis without, it was alw»ysw»m within, andyetwe 
"iawRoFire, nor ^vas ever incommolcd withanySmmk. 

The moft wonderfol Thing of all was, that it fliould 
be polTiblc to meet with good Coiapsay here, in a Coun* 
try fo barbaious is that ofthc moll NortherLy Parts of E«- 
rtft, near the frozen Ocean, and within bat a vei*y few 
D^wE of NtvA Ztmila. 

But this being the Country where the State Oiniinab 
of JduftW]!, as I obJerv'd befote, are all banilh'd, this City 
was fuU of Noblemen, Prians, Gmtlemen, G^oneb, odlI 
in (hort all Degrees of the NoWHty, Gentry, Soldiery antl 
Courtiers of Mufea*y.: Here was the feaious Prince G«irg^ 
iro, or Galtiglnn and his Son die old- General Rattifiuki, anl 
ievefsi other Perfims of Note, and £>ine Ladies. 

Br means of my Seati Mcrdiant, who ncFerthelcfs I 
parted with here, I made an Acquainiance here, with feva- 
tal of the& Gentlemeu, and Ibme of iliem of the Er A Rank,and 
from thefc in the loi^ 'Winier N^hts in which f (bid here, 
Ireceiv'd ftveral agreeable Vifits:.ltwas taltiag one Nigilit 
with a certain Prince, one of rhe-baniiii'd MjniSia-s of State 
fctotigingtotheCzatrfAfilf/nrcj', tha trty'Taik of nny par- 
ticular Cafe bc^n: Hehad Deentelling nic abundance 6nidc 
Thing* of thcGreatnefs, the Munificence,' tLctiomisions, 
andtfrsb&kitePoweiof the£niperbtofthER/(^Ei«i,;. lic- 
lOTUjttedliim, andt^iiimlwasagreatcr ami raorcpowei- 
fiil Prince than ever the Gar of -MS/fiy was, tho' toy I&- 
aunionswerc not Co bm;, orrayPiopIcJomanjj^'rlieR*/"- 
fimarittidteh6tdi]it&Ba^n^d, anifoingils %eiftoi- 
£tf np<M me, l"*^! te woier whit i ineant. 

J uU Invti his Wonder wpuii cea& when I had atplaiB.'i 
mf fdfr Rrft, Iwttiym, Thadtheabfi^utctJirpofilof'thc 
Lives and Fortunes ofall my Subjects: That notwfchlhialing 
Kif abfiAit* Power, t Kad not one Pcrfiradiaffl:aie4.Cqmjr 
Gflvefntnent^or to my PcrCjh, ia all mjDofninions: He 

■ Ittaok his Itead at that, anJ SM^, thne indeed I outdU the 

■ Oar of Alufc*iy : J w/if Bm, Tfcit att, thij 'taa^ 'm my 
Kingdom were m)'awn,.ai^ aD my SubjcAs were hm 

■ oiAr my Tenant!^ but Teiiints at will; 'ftat Acy would alt 
fight fe mc to the l»(l Drop; aitd that never Tyrant, (5r;S(pfr 
I aekmmltihtdmyfeff'hie.vns erer ia. univeriatli bdovc^i 

■ (nd yet fi) Eoniwy ftarcJ by his Siibje^ls. Aif- 



Hosted by 



Google 



Arrm Miufing tfratt with thefc RJdafci in Goremmoa- 
fir a while, I open'd the Gjft, and toid them the Story at 
ftrgsof my Iwing m the WimA;and how I mmaEal both 
mjfilf and the ft»i^ there tfej were- under me juft is I 
feye fincc mitmtcd ic down : 1^^ w<re exccedinffiv ta- 
fcoi Wth, the Storr, snd efpecKJIy the Prince, who toB' 
ipe with-* Sigh, that the true Gnatneftof Life was to be 
Mafto' of ou'feivcs;, Th«: he would not hare exchauffcd 
ftfh a State of Life a? mine, to haine been Cj^ of Mi^co- 
%j.,i and that hf ftmnd more Pelkity in the Retirement he 
fimm'd to be banift'd: to theift than c«r he found in the 
Jlightft Authority he eojoy-d-in the Court of his Mafter the 
©sar,: Tbu: thcHeightft of human Wiiaom was to bring- 
tm Tfempers-down to our Qrcumflanccsi and to make a- 
^mwithin, under the We%htofthcgreatefl: Storm, with- 
«iK : When he came feft Ether, ht f»ii he ufcd to tc^ 
t!l? Hair ftoo* his- H«d, and the Cloaths fiom his Back 
9S ^her*. ted done bribre him ; but a Kttle Time and Con- 
Jwteratioa had made him bote into himftlf, as wcllas round 
Jiimf?!f, (o, Thingt. without^i That he found th^ Mind of 
Man* if. it was but once bfong^ to reifedi upon the State . 
of- uoi7erJal. Life, and how little- this World iv^ 
cwiown'J 1% Its true Felicity, was pcifcaiy capable of 
nwkiug X Feh<#7 lor itictf, fnlly iatisfj-ing to itfiif-; and 
fiittabJcw ira avra. bcft Eodi and Dcfurs, witli but very 
Bttle AflHtaK«.fi-om the World: That Air to breathe 
jfi, Pi96<l' t» fctlain tafiv Cloaths for Warmth, and Li- 
berty-for Bxetc*, in order to Heahh, compleatcd. m hU 
Ofiiihu, al^tIia^the.Workt coDld-d« for us; and tho' tfe 
Greatrieii.theAuthDrnT, tiicftidies,3ndthePieaiur<Mwhidi 
fomc cajafAia the. World, and vriiich he had enio*'d \as 
Share of, feod murftaa t*em that was agreeable to us, y« 
he obi"ea;ve<J that ali thofe Tfimgs chieflv mtify'd the cd*- 
Jeftrf.oOrA&dwnai fuch « our Ambition, our paftieuiar 
n-ia*,' our Avtnct, «ir Vanity, and our Senfiaiity ; all 
whUh were mdaed the mta Prtuka of the wcM-ft patt of 
Man, were hi thfmfih'« Criiaes. apd had in. them tSc 
Sceis of flf! nwnne* of Crime, but neithet.wKe tclMcd fa, 
a!_i*wem'd wnh any of tftofe Virtuw thas cooihtuted-ns 
wift Men, o* <# thoiir-GnKTs wWch^ difttnsuiffi-d us 'as 
«ttiffiao»: Th^ beir« -now d^red cf all-th*, fencv'd Fi- 
Scltyvwhicfr, he cnJDyd-iiitte.ftril.Ei:ft-ci&.ofSi;thore 
Vice), iitjmi he was at fcifiire to look ijooq the dark- £de 
^".thcie, Wfhcrc. he, fisynd aD, man;«s q£ Orfemityj afiA 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



wasBow conTinod; that Virtue onjy roakcs-a Mjji tntly 
Wife, Rich, and Grea^ and prefevet Iiim in flie Way to.*; 
fitptnor H^pinefi in a future State j and in . this, bt fitij. 
tfcey were more hxppj i% their Banifbment.-.thau all their 
Enemies were,, wlio had the full Pofftflioa of ajl the Wtaliji 
and Power that they (ilie BanifliM) had Ht bchkid them.^ 
: Ndr, Sir, firf I he, do I brntgmy Mind to this politicaJ- 
fy, by the NeceOky of my Cireumftances, which fomi 
call miieraliic; butif Ikaowatiy thing of my &jti 1 wou4: 
Mtgoback, noBottho'iny_Maftcr,tIieCMr, fhouW call m.-. 
and otftr to re^nftatc me in all my fotmerGrandeurj I^k 
I would no move go back to it, than I lelieve m)i Squl 
when it jl)iill be ddivar'd from rhia Prifim of thq Body, 
and has had a Tafte of the dorioul Smte beyond l.itii 
would come back to the lari of Fklh and Blood it is row 
inclos'd in, and leave Heaven to deal in the Dirt and Ci-inift 
of human Afiaiis. 

He i'poke this with, fo miich Warmth in his Tefoper/C* 
mtich Eamcflaet and ftIoU(»n of hia Spirits, whjch iveve 
apparent in his CouRtesanfcthat it wai.evident it wasiht 
true Senfe of his Soul ; ^id iodeol there was no room to 
doubt his Sincaty, ■ ■, ■ ■ . 

iTObD him, I pncethou^t-Baylcita kkid flf n. Mo- 
narch in my old Sution, of which I led aiven himanAc 
count, but that I thought he was not a ^H)na1;cIl oaly. bM 
a great Concjuerbf j-for tl»e be tiut lia*.gotii»Vi£t«y ovej 
his own .exorbitant Dcgres, andhas tlic abfeluCe Domin- 
ion*verhimieit;ai«iwhoii: ReaJoo entiidf goi-e!nshisV|'iif, 
it ccdainly ^eater llian heihat eoni^s aCityir l>i» niv 
1-ord, -^A j; IJidi i Cilic the-.fciberty t». ajtk -you »,.QyeJli- 
oo ?■ Witb aU my- He«-t«/*;K ht i -16 dwDWhof your U- 
frerty was t^en'>d(/W /, woiud.yoit m<«a«lit Iwid of it to 
dclivcryourlelffromJhisEoifc. ,. 

■ 'H'ai..iN/«ii(jte, yout'Qoeilim] is.&ttlc.'and wtiirti 
fcmoferiottsjuft Diflinftiais, to. givek aiinccre AiiUver; 
and .fit giv« it you fraon the B«i:em of i»y Heart ; No- 
-ding that r know of-'intliis World wouU move mc to 
deUrei myfe^'Aom this StaK^'Of.Banilhmecti itxij^pt tLele 
««Of-'fim< tbeEnjoymantofunyRdatiooSf jndiSpeea'JIy, 
• Iktle'warmer^CiinMto^ but J pi«;cft: to y»u„tJrtC W go 
'ta<^ tothe PoBipof tte Courtj'the 'Glerj'i the Povret-, 
■die Hurry o£ a Miniiler of Stater me Wealth, the Ciaiptj-, 
#ad the Plcafutei fte « w/ay, Follies of a Courtie-; if my 
jjltftcr lliottliii &ad me Woidxhis Moment, that lie iiAov:% 



Hosted by 



QiOO^z 



mt 10 jj le hnidi'J ii» from, I prottj, j^ , ,„„ „, 

liele fiozen takes, for the Fahce of Mufttw "^'""' ""^ 

ftom tie f tar»,« of lie Coirt. »d Um ,l,e f^„, .^, 
tohontj, „d WeJth y^ aj„yj, bete, bot ,00 „,S: 
|e .b&it wo ftom fome ri^U»COnwoienee«of Life v«i- 
Biate polop. eonfifatei md you. 2(Wi, phnderU a«t 
.8. Supples left you iere, auy ao» be iiioile to the o5 
«ia»y Demaods of Life. 

Aj, fm he, Itat » » you fuWe m. to fc, a LoH, „r 
a Pnnte. <^«. So mtleed h am j tot 700 ate now to eorti- 
det meoijJy as a Man ,■ a human Craiture, not at a!l di- 
SiOTift d ftcjm another, «,d ii. I <.„ &fe „„ Wanr, 
Jiilefi I ftouU. bo vifiied with Sicknefi and Diltemper.' 
However, to puMho Quefd«, om of Diftotet, yoTfa 
•«t Ma™ri woate in this Ptee fi,. Perfons of Ra,*, 
we livepofeaiy tetrt as lintedto a Stateof Banilbment; 
we haw fomethiiig refai'J iiom the Shipwreck of our 
Fonune., whKh fecf , „.ft.« ,]„ „^ NeeelTilT of 
Hunting ibi out Food I but tto'rooi Soldiet. who an We, 
withoM ttot Help, live u, a. n,«4 Plmty aa TO , They w 
mo the Woods and catch Sables and Foxes 1 the UbtSi. 
«*a month w,it inaintoin thesi a Yetu", and as the Way 
rf li«|m isnot otpaMiTC, fe it is not hatd to get iifficieii 
toomflves, SothalOl5,ak).isoutofDo.S,. 

iHAVBnoMoom to give afiillAeoJuiit of the nioiia- 
rmWe Coomtot. r M with t«i» Kniy gteaf Man) 
ifiail whtchfhcft«W<t, that his Mind was i* wAitywiS 
a fupoior KimrUfe of Things t, Sipponoi £ RelisA. 
«n, as wil a, by lyaO shate-rf Wiia„„, tl,, UoS 
ttaiij* of *e, Woili »«is really a.-«»±,..,s.h* lid <«. 
ptalsd, and th«.iB. was always the AnCElot&eM, atf wil 
appear in i*c Stwy I am goMg to,lel]. 
, iJ>SM» J",* M«l*od aJai* diialfid WioB 
}*** Wal»»ll«<»ldwasfi>i.fenii, that I could not 
fo much as ItJokabtofld, without*iiap wtaof in FoM,asi4 
»Mai of gi..b«we,iny Fa,,, oti3.ttMood„»iilKML 
ly a Hofc h, fcoath; asrf tiwo for %!«» Thi llitl<,Di,.. 
Jiglt««had,was,as w«K«lionU feMhMe.l*iiaB,,BOt 
rtt vo *»• Hours a Day, and Jii-at jnoih^oniy thMtfa Sslti* 
^itrg on the Ground coiKiiwaliy, aiai .the WdatWr etcaa, ifc 
was never ooite dsik, Our Horfes woe km>t (or rathij 
«• ydi nulla 8ra»ts«ii « ftir ««r««i«»Bjat weiMia 



Hosted by 



Google 



( m n 



Servants here to took after our HoHcs and fcSvcs, wehad ev^ 
rj- now? and titm tlwir Fingers and Toes to thaw sai xAc 
care of, left they ftxmH mortify and' ftli off. 
■ It is true, wfttm Doofs We were warm, the Houic* 
fctingclofe, ihe Wilfe tlrick, tkc Lights finaH, andtheCkfi 
all .(tuAle ; Our Food 'was tiaieRy the Fleih of Deer dr^Vi 
and cur'd ia tte Seaftjfi j gdod- Bread enough, bur bsdt'd aj 
SiskctsidirdFifli of ftroal forts, and fome FHhofMut- 
taa, and of^the Buffetoes, wMch i» pretty good Beef; All 
the Stores of Proyifion for the Winter are laid up in the 
Stimmer, and wdl "ear'd ;■ out Drink was Water, mix'd 
with Aqua-vitae ioftead of Brandy, and for a Ti*aE, Mead 
inftead of Wine, whieh, however, thtj have excellent good ; 
The Huntert, who veniare abr»ad iiU- Weathers, frcqticntly 
troi^M us is ftefh VeniTon, rery fttaad good j and Ibmc- 
timcs Brars Ffcfli, but we dAA not. ffluch care fijr the blh 
Wc had a good Stock of Tea, with which we "treated atis 
Friends, as abovci and,- trt a Word, we llv^ very eheaifiiUy 
wd welt, all Things conlider'd. 

It wa» now Mtn-eh, and tie' Days ctowb confidcrably 
kmger, and the Weather, at teaft, trierSjk; ; ib other Tra- 
vellers began to preporc Siads to carry them over the Snov#, 
■nd to" get Thtiiga nady to be going > but my Mca&re* 
bcfcg fa'd, M r tan tM, far ^^Angtt; anj not ^ 
■Miimij or the Baitick, 3 itndt no 3*Iotioh; knowingvery 
wea that the Ships ftom-the South, A) not ftt out" fttt 
dot Part of the World till May or ^^»j aod that if I vin 
thefc by the begbniBg^.4*f<^, it would be as tbon«> 
tny 8hipt Avo»3i-be rMdy to go swavj and tbtrdore, 1 
fty, 1 sndc miM'to'to t« gone, asot&ersdidi htaWoi^, 
](fikr> « gnat SMOy Peoipte^ tny, aa the TnVeSers go *> 
waytiefewsia: lf4e«M<cTCTy -Tto' thm>'g«{[afm tfniOc 
to'ji toj itw ito-TM>>t,;ftA> wtMTy-FBf^aaJbwyHt- 
eeflaries with them, ^miAA &ief btteg tucfc M fiffflU)! ^tiat 
8faBf>»i ^fi>'««het»wnit-«f^^'^iMe llnMdMHM^ttM 
bu then 4iey atfe being to eonW back aadtf mtrfr&w 
|U>k^ wMt'ajl out befen iiM-. > 

-.'4»r<Aioit,Mii)Mit'die lutur nd of Affw r bttari to 'thalK 
•tiUvidf ta'ilACknpratiiias' t wm Amig tl£. ^^occur'd 
.4to'-BH4tee- iMtig4dl.Th^ -iVa^lt- wer« 'bafltfh'i'-''by ^ 
«Sawaf^MW^wS:f^A«>/(Utd'y*tHMltnti>t<ytail!e>(!irr^ 
t««ew>&ia>rllibMy'4o'2»-wWflM"tt#f wam-j why iM 
liipf Tmt'tlteti^>gOc«WRy te tany Put of the World whert- 
jmrilMy tinugfal for oadi'ba^itn'tOHCxaMim what IbOidil 
ti|rietthee^&wa.iBaking AtchaaAtGunft,. Sut 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



B v:T my 'Wwider was over,, when I enter'd upon tfi^ 
Subjoit with the Pcribn I have raentjoa'd, who anfwct'd 
sae (Iws : Conluter, firil, Sir^ fiys he, tie Place wlwre we 
are ; and, &cwdif, the Condiiicm we are in j elpccially', 
IMd he, the Geafraiity of t)x P«tpk who are banini'd lii- 
thcr ; We ara iotroundcdi.laid.hc, with ftronger Things 
than Bais ami Bolts; on the North-fiile. i» an unnavi- 
gabie Oceant where Ship ncveriailii, and Boat never Iwam ; 
neirher, if we had both, could we know where to go with" 
them : Every other way, faid he, we have above a thou- 
£ind Mil™ to p»fs thro' the Ciat's own Dominians, and' 
By-ways utterly unpallable, except by the Roads made by 
lli; Goveriiinenr, and thro' the Towns garnfon'd by 
iiB.TrcK^i fo 'hat we couid neither pafe uadifcover'd by 
fbe Road; or iUbfiil my other Wayj fo that it is in vain 
to attenn]« «. 

I WAS fdenc'd indeed at once, and found that they were 
in a Pri&n, every fot- as lecure as if they had been iock'd 
-.up in the C^Ie of M'^f"' t however, it came into my 
-Thoughts, that I might crrtaia^ lie-, ma^o an Jnftrument 
to procure the E&rape of' ttus excellent Per&n, and tint 
.wlntfvei' Haurd I run, I'Wouldi.ceitaui!/^ .(ly if 1 could 
cattff Jiim oSif. UpOQ' fhia I took au OcciIitHi one Even- 
ing t» tell Jdni aiy TiwM^ts: 1 lepF^ented w him, that 
it was very f»iy (or me co carry \am avray, there beingno 
6uai(i over him io the Counny ; and as t was not going 
,tj> iAKjiotf.ibut to jfr(^.j*^«t and that I went in & tia- 
twei»aCflr»vaDk,by whidi I was not obliged to lie ia, 
.tilie ftitienary Towns is the Defirr, butco»kiieoeajnpcvc- 
f^.^-'ight: wiierel vwuldj we might ealily pa& unintentp^ 
-V>ivt ^f^K^^t^-vib^c J woiila immediately leourehiBl 
-«n bofutdi'M &nsUjh (w.-Dnf r j). Ship, and vny woi ofPia^ 
«lone.Wit^ me;; wA sa to his SwJjSfteoeo att4-.otbcr ftuy 
.tio^K^tUi^ llboulti be wy£Are> ttU he couU .better liipply. 
Jwniaf./.i, ■ ' ■..■.» 

He heardme very attentively, and l0ok.'ci eanteftlyoamf 
■aJBtteewh^Lfpokei h4y-Iconkiiee iR4usKei;j'-E«e,iaiat 
■ wh«I &id put !his..S[ttrits jwo tin :excc9d»ii; IvMin^tf « h» 
OAJBrfi-awtmlychatta'd, his EyflS lookyctiandiiBHeaBt' 
£ittter'd< tHeitHnifihr^cYeitpefceiH'si .tnhisGoioACDUaa 
; nor cwid He.inima&telyCtiiiviiniM: ^ When. 1u W^ncand ■■ 
-as it wereexpc^ed^wliM be..wouItiA>fj"t)»iti'and'^erii« 
jiad paasya.iittlche endwac'd roe, and &id, how wihi^pK 
'AEtt-^v^' ungui;i}edCi;)»tW£fuwcare,_titucr£asiugrcae(|[ 
Ail} 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



Jf&s of PriendAiip are made Snares to us, and wc ara mader 
Tempters of oneanother! Mydcii¥ncnid,/aiiihe, yourOf— 
fer is lb fincerc, has fucli Kindnels in it, is fo diiinterrfted! 
k) itfclf. and is to calculated for my Adv-antage, that I muft 
Ipvevery little Knowledge of the Woild. if I did not botlt 
wtHider at it, aiid acknowledge the Obligatioa 1 hare upon 
tne to you for it : But <&i you believe I was lincere in what 
I: have Co often faid to you of my Contempt of the Wotid? 
Pid you. believe I fpoke my. very Soul to-you. and that T: 
had really ofetain'd that Degree ofFelieityheie, that had placU. 
nje above all that ilieWoikl could igive me. or do for mcf 
Did you believe. I was fincere. v^n I told yow I' would 
not go back , if 1 was rec^l'd even to be all, tliat once I ivas, 
in the Court and vrith the Favour of the Cza* my Mafte^^ 
Did you believe me,,myFri«idi to be anhoneliMan,Ofdid 
you think me to be a boaUing Hypocrite? Here hc,ftopped, 
as if he would hear what I \voiild fiyi but indeed, I ioon 
after percciv'd, tlat he flapp'd becaufe his Spirits were in 
Motion, his great Heart was full of Struggles, and he could 
not go on; Iwas, I ctrnfefs, aftonifh'd at thelltingaiweili 
M at iheMai),aiid I us'd £>nM Arguments v/ithjitm toiuge 
Mm to Cet jiinilHf free: That ho ought to-iook upon this. 
as aDooropen'd by Heaven fw hisDdiverancc, and^Sum^ 
mens by Pfovideace, who has the Care iai Efifjxifition of 
all Events, to do himftlf good, and to reader hirafelf ufc- 
ful in the World. 

H E had by, this Time recover'd^ himftlf ; How do you- 
know Sir, fays he waimly, that Inllead of a Sumimma From 
Heaven, itmay be a FeilR of awMhcr Inftrujnenf? Rcpf*- 
&tvilng in. ali the alUlrii^ Cplows tb-me the 8Itew of FeS- 
dty as a DefivecaDce, wScli may iiritfelF be my ft^an:, aoll'. 
Undilire^ i0.m7B.Hia) Here I asi fin: frana the Temp- 
tation of returning tomy former.- miferablcGreatnifr; thoei 
2 am DM fiire^liut Ebat allcbeSeediof Piiir, Ambi^on, Ava- 
riceand,Lu5!u!;y, which I know remain in Nature, may re- 
vive sod tak»Root, and in a Word, again dvfflwhdm me, 
aad then theku>py PrilbDei% who you ftetiow Miller of Us 
Soul'siibOTY.&all be the mi&t&ble Slave of Mt own Senfe, 
in tfae.Fnll ot all-jwrfbnai Liberty ; Dear Sir, tettoeremamin. 
tiii*blrffcS CWfintmentbaniih'd-ffom the Crimes of Life, 
Kther tha»' purdale a ^wof ReedomiattheEttpenceM 
the Liberty of my Reifim, and at liie F.Kpenco of the ftintte 
Hafpinefs which DOW I have in my View, but ftaUthent-I^ 
|iUt,<lujcklyIole Sight of i for I am but Flctli, a.Mao,ame«; 
Mas*, 



Hosted by 



Google 



Vim , have PaJTions and Af&^ons ax likely to polIe£ aid 
oreithimv me as txci Man: O be not my Friead, and my^ 
Temper borh tognW ! 

If I was tlimia'd before, 1 wat quite dumb now, and 
flood lilcnt, hiokiw at hin), aa^ indeed admir'd at what I 
&wi theSmqjgle m his Soiri vms lb grew, tlHttfao' the We»- 
riwt waj. extr^mty «>ld , it put him into-t moil vicdent 
Sweat,imd I found hcwanred togiveVent to his Mind j Q> 
I laid 3 Word <k two, that f wmild leare him to ranfidw 
of k, and wut on him again, and tlua 1 withdrew to my 
own Apartoient. 

AioUT two Hours after I heard lone Body at, or near, 
tbeDoocof inyRoom, aitd I w!b going to open the Door, 
but he had opcB'd jt, and came in: My dear Friend. /flyj At, 
ytni had ilmoftoveilct rne, bmlam recovei'dj do not take 
it ill that I -do not ctofe with yoor Ofer, 1 aflure you, 1i» 
not ftw want of a Senfe of the Kindncfs of it in you, and 
I came to naake the m<^fincercAcknowtedgment of hto 
you j bnt I hope I have got the Victory over myftlf. 

My L(xd,fjiid J, I hope you are fully fkisfy'd that you 
donotrefJltlK Call of Heaven -. Str,/«i/i&», if it had been 
£roniHcaven, the iame Power i^'ould have tnHoenc'd meto 
accept it; but I h^, and am fully fitiify'd, that it is from 
Httttsntfaat 1 dedioe it, and I have an infinite Satit^^ion 
ia the Failing, that you lihallkave me an honcft Man ftiDi 
tbo' not a.fra Man. 

I had nothing todobuttoac^uidccandmateProlitflioiis 
to him of my having no Etid m it, but a fiacere Defire to 
&rvc.^m: Heembraeymewry paflionatdy.MidBffui'dine, 
he was fcnfiblc c^ that, and fhould always acknowledge it, 
aid witk tbeuhe otlcT'd me > very fine Prdent' ai &Sxs, 
too much iofJeed forme to accept, from a Man in bisCft- 
cwnlhitcnt aad 1 -would have avoided, tiiesi, bnt hcwaold 
sot beidtts'd, 

- Tttbocn UamiBg ffiot my Sirrant to Us Lorifhiii; 
with-aiiaallPrafentof Tea, two Pieces of QbnM Damask, 
MdfawlitlkWtdgesof^otMGoIdiwiaehdid notallvdgli 
ai)WcSxOmKa, ortbcraabont,butw«Te-iar(hDrtoftheVl- 
bxM has&blw, »rfiich. indei^, vThen 1 came to S^tndi I 
&Kmd worth ^acar lOoJ. He accepted the Tw, and ontPJeec 
ofi& Damask, and one of thePieces ofGokl, vjhich had-i 
*i»eStimpi»onit,»fthej^«?»Coiii^CiiA«hicliI found he 
took for tbo Rariety of it, but would not take anv mra* ; and 
ftuWonl bymySsrvaitc chat hedaliiedtolpak with mc 
\ , Wmm 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



Wbeh I came t» Mm, he told me, l kotw whai hacl 

palsy between us, Mid hop'd I would not marc him any 
more in thatAflair; but tlut liuce I made Cuch a genercHw 
Oflcr ta lijm, he aik'd me, if I had Kiodnels enough toof- 
fcr the fime to another Perfon tliat he would ifemc to mc, 
in^vhom^ludagreatShaieofConcerHi I toU Hm, tbat T 
oould not 0y I iticlin'd to do Co much for aay one but 
himiy f, for whom I" bad a particular Vajue, and ihouSd ha«B 
fceen glad to have heearhc Inftrurueotot'Jfis Deliverancei 
howcvo", ifhc would plcafc to name the-Pd&n tio me, I 
would give him m;^ Anlwer , and hop'd he wmld not be 
diQiIcaiw with liie, if he was wiihmy Anfivet; HetoMmc, 
it was only his Son, who, tho' I had not feen, j'ct was hi 
die fime Condition with himfrlf, atid above two hundretl 
iWiics fixjm him, on the other Side the O^i but that if I 
conlented.he would lend fi»' ium. 

1 made no HefitatJcnt, hut tdi him I would do it: I 
nude ibme Ceremony in kttiog fiihi wtdaibndthat itwaii 
wholly on liis Account, and chatjeeing Icould not prCTau 
«o him, I would fbew my Refpefi to him, 1>t my Coa- 
cem for his Strnj but thefeThings are to tedicis to i^Kst 
hen: He fiat avray the next Day &t his Sod, and in ^out 
Twenty Days he came back with the Md£nger, bmn|H^ 
fix w feven Hor&s, loaded with very richFuis, udvttifS 
'in the Whole, amounted to a ycry grent VaJue. 

Hi5 Servants brought the Horfes into tfic Town, tutli^ 
" youBR Lord at a Dilhncc, tU Nkht, when he ram* 
—'a mto our Apartment, and his father etefintad IvM 
i and in Jhort, we conceited itiete the Mannec of out 
Travcflijffi, and every Thing proper ibr the Jtxeitej. 

I iiad boMbt a cDnfideraQequantity'ofSables,t4ackFo« 
tSarOt fine &nunes, and fueh other Pms as arc very ridb* 
J-fiy, I had htia^' them in ihat City in Exchange ft« 
£)rae of .the GootE broi^ht &am Chiain in particifflr ft* 
tbeOoTte atad Notmegs, of wJoch, I firidfltogtawllPart 
fiert, and thfi reft:rffewatids at Arrh^-^ti, ^ a mutft 
better Price t*ail I cohld have done at Iwwlw; and my 
ftrtrer who was fcnfible of the Profit, and whofc BufineS 
more ^artiintls'lf -than mine was Merchandilc, was mightit^ 



rieas'd wMour Stay, 



nAccoutwof thcT^afficfc we n 
■, v^iea I leftthis n 



It was tJwlcginnina aijimt, v^iea I leftthis remot» 
>iace. a City, 1 beittre, little Keird of in the World; wA 



Hosted by 



QiOo^z 



Know nofhow it (htwM'bcmucIi talk'd oF; 'K'c wcrp 
now come to 3 vCr^ fnlallCaravan, being only thirtytvro 
Horfoand Camds m all, ami all of them pafs'iJ for mine, 
tho' my new Gueft wis Proprietor of eleven of them ; it 
was mod naniraV alio that 1 fhould take more Servants, 
with me dian I had before, and tJie young Lord pals'd for 
my Steward; what great Man I pafia for my (clf, I know 
not, neither rfid it eonceta me to enquire; we had hera 
ihe wotft and the largeft Delkt to pafs over that we met 
with in aB th6 Journey; Indeed I c^ it the worft; becaule 
the Way was very deep in (bme Places , and very utKveti . 
in others j the beft we had to £iy for it, "was, that we 
thought we had no Troops ofTartari and Robbers to fear, 
and Hiat they never came on tHs Side the River 06^, or 
at kaft, bat very fddom j buH vre found it othwwife. 
. Mjt ymtg Loud had with him, a Ejithfijl Uufcovlte. Ser- 
vant, oir.ratBec !i.Si6erian Servant, who wa* perfeflj/ ac- 
n ted with the (iouatry; and Who,' led us by [H-ivatc 
s, tiurwe avoided coming irsto the principal Towns 
' and Qties, upon the ^eac Road, llich as Tumen, Solej' 
Kamaih{^, and icveral othets; becaufe the Mt^faviii Carri- 
ftnii which are kept there , are very curious and (bra ia- 
thdr efcfervation upon Travellers ; and Catching kfi any 
of the baoifh'd Periona of Note Ihould make their Efcape 
that Way. iffiK iSM^wys but by this M&sns as we were 
kept out of tRe- Cities , fi> our whole Joubict wis a Der 
ftrr; and we Were oblig'd to encamp and" lie fc our Tents, 
wlien we might We had very good Aorommodatiwi ia 
■the Cities on me Way : This the young Lord was fc feo- 
£bleaf, tlat hcwould not aJbw us to He abroad, v^en 
WE nme to fcveral Cities, on the Way, but kyabroadhTm- 
4tf with his Servaot in the Woods, and met us always at 
4c s^^tiateti Places. 

''■W'e*rere-jofl;. «f«'d SBro^, having pafs'd the Rivet 
tJmd, whirfii in ffcde P&rts,as the Boundary between E«- 
fM# and J^f«, 'and the firfl City on the Ew^p'"" ^^ ^"^ 
«w£ Stly-Kaminkcy, whicllisas much asloiay, the great 
City, on ihi: River K»w« ; and here we thought to aavr 
6xn feme evidenr Alteration in the People, their Manner, 
iheir Habit, thdfl^tilgion, and their Bufinefi; but we were 
miftaken, for as-we-h^a vaft Delart to [»af^ which, by 
ft^tiou, is neirfeveii hundtfeJ Miles long in fome Place% 
©UI not above two hundred. AJiksoVer where we pafs'ditf 
& till *c came paft tliat ho^e Phce, wc" fbu'nff very Ht- 
*" tic 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



ricDiiTerencebetwwnthatCcptintryandfhe MongalTariit>yi 
the People, raoftl^ Pu^anj, and iittle better than' the Savage* 
of .Aneriea ; tlieir Hoiifts and Towns full of Idols, and 
their Way of Living wholly baxbaious, except ia the Cities 
as above, and the Villages near tliem; where they iteChri- 
fiiani as they call themtdves, of the Creeb Clwrchi but c- 
vna theie have their Religion mingled with ib many Rc- 
liqiies of Euperftition, that it is taice to be tnowninfome 
Places from meet Soicery and Witchaaft. 

In pafling this Forreft, I thought indeed we niuft, after 
all our Dangers were in our Imagination efcap'd, as before, 
have been plunder'd and rob'd, and perliaps murtherd by a 
Troop of Thieves i of what Country thiey were, whether 
the roving Bands of the OjS/ar^/, a kind of Tartars, or wild 
People on the Bank of the oiy, had rang'd thus &r, or 
whether they wete the Sable-Hunters of S'btria, I am jet 
■t a Lofs to know; but they were all on Horfc-back, car- 
p-'d Bows and Arrows, and were at fift about five and 
forty in Number; they cameiboear to us, as within about 
two Mu&uet-Shot, and askingno Queflions, tficy fiirrouod- 
ed us ■with their Horfe, ^dTook'd very earneftly upon us 
twice 1 at length they plac'd themlelves juft in our Wa«, 
HI>on which, we drew up in a little Line before our Camels, 
being not above lixteen Men in all i and being drawn, up 
thus, we, halted and fent out the Sikeriim Servaot, who.at- 
tended his Lord, to fee who they were ; his MaftCT w«r 
thc more willing to let iiimgo, becaufe he was not aJitde 
^prctieiiiive, tlaC they were a Siieriim Troop fent out a$- 
ter him : The Mao came up near them with a Flag ef 
Truce, and call'd to them ; but tho' he §>oke fevcral of 
their Languages or Dialei^s of Laa^ages radwr, he coaU 
mt woderftand a Word ificy fwd ; however, after fi>in» 
Signs to hioi, not to come nearer to them at kis Peril; Ci 
Ac iaA>ht underAood them to.mtan, of^ng to flioot at 
Jlim if he advancy ; the Fellow cameback no wifcrthaaha 
went, only th^t by their Drefs, he faid, hsbelicv'dthemto be 
fiimc Tartan of 2&i/n«iw*,or of the CircaJ^n Hoords ; and that 
riiere muft be more of them on the great Defjrt, tbo'hencvef 
heard iJiat any of them ever were Sen fy 6r North bsfijre. 

This ,was fmall Comfort to iis ; however) wc hid no 
Remedv ; there was on Our left Hand, at about a Quarter 
of a Mile's Diftance, a lictieGrove or Clump of Tree^ which 
flood clofe together, and very neat the Road i I immedi- 
aidy refolv'd we would advance to ihoJie Trees, and fortify 



Hosted by 



Google 



our fclvcs as well as we couW cherci for firft I ax^&ier'ii 
(fiat the Tiecs would in great^eaftire cover us from then 
Arrows, and in the next' Place, Thej" could bot come to 
dorge us in a Bodjii it VTas indeed my old Portw^x*** Pi- 
lot vrho jH-opo(cd H ; "and ■ who had this Excellencj' attend^ 
iiig him, Damcty, that he was alwys readieft and moll apt 
todircd and aicoumge lu, inCafcs of the moil Dangc.!, 
we advanc'd immedrately with what Speed we could, and 
gain'd that little Wood, the Tiirtars m Thieves, foe wo 
Knew not what to caH them, keeping theif Sand, and not 
attempting to hinder usj WBenwc came thither, we found 
to our gKaC Sa&fafiion, that it was a fwamp/ fpring/ 
Piece ot Ground, and on the one Side, a very great Spring 
of Water, which tunning out in a little Rill or Brook, was 
a fctt fether, join'd by another of the like BigneTs, and 
vroi ia ihort, die Head oi Source of a coiilideiabic RivcTj 
«ll'd afterwards the WiTtik» ; the Trees which grew about 
^t Spring, were not in alj above two laindrgC bit wcr« . 
very nrge, and ftood'prettj thick) ib that as ibon we got 
in, we £w our lejTes perfcftiy (afe from the Enemy, un- 
fcfi they aliglited and attacfe'd us on Foot. 

But tomaketHsrooredifficult, our Pw«^«c<, with in-i 
flft&tigable Application, cut down great Armsof the Trees,and 
feid tl^m Jia^iging »!a<- £«/j«i« pf from one Tree to anotherdi* 
tjijtt be made a continued Fencealtnoli round OS. 

W E ilaid here wakli^ the Motion of the Enemy foma 
l?Ws, without percdving f hey madcany Ofiw to ftir i whca 
alSDW'ttro Hours fcefbrc Nigte, the>; cajnc down ditc^ 
opon us, atd tho' we fud not pCrceiv'd it, we faat^ thcf 
lad been join'd b^ Same mort of the fame^ Co that tJiey 
were near fouilcoie Horft, whereof howe/cr, we &ncv'a 
/bnie were Womea: The^ came on tB) ther were wittua 
half Sh(K of- our iinlo Wdod, when We fir'd one Mu^uet 
witbMit B)& andicftSU'To tBSAi ra the Sm^ TcMague, to 
know what <they warned', aad l)id them keep offj bu± ai 
if rit^kncw nothiw of:wl»t We laid tlxy came on witE 
a double Fury dirtf^ up to tic Wbod-fii&, not imaginuut 
we were fi)larticado<d that tlmr could RotVeak tn^ our old 
Pilot was our Captain, fts Well as be had been our Enp- 
neer; and ddir'd of'ns, notto fire upon them ti9. they came 
witUa Pifli^-Shot, ■odtfa^t we might be iiire-to km, and 
that when we did fat, we Jhoukl be liirc to take mod 
Aim i wc bad him gice the Wotd of Commaad j muck 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



lie (kW'd To hue, that they were Qtme of then mtHia 
tM) Pikes LcngS o£ us when we fir'd. 

We aim'd fotme, (orProvidencedirefiedourShot&fiire) 
thatwefciii'ctfbartecnofthcm.atthefirft Volley, and wound- 
ed fcVersl others,as alio fevera] of their Horlesi for wchad all of 
Tisloadedour Pieces withtwoorthreeBulbtsapieee, at kaft. 
■ They were terribly fiirpriz'dwithour Fire, aodretreiad 
immediately about one hundned Rods fr«B us j in which' 
Time, we loaded our Piccwagainj 'and fecii^ them keep 
that Diftance, we filly'd out and catch'd fb«r or five o£ 
their Horfes, whofe Riders, we luppos'd were fcili'd, and 
coming up to the Dead, we could eaSly perceive theywere 
jiirMri, but knew not from what Country, or how they 
came to make an Excuriion Tuch an uDu&ial Length. 

About an Hour after they made a Motion toattact us i^n. 
and rode round our little Wood, vo &e where elle they m^ht 
breakinjbutfiodingusalwBysrcadyto&ccthem^they went off 
^in, and we refoR'd not to ftir fittm the Place for that Night. 
We flcpt little, you may be fure, but ipent thcmoftPait 
oF the Night in llrcngthening our Situation, and bwricado- 
ing the Entrances into the Wood, and keeping a RtiSt 
V^tch, we waited for Day-IJ^t, and v/hat it came, it 
give us a very unwelcome Difrovcry indeed, i for the&»^ 
my, who we thought were ^ifcourag'd v/ixb the Reocp- . 
tion they had met with, were nowencrejs'dto no kTsdiatt 
three htmdred, and had Ik tm eleven m twdvc Huts and 
T^ts, as if they we rcftJv'a to befiege us j and this Tittle 
Girap they lad picch'd, was upcm the open Plain, at abowt 
ri^QtertersofaMile from us. We were indeed fcrprit'd 
aftKiaDireoveryi and nowlcon&fs, I gave my fcif over 
for Joft, and all that 1 had: TheLofs of my EficGsdid not 
fiefo near me, (tko' thy wire viry emfiiBfithW) as the Thoughts 
of ^llihg Into the t^nds of fuch Bitriitrmns, at the latter 
End df my 'jQuni9', after Jo manyDifSculties andHax^s 
as'I had gonethro'i and even in Sight of our Port, 'tvhere 
we e?pcMed Safety aod Delircrcnce j a* for tny Bartncr, 
he was racing ; he dedar'd, that to lo& his Goods wbuH 
be his Rum ; and he would rather die than be Ihrr'd ; mid 
he Was for fighting to the kft Drop. 

The young Lord, as gallant aievetFIefli ftiew'd it fclF, 
wvs for fighting to the Jaft al&j and my old Pilot was of 
the Opinion ■we wae able to refill them all, in the 'Situa- 
tion we then were ioj and thus we ipent' the. Day in De- 
bate of what we fliould do j but towards Evening, wc 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



C i52 ) 

fcund that the Number of our Eaemifs ftiU encreas'd, per- 
iapS'as diey were abroad ia fcveral Parties for Piey ; the 
irft hail fcnt out Scouts to call for Help, md to acqimnt 
■flicmtiFtheBootv, and we did not know, buthytheMom- 
ihe they might itilltca greater Number j fc Ibepntoca- 
^uite of thofe People we hsd brought from Toi^hki, if there 
was noothcr, or more private Ways by which wc mighta- 
■wrid them in the Night, aid perliaps cither retreat tolbmc 
Towh. or gcr Help to guardus over the Ddart. 

The Sybman, who wks Servant to the young Lord, told 
c defign'd to avoid them and not fight, be wouU 



ss;; 



s the River Tetraz., by which fie made iio 

S cftidr), but wem^ht getaway ,and the liirMrjiieverthewi- 
; but he laid, his fijfdhad told him, he would not return but 
Woi^ nrijerrfiuCrtO fight: I toldhini, liemiflookhisLori 
ibr that he was too wife aMan to love fightmefor the Jake 
of it ; that I knew his Lctfd was brave enough by what he 
had {V.ew'd already i but that his Lord knew better, than 
fo dclire to have ftventecn or eiditeen Men fight five hun" 
dred, unlets an lyiavoidable Neceliity forc'd them to it ; and 
that if he thought it poffible for us to eftape in the Night, 
we had nothing eUe to do but to attempt it : He anfwcr'd, 
R" Ws Lord gave him fucli Orders, be would lolc his Liic 
if he did not perform it ; we foon brought his Lord to 
give that Ordd*, tha' privatety, and we iLpmcdiatcly prc- 
jiar'd for the putting it in Piaaicc. 

AnH firffl; as icon, as it beSia to be dark. 



e kinged a 



par. 



dfb 



our little Camp, which we kept burning, and y 
make it^m all Night, that the rarwri might 



rondiide wc were Hill theic j but as Toon as it was dark, 
(that is to fi};5 fo as we could fee the Stars (for our Guide 
would not (fir before) having all bur fiorfes and Camels 
ready loadett, we followed bur new Guide, who, I foon 
lound^ flter'd htofelf by the Pole, or K"orth Star, all the 
Country beiflg level for a torig Way. 

AptfeR iW ha^ travclTd tvvo tiburs very hard, ic began 
to be lighter llffl, not that it Wit miite dark all Night, but 
the Moonbeganto rife, fo that in Hiiwt, it was rattier light- 
er thaa we wifli'dittobe; but by fix a-Clock next Morn- 
ing we were gotten near forty Miles, tho' the Truth is, 
we amloft fpoild out Horfes : Here we found a RM^lan 
Village named Kirmanituky, where we relied, and heard 
nothing of tbe CalmuckTartarf that Dayj about two Hours 
before 



Hosted by 



Google 



.( ^6} / 

before Night we ftt our again, and tfavdl'd till eight, the 
Kejt Mottling, tiro' not qiiite fii haftilf as before, aS] about 
fcven a-CtoCK we [>afs"d a fitrte (liver calld Rirfza, ai«f 
came to a good large Town inhabited by Rti^Jtm, and vcrj' 
p)])UlcHis, call'd Otowwyj, tSercwc heard that C-vo^ Troops 
orHowds of Calmuchs had been abroad upon the Defart, 
but that we wefC now compleatlj' out of ftmgcr of them, 
which wa5 to our great Satisfaftioii you may befurc ; Here 
wewere obiig'dto get fomc frrfli Horfcs, and having need 
enou^ of Reft, we (bid five Days ; arid my Partner and 
i agreed to give rte honefi Syberam, who brought us thi- 
ther, the Value often Piftojes, for his conJuiling us. , 
- lifl fVK Days mott we came toVfupmn, upouthe River 
Wrfsofi*, which runni^ into the Dwina. vie were theie 
very nappily near the End of our Travels by Land, tJiat 
River being navigable in frven Days Pailage to Arch-Angtt .- 
From hence we came to LitvTetuki>y, where tlie Rivet 
joins, the jd oi Jitly, and provnJed our fclvcs with twg 
LugS^ge Boats, and a Barge fijr our Convenicncei-weem- 
barFd the 7th, and arriv'd all fife at Arch-Angtl the iSth, 
having been a Year, five Months aud three Days on the 
Journey, including our Stay of eight Months and odd 
Days at Tobohki. 

W E were oHig'd to ftay at this Place fix Weeks for the 
AiTtval of the Shipii and mi^fl h^e tarry'd longer, had hoc- 
3 Hitmliarzher come in above a Month fodner than any of 
the Eiiglijh Ships; when after &me Coniideratioii, thattlie 
City of Hamburgh might happen to be as good a Market 
for our Goods as London, we all took Freight wiih him. 
and having put our Goods on board, ir was mod natural 
for me to put rny Steward on board to take care of theni, 
by which means mvyoung Lord iad a-fulficient Oppor- 
lutunity to coticfat.anoielf' never eonsing on Shore again 
in all the Time we ftaid there ; and this he di4> that lie 
might npt be icca' in, the Qtj, wlietefinncoEi^ Afw^aw 
Merchants Would ceriaiiiiy havcfien aivd S&i^nifAhim. 

We failU'fram.^i^^^ff the 10th »L.Ai(^%ilie lame 
Year, and afiei^nocx^'aordunry. had 'VwiBii aniv'd in the 
£lt/i the ijthofS^tmin-; Here my Krftier and I found 
a very good Sale for our Goods, as well thofe of Ch'mit, as 
the Sables, ^c. of Syber'm ; . and dividinjj the Produce of 



our EEfefts, 
withitandisg 



Rv Share amouted to \4Jfi- '7 '■ J ^. not- 
Ig many Loiles wc had iuilain'd, and Charges 



Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



^' IK lai been at t -orij remembni^ thu I had induded ta 

^ this, about fix Inmdreil Pounds worth -of Diamoods wlucft 

s Iliad purchas'd at SeagsU, 

I Here the }t»ing Lend tocdt hi* Leave of us, and went 

l^ the Slit, in Older to go to the Court of Viemu, where 
Ik le&lv'd to Seek Prote^on, aiKl where he could cor- 
icfprnd with thofc of his Father's Friends, who were 
1^ alive: He did not part without ail the TefUmo- 
sif 5 he could give me, of Gratitude for the Service I had 
done him, and his Sciu^ of my Klndnds to the Prince 
his Fiihcr. 

T o conclude, having (bid near four Months tn Sam- 
iurgh, I came fixtm thence over Land to the Hague, where 
I emWk'd in the Paoque^ and arriv'd in tenJ^i, the loth 
of fanuary, 170/, iaving been gone from ^ngUnd ten 
Years and nine Mwiths. 

. And h<TO relolving to barrafi mjr ielf no more, I am 
preparing tor a longw Journey dan all thelc, havii^ liv'd 
71 Year*, a T-ife of in&ia Variety, and learn'd lUfHciendy 
M know the Value of Retirement, and^ the Bkfling of 
ending oar Itoys in Peace, 



FINIS. 



m 




Hosted by 



Qoo^z 



J Hosted by 



Google 




Hosted by 



Google 



