Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was prcscrvod for gcncrations on library shclvcs bcforc it was carcfully scannod by Google as pari of a projcct 

to make the world's books discoverablc online. 

It has survived long enough for the Copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to Copyright or whose legal Copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, cultuie and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this flle - a reminder of this book's long journcy from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken Steps to 
prcvcnt abuse by commercial parties, including placing lechnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use ofthefiles We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's System: If you are conducting research on machinc 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a laige amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encouragc the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each flle is essential for informingpcoplcabout this projcct and hclping them lind 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are lesponsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in Copyright varies from country to country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any speciflc use of 
any speciflc book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search mcans it can bc used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

Äbout Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organizc the world's Information and to make it univcrsally accessible and uscful. Google Book Search hclps rcadcrs 
discover the world's books while hclping authors and publishers rcach ncw audicnccs. You can search through the füll icxi of ihis book on the web 

at |http: //books. google .com/l 



REPRINTED FROM THE AÜTHOR'S EDITION 1719. 



THE LIFE 

AND 

SURPRISING ADVENTURES 

OF 

ROBINSON CEUSOE 

OF YORK, MARINER 

OIVINO AN AOOOÜNT 
OP HI8 TWKNTT-KI6HT TIABS' BBSIDENCB ON A DBBXBT UNINHABITID ISLAND, 

AKD HOW HB WAS STRANGBLT DBLIVBBBD. 

ALSO 
AN AOOOUITT OF HIB FUBTHBB ADVBNTÜBBS AND SCBSBQUBNT TBAVXL8 IN 
rBANCE^ PBB8IA, INDIA, CHINA, TABTABT, AND BUS8IA. 

BT 

DANIEL DEFOR 



ILLUSTRATSD BY ABOVB 100 DBSIONS BT QORDON BROWNS. 




LONDON: 
BLACKIE & SON, 49 & 50 OLD BAILEY, E.C.; 

OL^SOOW, EDINBURQH. AND DUBLIN. 

1885. 

■ 2535- (L ITA 



:^^ 



e\/t-. 



.^ 



20JAN85 
OXFO 



PREFACE TO THIS EDITION. 



In thiB editioD of Robinson Cmsoe the text of the original haa 
been carefully followed, and no attempt has been made to polisb 
the streng unstudied diction of the author, or to improve on hia 
faomely rigoroas language. In only a few inatances, and those 
very few and unimportant, has the original text been departed 
from : namely, where tliere occur in that text (in five or bIx places) 
erident misprints, or eentences uncorrected by the author and 
stuading meaningless or contradictory tili the obvioue coirections 
were made; and also where, in aa few instaucea, names of places 
wcre so mJaspelt (according to modern usagc) as to present au 
alroost {nsu]>erablo geographica! ditlicutty to youthfui readers. 
For the sake of youthfui readera alao there have been omitted in 
three or four places certain gross or profane expressiona, which, 
though characteriatic of the persona supposed to use them, were 
quite superfluous to the text, and formcd no cssontial or desirable 
part of the di&logue. 

These alterations are so slight and unimportant as hardly to 
form actual departures from the original text, and it may there- 
fore be claimed that the proeent edition of De Foe's immortal 
work (nnlike many that have been publiahed) is a faithfui repro- 
daction of the oiiginal, and that the following pages contain 
"the Strange Surprizing Adventures of Eobinson Crusoe," as 
they were writt«ti nearly a hundred aud seventy yeara ago. 

The Work (as here published) being mainly intended for the 
Tounger class of readera, many obscure expressions and obsolete 
worda have their meaniug explained in brief footnotea 

torooB. Stplember. taSi. 



NOnCE OF 
THE ORIGINAL EDITION OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



The original edition of this masterpiece of De Foe was published 
in 1719, and contained the adventures of Robinson Crusoe up to 
the time of bis leaving the island on which he was so long com- 
pelled to reside. Its title was: "The Life and Strange Surprizing 
Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, of Yorky Mariner : who lived eight 
and twenty Years all alone in an un-inhabited Island on the 
Coast of America, near the Mouth of the Great River Oroonoqne; 
having been cast on Shore by Shipwreck, wherein all the Men 
perished but himself : With an Account how he was at last as 
strangely deliver'd by Pyrates. Written by himself." The work 
was not put forth under De Foe's name, but had prefixed to it a 
Short preface, in which " the editor " expresses bis high opinion 
of the narrative, as both entertaining and instructive, and gravely 
States that he " believes the thing to be a just History of Fact ; 
neither is there any Appearance of Fiction in it" The success of 
this volume was very great (there being four editions of it in the 
same year), and in a few months a second volume was published, 
with the foUowing title: "The farther Adventures of Rohinscm 
C^-usoe, being the Second and last Part of his Life, and stränge, 
surprising Accounts of his Travels round Three Parts of the 
Globe. Written by himself." The present edition comprises the 
whole of these two volumes. A sort of supplementary volume 
was published in 1720, consisting of "Serious Reflections" by 
Robinson Crusoe, together with his "Vision of the Anglick 
World." This volume seems never to have had any popularity, 
and is long since utterly forgotten. It has, indeed, no real con- 
nection with the history of Crusoe, nor any interest for readers 
in general. 



CONTENTS. 

LIST OF THE PAGE ILLUSTBATIONS. 

Cbdsob tkhfted t» oo to Sba, Pnmtiipita. 

Cbcbo« c*ht abborb, 

" i «18 tbrrifiid to thb last deobeb," .... 

BbSCDI OF 'THE SpANIABD, 

A OBEAT Shif OK Pnuc, 

Tke Sataod madb Pbihonbbb, 

" WB BTOOD and LOOKBD VBBT BTKADILT AT THIH," 

DnTBncnoN or thi Tabtab Iml, 



BiogTkphical Notice of the Anthor, pp. li-ivl 

My birtb »od puenUge— Eul; edacatioo— Deair« to go to Bea— M; 
Itthet't wüe countel and waminga — A mother'a diapIeuDre — I Uave 
home — Sul fTom Hall to Loodon^A great stonn — M; feax »nd 
repentance drowned in punch — The Btorm reneved—The ahip Springs 
a leak and fonndeta— The crew saved and reach Yannouth— Another 
waining deapised — I travel to London, . ,. pp. 1-14 

I mske a voyage to Guinea — Am aucceaeful in ■ trading venture — Death 
of the honest csptain, who had taught me mathematica and navigation 
^Sail again (or Guinea — The ship ia captured bj Torkiah piratea — 
I am in slaier; at Sallee— M; new maatet— Make m; eKape vitb the 

boj Xury in ■ longboat pp. 18-23 

ffa »teer tonth and reaob Und— Adventure with a lion— See savagea on 
tbe ibora^A leopaid ahot — We are picked up by a Fortnguese abip — 
The eaptain takes Xury — We arrive at the Brazüa — The captain's 
whnleaome advice— I purcbaae a amall plantation— My increasing pcos- 

perity pp. 23-88 

Uy panion for wandering — Keeeive a tempting offer from my nelgbboar 
planten — I laU for the Afrioaa eoaat — We are eaug^t in a loinadio — 



VI CONTENTS. 

The ship strikes on a sandbank — Loss of all the crew— I am cast ashore 
half-dead, pp. 88-46 

My sad condition — First night on the island — In the moming I swim to 
the wreck — Construct a raft and bring ashore many useful things — 
View the country, and seek a proper place of habitation— The island 
appears harren and uninhabited by men— My other visits to the wreck 
— A storm blows the wreck farther off the land, . . . pp. 47-59 

I fix on a spot for my tent, and proceed to fortify it — Anxiety about my 
powder — I see goats on the island — A dismal prospect of my condition 
— Hopeful considerations, pp. 60-65 

I resolve to keep a calendar — Secure a dog and two cats — Heflections on 
my condition — Begin to fumish my house — I feel the want of many 
necessary articles — Copy of my Journal — God's goodness to me in 
sending seed-com — A terrible earthquake and hurricane, . pp. 66-87 

The storm drives the wreck farther in-shore — I visit it daily — Find a 
turtle — I fall ill of fever and ague-— A frightful dream — Wholesome 
thoughts, leading to prayer — I find a Bible, the reading whereof gives 
me great comfort, pp. 87-98 

I begin to recover, and feel thankful and repentant — Make a survey of the 
island — Find tobacco, melons, grapes, and other fruits — Build a summer 
bower — My daily dietary — Observe the first anniversary of my coming 
to the island — I learn to divide the seasons — My attempts at basket- 
making, pp. 93-113 

I travel across the island — Catch a parrot — Bring home a young goat — My 
second anniversary — Reflections upon my condition, . . pp. 118-119 

I begin my third year oi> the island — The want of tools — Reap my crop of 
com — I at last succeed in making tolerable earthenware ve sels — How 
I milled and baked — I set about making a boat, but fail to get it 
into the water, pp. 119-135 

My fourth anniversary — Wise and profitable reflections — Fatal and fortu- 
nate days — My new clothing and umbrella — How five years have 
passed over, pp. 135-143 

I Start on a voyage of discovery, and am blown out to sea — My narrow 
escape — An unexpected visit from Poll, .... pp. 144-151 

My improvement in the mechanic exercises — I trap some goats — A descrip- 
tion of my own appearance, and of my family and estates — My alarm 
at seeing the print of a man's foot on the shore — Look to God for 
deliverance — I adopt new means for defence, • PP* 152-172 



CONTENTS, Vli 

I coma opon tha horrible renuuna of a, cumibol feut— M; pUm agBinit 
tbe ttTsge« — A better düpoBitioD ofterwarda posBeagea me — Ducover ft 
o*eor grotto, into which I remove my ommunicion — My divenioiu and 
tmnBementi — See a pnity iif gavages on the shore — Find proofs of their 
cannibaliuii — My diatrasa of mind uid indignation, . pp. 172-194 

A Spanub ahip lo«t with all handa off the ialand — I go on board the wrack 
>nd obtain new Bupplies — Find some useleu mone; — A few profitable 
raflection«, pp. 161-206 

A ittsD^ dream— A new resolve — Another landing of the aavagee — I 
rescue one <ä their cictimB, and nune bim Fridaj — Ä deecriptioD of my 
new gervBot — Bemaini of the cannibals' feaat buricd, . . pp. 206-216 

I make clothes for Friday — He becomes much attached to me — Hii alarm 
OD hearing my gun fired — My eSorts to teach bim—Friday'a reasoning 
and notioDB ot religioD — Reflections on the uaeleuneas of leligiom oon- 
trt>veny, pp. 216-230 

Friday teilt me of the vhite roana in bis country— I Bot about making a 
CkDoe — Eeep another anni vereary— The «avages »gain land— We attack 
them and mcne a Spaniard— Friday finds bis fatber, . . pp. 230-21S 

Ify isUod DOW peopled_My convene witb the Spaniard — We make pie- 
paratiana f ot Knding the Spaniard and Friday'a falber on a voyage to 
the Diainland, pp 24&-26T 

A ihip appean ofF tfae ialand— The captain and two othen Iwided aa 
priaoneti — We attaok and overcome the mutinouB crew — The ahip 
•ecnred, pp, 257-281 

I make preparationa for leaving the island — Part of the shipa' cren are left 
behind — I bring away aome relics of my long impriaonment — My 
arri)^ in England after thirty'fivo yean' abaence, . pp, 2S1-2S7 

I Tiait Toclcahir^ and find greater part of my funily dead — Afterwardi 
tau for Liabon — Receiva news sbout my Braiil plantation — Tbe old 
captain'a honeaty and kindnesa — My ludden increaae of wealth — Cod- 
udentiona concerniDg my fatine oooise, .... pp. 2S7-2SS 

I aet out by land from LiaboD for England — We meet witb aevere ireatber, 
■nd are attacked by wolvea— Friday'a advcntnre with a bear — We are 
again attaoked by wolvee — I arrive aafe in England — My Bradl planta- 
tion lold — I many and (ry to aettle in England, . . • PP' 2BS-81G 



VIU CONTENTS. 



THE SECOND PART. 

My strong inclination to gq abroad again — A stränge dream — My wife's 
• devotion to me — I buy a farm in Bedfordshire— My wife's death — I 
sail with my nephew for the East Indies — The supplies I carried out 
for the colony in my ialand — We Bave the people on board a buming 
ship — We transfer the passengen to another ship — A young priest 
remains with us, pp. 817-338 

We steer for the West Indies — Fall in with a disabled ship, and relieve the 
crew — Sad condition of the poor passengers — ^The lady found dead, and 
we take on board her son and her maid — I reach my old habitation on 
the Island, pp. 888-846 

My landing on the island — Friday's meeting with bis father — My reception 
by the Spaniards, pp. 347-851 

A retrospective view of the State of the island when I first left it — The 
Spaniard's narrative — He retnms to the island with bis countrymen — 
The viUanous conduct of three of the Englishmen I left on the island — 
They are disarmed and rednoed to order for a time, . pp. 352-865 

The narrative oontinned — Two bands of savages land on the island — A 
fierce battle between them — The Spaniards captore three of the 
savages, pp. 865-871 

The colonists make new arrangements about their dwellings — Another 
broil with the three Englishmen — Will Atkins' murderous plot— The 
three are banished from their comrades — They set sail for the main- 
land — Their unexpected retum with three native men and five native 
women — A stränge kind of lottery — Some reflections on diligence and 
slothfulness, pp. 372-888 

Another landing of savages — Three of them are left behind, one of whom 
afterwards escapes — The savages return and bum some of the huts — 
They are beaten back for the time, pp. 888-899 

A larger band of armed savages land — After a fierce fight they are routed — 
Their canoes are bumed, and the remnant of the men are confined to 
one part of the island — How they were taught to plant and to make 
useful articles, pp. 399-409 

Will Atkins* wonderful tent of basket-work — Improvement I observed in 
the colony — An acconnt of the life of the Spaniards whilst among the 
savages, pp. 410-417 



CONTENTS. ix 

Uj iMcitmnM «itli tbe people on the idand, uid prewntB I mftde to them 
o( th'iDgi likeljr to b« naeful — The island divided into Üiree eolooie« or 

•ettkments, pp. 117-422 

llie cbuKctei of tbe French prieit~-A diverting acoonnt of hii life — Hu 
setioDi ^■conne nith me conceming the aUTTing of tbe EnglUhinen 
to the luUve nomen — He urgea on me the un of neglecting to teach all 
tbe nitiT« on the isluid the truthi of religion — He aalu to remoin od 

the ulud u k teacher pp. 422-136 

ISj dUconne with the EngUshmea »bout marrjiDg the women— The prieet's 
•creplea i^unst nuurjing onbaptized penoni — Will Atkma' confesaion — 
He becoroea trnl J penitanl — Tha priest'« c»ndour and Christian charity— 
We catechize Will Ätkins — He relates the discoune he bad irlth hia wife 
(»nceming religioB — They are nuuried, and abo the young woman 

Siuan, pp. 43S-4S0 

M; final airangementa before leaving the ialand — Will Atkiiu gladl; re- 
oeivet a Bible^ — Susan'« storj of her dreadful anfferiiigt od ahipboard — 

I bid farewell to the iiland, pp. 460-470 

Thrce daj-e after leaving we are attacked bj »avage», and Friday ia killed — 

We atrive nt the Brazil»— I send more aupplie« to tbe island, pp. 470-478 
3f y paation for furthcr wandering — I proceed to the Eaat Indies — We touch 
at MadagsaCBi — A desperate tray with the nativea there — M; Opposition 
to the masiacre bring» od me the ill-will of the crew — I am left alone 

in Bengal, pp. 478-501 

I baTe tbonghta of ratumiog to England — An EngUah merchant proposes 
to me a,Toyage to China — I make another voyage to the Spiee Islands 

and Manillas, pp. £101-606 

Hy partner and I pnrchase a Dutch ship, and start on an< ther voyage — We 
put into the river of Cambodia to repair a laak, and receive a waming 
that oor new ship had been pirated — We put to sea again and are chased 
bj boats^ — We make for the coaat of Tonqnin — We lay the ship ashore 

for repair, and are attacked by the natives Pp. G05-521 

We gct OQt to sea again, and take on board an old Portuguese pilot — His 
rtorj »bont the pirates— His advice to go to China — We come to Quin- 
chang — We are tormentad by the fear of falling in with the Dntch and 
being treated by them aa piratea— We meet with three Romish mission- 

aries, pp. G2I-SS3 

ITather Simon the friar or miseionuy—My dealings with a Ji^uui merchant 
— Wb part with the ship— Visit tbe city of Naiiquin— A dissertation on 
the Chinese— We travel to Peking, pp, G34-54G 



CONTENTS. 



We leave Peking« and travel in a lai^ caravan— Some of the wonders that 
we saw, including the great wall of China — We are threatened by Tartars 
— I am sei on by five niffians, and only saved by the braveiy of the old 
pilot — We are again threatened by the Tartars — We reach Argun in 
the dominions of the Czar of Muscovy, .... pp. 546-560 

My satisfaction at having reached a Christian oountry — The geography of 
this part of Muscovy — We destroy the great Tartar idol Cham-Chi- 
Thaungu — Fury of the Tartars, who pursue us — We reach Jarawena 
safely, pp. 660-578 

We pass through a frightful desert — A description of the people of the 
country — We reach Tobolski — Life at this place — The story of kn 
exiled Russian noble — He refuses to escape, .... pp. 578-588 

We slart from Tobolski — Are attaoked by roving bands — We reach Arch- 
angel and then Hamburg — I arrive safely in London in 1705: "resolving 
to harass myself no more," pp. 589-595 



THE MAN WHO WBOTE ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



For more than a centuty and a half the Btoiy of Robinson 
Crusoe has beeil the most populär narrative ever written. Its 
fascinationa have attracted old and jotmg. 

Ät the time tbat it waa first publiehed (in 1719) it gained such 
a reputation tbat it was bought by all classes, and it is still a fore- 
most favourite not only with those who read it for anmsement, 
bat with literary critics, who appreciate the consummat« akill of 
the writer, who describes every circumstance and each detail with 
such an easy simplicity as to give the whole story an air of tnith 
which at ODce arrests the attention and controls the imagloation. 

Our great-great-grandfathers when they were boys had an 
intimate acquaintance with Robinson Crusoe. To tbem he was a 
real character; and boys still regard him not eo much as the hero 
of a fiction as an historical person, and talk of bis adventurea aa 
erenta which really happened. 

Dr. Johnson speaking of thia remarkable atory oska, "Waa 
there ever anytbing written by mere man that the reader wiahed 
longer except Robinson Cmaoe, Don Quixote, and the Pilgrim's 
Progress?" 

One of De Foe'a numeroua opponenta, who endeavoured to 
ridicole and to min bim at the time that the book waa firat iasued, 
wrote, " There ia not an old womao that can go to the price of it 
bnt buye the ' Life and Ädvonturea,' and leaves it aa a legacy with 
the Pilgrim's Progress." This was rare praiae tbougb it was 
meant for a anarl, and showa how great must have been the popu- 
larity of the tale, for, if the old folka bought it, we may be eure 



xii THE MAN WHO WROTE ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

the young folks either bought or borrowed it, and they have con- 
tinued to do so ever since. 

Perhaps now that you take this book into your band you may 
Ijke to bear sometbing about the man wbo wrote it. He played 
a conspicuous part in several of the most exciting occurrences of 
tbe time in wbicb be lived, and some of bis own adventures and 
vicissitudes were of a very extraordinary kind, especially as be 
began lif e in a cömmonplace and bumble manner, and migbt never 
bave been beard of but for bis courage and industry and for tbe 
determination witb wbicb be constantly opposed tyranny and 
injustice. 

Daniel De Foe was bom in tbe year 1661. He was tbe son 
of James Foe, wbo was *a tradesman in London, and it is not 
known for wbat reason be placed tbe "De" before bis name, 
unless be discovered tbat bis family was of foreign extraction. 
As bis fatber was a dissenter from tbe Cburcb of England, Daniel 
was sent to a scbool kept by a member of tbe same Community at 
Newington Green, wbere be appears to bave studied welL He was 
an assiduous reader, and it is believed leamt Latin, Dutcb, and 
Italian; but be was also a keen observer, and retained in bis 
memory nearly everytbing tbat be saw or beard, so tbat as be 
went a great deal into tbe Company of various kinds of people be 
acquired a great deal of information, wbicb be was able to put to 
good account in tbe large number of essays, pampblets, and stories 
wbicb be afterwards wrote. 

It was intended tbat be sbould be a Nonconformist minister, 
and perbaps bis studies and bis strong religious convictions were 
in favour of tbe cboice ; but for some reason be did not carry out 
tbis design. At nineteen be wrote bis first pampblet, and soon 
afterwards became known as a satirical writer and a bold Opponent 
of tbe tyrannical measures wbicb tbe govemment and tbe cburcb 
were at tbat time putting in force against tbe liberties and tbe 
consciences of tbe people. Tbe persecution of tbe Nonconformists 
and Dissenters naturally excited bis indignation, and afterwards 
(wben James IL came to tbe throne), bis detestation of tbe principles 




J 



THE HAN WRO WROTE ROBINSON CRUSOE. Xui 

of the goTemment and bis strong desire to aupport ProteataDtism 
\ei bim foolishly to joia the rebellion which was attempted by the 
Doke of Monmouth. 

Od the failure of this attempt De Foe, more (ortunate tban 
many oChers, escaped with life and liberty. He then went into 
bnnnesg as a boaier or dealer in wool in Freeman'a Yard, Com- 
hill, but he conünued to write and publish political pamphlets, in 
which he Batirized the govemment and advocated justice and 
coDttitutional laws. He also wrote on public events and on com- 
■nemal and financial subjects. Hie industry was extraordinary, 
and his caustic aatire and humorous reasoning made numeroos 
and powerful enemies at the court While he was in business he 
went OQ more than one joumey to Sptün, but he did not succeed 
Tery well with hia trade, poseibly becauae he devoted too much 
attention to politics. Though the number of pamphlets and essaya 
which he wrote conld have left him little leiaure, he had a project 
formaking the kind of bricks and tilea which at that time were 
bronght to thia coimtry frora Holland, and accordingly he com- 
nisnc«d a manofactory on the banks of the Thamea. But while 
Iw thus introduced a new industry to England he did not profit 
bf it, for the persecutions of bis opponenta pTevented him from 
poraning the enterprise, and he became bankrapt He tben devoted 
bü energiea to the payment of bis creditors in füll, and in this he 
luweed^ 

When William of Orange came to the throne De Foe'a pnaition 
was improved. As a friend to civil and religious liberty and a 
^Protestant, William III. had bis loyal suppori Early in 1700 
1» pabliahed a pamphiet in answer to a libel on the king, and 
alled it " The True Born Englisbman." It was in verse, and was 
a defenc« of William and a satirical attack on hia enemies. The 
^Mt of it was that De Foe was invited to court and received 
a present of a conaiderable aum of money, which, with the large 
**!« of the book, placed him for a time in easy circumstancee. 
"e hoped to obtain aome employment from the govemment, but 
the death of William III., the accesaion of Anne, and tho inflviencft 



xiv THE MAN WHO WROTE ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

of the adherents of the House of Stuart &ustrated his expectations. 
Once more he began to write diligently, and his enemies sought 
for an opportunity to min him. That opportimity he soon gave 
them by Publishing an ironical pamphlet entitled " The Shortest 
Way with the Dissenters," which offended many people and so 
enraged the High Church party that they issued an indictment. 
The House of Commons ordered the book to be bumed by the 
common hangman, and a Warrant was issued for the apprehension 
of De Foe, with the proclamation of a reward of £50 for any one 
who should bring him to justice. 

This proclamation gives us a description of De Foe's personal 
appearance — " A middle-sized, spare man, about forty years old, 
of a brown complexion and dark brown-coloured hair, but wears 
a wig, a hooked nose, sharp chin, gray eyes, and a large mole near 
his mouth." He was soon arrested, and the sentence upon him 
was that he should stand in the pillory, be fined 200 marks, to 
find sureties for his good behaviour for seven years, and should be 
imprisoned in Newgate tili all this was done. The pillory was a 
kind of raised platform set up on the open street, and the prisoner, 
whose hands were secured to a beam at about the height of his 
head, stood there to be the object of the jeers and abuse of the 
mob, who pelted him with filth. There were three principal 
pillories in London: one in front of the Royal Exchange, one at 
the Conduit in Cheapside, and one at Temple Bar. The govem- 
ment made a great mistake in De Foe*s case, for the populace, 
regarding him as the champion of religious liberty, attended him 
in a kind of triumphal procession from Newgate to the places 
where the pillories stood- It was in the month of July that he 
first mounted one of these platforms, and as there were plenty of 
flowers to be had, the pillory was hung with garlands, and refresh- 
ments were brought to him during the time that he stood there, 
the crowd accompanying him back to Newgate with acclamations 
when the penance was over. This was in 1703, and while he was in 
prison his courage and industry did not desert him ; he continued to 
write, and among other things published an ode to the pillory. He 



THE MAN WHO WROTE ROBINSON CRUSOE. xv 

also planned a joumal called the Eevieio, written entirely by himself, 
and afterwards published two or three times a week for some years. 
After he had been in prison more than a year, Harley, who became 
Secretary of State, interceded with Queen Anne for bis release, 
and tbe queen kindly sent money to bis wife and shortly after 
set him at liberty. He retired to the country with bis wife and 
children and continued to write, and for some time, though bis 
enemies were always on tbe watch to entrap him, he contrived 
to live in peace. 

His character and abilities must have been highly esteemed 
whatever Opposition there may have been to his outspoken 
expressions in politics, for in 1706, when the Union of Scotland 
and England in one government was proposed, Lord Godolphin 
recommended him to the queen as a proper person to send to 
Edinburgh to promote that union. 

He was engaged in this undertaking for more than a year, and 
on his retum his efforts were rewarded by a pension; but a 
change in the government soon deprived him of it, and he was 
again obliged to gain a living by writing. In fact he had never 
left off writing. The number of pamphlets and essays that came 
from his pen was astonishing. Altogether above 400 are known 
to have been published, besides hislaterstories, essays, biographies, 
and narratives of adventure. Again he was attacked for his 
political declarations; again he was fined and imprisoned in New- 
gate; but again he was liberated by the queen. 

This was in November, 1713, and in the foUowing year the 
queen died. The enemies of De Foe then endeavoured to crush 
him, and he feit compelled to write an account of his political 
conduct and of the sufferings which had been inflicted on him. 
His health gave way for a time, and when he recovered he 
abandoned political writing and satirical pamphlets and devoted 
his talents to narratives and stories of fiction, of which the Life 
and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe is the earliest and the most 
permanently populär. It has been hinted that this story was 
taken from the narrative of Alexander Selkirk, a man who some 



) Foe was a man of true genius and of indomita 
ling daunted him or prevented him from denounci 
or upholding the right of liberty of conscience; bu 
sd that bis greatest ability lay in what may be call 
3ry-telling. Tlie bock that is now before you is a 
lis he was a consummate master. There is no nee( 
any description of the merits or the style of the st 
as in this special edition the original language of t 
been preserved, it may be well to remind the your. 
that where that language is not in grammatical a 
modern rules, it is such as was used at the period 
nson Crusoe was supposed to have lived; and seco 
'^oe was such an accomplished nairator, that he v 
the modes of expression that a man like Robinso 
i have used at that time. This latter particular is ( 
ns why De Foe's story is so rea/, and therefore so ai 



^^^virart?^ 




0? VSI^K. ^A^mKül. 



I WAS bom in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good 
ixmiiy, though not of that country, my father being a foreigner 
of Bremen, who aettleil first at Hulit he got a good estate by 
merchandise, and leaving off hia trade, lived afterward at York, 
from whenco he had married my mother, whoae relations were 
named Robinson, a very good famüy in that country, and from 
whom I was called Robinaon Kreutznaer; but, by the usual cor- 
ruptioQ of words in England, we are now called, nay, we call our- , 
selvea, and write our name Crusoe, and so niy companions always 
cdled me. 

I had two eider brothera, one of which waa lieutenant-colonel 
to an English regiment of foot in Flandera, formerly commanded 
by the famous Colone! Lockhart, and was killod at tbe battle near 
Dunkirk against the Spaniards: wliat became of my secoad biotihftT 



2 ROBINSON CRAVES FOR THE SEA. 

I never knew, any more than my father er mother did know what 
was become of me. 

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, 
my head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts. 
My father, who was very ancient, had given me a competent share 
of leai-ning, as far as house education and a coimtry free school 
generally goes, and designed me for the law; but I would be 
satisfied with nothing but going to sea, and my inclination to this 
led me so strongly against the will, nay, the commands of my 
father, and against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother 
and other friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that 
propension of nature tending dii^ectly to the life of misery which 
was to befall me. 

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent 
counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me 
one moming into his Chamber, where he was confined by the gout, 
and expostulated very warmly with me upon this subject. He 
asked me what reasons more than a mere wandering inclination I 
had for leaving my father's house and my native coimtry, where I 
might be well introduced, and had a prospect of raising my for- 
tune by application and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. 
He told me it was for men of desperate fortunes on one band, or 
of aspiring, superior fortunes on the other, who went abroad upon 
adventures, to rise by enterprise, and make themselves famous in 
undertakings of a nature out of the common road; that these 
things were all either too far above me, or too far below me; that 
mine was the middle State, or what might be called the Upper 
Station of low life, which he had found by long experience was the 
best State in the world, the most suited to human happiness, not 
exposed to the miseries and hardships, the labour and sufferings 
of the mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed with the 
pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the upper part of mankind 
He told me I might judge of the happiness of this State by this 
one tliing — namely, that this was the state of life which all other 
people envied; that kings have frequently lamented the miserable 
consequences of being bom to great things, and wish they had 
been placed in the middle of the two extremes, — between the 




n 



Hrs father's wise cou.vsel 



tneui and the great ; that tho wis6 man gave hia testimony to this 
IS the just atandard of true felicity, when he prayed to have 
neithet poverty nor riohes.' 

He bid me obserre it, and I Bhould always flnd, that the ckla- 
nu'liu of life were shared among the Upper and lower part of 




maskind; but that the middle BtatJon had the fewest disasters, 
uid was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower 
part of mankind; nay, tliey were not subjected to so many dis- 
lempers and uneasinesses either of body or mind, as those were 
who, by viciouB living, luxury, and extravagancies on one band, 
or by hard labour, want of necessaries, and mean or insufGcient 
diet on the other hand, bring distempera upon themselvea by the 
' Solomon. Proverbs xu. 8. 



4 FATHERLY WARNINGS. 

natural consequences of their'way of living; that the middle 
Station of life was calculated for all kind of virtues and all kind 
of enjoyments; that peace and plenty were the handmaids of a 
middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quietness, health, 
Society, all agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were 
the blessings attending the middle Station of life; that this way 
men went silently and smoothly through the world, and comfort- 
ably out of it, not embarrassed with the labours of the hands or of 
the head, not sold to the life of slavery for daily bread, or harassed 
with perplexed circumstances, which rob the soul of peace and 
the body of rest; not enraged with the passion of envy, or secret 
burning lust of ambition for great things; but in easy circum- 
stances sliding gently through the world, and sensibly tasting 
the sweets of living, without the bitter; feeling that they are 
happy, and leaming by every da/s experience to know it more 
sensibly. 

After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate 
manner, not to play the young man, not to precipitate myself into 
miseries which nature and the Station of life I was bom in seemed 
to have provided against; that i was under no necessity of seek- 
ing my bread; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to 
enter me fairly into the Station of life which he had been just 
recoramending to me; and that if I was not very easy and happy 
in the world, it must be my mere fate or fault that must hinder 
it, and that he should have nothing to answer for, having thus 
discharged bis duty in waming me against measures which he 
knew would be to my hurt. In a word, that as he would do very 
kind things for me if I would stay and settle at home, as he 
directed, so he would not have so much band in my misfortunes, 
as to give me any encouragement to go away. And, to close all, 
he told me I had my eider brother for an example, to whom he 
had used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from going 
into the Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his young 
desires prompting him to nm into the army, where he was killed; 
and though, he said, he would not cease to pray for me, yet he 
would venture to say to me that, if I did take this foolish step, God 
would not bless me, and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect 




A boy's importünity. 5 

apoii having neglected his counsel wheo there might be none to 
assist in my recovery. 

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was truly 
prophetic, though I suppose my father did not know it to be so 
himself, I say I observed the tears run down his face very plenti- 
^ly, and especially when he spoke of my brother who was killed; 
and that when he spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none 
to assist me, he was so moved that he broke off the discourse, and 
told me hiB heart was so füll he could say no more to me. 

1 was sincerely affected with this discourse — as indeed who could 

beotherwise) — and I resolved not to think of going abroad any 

more, but to settle at home according to my father's desire. But^ 

a^l a few days wore it all off; and, in short, to prevent any of 

nay father's further importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved 

to run quite away from him. However, I did not act so hastily 

neither as my first heat of resolution prompted; but I took my 

mother, at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter than 

ordinaiy, and told her that my thoughts were so entirely beut 

QpoQ seeing the world, that I should never settle to anything with 

Nation enough to go through with it, and my father had better 

give me his consent than force me to go without it; that I was 

DOW eighteen years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a 

Me, or clerk to an attomey; that I was sure if I did, I should 

never serve out my time, and I should certainly run away from 

iQy master before my time was out, and go to sea; and if she 

voold speak to my father to let me go one voyage abroad, if I 

came home again and did not like it, I would go no more, and I 

would promise by a double diligence to recover that time I had 

lost 

This put my mother into a great passion. She told me she 
knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any 
such subject; that he knew too well what was my interest to give 
his consent to any such thing so much f or my hurt, and that she 
wondered how I could think of any such thing, after such a 
discourse as I had had with my father, and such kind and tender 
expressions as she knew my father had used to me; and that, in 
short^ if I would ruin myself, there was no help for me; but I 



6 ROBINSON GOES TO SEA. 

might depend I should never have their consent to it That, for 
her part, she would not have so mach hand in my destruction; 
and I should never have it to say that my mother was willing 
when my father was not. 

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as I 
have heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him, and 
that my father, after showing a great concem at it, said to her 
with a sigh, — "That boy might be happy if he would stay at 
home; but if he goes abroad he will be the most miserable wretch 
that was ever bom. I can give no consent to it." 

It was not tili almost a year after this that I broke loose, 
though in the meantime I continued obstinately deaf to all pro- 
posals of settling to business, and frequently expostulating with 
my father and mother about their being so positively determined 
against what they knew my inclinations prompted me to. But 
being one day at Hüll, where I went casuaUy, and without any 
purpose of making an elopement that time; but, I say, being 
there, and one of my companions being going by sea to London 
in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with them, with the 
common allurement of seafaring men — namely, that it should cost 
me nothing for my passage — I consulted neither father nor mother 
any more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but leaving them 
to hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessing, or my 
father's; without any consideration of circumstances or conse- 
quences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on the Ist of September, 
1651,1 went on board a ship bound for London. Never any young 
adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or continued 
longer than mine. The ship was no sooner gotten out of the 
Humber but the wind began to blow, and the waves to rise in a 
most frightful manner; and, as I had never been at sea before, I 
was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified in my mind. I 
began now seriously to refiect upon what I had done, and how 
justly I was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked 
leaving my father's house, and abandoning my duty; all the good 
counsel of my parents, my father's tears and my mother's entrea- 
ties, came now fresh into my mind; and my conscience, which 
was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it has been 




n 



WISE AND SOBER THOUGHTS. 7 

mix, reproached me with the cont«mpt of advice, and the breach 
of my daty to God and my father. 

All this while the storm increased, and tbe sca, which I faad 
never been upon before, went very high, though nothing like what 
I bare seen niany timas since; no, nor like what I saw a few 
ilays alter. But it was enougb to afiect me then, who was but a 
young sailor and had never known anything of the matter. I 
«xpected every wave would have swallowed us up, and that every 
titoe tbe Bhip feil down, as I thought, in the trough or hoUow of 
thewa, we should never rise more; and in this ^ony of mind I 
nude many vowa and resolutiona, that if it would please God here 
to ipare my life this oue voyage, if ever I got once my foot npon 
diy land again, I would go directly home to my father, and never 
W it into a ship again while I lived ; that I would take hia advice, 
vi nerer ran myaelf into euch miseriea aa thcse any more. Now 
I saw plainly the goodness of hia observationa ahout the middle 
sUtioD of life; how easy, how comfortably he had lived all hia 
i*J% and never had been expoaed to tempesta at aea, or troubles 
<^ shore ; and I resolved that I would, like a true repenting pro- 
digil, go home to my father. 

The»e wise and aober thoughts continued all the while the 
storm continued, and indeed some time after; but the next day 
the wind was abated and the sea calmer, and I began to be a litt'e 
innred to it However, I was very grave for all that day, being 
>iso a little sea-sick still; but towarda night the weather cleared 
np, the wind was quite over, and a charming fine evening followed; 
the Bun went down perfectly clear, and rose so the next moming; 
ind having Itttle or no wind, and a amooth eea, the sun shining 
upon it, tbe sight was, aa I thought, the most delightful that ever 

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick 
bot very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the aea that waa BÖ 
rough and terribJe the day before, and could be so calm and ao 
pleaaant in so little time after. And now, lest my good resolutiona 
shoidd Continus, my companion, who had indeed enticed me away, 
comes to me, — "Well, Bob," saja he, clappiug me on the Shoulder, 
"howdo yoa do after itl I Warrant yon were frighted, wa'n't 



8 AFTER THE STORM. 

you, last Digbt, when it blew but a capful of windl" — " A capfui, 
d'you call itl" aaid I; "'twas a terrible storm." — " A storm, you 
fool you," re[)lies he; "do you call that a storm T Why, it was 
nothing at all! Give us hut a good ebip and Gea-room, and ve 
think nothing of such a squall of wiud as tbat. But you're but a 




freah-water aailor, Bob. Come, let us malte a bowi of punch, and 
we'll forget all that D'ye see what charming weather 'tis nowt" 
To make short this sad pait of my story, we went the old way of 
all aailora. The punch was made, and I was made dnink with iL 
And in that one night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, 
all my reäectiona upon my past conduct, and all my resolutiona 
for my future. In a word, as the sea waa retumed to its smooth- 
nesB of surface and settled calmneas by the abatement of that 




J 



IN YARHOUTH ROADS. 9 

Btom, SO— tbe hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and 
^prehensions of being awallowed up by the aea being foi^tten, 
md the ciurent of my fonner deaires returned — I entirely forgot 
the vowB and promtses that I made in my distress. 1 found, 
iddeed, aome intervala of reflection, and the serious thougbta did, 
as it were, endeavour to retum agaia sometimes; but I shaok 
th«m off, and roused myself from them as it were from a distemper, 
Ulli applying myself to drinhing and Company, eoon mastered the 
fetura of those fits — for so I called them — and I had in five or sJx 
d^jagotaacomplete a victory over conscience as any young fellow, 
that resolved not to be troubied with it, could dedre. But I was 
U) have anotber trial for it still; and Providence, as in such cases 
gtnerally it does, resolved to teave me entirely wlthout excuse. 
Forif I would not take tliis for a deliverance, tbe next was to be 
>Dch a one as the worst and most hardened wretch among iia 
would confesa both the danger and the mercy. 

The sixthdayofour being atseawe cameinto YarmouthRoada; 

^ >nnd having been contrary and tbe weatber calm, we bad made 

Butlittle way since the stonn. Here we were obliged to come to 

»oanclior, and here we lay, tbe wind continuing contrary ^nameiy, 

^ Wiith-west— for seven or eight days, during which time a great 

"Mjghips from Newcastle came into the same roads, as the com- 

110II harbour where the shipe might wait for a wind for tbe river. 

We had not, bowever, rid here so long, but we sbould have 

tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too fresb; and after 

felad lain four or five daya, blew very hard. However, the roads 

^ng reckoned as good as a harbour, the anehorage good, and our 

groand-tackle' very strong, our men were unconcemed, and not in 

tbe leaat apprehensive of danger, but spent the time in reat and 

Eoirtb, after the manner of the sea;^ faut the eighth day, in the 

Dioming, the wind increased, and we bad all handa at work to 

strike our top-masts, and make everything anug and close, that 

tbe abip might ride as eaay as possible. By noon the sea weot 

very high indeed, and our ahip rid forecaatle' in, shipped several 

' Auchora, CBblea, tta. ' i.e. of nilois. 

'Tbe forwsrd port ol the abip, vbere tha foremaat atanda. It tu aepantsd 
from tlis mt of the deck by & bulkbead. 



10 ANOTHER STORM. 

seas, and we thought once or twice our anchor had come home, 
upon which our master ordered out tlie sheet-anchor ; so that we 
rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered out to the 
better^ end. 

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and now I began 
to see terror and amazement in the faces even of the seamen 
themselves. The master, though vigilant in the business of pre- 
serving the ship, yet, as he went in and out of his cabin by me, 
I could hear him softly to himself say several times, " Lord, be 
merciful to us; we shall be all lost, we shall be all undone,*' and 
the like. During these first hurries I was stupid, lying still in my 
cabin, which was in the steerage, and cannot describe my temper. 
I could ill reassume the first penitence, which I had so apparently 
trampled upon and hardened myself against I thought the 
bitterness of death had been past, and that this would be nothing, 
too, like the first. But whon the master himself came by me, as 
I Said just now, and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully 
frighted. I got up out of my cabin and looked out; but such a 
dismal sight I never saw. The sea went mountains high, and 
broke upon us every three or four minutes. When I could look 
about, I could see nothing but distress round us. Two ships that 
rid near us we found had cut their masts by the board, being 
deep laden; and our men cried out that a ship which rid about a 
mile ahead of us was foundered. Two more ships being driven 
from their anchors, wcre run out of the roads to sea at all adven- 
tures, and that with not a mast standing. The light ships fared 
the best, as not so much labouring in the sea; but two or three of 
them drove, and carae close by us, running away with only their 
sprit-sail out before the wind. 

Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the master of 
our ship to let them cut away the foremast, which he was very 
unwilling to; but the boatswain protesting to him that if he did 
not the ship would founder, he consented; and when they had cut 
away the foremast, the main-mast stood so loose and shook the 
ship so much, they were obb'ged to cut her away also, and make a 
clear deck. 

* Complete. 



SPRUNG A LEAEl 11 

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all this, 
«bo was but a young aailor, and who had besn in such a frigbt 
before at but a little. But if I caa express at this distancc the 
thonghU I had about me at that time, I was in tenfold more 
horror of mind lipon account of tay former convictions, and the 
hirlng retumed from them to the resolutions I had wickedly takeu 
it first, tban I was at death itself ; and these, added to the tetror 
ol the Btonn, put me into auch a condition that I can by no words 
dwcribe it But the worst was not come yet. The etonn con- 
tinued with such fury, that the seamen themselves acknowledged 
iheyhad never known a woree. We had a good shlp; but she 
IS (leep laden, and wallowed in the sea, that the aeamen every 
DOW &nd then cried out she would founder. It was my advantage 
in one respect that I did not know what they meant by founder 
liH I inquired. However, the storm was so viotent, that I saw 
'hst is not often seen — the master, the boatawain, and some 
otheis more sensible than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting 
eTery moment when the ship would go to the bottom. In the 
middle of the night, and under all the rest of our distreaaes, one 
of the men that had been down on purpose to see, cried out we 
b*d sprang a leak; another said thero was four foot water in the 
holi 

Then all handa were called to the pnmp. At that very word 
tny beart, as I thought, died within me, and I feil backwarda upon 
Üie aide of my hed where I sat, into the cabin. However, the men 
roosed me, and told me that I that was able to do nothing before 
WS as well able to pump as another, at which I stiircd up and 
'ent to the pump, and worked very heartily. While this was 
doing, the master, seeing some light colliers, who, not able to ride 
oat the storm, were obliged to slip and run away to sea, and would 
TODie near us, ordered to fire a gun as a eignal of distroaa. I, who 
kaew nothing vhat that meant, waa so surprised, that I thought 
the ehip had broke, or some dreadful thing had happened. In a 
*ord, I was ao surprised, that I feil down ia a awoon. As this 
WM a time when everybody had his own lifo to think of, nobody 
■xinded me, or what waa become of me ; but another man st«pped 
"f to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me Iva, 



12 HELP AT HAND. 

thinking I had been dead ; and it was a great while before I came 
to myself. 

We worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it was 
apparent that the ship would founder; and though the storm 
began to abate a little, yet, as it was not possible she could swim 
tili we might run into a port, so the master continued firing guns 
for help, and a light ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us, 
ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard 
the boat came near us; but it was irapossible for us to get on 
board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's side, tili at last, the men 
rowing very heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our 
men cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, and then 
veered it out a great length, which they, after great labour and 
hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them close under our stern, 
and got all into their boat. It was to no purpose for them or ua 
after we were in the boat to think of reaching to their own ship, 
so all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her in towards shore 
as much as we could; and our master promised them, that if the 
boat was staved upon shore, he would make it good to their 
master ; so, partly rowing and partly driving, our boat went away 
to the norward, sloping towards the shore almost as f ar as 
Winterton Ness. 

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our 
ship when we saw her sink, and then I understood for the first time 
what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea. I must acknow- 
ledge I had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me she 
was sinking; for from that moment they rather put me into the 
boat than that I might be said to go in. My heart was, as it 
were, dead within me, partly with fright, partly with horror of 
mind and the thoughts of what was yet before me. 

While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at the 
oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could see, when our boat, 
mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore, a great many 
people running along the shore to assist us when we should come 
near; but we made but slow way towards the shore, nor were we 
able to reach the shore, tili, being past the lighthouse at Winter- 
ton, the shore falls off to the westward towards Cromer, and so the 



SAFE ON SHORE. 13 

land broke off a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in, 
and thoogh not withoat much difficulty, got all safe on shore, and 
walked Afterwards on foot to Yannouth, where, as unfortunate 
men, we were used with great humanity, as well by the magistrates 
of the town, who assigned us good quarters, as by particular 
merchantB and owners of ships, and had money given us sufficient 
to carry us either to London or back to Hüll, as we thought fit. 

Had 1 DOW had the sense to have gone back to Hüll, and have 
gone home, I had been happy, and my father, an emblem of our 
blessed Saviour's parable, had even killed the f atted calf f or me ; 
for, hearing the ship I went away in was cast away in Yarmouth 
Koad, it was a great while before he had any assurance that I was 
not drowned. 

Bot my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that 
nothing could resist; and though I had several times loud calls 
from my reason and my more composed judgment to go home, 
yet I had no power to do it. I know not what to call this, nor 
^ I arge that it is a secret overruling decree that hurries us on 
^ be the instruments of our own destruction, even though it be 
before ua, and that we push upon it with our eyes open. Certainly 
nothing bat some such decreed unavoidable misery attending, and 
^Uch it was impossible for me to escape, could have pushed me 
fonrard against the calm reasonings and persuasions of my most 
^ired thoughts, and against two such visible instructions as I 
k«d met with in my first attempt. 

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who 

väs the master^s son, was now less forward than I. The first 

time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not 

tili two or three days, for we were separated in the town to several 

qoarters; I say, the first time he saw me, it appeared bis tone was 

altered, and looking very melancholy, and shaking bis head, asked 

me how I did, and telling his father who I was, and how I had 

come this voyage only for a trial, in order to go further abroad. 

His father, tuming to me with a very grave and concemed tone, 

" Young man," says he, " you ought never to go to sea any more; 

you ought to take this for a piain and visible token that you are 

not to be a seafaring man." — " Why, sir," said I; " will you go to 



)ut with a Strange kind of passioD, '* What had I 
*that such an unhappy wretch should come int 
^rould not set my foot in the same ship with tl 
housand pounds." This, indecd, was, as I said, s 
lis spirits, which were yet agitated by the sense o 
vas furtlier than he could have authority to go. 
ifterwards talked very gravely to me; exhoii/ed m( 
ny father, and not tempt Providence to my ruin ; t< 
;ee a visible hand of Heaven against me; "And, 
laid he, " depend upon it, if you do not go back, wl 
roll will meet with nothing but disasters and disapp 
^our father 8 words are fulfilled upon you." 

We parted soon after, for I made him little answ 
lim no more. Which way he went I know not. 
laving some money in my pocket, I travelled to Lo 
nd there, as well as on the road, had many strugglc 
-what course of life I should take, and whethei 
ome or go to sea. 

As to going home, shame oi)posed the best motioi 
) my thoughts : and it immediately occurred to me 
d laughed at among the neighbours, and should l 
>e, not my father and mother only, but even everyl 
hence I have since often observed how incongruous 



i.« ^r , 1 



ROBINSON IN LONDON. 15 

what measures to take and what course of life to lead. An irre- 
siätible relnctance continued to going home; and as I stayed a 
wbile, the remembrance of the distress I had been in ^vore off; 
and as that abated, the little motion I had in my desires to a 
retnm wore off with it, tili at last I quite laid aside the thoughts 
of it, and looked out f or a voyage. 

That evil influence which carried me first away from my father's 
house, that hurried me into the wild and indigested notion of 
nusing my fortune, and that impressed those conceits so forcibly 
upon me, as to make me deaf to all good advice, and to the 
entreaties and even command of my father — I say, the same in- 
fluence, whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate of all 
enterprises to my view, and I went on board a vessel bound to 
the coast of Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to 
Guinea.^ 

It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures I did 
not ship myself as a sailor, whereby, though I might indeed have 
worked a little harder than ordinary, yet at the same time 1 had 
leanied the duty and office of a foremast man, and in time might 
baye qualified myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not for a master. 
Büt as it was always my fate to choose for the worse, so I did 
here; for, having money in my pocket, and good clothes upon my 
back, I would always go on board in the habit of a gentlemaiv 
And so I neither had any business in the ship, or leamed to do any. 

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good Company in 
London, which does not always happen to such loose and unguided 
yonng fellows as I then was, the devil generally not omitting to 
la? gome snare for them very early. But it was not so with me. 
I first feil acquainted with the master of a ship who had been on 
tbecoast of Guinea; and who having had very good success there, 
was resolved to go again; and who, taking a fancy to my conver- 
«ation, which was not at all disagreeable at that time, hearing me 
^y I had a mind to see the world, told me if I would go the 
voyage with him I should be at no expense; I should be bis mess- 
^\» and bis companion; and if I could carry anything with me, 

*Tbe Gold Coast. The coins called guineas wore so named becauee numbers of 
*^ wer© made from gold brought from the " Guinea Coast " of Africa. 



16 A SUCCESSFÜL TRIP. 

I should have all the advantage of it that the trade would admit, 
and perhaps I might meet with some encouragement. 

I embraced the ofFer, and, entering into a strict friendship with 
this captain, who was an honest and plain-dealing man, I went the 
voyage with him, and carried a small adventure with me, which. 
by the disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I increased 
very considerably; for I carried about £40 in such toys and trifles 
as the captain directed me to buy. This £40 I had mustered 
together by the assistance of some of my relations whom I corre- 
sponded with, and who, I believe, got my father, or at least my 
mother, to contribute so much as that to my first adventure. 

This was the only voyage which I may say was successful in all 
my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and honesty of 
my friend the captain, under whom also 1 got a competent 
knowledge of the mathematics and the rules of navigation, leamed 
how to keep an account of the ship's course, take an Observation, 
and, in short, to understand some things that were needful to be 
understood by a sailor. For, as he took delight to introduce me, 
I took delight to leam; and, in a word, this voyage made me both 
a sailor and a merchant; for I brought home five pounds nine 
ounces of gold dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London 
at my retum almost £300, and this filled me with those aspiring 
thoughts which have since so completed my min. 

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too, particularly 
that I was continually sick, being thrown into a violent calenture 
by the excessive heat of the climate, our principal trading being 
upon the coast, from the latitude of fifteen degrees north even to 
the line itself. 

I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to my 
great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the 
same voyage again, and I embarked in the same vessel with one 
who was his mate in the former voyage, and had now got the 
command of the ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever 
man made; for tiiough I did not carry quite £100 of my new 
gained wealth, so that I had £200 left, and which I lodged with 
my friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet I feil into ter- 
rible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was this — namely, 



ATTACKED BT FIRATBS. 



17 



OUT ahip making her conise towards tbe C&nary Iglands, or rather 
toneen those iaknda and the African ahore, was surprised in the 
graj of the moming by a Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave chsM 
to lu with all the sail she could make. We orowded also as much 
canru u our jards would spread or our masta carry to have got 
ciev; but finding the pirate gained upoit tu, and would certainljr 




°>i>ie np with os in a few hours, we prepared to Gght, our ahip 
h-ti^ twelve guns and the rogne eighteen. Äbout three in tha 
^tunooa he came up with üb, and bringing-to by nüstake just 
>ÜMiit our quarter,' instead of athwart out atem, as he intended, 
*«brought eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in 

* brotdnde npon him, which made him sbeer off again, after 
'Urning our fire and pouring in also his emall shot from near 
**(> hundred man which he had on board. However, we had not 

* cuaa touched, all our men keeping close. He prepared to attack 

> That part of tbe «bip ÜuA Um towMd th« item. 
(W) s 



18 ROBINSON A PRISONER. 

US again, and we to defend ourselves; but laying us on board the 
next time upon our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our 
decks, who immcdiately feil to cutting and hacking the decks and 
rigging. We plied them with small-shot, half-pikes, powder-chesta, 
and such like, and cleared cur deck of them twice. However, to 
cut short this melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled, 
and three of our men killed and eight wounded, we were obliged 
to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belong- 
ing to the Moors. 

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I appre- 
hended, nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's court, 
as the rest of our men were, but was kept by the captain of the 
rover as liis proper prize, and made bis slave, being young and 
nimble and fit for bis business. At this surprising change of my 
circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly 
overwhelmed; and now I looked back upon my father's prophetic 
discourse to me, that I should be miserable, and have none to 
relieve me, wliich I thought was now so eflFectually brought to 
pass, that it could not be worse; that now the band of Heaven 
had overtaken me, and I was undone without redemption. But, 
alas ! this was but a taste of the misery I was to go through, as 
will appear in the sequel of this story. 

As my new patron or master had taken me home to bis house, 
so I was in hopes that be would take me with bim when he went 
to sea again, believing that it would some time or other be bis 
fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portugal man-of-war; and that 
then I should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon 
taken away; for when he went to sea he left me on shore to look 
after bis little garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves 
about bis house; and when he came home again from bis cruise, 
he ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship. 

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method I 
might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least pro- 
bability in it Nothing presented to make the supposition of it 
rational; for I had nobody to communicate it to that would 
cmbark with me, no fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or 
Scotsman there but myself ; so that for two years, though I often 



BIS NEW HA8TEB. 19 

pleased myself with the imaginadon, yet I never had the leaat 
enconra^Dg proEpect of putting Jt in practice 

Alter about two yeara an odd circnmetance presented itself, 
vhich put the old tliought of making eame attempt for my liberty 
tgiio in my head. My patron lying at home loDger than usual 
nihoQt fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of 
noney, he used conatantly, once or tmce a-week, sometimea 
oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnace, and go 
ODt iato the road a-fishing ; and as he alwaya took me and a young 
Maresco with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and 
1 proTed very dexterous in catching üsh, insomuch that some- 
times he would send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the 
youth— the Maresco, as tliey called hira — to catch a dish of fish 
for him. 

It bappened one time, that going a-fiahing in a stark' calm 
mamiiig, a fog roae so thick, that though we were not half a 
le»gne from the ahore we loat sight of it; and rowing we knew 
Dot wliither or which way, we laboured all day and all the next 
tügH and when the moming came we found we had pulled off 
to EU inatead of pulling in for the ahore; and that we were at 
's»«! two leagnes from the shore. However, we got well in 
■i^D, thoagh with & great deal of labour and aome danger; for 
the wind began to blow pretty f resh in the morning : but particu- 
'"fjwe were all very hungry. 

But our patron, wamed by thia diaaat^r, reaolved to take more 
t*r8 of himself for the future; and having lying by him the long- 
[»»l of OUT English ship he had taken, he resolved he would not 
goa-gghing any more without a compaas and aome proviaion. So 
^e ortlered tiie carpenter of hia ship, who also was an English 
släve, to build a little state-room or cabin in the middle of the 
longboat, like that of a bärge, with a place to stand behind it to 
■teer and hsle home the main-aheet; and room before for a band 
w two to stand and work the sails, She aaiied with what we call 
a shoolder-of-mutton sail; and the boom gibed over the top of the 
i^bLi), which lay very anng and low, and had in it room for him 
to Üe, with a slave or two; and a table to eat on, with aome small 
' " Stark " 'a hera uaed for guiü or iiormighly. 



20 



A BOATINQ EXCUR8I0N. 



lockerB to put in some bottles of such liquor aa he thonght fit to 
drink; particularly bis bread, rice, and cofiee. 

We vent frequently oDt with tbis boat Urfishing. And as I traa 
most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without ma 
It happened that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either 




for pleasure or for Sah, with two or three Moore of some distino- 
tion in tbat place and for whom he had provided eztraordinarily, 
and had therefore Beut on board the boat ovemight a lai^r 
Store of provisions than ordinary; and had ordered me to get 
rcady three fuzeea with powder and shot, which were on board 
hia Bhip, for that they designed some sport of fovling as vell as 
fishing. 

I got all things ready aa he had directed, and waited the ncxt 

moming vitb the boat washed clean, her ancient' and pendante 

'Fl>g ti ths itenu 



PLANS OF ESCAPE. 21 

out, and everything to accommodate bis guests. When by-and-by 
my patron came on board alone, and told me bis guests had put 
off going, npon some business that feil out, and ordered me with 
the man and boy as uaual to go out with the boat and catch them 
some fish, for tbat bis friends were to sup at his house; and com* 
manded that as soon as I had got some fish, I shodd bring it 
home to his house; all which I prepared to do. 

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my 
thoQghts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship at my 
command; and my master being gone, I prepared to fumisb 
myself, not for a fishing business, but for a voyage; though I 
Imew not^ neither did I so much as consider, whither I should 
fiteer; for anywhere to get out of that place was my way. 

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to this 
Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board; for I told 
^ we must not presume to eat of our patron's bread. He said 
that was true; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit of 
their kind, and three jars with fresh water into the boat I knew 
where my patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident by 
the make were taken out of some English prize, and I conveyed 
them into the boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had 
heen there before for our master. I conveyed also a great lump 
of bees'-wax into the boat, which weighed above half a hundred- 
^eight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a 
hammer, all which were of great use to us afterwards, especially 
the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which 
^^ innocently came into also. His name was Ismael, who they 
^ Muly or Moely; so I called to him — " Moely," said I, " our 
patron's guns are on board the boat; can you not get a little 
powder and shotl It may be we may kill some alcamies (a fowl 
our curlews) for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gunner's 
in the ship." "Yes," says he, "TU bring some." And 
^ccordingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held about 
^ pound and a half of powder, or rather more, and another with 
^I^ot, that had five or six pound, with some bullets, and put all 
bto the boat At the same time, I had found some powder 
of my master's in the great cabin, with which I filled one of the 



22 A STROKE FOR LIBERTY. 

large bottles in the case, which was almost empty, pouring what 
was in it into another; and thus fumished with everything 
needful, we sailed out of the port to fish. The Castle, which is at 
the entrance of the port, knew who we were, and took no notice 
of us; and we were not above a mile out of the port before we 
hauled in our sail, and set us down to fisL The wind blew 
from the north-north-east, which was contrary to my desire; for 
had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have made the 
coast of Spain, and at least reached to the Bay of Cadiz; but 
my resolutions were, blow which way it would, I would be 
gone from that horrid place where I was, and leave the rest to 
fate. 

After we had fished some time and catched nothing— for when 
I had fish on my hook, I would not pull them up, that he might 
not See them — ^I said to the Moor, " This will not do; our master 
will not be thus served; we must stand farther off." He, thinking 
no härm, agreed; and being in the head of the boat, set the sails: 
and as I had the heim, I run the boat out near a league farther, 
and then brought her to, as if I would fish; when, giving the 
boy the heim, I stepped forward to where the Moor was, and 
maldng as if I stooped for something behind him, I took him by 
surprise with my arm under his twist, and tossed him clear over- 
board into the sea. He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, 
and called to me, begged to be taken in; told me he would go all 
over the world with me. He swam so strong after the boat that 
he would have reached me very quickly, there being but little 
wind; upon which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of 
the fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told him I had done 
him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him none. "But," 
Said I, " you swim well enough to reach to the shore, and the sea 
is calm; make the best of your way to shore, and I will do you no 
härm, but if you come near the boat I'll shoot you through the 
head; for I am resolved to have my liberty." So he tumed him- 
self about and swam for the shore; and I make no doubt but he 
reached it with ease, for he was an excellent swimmer. 

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me 
and have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust 




3 



STANDING OUT TO SEA. 



23 



him. ^en he was gone I tumed to the boy, who they called 
Smy, and said to him, " Xnry, if you will b6 faithf ul to me, I'll 
make you & great man; but tf you will not stroke your face to be 
titie to me — that is, swear by Mahomet and bis father's beard — I 
must throw you into the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and 
spoke so innocently, that I could not mistruat him; and swore to 
be ttithEul to me, and go all over the world with me. 
^Vlule 1 was in view of the Moor that was Bwimming, I stood 




OQt directly to sea with the boat, rather Btretching to windward, 
Ihat tbey might think me gone towards the Btrait's mouth (as in- 
deed any one that had been in their wita must have been aupposed 
lo do); for who woidd have Bupposed we were sailed on to the 
southward, to the trnly barbarian coaet, wbere whole nationB of 
negroea were sure to aurroimd us with their caaoes, and dostroy 
as; where we could never once go on shore but we should be 
devonred by sav^ beaeta, or more merciless savages of human 
Hnd. 

Bat as soon as it grew dusk in the evening I changed my 
(ooTse, and steered directly south and by eaat, bending my coutse 



24 AFRAID TO LAND. 

a little toward the east, that I might keep in with the shore; and 
having a fair fresh gale of wind and a smooth, quiet sea, I made 
such Bail that I believe by the next day at three o'clock in the 
af temoon, when I first made the land, I could not be less than 1 50 
miles south of Sallee; quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's 
dominions, or, indeed, of any other king thereabouts, for we saw 
no people. 

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the 
dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that I 
would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor, the wind 
continuing fair, tili I had sailed in that manner five days ; and 
then the wind shifting to the southward, I concluded also that if 
any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also would now give 
over. So I ventured to make to the coast, and came to an anchor 
in the mouth of a little river, I knew not what, or where; neither 
what latitude, what country, what nation, or what river. I neither 
saw, nor desired to see, any people; the principal thing I wanted 
was fresh water. We came into this creek in the evening, re- 
solving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and discover the 
country; but as soon as it was quite dark we heard such dreadful 
noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of 
we knew not what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die 
with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore tili day. " Well, 
Xury," Said I, " then I won^t; but it may be we may see men by 
day, who will be as bad to us as those lions." " Then we give 
them the shoot gun,* says Xury, laughing; "make them run 
way." Such English Xury spoke by con versing among us slaves. 
However, I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a 
dram (out of our patron's case of bottles) to cheer him up. After 
all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it. We dropped our 
little anchor, and lay still all night — I say still, for we slept none — 
for in two or three hours we saw vast great creatures (we knew 
not what to call them) of many sorts come down to the sea-shore, 
and run into the water, wallowing and washing themselves for the 
pleasure of cooling themselves; and they made such hideous 
howlings and yellings, that I never indeed heard the like. 

Xury was dreadfuUy frightened, and indeed so was I too. But 




8EARCH FOR WATEB. Q-'i 

veiren both more frighteDed when we heard one of these mighty 
CTeatuws come swinuning towärds our boat. V/^e could not aee 
him, but we might hear htm by bis blowing to be a monstrous, 
bog«, and furious beast Xury said it was ft lion, and it might 
be Eo for aught I know; but poor Xoiy cried to mo to weigh the 
»ncW, and row away. " No," eays I; " Xuiy, we can slip our 
table with the buoy to it, and go off to aea. They cannot follow 
I» fu." I had no sooner said so but I perceived the creature 
{■liUeTer it vae,) witbin two oars* length, which something sur- 
prised me. However, I immediately steppend to the cabin-door, 
■od taking np my gun, fired at him, upon which he imntediately 
tonied about, and swam towards the shore again. 

Bot it ta impoBsiblo to deacribe the horrible noiaes, and hideoua 
tries and howlinge, that were raiaed as well upon the edge of the 
<bore as higher within the country, upon the notse or report of 
the gun — a thing I have some reason to beiieve those oreaturea 
W never heard betöre. Thia convinced me that there was no 
going on ahore for us in the night upon that coast; and how to 
venture on shore in the day was another queation too, for to have 
fallen into the faands of any of the savages had been aa bad aa to 
liave fallen into the hands of lions and tigers; at least we were 
equally apprehenaivo of the danger of it. 

Be that aa it would, we were obliged to go on shore aomewhere 
or other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat. When 
or where to get to it was the point. Xury said, if I would let him 
go on ahore with one of the jara, he would find if there was any 
»ater, and bring aome to me. I aaked him why he would go — 
Vfhy I ahould not go and he stay in the boati The boy answered 
with so much affection that made me love him ever after. Says 
be, "If wild maus come, they eat me; you go way." "Well, 
Xury," said I, "we will both go; and if Üie wild maus come, we 
will kill them. They ahall eat neither of ua," So I gave Xury 
& piece of rusk-bread to eat, and a dram out of our patron'a case 
of bottles which I mentioned before; and we haled the boat in 
u near the shore aa we thoagfat waa proper, and waded on ahore, 
canying nothing but our amis and two jara for water. 
I did Dot care to go out of aight of the boat, fearii^ the coma% 



26 CRUSOE'S CALCULATIONa 

of caDoes with savages down the river; but the boy seeing a low 
place about a mile up the country, rambled to it; and by and by I 
saw him come running towards me. I thought he was pursued by 
Bome savage, or f rightened with some wild beast^ and I ran f orward 
towards him to help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw 
something hanging over his Shoulders — which was a creature that 
he had shot, like a hare, but different in colour and longer legs. 
However, we were very glad of it> and it was very good meat; but 
the great joy that poor Xury came with, was to teil me he had 
found good water and seen no wild mans. 

But we found aftei-wards that we need not take such pains for 
water, for a little higher up the creek where we were, we found the 
water fresh when the tide was out, which flowed but a little way 
up. So we fiUed our jars, and feasted on the hare we had killed, 
and prepared to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any 
human creature in that part of the country. 

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very well 
that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Yerd Islands also, 
lay not far off from the coast But as I had no Instruments to 
take an Observation to know what latitude we were in, and did 
not exactly know, or at least to remember, what latitude they 
were in, I knew not where to look for them, or when to stand oflf 
to sea towards them; otherwise I might now easily have found 
some of these islands. But my hope was, that if I stood along 
this coast tili I came to that part where the English traded, I 
should find some of their vessels upon their usual design of trade, 
that would reHeve and take us in. 

By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was, must 
be that country which, lying between the Emperor of Morocco's 
dominions and the negroes, lies waste and uninhabited, except by 
wild beasts — the negroes having abandoned it and gone farther 
south, for fear of the Moors; and the Moors not thinldng it worth 
inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness. And, indeed, both f orsak- 
ing it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers. Kons, leopards, 
and other furious creatures which harbour there; so that the 
Moors use it for their hunting only, where they go like an array, 
two or three thousand men at a time. And, indeed, for near a 




A DBSADFUL MONSTEB. 27 

hondred miles togetber upon this coast^ we saw nothing but a 
vaste nninbabited country by day, and heard nothing but howlings 
and roaring ol wild beasts by night 

Once or twice in the daytime, I thought I saw the Pico^ of 
Teneriffe, being the high top of the mountain Teneriffe in the 
Canaries; and had a great mind to venture out in hopes of reach- 
ing thither; but having tried twice, I was forced in again by con- 
trary winds, the sea also going too high f or my little vessel, so I 
resolved to pursue my first design and keep along the shore. 

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water af ter we had 

left this place; and once in particular, being early in the moming, 

ve came to an anchor under a little point of land which was pretty 

high, and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go f arther in. 

Xury, whose eyes were more about him than it seems mine were, 

caUs softly to me and teils me that we had best go f arther off the 

shore: — "For," says he, "look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the 

side of that hillock fast asleep." I looked where he pointed, and 

saw a dreadful monster indeed; for it was a terrible great Hon that 

lay on the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the 

hiil, that hung as it were a little over him. " Xury," says I, " you 

shall go on shore and kill him." Xury looked f rightened, and said, 

"Me kill! he eat me at one mouth" — one mouthful, he meant 

However, I said no more to the boy, but bad him lie still; and I 

took onr biggest gun, which was almost musket-bore, and loaded 

it with a good charge of powder and with two slugs, and laid it 

down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets; and the third 

—for we had three pieces — I loaded with five smaller bullets. I 

took the best aim I could with the first piece to have shot him 

into the head, but he lay so with bis leg raised a little above bis 

noee, that the slugs hit bis leg about the knee, and broke the bone. 

He Started up, growling at first; but finding bis leg broke, feil 

down again; and then got up upon three legs, and gave the most 

hideous roar that ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had 

not hit him on the head. However, I took up the second piece 

immediately; and though he began to move off, fired again, and 

ahot him into the head, and had the pleasure to see him drop, and 

^ Peak or Point. 



28 XURY^S CAPTURB. 

make but littld noise, but lay Btruggling f or life. Then Xury took 
heart, and would have me let him go on shora " Well, go," said 
I. So the boy jumped into the water, and taking a üttle gun in 
one band, swam to shore witb the otber band, and Coming close to 
the creature, put the muzzle of the piece to bis ear, and sbot him 
into the bead again, which despatched him qoite. 

This was game indeed to ns, but this was no food; and I was 
very sorry to lose three charges of powder and sbot upon a creature 
that was good for nothing to us. However, Xury said he would 
have some of him; so he comes on board, and asked me to give 
bim the batchet. "Forwbat^ Xuryl" said L "Me cut off bis 
bead," said he. However, Xury could not cut off bis bead; but 
he cut off a foot and brought it with bim — ^and it was a monstrous 
great one. 

I bethought myself, bowever, that perhaps the skin of bim might 
one way or otber be of some value to us; and I resolved to take 
off bis skin if I could. So Xury and I went to work with bim; 
but Xury was much the better workman at it — for I knew very ill 
how to do it Indeed, it took us up both the whole day; but at 
last we got off the hide of him, and spreading it on the top of our 
cabin, the sun effectually dried it in two days' time, and it after- 
wards served me to lie upon. 

After this stop we made on to the soutbward continually for ten 
or twelve days, living very sparing on our provisions, which began 
to abate very much, and going no oftener into the shore than we 
were obliged to for fresh water. My design in this was to make 
the river Gambia or Senegal — that is to say, anywhere about the 
Cape de Verd, wbere I was in hopes to meet with some European 
ship; and if I did not, I knew not what course I had to take, but 
to seek for the islands or perish there among the negroes. I knew 
that all the ships from Eurqpe — which sailed eitber to the coast 
of Guinea, or to Brazil, or to the East Indies — made this cape or 
those islands; and in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon 
this Single point, either that I must meet with some ship or must 
perish. 

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I 
have said, I began to see that the land was inbabited; and in two 




TIMELT ASSISTANCR 29 

m tliree places, as we saiied by, we saw people stand upon the 
shore to look at us. We could also perceive they were quite black 
ttd stark naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to 
them. But Xmy was my better counsellor, and said to me, " No 
go, no go/' However, I hauled in nearer the shore that I might 
talk to them, and I found they ran along the shore by me a good 
waj. I observed they had no weapons in their hands — except 
0Ü6, vho had a long slender stick, which Xuiy said was a lance, 
and that they would throw them a great way with good aim. So 
I kept at a distance, bat talked with them by signs ajs well as I 
<^uld; and particularly made signs for something to e&t They 
beckoned to me to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some 
meat Upon this I lowered the top of my sail and lay by; and 
two of them ran up into the country, and in less than half an 
hoor came back and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh 
and some com, such as is the produce of their country — but we 
neither knew what the one or the other was. However, we were 
Drilling to accept it, but how to come at it was our next dispute; 
for I was not for venturing on shore to them, and they were as 
much afndd of us. But they took a safe way for us all — for they 
brought it to the shore and laid it down, aüd went and stood a 
gfeat way off tili we f etched it on board, and then came close to 
QsagaiiL 

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make 
them amends. But an opportunity offered that very instant to 
oblige them wonderfulljr — ^for while we were lying by the shore, 
<^e two mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it) 
^th great fury, from the mountains towards the sea. Whether it 
^ the male pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport 
Win rage, we could not teil, any more than we could teil whether 
Jt wag usual or stränge; but I believe it was the latter — because, 
^ the first place, those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in 
tbe night; and, in the second place, we. found the people terribly 
^tened, especially the women. The man that had the lance or 
dttt did not fly from them, but the rest did. However, as the 
^0 creatures ran directly into the water, they did not seem to 
oSer to fall upon any of the negroes, but plunged themselves into 



30 THE SAVAGES ASTONISHED. 

the sea, and swam about as if they had come for their diversion. 
At last one of them began to come nearer our boat than at first I 
expected, but I lay ready for him; for I had loaded my gun with 
all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both the other. As 
soon as he came fairly within my reach I fired, and shot him 
directly into the head. Immediately he sank down into the water, 
but rose instantly and plunged up and down as if he was struggling 
for life. And so indeed he was. He immediately made to the 
shore; but between the woimd, which was bis mortal hurt, and 
the strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the 
shore. 

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor 
creatures at the noise and the fire of my gun; some of th^m were 
even ready to die for fear, and feil down as dead with the very 
terror. But when they saw the creature dead and sunk in the 
water, and that I made signs to them to come to the shore, they 
took heart and came to the shore, and began to search for the 
creature. I found him by his blood staining the water; and by 
the help of a rope which I slung round him, and gave the ne^oes 
to haul, they dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most 
curious leopard, spotted and fine to an admirable degree; and the 
negroes held up their hands with admiration to think what it was 
I had killed him with. 

The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire and the 
noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the moim- 
tains from whence they came, nor could I at that distance know 
what it waa I found quickly the negroes were for eating the 
flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have them take it as a 
favour from me; which, when I made signs to them that they 
might take him, they were very thankf ul for. Immediately they 
feil to work with him; and though they had no knife, yet with a 
sharpened piece of wood they took off his skin as readily — and 
much more readily than we could have done with a knife. They 
offered me some of the flesh, which I declined, making as if I 
would give it them; but made signs for the skin, which they gave 
me very freely, and brought me a great deal more of their Pro- 
vision, which, though 1 did not understand, yet I accepted. Then 




1 



THE VOTAQE RESUHKD. 31 

I nude signs to tbem for some water, and faeld out one of my jare 
lo them, tiiming it bottom upward, to ahow that it was empty, 
uid that I wanted to have it filled. They called immediately to 
lome of their friends; and there came two women, and brought a 
great Tessel made of earth, and buroed as I suppose in the sun. 
This they aet down for me as before; and I eent Xury on shore 
with my jars, and filled them all three. The women were as 
ttiik naked as the men. 

1 was now fumiBbed with roota and com — such as it was — and 
ffiter; »nd leaving my friendly negroes, I made forward for about 
eieren days more without offering to go near the shore, tili I saw 
the Imd ran out a great length into the sea, at about the distance 
of four or five leagues before me, and the sea being very calm, I 
kept a lai^e ofBng to make this point. At length, doubling the 
poinl at about two le^;uea from the land, I Baw plainly land on 
the other side to seaward. Then I concluded, as it was most 
certMD indeed, that tliia was the Cape de Verd Islands. However, 
theywereata great distance; and I could not well teil what I had 
W to do, for if I should be takea with a fresh of wind, I might 
üeilher reach one nor the other. 

hl this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stoppcd into the cabin 
Mil «at me down, Xury having the heim, when on a sudden the 
%criedout, " Master, master, a ship with a sali ! " and the foolish 
'mv vas frightened out of bis wits, thinking it muet needa be some 
'^ im master's ships eent to pursue us, whon I knew wo were 
E^tea far enongh out of tbeir reach. I jumped out of the cabin, 
and immediately saw not only the ship, but wbat she was — namely, 
tiat it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the 
<^oast of Guinea for negroes. But when I observed the course she 
''wred I was soon convinced they were bound some other way, 
U(l did not design to come any nearer to the shore. Upon which 
Istrel-ihed out to sea as much as I conid, resolving to speak with 
•iem if possible. 

With all the sail I conld make, I found I should not be able to 
•»tue in tbeir way, but that they would be gone by before I could 
'Dike any signal to tbem. But after I had crowdod to the utmoet 
and began to despair, they, it seema, saw me by the help o£ theit 




hear the gun. Upon these signals they yery kioi 
and lay by for me, and in about three hours' time '. 



ON BOARD smp. 33 

It was an inexpressible joy to me — that any one will belle ve — that 
I was thoa delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable and 
tlmost hopeleas condition ajs I was in, and I immediately offered 
lU 1 had to the captain of the ship as a return for my deliverance- 
bat he generously told me he would take nothing from me, but 
that all 1 had ahould be delivered safe to me when I came to the 
Braak "For," says he, "I have saved your life on no other 
tems than I would be glad to be saved myself, and it may one 
time or other be my lot to be taken up in the same condition; 
besides," said he, " when I carry you to the Brazils, so great a 
^^Y from your own country, if I should take from you what you 
b4?e, you will be starved there, and then I only take away that 
life I have given. No, no, Seignor Inglese," says he, " Mr. English- 
man, I will carry you thither in charity, and those things will help 
yoa to buy your subsistence there and your passage home again." 

As he was charitable in bis proposal, so he was just in the 
Performance to a tittle; for he ordered the seamen that none 
8hoald offer to touch anything I had. Then he took everything 
into his own possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of 
them, that I might have them, even so much as my three earthen 
jars. 

As to my boat it was a very good one, and that he saw, and 
^Id me he would buy it of me for the ship's use, and asked me 
'^hat I would have for it] I told him he had been so generous to 
me m everything, that I could not ofFer to make any price of the 
boat, but left it entirely to him; upon which he told me he would 
gi?e me a note of his hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight for it 
at Braal, and when it came there, if any one offered to give moro 
be would make it up. He offered me also sixty pieces of eight 
Diore for my boy Xury; which I was loath to take: not that I was 
öot willing to let the captain have him, but I was very loath to 
•eil the poor bo/s hberty, who had assisted me so faithfully in 
procnring my own. However, when I let him know my reason, 
be owned it to be just, and offered me this medium — that he 
would give the boy an Obligation to set him free in ten years, if 
be Uirned Christian. Upon this, and Xury saying he was willing 
^%oU) him, I let the captain have him. 



34 



THE GENEROUS CAPTAIK. 



We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in the 

£ay de Todos los KJaiitos, or ÄllSaints' Bay, in about twenty-two 

days aft«r. And now I was once more deüvered from the most 

miserable of all conditions of lifo; and what to do next with 

myself I was now to 

consider. 

The generons treat- 
ment the captain gave 
me I can never enough 
remember. He would 
take nothing of me 
for my passage, gave 
me tweiity ducats for 
the leopard's Bkm and 
forty for the Uon's 
skin which I had in 
my boat, and caused 
everything I had in 
the ship to be punc- 
tually delivered me; 
and what I was will- 
ing to seil he bought, 
such as the case of 
bottles, two of my 
guns, and a piece of 
the lump of bees'-wai, 
"i[<s<hn<i>]»roriiijbajxiir;.- for I had made candles 

of the resL In a word, 
I made about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight ot all my 
cargo; and with this stock I went on shore in the Brazils. 

I had not bcen long here, but being recommended k> the house 
of a good honest man like himself, who had an " ingeino," as they 
call it — that ia, a plantation and a eiigar-house — I lived with him 
some tirae, and acquainted myaelf by that means with the manner 
of their planting and making of sugar. And seeing how well the 
planters lived, and how they grew rieh suddcnly, I resolved, it I 
could gct liccusc to settle tliero, I woidd tum planter among tliem; 




CRUSOE TUENS PLANTER. 35 

ttwlrag in the meantime to find out some way to get my money 
vbich I hsd left in London remitted to me. To this purpose, 
getüng > kind of a letter of naturalization, I purchased aa much 
)»nii that waa uncured as my money would reach, and formed a 
plsn fot my plantation and aettlement, and such a one as raight bo 
miuble to the stock which I propoeed to myself to receive from 
Engltni 

I bad a neighboar — a Portuguese of Lisbon, bat bom of English 
pannU--vhose name waa Wella, and in much such circumBtancea 
u I was. I call bim my neighbour, because bis plantation lay 
nert to mine, and we went on very sociably togetber, My stock 
*« but low as well as bis; and we rather planted for food than 
»njthiDg eise for abont two years. However, we began to increase, 
Mid oor land began to come into order; so that tbe third year we 
planted some tobacco, and made ea«h of us a large piece of ground 
ntäj for planting canes in the year to come. But we botb wanted 
Wp; and now I found, more than before, I bad done wrong in 
[•fting with my boy Xury. 

Bat alasl for me to do wrong that never did right was no great 
^oDder. I had no remedy but to go on. I was gotf«ii into an 
employinent quite remote to my genius, and directly contrary to 
lielife I deligbted in, and for which I forsook my father's house, 
•nd broke through all bis good advice; nay, I waa Coming into 
tne rery middle Station, or Upper degrea of low life, which my 
feber advised me to before, and whicb, if I resoived to go on with, 
' niigbt as well have stayed at home, and never have fatigued 
BjBelf in the world aa I had done. And I used often to say to 
"'J^f, I could have done this as well in England among my 
niends as have gone five thousand miles off to do it among 
'buigers and savages in a wildemeas, and at such a distance aa 
nerer to bear from any part of the world that bad the leaat know- 
l^ge of me. 

In thia manner I used to look upon my condition with the 
Pünost regret. I had nobody to converae with but now and then 
Ulis neighbonr — no work to be done but by the labour of my 
huida; and I used to say I lived just like a man cast away upon 
ume desolate island that had nobody there but himself. But how 



36 THE CAPTAIN'S ADVICE. 

just has it been, and how should all men reflect, that when they 
compare their present conditions with others that are worse, 
Heaven may oblige them to make the exchange, and be convinced 
of their former felicity by their experience, — I say how just has it 
been that the truly solitary life J. reflected on, in an island of mere 
desolation, should be my lot, who had so often unjustly compared 
it with the life which I then led; in which, had I continued, I 
had in all probability been exceeding prosperous and rieh 1 

I was in some degree settled in my measures for cairying on 
the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship that 
took me up at sea, went back — for the ship remained there in 
providing his loading and preparing for bis voyage near three 
months — when, telling him what little stock I had left behind 
me in London, he gave me this friendy and sincere advice. 
" Seignor Inglese," says he, — for so he always called me, — " if you 
will give me letters, and a procuration here in form to me, Aivith 
Orders to the person who has your money in London, to send your 
effects to Lisbon to such persons as I shall direct, and in such 
goods as are proper for this country, I will bring you the produce 
of them, God willing, at my retum. But since human affairs are 
all subject to changes and to disasters, I would have you give 
Orders but for one hundred pounds Sterling, which you say is half 
your stock, and let the hazard be run for the first; so that if it 
come safe you may order the rest the same way, and if it mis- 
carry you may have the other half to have recourse to for your 
supply." 

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that I 
could not but be convinced it was the best course I could take; so 
I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I 
had left my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain, 
as he desired 

I wrote the English captain's widow a füll account of all my 
adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the 
Portugal captain at sea, the humanity of his behaviour, and in 
what condition I was now in, with all other necessary directions 
for my supply. And when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he 
found means, by some of the English merchants there, to send 



INCREASINO PROSPERITT. 37 

Oftr, Bot the Order only, but a füll &ccaunt of my Btoiy, to a mer- 
chuit at London, who represented it effectu&Ily to her; wliereupoii 
diB not only delivered the money, but out of her own pocket Bent 
the Portugal captain a very handsome present for hia bumanity 
ud cbarity to me. 

The merchant in London, resting this hundred pounds in 
£agligh goods tuch as the captain had writ for, aent them directly 
lo tum at Lifibon, and he brongbt tbem all eafe to me to the 
t^näls; among which, without my direction — for I was too young 
in my business to think of them — he had taken care to bave all 
•Oft« of toola, iron-work, and Utensils necessary for my plantation, 
ud n-hich were of great use to me. 

^"hen thia cai^o arrived I thought my fortune made, for I was 
■orpriEed vith joy of it; and my good Btevard the captain had 
l)id ont the five pounda, which my friend had aent him for a 
ptsent for himself, to purchase and bring me over a servant ander 
bond for six years' aervice, and would not accept of any conaiderar 
ÜOQ eicept a Httle tobacco, which I would bave bim accept, belog 
<A my own produce, 

Neither was this alL But my gooda being all Euglish manu- 
futures, such as cloth, stuffs, baya,' and things particularly raluabte 
*>"i desirable in the country, I fouud means to seU them to a very 
Sn&t advantage; ao that I may say I had more than four timea 
'M Tilue of my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my 
pMr oeigbbour — I mean in the advancement of my plantation; 
'iv the first thing I did I bought me a negro slave, and an European 
«rtant also — I mean another besidea that which the captain 
'^üght me from Lisbon. 

Bot as abused proaperity is oftentimes made the reiy meana of 
OUT greatest adversity, ao was it with me. I went on the next 
Tmt with great succesa in my plantation. I raised fifty great rolls 
of tobacco on my own ground, more than I had diapoeed of for 
Beeeäsarie« among my neighbours; and these fifty roUa boing each 
of sbove a hundredweight, were well cnred and laid by agalnst 
Ihe retum of the fleet from Lisbon. And now, increaalng in 
VinesB and in wealth, my head began to be f ull of projects and 
> Baiie; sarge; soft wooJIen clotb. 



38 NEW PROJECTS. 

undertakings beyond my reach — such as are indeed often the min 
of the. best heads in business. 

Had I continued in the Station I was now in, I had room for all 
the happy things to have yet befallen me for which my father so 
earnestly recommended a quiet, retired life, and of which he had 
80 sensibly described the middle Station of life to be füll of. But 
other things attended me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of 
all my own miseries, and particularly to increase my fault and 
double the reflections upon myself, which in my future sorrows I 
should have leisure to make. All these miscarriages were pro- 
cured by my apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination 
of wandering abroad, and pursuing that inclination in contradiction 
to the clearest views of doing myself good in a fair and piain pur- 
suit of those prospects and those measures of life which Nature 
and Providence concurred to present me with and to make my 
duty. 

As I had once done thus in my breaking away from my parents, 
so I could not be content now, but I must go and leave the happy 
view I had of being a rieh and thriving man in my new plantation, 
only to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than 
the nature of the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself down 
again into the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man feil 
into, or perhaps could be consistent with life and a State of health 
in the world. 

To come, then, by the just degrees to the particulars of this 
part of my story. You may suppose that having now lived almost 
f our years in the Brazils, and beginning to thrive and prosper very 
well upon my plantation, I had not only leamed the language, but 
had contracted acquaintance and friendship among my fellow- 
planters, as well as among the merchants at St Salvadore, which 
was our port; and that, in my discourses among them, I had 
frequently given them an account of my two voyages to the coast 
of Guinea» the manner of trading with the negroes there, and how 
easy it was to purchase upon the coast for trifles — such as beads, 
toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass, and the like — not only 
gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, &c., but negroes for 
the Service of the Brazils in great numbers. 



A FAIR PR0P09AL 39 

They listened alw&ya very ntteiitively to my diecourses on theae 
hadi, but especially to tbat p&rt which related to the buyiitg 
D^hms; which was a trade at that time not only not far entered 
iolo, bat, as far as it was, had been carried od by the asmnlo, or 
pemÜEsion of the Rings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in 
Üie pablic;' so that few negroes were brought, and those exces- 
nrely dear. 

It happened, being in Company with some merchants and 
plinten of my acquaintance, and talldng of those things very 
eunestly, three of them came to me the next morning, and told 
me tbey had been musing very rauch upon what I had discoursed 
vith them of the last night, and they came to make a secret 
proposal to me. And after enjoining me secrecy, they told mo 
ttut they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they 
had all pUntations as well aa I, and were straitened for nothing so 
much as seirants; that aa it was a trade that could not be carried 
00, because they could not publlcly seil the negroea when they 
ome bome, so they desired to make but one voyage, to bring the 
negroes on shore privately, and divide them among their own 
plutadons; and. In a word, the question was, whether 1 would 
go their supercai^ in the ship to manage the trading part upon 
tbe coast of Guinea. And they ofTered me that I should bave 
mr equal ahare of the negroes, without providing any part of the 
stock. 

Thia was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it been made 
to auy one that had not had a settlement and plantation of his 
own to look after, which was in a fair way of Coming to be very 
coDsiderable, and with a good stock upon it But for me that was 
tbos entered and established, and had nothing to do but go on aa 
I faad begun for three or four years more, and to have aent for the 
other hundred pound from England, and who in that time, and 
vith that little addition, could ecarce have failed of being wortb 
three er fonr thousand pounds Sterling, and that increasing too, — 
fot me to think of such a voyi^e was the most preposterous thing 
that ever man in anch circomstances could be guilty of. 

re aU bought b; ■pecutaton to eohuice their prioe 



40 



TIIK OFTBR ACCEPTKD. 



But I that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more 
restst the offer than I could restrain my firat rambling desigus 
Theo my father'a good counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I 
told them I wonld go with all my heart if they wonld undertake 
to look &ft«r my plantation in my absence, and would dispose of 
it to Bach as I ehould direct ii I miscanied. This they all 




engaged to do, and entered into writings or covenants to do so; 
and I made a formal will; disposing of my plantation and effects, 
JQ caso of my dcath, maldng the captoin of the ship that had saved 
my life, aa before, my universal heir, but obliging him to dispoae 
of my effects as I had directcd in my will — one-half of the pro- 
duce being to himself, and the other to be shipped to England. 
In sbort, I took all possibla caution to preaerre my efiecte and 
keep up my plantation. Had I used half aa much prudence to 
have looked into my own interest, and have made a judgment of 
whal I ought to have done and not to have done, I had cerUinly 



CRUSOE SAILS FOR AFRICA. 41 

never gone away from so prosperous au undertaking — leaving all 
tke probable views of a thriving circumstance, and gone upon a 
voyage to sea» attended with all its common hazards, to say 
nothing of the reasona I had to expect particular misfortunes to 
ffljBell 

Bat I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my 
fancy rather than my reason. And accordingly, the ship being 
fitted out and the cargo fumished, and all things done as by 
tgreement by my partners in the voyage, I went on board in an 
eril hoor — ^being the same day eight year^ that I went from my 
father and mother at Hüll in order to act the rebel to their 
anüiority and the fool to my own interest 

Oor fihip was about 120 ton burthen; carried six guns and 
foarteen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself. We had 
on board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit 
^or our trade with the negroes — euch as beads, bits of glass, shells 
uid odd trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives, ecissors, 
lutchets, and the like. 

Ile same day I went on board we set sail, standing away to 

the northward upon our own coast, with design to Stretch over 

'or the African coast when they came about 10 or 12 degrees of 

nor^em latitude; which, it seems, was the manner of their course 

in those days. We had very good weather, only excessively hot, 

^ the way upon our own coast, tili we came the height of Cape 

St Angostino; from whence, keeping farther off at sea, we lost 

^t of land, and steered as if we were bound f or the Isle Fernand 

de Noronha, holding our course north-east by north, and leaving 

Aose isies on the east In this course we passed the line in about 

^üve days' time; and were by our last Observation in 7 degrees 

32 minutes northem latitude, when a violent tomado or hurricane 

^k US qnite out of our knowledge. It began from the south- 

east, came about to the north-west, and then settled into the 

itords-east; from whence it blew in such a terrible manner that 

for twelve days together we could do nothing but drive, and scud- 

^Üög away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and the fury 

of ^e winds directed. And during these twelve days I need not 

^ Ist of September, 1659. 



42 CAUGHT IN A STORM. 

ßay that I expected every day to be swallowed up; nor, indeed, 
did any in the ship expect to save their lives. 

In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm, one of 
our men died of the calenture, and one man and the boy washed 
overboard. About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, 
the master made an Observation as well as he could, and found 
that he was in about 11 degrees north latitude, but that he 
was 22 degrees of longitude diiSerence west from Cape St 
Augustino; so that he found he was gotten upon the coast of 
Guiana,^ or the north part of Brazil, beyond the Kiver Amazones, 
toward that of the River Oronoque,^ commonly called the Great 
Kiver, and began to consult with me what course he should take, 
for the ship was leaky and very much disabled, and he was going 
directly back to the coast of Brazil. 

I was positively against that; and looking over the charts of 
the sea-cöast of America with him, we concluded there was no 
inhabited country for us to have recourse to tili we came within 
the circle of the Carribbe Islands, and therefore resolved to stand 
away for Barbadoes; which, by keeping off at sea, to avoid the 
indraught of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico, we might easily perform, 
as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail; whereas we could not 
possibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa without some 
asslstance both to our ship and to ourselves. 

With this design we changed our course, and steered away 
north-west by west, in order to reach some of our English islands, 
where I hoped for relief. But our voyage was otherwise deter- 
mined; for, being in the latitude of 12 degrees 18 minutes, a 
second storm came upon us, which carried us away with the same 
impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the very way of all 
human commerce, that had all our lives been saved as to the sea, 
we were rather in danger of being devoured by savages than ever 
retuming to our own country. 

In this distress, the wind stiU blowing very hard, one of our 
men early in the morning cried out "Land!'' and we had no 
sooner run out of the cabin to look out in hopes of seeing where- 
abouts in the world we were, but the ship Struck upon a sand, 

* De Foe spells it " Guiney." • Orinoco. 



44 A DISMAL GASE. 

and expecting death every moment, and every man acting accor- 
dingly as preparing for anotlier world, for there was little or 
nothing more for us to do in this. That which was our present 
comfort, and all the comfort we had, was that, contrary to our 
expectation, the ship did not break yet, and that the mast^r ssid 
the wind began to abate. 

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate, yet 
the ship having- thus Struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast 
for US to expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful condition 
indeed, and had nothing to do bnt to think of saving our lives as 
well as we could. We had a boat at our stern just before the 
Storni, but she was first staved by dashing against the ship's rudder, 
and in the next place she broke away, and either sunk or was 
driven off to sea; so there was no hope from her. We had another 
boat on board; but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful 
thing. However, there was no room to debate, for we fancied the 
ship would break in pieces every minute, and some told us she was 
actually broken already. 

In this distress the mate of our vessel lays hold of the boat, and 
with the help of the rest of the men, they got her slung over the 
ship's side, and getting all into her, let go, and committed our- 
selves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy and the wild sea: 
for though the storm was abated considerably, yet the sea went 
dreadfully high upon the shore, and might well be called "den 
wild zee," as the Dutch call the sea in a storm. 

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw 
plainly that the sea went so high that the boat could not live, and 
that we should be inevitably drowned. As to making sail, we had 
none; nor, if we had, could we have done anything with it: so we 
worked at the oar towards the land, though with heavy hearts, 
like men going to execution; for we all knew that wheü the boat 
came nearer the shore she would be dashed in a thousand pieces 
by the breach of the sea. However, we committed our souls to 
God in the most eamest manner, and the wind driving us towards 
the shore, we hastened our destruction with our own hands, 
puUing as well as we could towards land. 

What the shore was — whether rock or sand, whether steep or 



CRUSOE'S NAKROW ESCAPE. 45 

shoal— we knew not; the only hope that could rationally give us 
the least sliadow of expectation, was if we might Lappen into some 
hay or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where by great chance we 
might have mn our boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and 
perhaps made smooth water. But there was nothing of this 
appeared; bat as we made nearer and nearer the shore, the land 
looked more frightful than the sea. 

After we had rowed or rather driven about a league and a half, 
•s we reckoned it, a raging w^ave, mountain-like, came rolling 
astera of us, and plainly bade us expect the cotip-de-grace. In a 
Word, it took us with such a fury, that it overset the boat at once, 
tuid separating us as well from the boat as from one another, gave 
öS not time hardly to say, God ! for we were all swallowed up 
in a moment. 

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I feit when 
I sunk into the water; for thou^h I swam very well, yet I could 
not deÜTer myself from the waves so as to draw breath, tili that 
» wave, having driven me or rather carried me a vast way on 
towards the shore, and having spent itself, went back, and left me 
npon the land almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in. 
I had 80 much presence of mind as well as breath left that, seeing 
myself nearer the mainland than I expected, I got upon my feet, 
«id endeavoured to make on towards the land as fast as I could 
bcfore another wave should retum and take me up again. But I 
won found it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come 
after me as high as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy which 
I had no means or strength to contend with. My business was to 
hold my breath and rise myself upon the water if I could, and 
80 by Bwimming to preserve my breathing and pilot myself towards 
the shore if possible; my greatest concem now being that the 
»ea, as it would carry me a great way towards the shore when it 
came on, might not carry me back again with it when it gave back 
towards the sea 

The wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty 
orthirty feet deep in its own body; and I could feel myself carried 
*ith a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore a very groat 
^ay; but I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still 



46 CRUSOE REACHES LAND. 

forward with all my raight. I was ready to burst with holding 
my breath, when, as I feit myself rising up, so to my immediate 
relief I found my head and hands shoot out above the surface of 
the water; and though it was not two seconds of time that I coiüd 
keep myself so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and 
new courage. I was covered again with water a good while, but 
not so long but I held it out; and finding the water had spent 
itself and began to retum, I Struck forward against the retum of 
the waves, and feit ground again with my feet I stood still a - 
few moments to recover breath, and tili the water went from me, 
and then took to my heels and ran with what strength I had - 
farther towards the shore. But neither would this deliver me 
from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me again, 
and twice more I was lifted up by the waves and carried forwards- 
as before, the shore being very flat. 

The last time of these two had well near been fatal to me; for 
the sea having hurried me along as before, landed me, or rather 
dashed me against a piece of a rock, and that with such force, as 
it left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance: 
for the blow taking my side and breast, beat the breath as it were 
quite out of my body, and had it retumed again immediately, I 
must have been strangled in the water; but I recovered a little 
before the return of the waves, and seeing I should be covered 
again with the water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the 
rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, tili the wave went 
back Now as the waves were not so high as at first, being near 
land, I held my hold tili the wave abated, and then fetched another 
run, which brought me so near the shore, that the next wave, 
though it went over me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry 
me away; and the next run I took I got to the mainland, where, 
to my great comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the shore and sat 
me down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite out of the 
reach of the water. 

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look up ani 
thank God that my life was saved in a case wherein there was som^ 
minutes before scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impos- 
sible to express to the life what the ecstasies and transports oE^ 



^^^I^^^^^l 




1 


^^ 


't^p 


i 


' ''^^^^^^^E^^^^™tk ^ 




^Rii'5 




i^ 




i 1 


^ 



k 




"A DREADFUL DEUVERANCE.'' 47 

the sotd are when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the very 
graTe; and I do not wonder now at that custom, namely, that 
when a malefactor, who has the halter about his neck, is tied np, 
and just going to be tumed off, and has a reprieve brought to him 
— I say, I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let 
him blood^ that very moment they teil him of it, that the surprise 
may not drive the animal spirits from the heart and overwhelm 
him: 

" For Budden joys, like griefs, confound at fint.'* 

I walked about on the shore lifting up my hands, and my 

whole being, as I may say, wrapped up in the contemplation of 

my deliverance, making a thousand gestures and motions which 

I cannot describe, reflecting upon all my comrades that were 

drowned, and that there should not be one soul saved but myself ; 

for, as for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any sign of 

them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were 

not fellows. 

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach and 
froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it lay so far 
offi and considered, "Lord, how was it possible I could get on 
shore r' 

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my 
condition, I began to look round me to see what kind of place 
I was in, and what was next to be done, and I soon found my 
comforts abate, and that in a word I had a dreadful deliverance; 
for I was wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to 
eat or drink to comfort me, neither did I see any prospect before 
me but that of perishing with hunger, or being devoured by 
wild beasts. And that which was particularly afflicting to me 
was, that I had no weapon either to hunt and kill any creature 
for my sustenance, or to defend myself against any other creature 
that might desire to kill me for theirs ; — in a word, I had noth- 
ing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in 
a box. This was all my provision, and this threw me into 
terrible agonies of mind, and for a while I ran about like a 

' i-e. to Ueed him in the arm ; a common practice in old-fashioned modical 
treatment. 



48 



FIRST NIGHT ON THE ISLAND. 



madmaD. Night coming upon me, I began with a beavy he 
to consider what would be my lot if there were any raveii' 
beaate in that coimtry, aeeing at night they alwaya come ahn 
for their prey, 

AU the remedy that ofTered to my thoughta at that time v 




to get up into a thick bushy tree hko a fir, but thomy, ^hicb gi 
near me, and where I rcsolvcd to sit all night, and consider 
nest day what dcath I ehoiild die; for as yet I saw no pros{ 
of Ufa I walked about a furlong from the abore to see if I co 
find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to my great joy; i 
having drunk, and put a littlo tobacco in my mouth to prev 



CBUSOS TAKES BEARINOa 49 

bunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured 
to place myself so as that if I should sleep I might not fall; and 
having cat me a short stick like a truncheon for my defence, 
I took np my lodging, and having been excessively fatigued, 
I feil fast asleep, and slept as comf ortably as, I believe, f ew could 
have done in my condition, and f ound myself the most ref reshed 
vith it that I think I ever was on such an occasion. 

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the 
storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before; 
büt that which surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted 
off in the night f rom the sand where she lay by the swelling of 
the tide, and was driyen up almost as f ar as the rock which I 
fint mentioned, where I had been so bruised by the dashing me 
agaiost it; this being within about a mile from the shore where 
I was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished 
myself on board, that at least I might have some necessary things 
formj ose. 

When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked 
about me again, and the first thing I found was the boat, which 
1^7 as the wind and the sea had tossed her up upon the land, 
ftbont two miles on my right band. I walked as f ar as I could 
upon the shore to have got to her, but found a neck or inlet of 
▼ater between me and the boat which was about half a mile 
broad; 90 I came back for the present^ being more intent upon 
getting at the ship, where I hoped to find something for my 
present subsistence. 

A little after noon I found the sea very calm and the tide 
ebbed so far out that I could come within a quarter of a mile of 
^e ship. And here I found a fresh renewing of my grief ; for 
1 saw BTidently that if we had kept on board we had been all safe 
~~-tbat is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been 
80 miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all comfort and 
^mpany as I now was. This forced tears from my eyes again, 
^^ as there was little relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get 
^ the ahip; so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather was bot 
^ extremity, and took the water. But when I came to the ship, 
^y difficulty was still greater to know how to get on board ; for 

(248) D 



60 CRUSOE FALLS TO WORK. 

aa she lay aground and high out of the water, there was nothing 
within my reach to lay hold of. I swam round her twice, and 
the second time I spied a small piece of a rope, which I wondered 
I did not see at first, hang down by the fore-chains so low as that 
with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by the help of that rope 
got up into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the ship 
was bulged,^ and had a great deal of water in her hold, but that 
she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, 
and her stem lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low 
almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was free, 
and all that was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my 
first work was to search and to see what was spoiled and what was 
free. And first I found that all the ship's provisions were dry 
and untouched by the water, and being very well disposed to eat, 
I went to the bread-room and fiUed my pockets with biscuit, and 
eat it as I went about other things, for I had no time to lose. 
I also found some rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large 
dram, and which I had indeed need enough of to spirit me for 
what was before me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat to 
fumish myself with many things which I foresaw would be very 
necessary to me. 

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had, 
and this extremity roused my application. We had several spare 
yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and a spare top-mast 
or two in the ship. I resolved to fall to work with these, and 
flung as many of them overboard as I could manage of their 
weight, tying every one with a rope that they might not drive 
away. When this was done, I went down the ship's side, and 
pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast together at both 
ends as well as I could, in the form of a raft, and laying two or 
three short pieces of plank upon them crossways, I foimd I coiild 
walk upon it very well, but that it was not able to bear any 
great weight, the pieces being too light So I went to work, and 
with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare top-mast into three lengths, 
and added them to my raft, with a great deal of labour and pains ; 
but hope of fumishing myself with necessaries encouraged me to 

^ Some of the timben Struck off so as to cause a leak. 



A RAFT CONSTRUCTKD. 51 

go bejond what I should have been able to have done upon 
another occasion. 

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight. 

My next care was what to load it with, and how to preserve 

what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea. £ut I was not long 

considering this. I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that 

I coald get, and having considered well what I most wanted, I 

first got three of the seamen's chests, which I had broken open 

and emptied, and lowered them down upon my raft The first 

of these I fiUed with provisions — namely, bread, rice, three Dutch 

cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much 

upon, and a little remainder of European com which had been 

l»id by for some fowls which we brought to sea with us; but the 

fowls were killed. There had been some barley and wheat to- 

gether, but to my great disappointment I found afterwards that 

the rata had eaten or spoiled it alL As for liquors, I found several 

CÄses of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were some 

cordial waters, and in all about five or six gallons of rack.* These 

I stowed by themselves, there being no need to put them into the 

ehest, nor no roora for them. While I was doing this I found the 

tide began to flow, though very calm, and I had the mortification 

to See my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore 

'Jpon the sand, swim away; as for my breeches, which were only 

iinen and open-kneed, I swam on board in them and my stockings. 

However, this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which 

^ found enough, but took no more than I wanted for present use, 

fo I had other things which my eye was more upon — as, first, 

tools to work with on shore, and it was after long searching that 

I found out the carpenter^s ehest, which was indeed a very usef ul 

prize to me, and much more valuable than a ship loading of gold 

would have been at that time. I got it down to my raft even 

whole as it was, without losing time to look into it, for I knew 

in general what it contained. 

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There 
were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two 
pistols; these I secured first> with some powder-homs, and a 
^ Arnck, a spirit distUled from rice or other grain, resembling gin or ^biak^. 



52 



CRUSOK'ä STORES. 



Buiall bog oi shot, and two olil rusty Bworda. I Imew there vt 
three barreis of powdor in the sliip, but knew not wbare o 
gunner hod atowed them; butvith much eearch I found the 
two of them dry and good, the third had taVan w»ter. Th( 
two I got to my raft witb the arms; and now I thought Vf» 
pretty well freighted, and began to thinlt how I stiould get 



*^-**, 




eliore vnth them, having neither sail, oar, nor nidder, and 
Icast capful of wind wonld have overaet all my navigation. 

I had three encourageroenta — first, a smooth calm sea; seco 
the tide rising and setting in to the abore; tbird, wbat little w 
there was blew me towu^a the Und. And thus, having foi 
two or three broken oars belon^g to the boat, and bendea 
tools which were in the ehest, I found two aaws, an aze, an 
hammer, and witb this cargo I put to sea. For a mile of th 




THE RAFT AGJlÖÜKD. 53 

abouts my rift Went vety wöU, only that I found it drive a little 
distanfc from the place where I had landed before; by whicli 
I pereeired that theire wa& isome indraught of the water, aud 
coMequently I hoped to find some creek or river there, 
which I might make use of as a port to get to land with my 
caigo. 

As I imagiüed, so it was. There appeared before me a little 
openiog of the land, and I found a streng cut-rent of the tide set 
äto it; so I guided my raft as well as I could to keep in the 
oiiddle of the stream. But here I had like to have suffered a 
«cond shiptrteck, which if I had, I think verily would have broken 
ffiy heart; for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground 
at one end of it upon a öhoal, and tot being aground at the other 
cöd, it wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped off 
towards thät end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I 
^d my utmost, by setting my back against the chests, to keep 
ftem in their places, but coUld not thrust off the raft with all my 
Btrtngth, neither durst I stir from the posture I was in, but hold- 
H vp the chests with all my might, stood in that manner near 
Mlf an hour, in which time the rising of the Water brought me a 
Kttle more upon a level; änd a little after, the water still rising, 
®y raft floated ägain, and I thrust her off with the oar I had into 
fte Channel, and then driving up higher, I at length found myself 
'11 the mouth of a little river, with land on both sides, and a strong 
current or tide running up. I looked on both sides for a proper 
place to get to shore, for I was not willing to be driven too high 
Qp the river, hoping in time to see some ship at sea, and therefore 
^Ive to place myself as near the coast as I could. 

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, 
^ which with great pain and difficulty I guided my raft, and at 
^ got so near as that, reaching ground with my oar, I could 
'hrust her directly in. But here I had like to have dipped all my 
'^in the sea again; for that shore l3ring pretty steep — that is 
^ say, sloping — ^there was no place to land, but where one end of 
^y fioat if it ran on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink 
lover as before, that it would endanger my cargo again. All that 
I could do was to wait tili the tide was at the highest, keeping the 



54 CRUSOE VIEWS THE COUNTRY. 

raft with my oar like an anchor to hold the side of it fast to the^ 
shore, near a flat piece of ground, which I expected the water 
would flow over; and so it did. As soon as I found water enough 
— for my raft drew about a foot of water — I thrust her on upon 
that flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her by 
sticking my two broken oars into the ground, one on one side near 
one end, and one on the other side near the other end; and thus 
I lay tili the water ebbed away, and lef t my raft and all my cargo 
safe on shore. 

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place 
for my habitation, and where to stow my goods to secure them 
froqi whatever might happen. Where I was I yet knew not^ 
whether on the continent or on an Island, whether inhabited or 
not inhabited, whither in danger of wild beasts or not There 
was a hin not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep and 
high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills which lay as 
in a ridge from it northward. I took out one of the fowling-pieces 
and one of the pistols, and a hom of powder, and thus armed I 
travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill, where, after I 
had with great labour and difficulty got to the top, I saw my fate 
to my great affliction — namely, that I was in an island environed 
every way with the sea, no land to be seen, except some rocks 
which lay a great way ofl", and two small islands, less than this, 
which lay about three leagues to the west. 

I found also that the island I was in was harren, and, as I saw" 
good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts — of 
whom, however, I saw none; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but 
knew not their kinds, neither when I killed them could I teil 
what was flt for food, and what not At my coming back, I shot 
at a great bird which I saw sitting upon a tree on the side of 
a great wood. I believe it was the first gun that had been fired 
there since the creation of the world. I had no sooner flred, but 
from all the parts of the wood there arose an innumerable number 
of fowls of many sorts, making a confused screaming, and crying 
every one according to his usual note; but not one of them of any 
kind that I knew. As for the creature I kiiled, I took it to be a 
klnd of a hawk, its colour and beak resembling it, but had no 



fi£ VISITS THE WttECK. 65 

taloos or claws more than common; its flesh was Carrion, and fit 
for nothing. 

Contented wiih this discovery, I came back to my raft^ and feil 
to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up the rest 
of that day. And what to do with myself at night I knew not, 
nor indeed where to rest; for I was afraid to lie down on the 
ground, not knowing bat some wild beast might devour me, 
thoQgh, as I afterwards found, there was really no need for those 
fears. 

Howeyer, as well as I could, I barricadoed myself round with 
the chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and made a 
^d of hut for that night's lodging. As for food, I yet saw not 
which way to supply myself, except that I had seen two or three 
creaturea like hares run out of the wood where I shot the fowL 

I Qow began to consider that I might yet get a great many 

things out of the ship which would be useful to me, and particu- 

larly some of the rigging and sails, and such other things as might 

cometo land; and I resolved to make another voyage on board 

the Tessel, if possible; and as L knew that the first storm that 

hlew most necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all 

other things apart, tili I got everything out of the ship that I 

could get Then I called a Council — that is to say, in my thoughts 

---whether I should take back the raft; but this appeared imprac- 

ticable. So I resolved to go as before, when the tide was down; 

*Dd I did so, only that I stripped before I went from my hut^ 

^ving nothing on but a checkered shirt^ and a pair of linen 

drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet I got on board the 

^p as before, and prepared a second raft; and having had ex- 

perience of the first^ I neither made this so unwieldy nor loaded 

^t so hard, but yet I brought away several things very useful to 

^e. At first^ in the carpenter's Stores, I found two or three bags 

^ of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two of 

liatchets, and, above all, that most useful thing called a grind-stona 

AU these I secured together, with several things belonging to the 

gUDHer, particularly two or three iron crows, and two barreis of 

ömsket buUets, seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with 

8ome small quantity of powder more, a large bag füll of small 



66 ANOTHER CAROO LANDED. 

shot, and a great roll of sheet lead. But this last was so heavj I 
could not holst it up to get it over the ship's side. 

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I eould 
find, and a spare fore-topsail, a hammock and some bedding; and 
with this I loaded my second raft, and brought them all safe on 
shore, to my very great comfort. 

I was under some apprehensions during my absence from the 
land that at least my provisions might be devoured on shore; but 
when I came back I found no sign of any visitor, only there sat a 
creature like a wild cat upon one of the chests, which, when I 
came towards it, ran away a little distance, and then stood stilL 
She sat very composed and unconcemed, and looked füll in my 
face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me. I presented 
my gun at her, but as she did not understand it, she was perfectly 
unconcemed at it, nor did she offer to stir away. Upon which I 
tossed her a bit of biscuit — though, by the way, I was üot very 
free of it, for my störe was not great However, I spared her a 
bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled of it, and ate it, and looked, 
as pleased, for more; but I thanked her, and could spare no more. 
So she marched off. 

Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was fain to 
open the barreis of powder, and bring them by parcels — ^for they 
were too heavy, being large casks — I went to work to make me a 
little tent with the sail and some poles which I cut for that pur- 
pose; and into this tent I brought everj^hing that I knew would 
spoil either with rain or sun, and I piled all the empty chests and 
casks up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden 
attempt either from man or beast 

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with 
some boards within, and an empty ehest set up on end without, 
and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two 
pistols just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went to 
bed for the first time, and slept very quietly all night, for I was 
very weary and heavy; for the night before I had slept little, and 
had laboured very hard all day, as well to fetch all those things 
from the ship as to get them on shore. 

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever were laid 



THE TENT FORTIFIED. 



67 



up 1 bdlieve for one man but I was not eatisüed still for whilo 
th« ihip gat upnght in that poeture I thou^ht I ou^ht to get 
ererything out of her that I could ao everjf day at low water I 
vent on boutl, and brought away somo thmg or otber But par 
ticukrly the third time I went I brought away aa much of the 
nggmg ta I could as (dao all the small fopes and rope twine I 




»nM get with a piece of spare caniaa which was to mend the 
»»ilä upon occasion the barrfl of wet gunpowder in a word I 
^ngbc away all the sails first and last only that I was fain to 
i^t them in pieces and bnng as much at a tirae aa I coiUd 
fcir they were no more usefui to be sails but as mere can^ as only 
But that which comforted me more atiU maa that at last of all 
■fterl had made five or siic such vojages as these and thought I 
1*1 noChing more to expect from the ship that was worth my 
Beddling with — I say after all this I found a great hogsliead of 
^^ and three lai^ runlete of nim or sjunts and a box of sugar 

Buciuta tun etUeA ship » bread. 



68 VISITS TO THE WRECK. 

and a barrel of fine flour. This was surprising to me, because I 
Lad given over exj^ecting any more provisions, exc^pt what was 
spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread. 
and wrapped it up parcel by parcel in pieces of the sails, which I 
cut out; and in a word, I got all this safe on shore also. 

The next day I made another Yoyage, and now having plundered 
the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out, I began with 
the cables; and cutting the great cable into pieces such as I could 
move, I got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the iron- 
work I could get; and having cut down the spritsail-yard, and 
the mizzen-yard, and everything I could to make a large raft, I 
loaded it with all those heavy goods, and came away. £ut my 
good luck began now to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy 
and so overloaden, that after I was entered the little cove where I 
had landed the rest of my goods, not being able to guido it so 
handily as I did the other, it overset, and threw me and all my 
cargo into the water. As for myself it was no great härm, for I 
was near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was great part of it lost, 
especially the iron, which I expected would have been of great use 
to ma However, when the tide was out, I got most of the pieces 
of cable ashore and some of the iron, though with infinite labour: 
for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a work which fatigued 
me very much. After this I went every day on board, and brought 
away what I could get 

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven 
times on board the ship, in which time I had brought away all 
that one pair of hands coidd well be supposed capable to bring; 
though I believe verily, had the calm weather held, I should have 
brought away the whole ship piece by piece. But preparing the 
twelfth time to go on board, I found the wind begin to rise. How- 
ever, at low water I went on board; and though I thought I had 
rummaged the cabin so efiectually as that nothing more could be 
found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which 
I found two or three razors and one pair of large scissors, with 
some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks; in another I found 
about thirty-six pounds value in money, some European coin, some 
Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, some silver. 



THE VALUE OF MONEY. 69 

I smiied to myself at the sight of this money. " drug!" said 
I aload, " what art thou good for? Thou art not worth to me, no 
not the taking off of the ground; one of those knives is worth all 
this heap. I have no manner of use for thee; even remain where 
thoa art, and go to the bottom as a creature whose lif e is not worth 
saring." However, upon second thoughts, I took it away, and 
wrapping all this in a piece of cauvas, I began to think of making 
anotherraft; but while I was preparing this, I found the sky over- 
cast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it 
blew a freah gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me 
that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind off 
»höre, and that it was my business to be gone before the tide of 
flood began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at 
aU. Accordingly I let myself down into the water, and swam across 
the Channel which lay between the ship and the sands, and even that 
with difficulty enough, partly with the weight of the things I had 
about me, and partly the roughness of the water, for the wind rose 
venr hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a storm. 
, But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay with all 
Diy wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard all that night; 
*nd in the moming when I looked out, behold, no more ship was 
to be Seen ! I was a little surprised, but recovered myself with 
this satisfactory reflection, namely, that I had lost no time nor 
ifcated any diligence to get everything out of her that could be 
^fol to me, and that indeed there was little left in her that I 
^as able to bring away, if I had had more time. 

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of any thing 
oat of her, except what might drive on shore from her wreck, as 
indeed divers pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were 
of small use to me. 

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself 
against either savages, if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any 
were in the island; and I had many thoughts of the method how 
to do this, and what kind of dwelling to make, whether I should 
make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the eartL And, in 
Short, I resolved upon both, the manner and description of which 
it may not be improper to give an account of. 



60 A PLACE FOR RESibENCE. 

i soon found thd place I was in was not fot tny settletneht, par- 
tiicularly because it was upon a low tnoorish ground tiear the sea. 
ahd I believed could not be wholesome, and more palrticulariy, be- 
cause their was no fresh water near it; so I resolved to find a more 
healthy and more convenient spot of ground. 

I consulted several things in my Situation which I found would 
be proper for me. First, health, and fresh Water I just now men- 
tioned. Secondly, shelter from the heat of the sun. Thirdly, se- 
curity from ravenous creatures, whether men or beaats. Fourthly, 
a view to the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight I tnight not 
lose any advantäge for ttiy deliverance, of which I was not Willing 
to banish all my expectation yet. 

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little piain on the 
side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little piain wad steep 
as a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon me from 
the top. On the side of this rock there was a hoUow plaöe worti 
a little way in like the entrance or door of a cave; but there was 
not really any cave öt way into the rock at all. 

On the flat of the green, just before this hoUoW place, I resolved 
to pitch my tent This piain was not above an hundred yards 
broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a green before my 
door, and at the end of it descended irregularly every way down 
into the low grounds by the sea-side. It was on the north-north- 
west side of the hill, so that I was sheltered from the heat every 
day tili it came to a West and by south sun, or thereabouts, which 
in those countries is near the setting. 

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before the hollow 
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from the 
rock, and twenty yards in its diameter from its beginning and 
ending. 

In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strottg stakes, driving 
them into the ground tili they stood very firm like piles, the big- 
gest end being out of the ground about five foot and a half, and 
sharpened on the top. The two rows did not stand above six 
inches from one another. 

Thcn I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and 
laid them in rows one upon another within the circle, between 



dad of lime and labour, eapecially to cut the pilea in the woods, 
btii^ tliem to the place, and drive them into the earth. 




62 HIS FORTRESS FINISHED. 

have the account above. And I made me a large tent, which, to 
preserve me from the rains that in one part of the year are very 
violent there, I made double — namely one smaller tent within, and 
one larger tent above it, and covered the uppermost with a large 
tarpaulin which I had saved among the sails. 

And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had 
brought on shore, but in a hammock; which was indeed a very 
good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship. 

Into this tent I brought all my provisions and everything that- 
would spoil by the wet; and having thus enclosed all my goods I 
made up the entrance, which tili now I had left open, and so 
passed and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder. 

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock, 
and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out througlu 
my tent, I laid them up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, 
that so it raised the ground within about a foot and a half; an(L 
thus I made me a cave just behind my tent, which served me lika^ 
a cellar to my house. 

It cost me much labour and many days before all these thingas- 
were brought to perfection, and therefore I must go back to som» 
other things which took up some of my thoughts. At the sam^ 
time it happened after I had laid my scheme for the setting up my 
tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thiclc 
dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning happened, and after that a^ 
great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it I was not^ 
so much surprised with the lightning as I was with a thought 
which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning itself-O 
my powder ! My very heart sank within me when I thought that 
at one blast all my powder might be destroyed, on whieh not my 
defence only, but the providing me food, as I thought, entirely 
depended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own danger, 
though had the powder taken fire, I had never known who had 
hurt me. 

Such Impression did this make upon me, that after the storm 
was over I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, 
and applied myself to make bags and boxes to separate the powder 
and keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in hope that whatevei 




1 



IN SEARCH 0? FOOD. 



63 



might come it might not all take fire at once and to keep it so 
ipwt Ihat it ahould not be possible to make one part fire another. 
1 Gnished thig work in about a fortnight and I think ray 
powder, which m all was about two hundred and forty pounds 
*eight, was divided in not less than a hundred parcels. As to the 




^»ml that had been wet, I did not apprebend any danger from 
'M; K I placed it in ray new cave, which in my fancy I called 
ny Utcben, and the rest I hid up and down in holes among the 
fMb, Bo that no wet might come to it, marking very carefully 
»bereLlaidit. 

In the interval of tiine while this vaa doing I went out ouca 
U Jeait every day with my gim as well to divert myaelf aa W 
*w if I could kill anything fit for food, and aa near as I coold to 



64 A DISMAL PHOSPECT. 

acquaint myself with what the Island produced. The first time I 
went out I presently diacovered that there were goats in the Island 
— which was a great satisfaction to me; but then it was attended 
with this misfortune to me, namely, that they were so shy, so 
subtile, and so swift of foot, that it was the difficultest thing in 
the World to come at them. But I was not discouraged at this, 
not doubting but I might now and then shoot one, as it soon 
happened ; for after I had found their haunts a little, I laid wait 
in this manner for them : I observed if they saw me in the Valleys, 
though they were upon the rocks, they would run away as in a 
terrible fright; but if they were feeding in the Valleys, and I was 
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from whence I con- 
cluded that by the position of their optics their sight was so 
directed downward that they did not readily see objects that were 
above them. So afterward I took this method, I always climbed 
the rocks first, to get above them, and then had frequently a fair 
mark. The first shot I made among these creatures I killed a 
she-goat which had a little kid by her which she gave suck to, which 
grieved me heartily. But when the old one feil the kid stood 
Stock-still by her tili I came and took her up; and not only so, 
but when I carried the old one with me upon my Shoulders, the 
kid followed me quite to my encloaure : upon which I laid down 
the dam and took the kid in my arms, and carried it over my 
pale, in hopes to have it bred up tame; but it would not eat, so I 
was forced to kill it and eat it myself. These two supplied me 
with flesh a great while, for I ate sparingly, and saved my pro- 
visions (my bread especially) as much as possibly I could. 

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely neces- 
sary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to bum; and 
what I did for that, as also how I enlarged my cave and what 
conveniences I made, I shall give a füll account of in its place. 
But I must first give some little account of myself and of my 
thoughts about living, which it may well be supposed were not 
a few. 

I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I was not cast 
away upon that island without being driven, as is said, by a 
violent storm quite out of the course of our intended voyage, and 



HOPEFÜL CONSIDERATIONS. 65 

I great way, namely, some hundreds of leagues, out of the 
ordmary course of the trade of mankind I had great reason to 
consider it as adetermination of Heaven that in this desolate 
place and in this desolate manner I should end my lifa The 
teare would ran plentifully down my face when I made these 
leflections; and sometimes I would ezpostulate with myself why 
ProTidence should thus completely ruin its creatures and render 
them 80 absolutely miserable, so without help abandoned, so 
entirely depressed, that it could hardly be rational to be thankful 
for such a lif e. 

Bat something always retumed swift upon me to check these 
thoughts and to reprove me; and particularly one day, Walking 
with my gun in my band by the sea-side, I was very pensive upon 
the subject of my present condition, when reason, as it were, ex- 
po8talated with me the other way, thus : Well, you are in a deso- 
late condition it is true, but pray remember, where are the rest of 
joal Did you not come eleven of you into the boat^ — where are 
the ten? Why were not they saved and you lost? Why were 
yoasingled out? Is it better to be here or there? — and then I 
pointed to the sea. All evils are to be considered with the good 
that is in them, and with what worse attends them. 

Then it occurred to me again how well I was furnished for my 
subsistence, and what would have been my case if it had not 
Iiappened, which was an himdred thousand to one, that the ship 
floated from the place where she first Struck, and was driven so 
near to the shore that I had time to get all these things out of 
her. What would have been my case if I had been to have lived 
in the condition in which I at first came on shore, without 
necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply and procure them? 
Particularly, said I aloud (though to myself), what should I have 
done without a gun, without ammunition; without any tools to 
make anything, or to work with; without clothes, bedding, a tent 
or any manner of covering; and that now I had all these to a 
snfficient quantity, and was in a fair way to provide myself in 
such a manner, as to live without my gun when my ammunition 
was spent; so that I had a tolerable view of subsisting without 
any want as long as I lived: for I considered from the beginning 

(248) B 



66 SILENT LIFE. 

how I would provide for the accidents that might happen, 
for the time that was to come, even not only after my amm 
nition should be spent, but even after my health or stren 
should decay. 

I confess I had not entertained any notion of my ammurrÄ^i- 
tion being destroyed at one blast — I mean my powder beir^-g 
blown up by lightning — and this made the thoughta of it ^o 
surprising to me when it lightened and thundered, as I obsenr^:^ 
just now. 

And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a sce 
of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the wox* 
before, I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in 
Order. It was, by my account, the 30th of September when, in t 
manner as above said, I first set foot upon this horrid island, wh^^^ 
the sun being, to us, in its autumnal equinox, was almost just or -^^ 
my head; for I reckoned myself, by Observation, to be in tM^^ 
latitude of 9 degrees 22 minutes north of the line. 

After I had been there about ten or twelve days it came in. 
my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for want 
books and pen and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath da^r'^ 
from the working days; but, to prevent this, I cut it with BC^y 
knife upon a large post, in capital letters, and making it into ^ 
great cross, I set it up on the shore where I first landed — namel,^» 

I CAME ON SHORE HERE ON THE 30TH OF SEPTEMBER 1659. V^O^^ 

the sides of this Square post I cut every day a uotch with bc^^ 
knife, and every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, ai^- ^ 
every first day of the month as long again as that long one, axm- ^ 
thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly reckonii^--^ 
of time. 

In the next place we are to observe, that among the ma»^ 
things which I brought out of the ship in the several voyag^-^ 
which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I got several things er' 
less value, but not all less useful to me, which I omitted settin^ 
down before; as, in particular, pens, ink, and paper, severnJ 
parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping^ 
thrce or four compasses, some mathematical instmments, dials, 
perspectives, charts, and books of navigation ; all which I huddled 



orvsok's calendab. 



together, whether I might want them or no. Alao, I found three 
Tery good Bibles, which came to me in niy caigo frora England, 
■Adtrhich I had packed up among my thinga; Bome Portuguese 
boolu abo, and among them two or three Popish prayer-booka, 




ud eeveral otber booka; all which I carefully secured. And I 
nnst not forget that we had in the ship a dog and two cate, of 
»ho»e eminent history I may have occasion to say something in 
iUpUte: for I carried both the cats with me; and as for the dog, 
Iw jornped out of the ahip of himsejf, nnd awam on ehore to me 
die day after I went on sbore with my firsl cargo, &nd waa 



68 SLOW WORK AT FIRST. 

a trusty servant to me many yeara I wanted nothing that 1 
could fetch me, nor any Company that he could make up to nci 
I only wanted to have him talk to me, but that would not c5 
As I observed before, I found pen, ink, and paper, and I h."*: 
banded them to the utmost; and I shall show that, while my 
lasted, I kept things very exact; but after that was gone I co 
not, for I could not make any ink by any means that I com:i 
devise. 

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwi't 
Standing all that I had amassed together; and of these, this of Li 
was one; as also spade, pick-axe, and shovel, to dig or remove tJ 
earth; needles, pins, and thread; as for linen, I soon leamed 
want that without much difläculty, 

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily, and 
was near a whole year before I had entirely finished my little p^ 
or surrounded habitation. The piles or stakes, which were 
heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in cutting and pT 
paring in the woods, and more by far in bringing home; so tt*- 
I spent sometimes two days in cutting and bringing home ono ^ 
those posts, and a third day in driving it into the ground: f< 
which purpose I got a heavy piece of wood at first, but at last l>* 
thought myself of one of the iron crows; which, however, thoug 
I found it, yet it made driving those posts or piles very laborioö 
and tedious work. 

But what need I have been concerned at the tediousness of anf 
thing I had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in, nor had 
I any other employment if that had been over, at least that I 
could foresee, except the ranging the Island to seek for food, which 
I did more or less every day. 

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the circum- 
stance I was reduced to, and I drew up the state of my affairs in 
writing, not so much to leave them to any that were to come aftei 
me, for I was like to have but few heirs, as to deliver my thoughtf 
from daily poring upon them, and afflicting my mind; and as m] 
reason began now to master my despondency, I began to comfor 
myself as well as I could, and to set the good against the evil, tha 
I might have something to distinguish my case from worse; and 




THK EVIL AND THE GOOD. 



69 



^ted it very impartially, like debtor and creditor, the comforts I 
^joyed against the miseries I sufifered, thus: — 



EviL. 

I am casi npoQ a horrible desolate 
•"^ Toid of all hope of recoTery. 
I am ongled oat and separated, as 

ttvoRjfrom all the worid, to be mia- 

«nfak 



I «& dmded from mankind, a Boli- 
^1 ooe banü^ed from human bo- 

I hft Dot dothes to corer me. 



I «D withont any defence or means 
'^ mj Tiolenoe of man or beast. 



de. 



^ ^Te DO loal to speak to, or reUeye 



GooD. 

But I am alive, and not drowned, aa 
all my ship's Company was. 

But I am singled out, too, from all 
the ship's crew to be spared from 
death; and He that miraculously saved 
me from death can deliver me from 
this condition. 

But I am not starved and perish- 
ing on a barren place, affording no 
sustenance. 

But I am in a hot climate, where, 
if I had clothes, I could hardly wear 
them. 

But I am cast on an island where I 
See no wild beasts to hurt me, as I saw 
on the coast of Africa; and what if I 
had been shipwrecked there ? 

But God wonderfuUy sent the ship 
in near enough to the shore, that I 
have gotten out so many necessary 
things as will either supply my wants, 
or enable me to supply myself even as 
long as I live. 

^pon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony that there 
^18 8carce any condition in the world so miserable, but there was 
Rettung negative or something positive to be thankful for in it; 
^d let this stand as a direction from the experience of the most 
]^ü«enble of all conditions in this world, that we may always find 
^ it something to comfort ourselves from, and to set in the de- 
*^ption of good and evil, on the credit side of the account 

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition, 
•öd given over looking out to sea, to see if I could spy a ship; I 
^Ji giving over these things, I began to apply myself to accommo- 
date my way of living, and to make things as easy to me as I 
could. 

I kave already described my habitation, which was a tent under 
the nde of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of posts and 
caMe«; but I might now rather call it a wall, for I raised a kind 




70 



i ENLABOES THE CAVE. 



of wall up against it of turfs, about two foot tbick on the outeide; 
and äfter eome time, I think it was a year and a half, I raised 
rafters from it leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it with 
boughe of trees, and such things as I could get to keep out th« 
rain, w)iich I found at some times of the year very violent 

I have already observed how I brought all my goodB into thia 
pale, and into the cave which I had made behind me; but I miist 
observe, too, tbat at first thiB was a confused heap of goods, which, 




' 1 Rt mrieU to «kUrt* mir • 



as they lay in no order, bo they took up all my place. I had no 
room to tum myself, so I Eet myself to enlarge my cave and worka 
farther into the earth; for it was a Joose sandy rock, which yielded 
easily to the labour I bcstowed on it; and so, wben I found I 
was pretty safe as to heaste of prey, I worked Bideways to Üie 
right hand into the rock; and then, tuming to the right again, 
worked quite out, and made nie a door to come out, on the outside 
of my pale or fortification. 

This gave me not only egresB and regresB, as it were, a back-way 
io my tent and to my storehouBe, but gave me room to stow my 
joods. 



^ 



LESSONS IN CARPENTRY. 71 

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things 
as I found I most wanted, as particularly a chair and a table ; für 
without tbese I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had ia 
the World— 1 could not write or eat, or do several things with so 
mach pleasore without a table. 

So I went to work; and here I must needs observe, that as 
reason ia the substance and original of tho mathematics, so by 
stating and squaring everything by reason, and by making the 
moet rational judgment of things, every man may be in time 
nuBter of every mechanic art I had never handied a tool in my 
Üfe, and yet in time, by labour, application, and contrivance, I 
fornid at last that I wanted nothing but I could have made it, 
especially if I had had tools ; however, I made abundance of things, 
even without tools, and some with no more tools than an adze 
and a hatchet, which perhaps were never made that way before, 
and that with infinite labour. For example, if I wanted a board, 
I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge 
before me, and hew it flat on either side with my axe, tili I had 
hrought it to be thin as a plank, and then dubb it smooth with 
^J adze. It is true, by this method I could make but one board 
out of a whole tree, but this I had no remedy for but patience, 
^ymore than I had for the prodigious deal of time and labour 
^hich it took me up to make a plank or board. But my time or 
labour was little worth, and so it was as well employed one way 
M another. 

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed abovo, 
w the first place, and this I did out of the short pieces of boards 
^t I brought on my raft from the ship. But when I had 
^ught out some boards, as above, I made large shelves of the 
breadth of a foot and a half one over another, all along one side 
of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-work, and, in a 
^oid, to separate everything at large in their places, that I might 
come easily at them. I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock 
^ hang my guns and all things that would hang up. 

So that had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a general 
^''i^gazine of all necessary things; and I had everything so ready at 
^y band that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in 



7S 



HoCSE-FURNISHINQ. 



euch Order, and especially to find my stock of all necesBaries so 
great 

And now it was when I began to keep a Journal of every da/s 
employmeDt — for indeed at first I was in too much huny, and not 
only hutry aa to labour, but in too much discompOBure of mind — 




and my joimial wonld have been füll of many dull things. For 
example, I must have said thus: — September 30. After I got to 
ehore and bad eacaped drowning, instead of being tbankful to God 
for niy deliverance — having first vomited with the great quantity 
of ealt wat«r wbich was gotten into my stomacb, and recovering 
myeelf a Bttle — I ran about the shore, 'wringing my hands and 
beating my head and face, exclaiming at my misery, and crying 
out I was imdone, undonel tili, tiied and faint,' I was forced to he 




CRÜSOE*S JOURNAL. 73 

down on the ground to repose, but durst not sleep f or fear of 
Iwingdevoured." 

Some days after this, and af ter I had been on board the ship 
indgot all that I could out of her, yet I could not forbear getting 
op to the top of a little mountain and lookiug out to sea in hopes 
of seemg a ship, then f ancy at a vast distance I spied a sali, please 
inyself with the hopes of it, and then after looking steadily tili I 
^18 almoet blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child, 
tod thus increase my misery by my f olly. 

But having gotten over these things in some measure, and 
l^aring settled my household stuff and habitation, made me a table 
^ & chair, and all as handsome about me as I could, I began to 
keepmy Journal^ of which I shall here give you the copy (though 
^ it will be told all these particulars over again) as long as it 
'*^ for, having no more ink, I was forced to leave it oE 

THE JOURNAL 

Sfptmber 30, 1659. I, poor, miserable Robinson Crusoe, being 
^wrecked during a dreadfnl storm in the offing, came on shore 
^^ tliis dismal unfortunate Island, which I called the Island of 
^^Mu^, all the rest of the ship's Company being drowned, and 
ö^yself ahnost dead. 

All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself at the dismal 
^^'cumstances I was brought to — namely, I had neither food, house, 
clothcs, weapon, nor place to fly to, and, in despair of any relief, 
^w nothing but death before me — either that I should be devoured 
"ywfld beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death for want 
^ food. At the approach of night I slept in a tree for fear of wild 
^'«»tares, but slept soundly though it rained all night. 

Ock^ 1. In the moming I saw, to my great surprise, the ship 
°^ floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore again 
^uch nearer the Island; which as it was some comfort, on one 
"^ii for, seeing her sit upright, and not broken to pieces, I 
l^oped, if the wind abated, I might get on board and get some 
food and necessaries out of her for my relief; so, on the other 
'"Wid, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades, who, I 



74 DAILY ENTRIEa 

imaglned, if we had all stayed ou board, might have saved the 
ship, or at least that they would not have been all drowned as 
they were; and that, had the men been saved, we might perhaps 
have built us a boat out of the ruins of the ship to have carried 
US to some other part of the world. I spent great part of this 
day in perplexing myself on these things; but at length, seeing 
the ship almost diy, I went upon the sand as near as I could, and 
then swam on board; this day also it continued raining, though 
with no. wind at all. 

From the Ist of October to the 2Uh, All these days entirely spent 
in many several voyages to get all I could out of the ship, which 
I brought on shore, every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain 
also in these days, though with some intervals of fair weather; 
but^ it seems, this was the rainy season. 

October 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got upon 
it; but being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly heavy, I 
recovered many of them when the tide was out 

October 25. It rained all night and all day, with some gusts of 
wind, during which time the ship broke in pieces, the wind blow- 
ing a little harder than before, and was no more to be seen, except 
the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent this day 
in covering and securing the goods which I had saved, that the 
rain might not spoil them. 

October 26. I walked about the shore almost all day to find out 
a place to fix my habitation, greatly concemed to secure myself 
from an attack in the night either from wild beasts or men, To- 
wards night I fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and marked 
out a semicircle for my encampment, which I resolved to strengthen 
with a work, wall, or fortification made of double piles, lined 
within with cables and without with turf. 

From the 26th to the 30th I worked very hard in carrying all 
my goods to my new habitation, though some part of the time it 
rained exceeding hard. 

The 3 Ist in the morning I went out into the Island with my 
gun to see for some food, and discover the country, when I killed 
a she-goat, and her kid followed me home, which I afterwards 
killed also, because it would not feed 



CRUSOE AT TH£ PEN. 76 

Kweaier 1 I set up my tent under & rock and lay there for 
ttw fim night, raaking it as large aa I could with Btakes dnven in 
lo swiog my hammock upon 

Neumhtr "> I eet up all my dieata and boards, and the piecoa 
of timber which made my rafts and with them fonned a fence 




^""'^ DO, a little within the place I had marked out for my for- 
üficition. 

^'«imbfr 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two fowU likö 
""da, which were very good food. In the aftemoon went to 
'Ofk to make me a table. 

AWwiiW 4. Thia moming I began to order my times of work, 
"' going out with iny gun, time of sleep and time of diversion — 
''•"lely every moming I walked out with my gun for two or three 
""Ops if it did not rain, then employed myself to work tili about 
"^ren o'clock, then ate what I had to live on; and from twelve to 
t»o I lay dowD to sleep, the weather being eicesaive hot; and 



76 LOSES HIS RECKOKIKG. 

then in the evening to work again. The working part of this day 
and of the next were whoUy employed in making my table; for I 
was yet but a very sony workman, though time and necessity 
made me a complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe it 
would do any one eise. 

November 5. This day went abroad with my gun and my dog, 
and killed a wild cat^ her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good foi 
nothing. Every creature I killed I took off the skins and pm 
served them. Coming back by the sea-shore, I saw many sorts ol 
sea-fowls which I did not understand; but was surprised and 
almost frightened with two or three seals, which while I was 
gazing at, not well knowing what they were, got into the sea» and 
escaped me for that time. 

November 6. After my moming walk I went to work with mj 
table again, and finished it, though not to my liking; nor was it 
long before I learned to mend it 

November 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7th, 
8th, 9th, lOth, and part of the 12th (for the llth was Sunday), 
I took whoUy up to make me a chair, and with much ado brought 
it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me ; and even in the 
making I pulled it in pieces several timea Note, — I soon n& 
glected my keeping Sundays; for, omitting my mark for them oi 
my post, I forgot which was which. 

November 13. This day it rained, which refreshed me exceed 
ingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accompanied with terribl« 
thunder and lightning, which frightened me dreadfully for fear o 
my powder. As soon as it was over I resolved to separate m] 
stock of powder into as many little parcels as possible, that i 
might not be in danger. 

November H, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making littl 
Square chests or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or tw 
pound at most, of powder; and so putting the powder in, I stowe 
it in places as secure and remote from one another as possibl 
On one of these three days I killed a krge bird that was good 1 
eat, but I know not what to call it. 

November 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent into tl 
rock, to make room for my farther conveniency. Note, — Thr 




I 



THE mON-TREE. 77 

things I wanted ezceedingly for this work — namely, a pick-aze, a 
shovel, and a wheelbarrow or basket So I desisted from my 
work, and began to consider how to supply that want, and make 
me some took As for a pick-aze I made use of the iron crows 
which were proper enough though heavy. But the next thing 
was a shovel or spade; this was so absolutely necessary, that 
indeed I coold do nothing effectually without it. But what kind 
of one to make I knew not. 

Nomnber 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I found a 
tree of that wood, or like it, which in the Brazils they call the 
iron trce, for its exceeding hardness. Of this, with great labour 
and ahnest spoiling my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home 
too with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding heavy. 

The exceasive hardness of the wood, and having no other way, 
mademe a long while upon this machine; for I worked it effec- 
tually by little and little intö the form of a shovel or spade, the 
handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only that the broad 
p»rt having no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not last me 
80 long. However, it served well enough for the uses which I 
had occasion to put it to; but never was a shovel, I believe, made 
»fter that fashion, or so long a-making. 

I wag still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wheelbarrow. 
A hasket I could not make by any means, having no such things 
w twigs that would bend to make wicker wäre, at least none yet 
found out And as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make all 
hut the wheel, but that I had no notion of, neither did I know 
howto go about it; besides, I had no possible way to make the 
iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in, so I 
g»Te it over. And so, for carrying away the earth which I dug 
ODt of the cave, I made me a thing like a hod, which the labourers 
carry mortar in when they serve the bricklayers. 

This was not so difficult to me as the making the shovel; and 
jet this and the shovel, and the attempt which I made in vain to 
"•^ko a wheelbarrow, took me up no less than four days — I mean 
*^^&78 excepting my morning walk with my gun, which I seldom 
Med, and very seldom failed also bringing home something fit to 
eat 



78 AN AWKWARD ACCIDENT. 

November 23. My other work having now stood still because o^ 
my making these tools, when they were finished I went on, and 
working every day as my strength and time allowed, I spent 
eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that 
it might hold my goods commodiously. 

Note, — During all this time I worked to make this room or 
cave spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse or maga- 
zine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar. As for my lodging, 
I kept to the tent, except that sometimes, in the wet season of the 
year, it rained so hard that I could not keep myself dry; which 
caused me afterwards to cover all my place within my pale with 
long poles in the form of raf ters, leaning against the rock, and load 
them witli flags and large leaves of trees like a thatcL 

Decemher 10. I began now to think my cave or vault finished, 
when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a great quan- 
tity of earth feil down from the top and one side, so much that, 
in short, it frightened me; and not without reason too, for if I 
had been under it, I had never wanted a grave-digger. Upon this 
disaster I had a great deal of work to do over again; for I had 
the loose earth to carry out, and, which was of more importance, 
I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure no more 
would come down. 

Decemher 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly, and 
got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces 
of boards across over each post. This I finished the next day, 
and setting more posts up with boards, in about a week more I 
had the roof secured ; and the posts, standing in rows, served me 
for partitions to part off" my house. 

Decemher 17. From this day to the 20th I placed shelves, and 
knocked up nails on the posts to hang ever} thing up that 
could be hung up; and now I began to be in some order within 
doors. 

Decemher 20. Now I carried everything into the cave and began 

to fumish my house, and set up some pieces of boards, like a 
dresser, to order my victuals upon; but boards began to be very 
scarce with me. Also I made nie another table. 

Decemher 24. Much rain all night and all day. No stirring out 



FIND3 A LIVE GOAT. 79 

Dtf/nAer 25. Rain al) day. 

Awmiw 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler than before 
•ihI pleasanter 

htcmher 27 Kilied a youn» goat and iamed another w that 
Icught it, and led it home in a etnng When I had it faome I 




'""mdand aplintered up ita leg, wliich was broken. N.B. — I toofe 
nch care of jt (hat it lived, and the leg grew well and aa strong 
WCTer; bat by my nursing it so long it grew tarne, and fed upon 
""6 little gre«n at my door, and would not go away. This was 
"■e firet time that I entertained a thought of breeding up sorae 
'>'0e creatures, that I might have food when my powder and shot 
"■«iiUpent. 
^tfmher 26, 29, 30. GreaL heats and no breeze, so that there 



80 THE FENCE BEGüN. 

was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food. Tlxi 
time I spent in putting all my things in order within doors. 

January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad early and h^^ 
with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This eve:«^ 
ing, going farther into the Valleys which lay towards the cent^* 
of the island, I found there was plenty of goats, though exceec3 
ing shy and hard to come at. However, I resolved to try if 
could not bring my dog to hunt them down. 

January 2. Accordingly, the next day I went out with my do^ 
and set him upon the goats; but I was mistaken, for they aV 
faced about upon the dog, and he knew his danger too well, fo - 
he would not come near them. 

January 3. I began my fence or wall, which, being still jealoo^ 
of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very thicl^ 
and strong. 

N,B, This wall being described before, I purposely omit what: 
was Said in the Journal. It is sufficient to observe that I was no^ 
less time than from the 3rd of January to the 14th of April work^ 
ing, finishing, and perfecting this wall, though it was no more than 
about twenty-four yards in length, being a half circle from one 
place in the rock to another place about eight yards from it^ the 
door of the cave being in the centre behind it 

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me many 
days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but I thought I should 
never be perfectly secure tili this wall was finished. And it is 
scarce credible what inexpressible labour everything was done 
with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods and driving 
them into the ground, for I made them much bigger than I need 
to have done. 

When this wall was finished, and the outside double fenced with 
a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that if any 
people were to come on shore there, they would not perceive any- 
thing like a habitation. And it was very well I did so, as may 
be observed hereaf ter upon a very remarkable occasion. 

During this time I made my rounds in the woods for game 
every day when the rain admitted me, and made frequent dis. 
coveries in these walks of something or other to my advantage. 



MANY THINGS WANTED. gl 

Particolarly I found a kind of wild pigeons, who built not as 
wood-pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house-pigeons in the holes 
of the rocks; and taking some young ones, I endeavoured to 
breed them up tarne, and did so; but when they grew older they 
flev all away, which perhaps was at first for want of feeding 
them, for I had nothing to give them. However, I frequently 
found their nests, and got their young ones, which were very good 
meat 

And now, in the managing my household affairs, I found my- 
seif wanting in many things, which I thought at first was impos- 
sibie for me to make, as indeed as to some of them it was. For 
instance, I could never make a cask to be hooped I had a small 
rnnlet or two, as I observed before, but I could never arrive to the 
capacity of making one by them, though I spent many weeks 
fthout it. I could neither put in the heads, nor Joint the staves 
so trae to one another as to make them hold water. So I gave 
that also over. 

In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle; so that as 

soon as ever it was dark, which was generally by seven o'clock, I 

was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump of bees-wax 

^th which I made candles in my African adventure, but I had 

Done of that now. The only remedy I had was, that when I had 

Med a goat, I saved the tallow; and with a little dish made of 

clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I added a wick of some 

<^bim, I made me a lamp, and this gave me light, though not a 

clear, steady light, like a candle. In the middle of all my labours 

ifc happened that, rummaging my things, I found a little bag, 

which, as I hinted before, had been filled with com for the feeding 

of poultry, not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose, when 

*ie ship came from Lisbon. What little remainder of com had 

peen in the bag was all devoured with the rats, and I saw nothing 

in the bag but husks and dust; and being willing to have the bag 

^or some other use (I think it was to put powder in, when I 

diWded it for fear of the lightning, or some such use), I shook the 

husks of com out of it on one side of my fortification under the 

rock. 

It was a little before the gieat rains just now mentioned that I 

(M8) » 



82 



HIS BARLEY GitOWS. 



threw tliis stufF away, taking no notice of anything, and DOt sc^ 
miiüh as reinem bering that I had thrown anything there; when^ 
about a month after, or thereabout, I saw some few stalks of some- 
thing green ehooting out of the gixiund, which I fancied might ba 
Bome plant I had not seen: but I was siiriirised and perfectly- 




astonishcd when, after a longcr time, I saw about ten or twelve 
ears coine out, whlch were perfect groen barley, of the same kind 
as our European, nay, as cur English barley, 

It is imposstble to express tlie astonisliment and confusion of my 
thoughts on this occasion. I had hitherto acted upon no religious 
foiindation at all; indeed, I had very few notiona of religioo in my 
head, nor had entertained aoy sense of anything that had befallen 
me otherwise than as a chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleasea 
God ; without so much as inquiring into the end of Providenc« in 



god's kindness. 83 

tiese things, or his order in governing events in the world. But 
after I saw barley grow there, in a climate which I know was not 
proper for com, and especially that I knew not how it came there, 
it Startled me strangely, and I began to suggest that God had 
miraculously caused this grain to grow without any help of seed 
sown, and that it was so directed purely for my sustenance on that 
vild miserable place. 

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my 
eyes; and I began to bless myself that such a prodigy of nature 
should happen upon my account. And this was the more stränge 
to me, because I saw near it still all along by the side of the rock 
6ome other straggling stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, 
Md which I knew because I had seen it grow in Africa, when I 
was ashore there. 

I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence for 
n^ysupportj but not doubting but that there was more in the place, 
I wenfc all over that part of the island where I had been before, 
pwring in every comer and under every rock, to see for more of 
J^i but I could not find any. At last it occurred to my thoughts 
that I had shaken a bag of chickens' meat out in that place, and 
then the wonder began to cease; and I must confess my religious 
thankfuloess to God's providence began to abate too upon the dis- 
covering that all this was nothing but what was common ; though 
I oaght to have been as thankful for so stränge and unforeseen 
providence as if it had been miraculous : for it was really the work 
of Providence as to me, that should order or appoint that ten or 
t^elve grains of com should remain unspoiled (when the rats had 
destroyed all the rest), as if it had been dropped from heaven ; as 
*ko that I should throw it out in that particular place, where, it 
^iög in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediately; 
^hereas, if I had thrown it anywhere eise at that time, it had been 
hurned up and destroyed. 

1 carefuUy saved the ears of this com, you may be sure, in their 
^®^n, which was about the end of June; and laying up every 
^m, I resolved to sow them all again, hoping in time to have 
some quantity sufficient to supply me with bread. But it was not 
^n the fourth year that I could allow myself the least grain of this 



84 A TERRIBLE EARTHQUAKE. 

com to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall say afterwards 
in its Order; for I lost all that I sowed the first season by not ob- 
serving the proper time; for I sowed it just before the dry season, 
so that it never came up at all, at least not as it would have done 
— of which in its place. 

Besides this barley there was, as above, twenty or thirty stalks 
of rice, which I preserved with the same care, and whose use was 
of the same kind or to the same purpose — namely, to make me 
bread, or rather food; for I found ways to cook it up without bak- 
ing, though I did that also after some time. But to retum to my 
Journal. 

I worked excessively hard these three or four months to get my 
wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up, contriving to go 
into it, not by a door, but over the wall by a ladder, that there 
might be no sign in the outside of my habitation. 

Apil 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up with the ladder 
to the top, and then puUed it up after me, and let it down on 
the inside. This was a complete enclosure to me — for within I 
had room enough, and nothing could come at me from without, 
unless it could first mount my wall. 

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost 
had all my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed. The 
case was thus : As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, 
just in the entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened with 
a most dreadful surprising thing indeed; for all on a sudden I 
found the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my cave 
and from the edge of the hill over my head, and two of the post^ 
I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was 
heartily scared, but thought nothing of what was really the cause 
— only thinking that the top of my cave was falling in, as some of 
it had done before; and for fear I shoidd be buried in it, I ran 
forward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there neither, 
I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill which I 
expected might roll down upon me. I was no sooner stepped 
down upon the firm ground, but I plainly saw it was a terrible 
earthquake, for the ground I stood on shook three times at about 
eight minutes' distance with three such shocks as would have 




A DREADFX'L HURRICANE. 85 

overturned the strongest building that could be supposed to 
have stood on the earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock, 
which stood about half a mile from me next the sea, feil down 
with such a temble noise as I never heard in all my lifo. I per- 
ceived also the very sea was put into violent motion by it, and 
I believe the shocks were stronger under the water than on the 
island 

I was 80 amazed with the thing itself — having never feit the like 
or discoursed with any one that had — that I was like one dead or 
stapified; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like 
one that was tossed at sea. But the noise of the falling of the rock 
awaked me, as it were, and rousing me from the stupified condition 
I was in, filled me with horror, and I thought of nothing then but 
the hin falling upon my tent and all my household goods, and bury- 
iog all at once; and this sunk my very soul within me a second 
time. 

After the third shock was over, and I feit no more for some 
tune, I began to take courage; and yet I had not heart enough 
to go over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but sat 
still npon the ground, greatly cast down and disconsolate, not know- 
iiigwhat to do. All this while I had not the least serious religious 
thought, nothing but the common "Lord have mercy upon me;' 
tod when it was over, that went away too. 

While I sat thus, 1 found the air overcast and grow cloudy, as 
^ it would rain. Soon after that the wind rose by little and little, 
^that in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane. 
The sea was all on a sudden covered over with f oam and froth, the 
ßhore was covered with the breach of the water, the trees were 
tom up by the roots, and a temble storm it was; and this held 
&boat three hours and then began to abate, and in two hours more 
it was calm and began to rain very hard. 

All this while I sat upon the ground very much terrified and 
(l^jected, when on a sudden it came into my thoughts that these 
winds and rain being the consequences of the earthquake, the 
^ftrthquake itself was spent and over, and I might venture into 
my cave again. With this thought my spirits began to revive, 
and the rain also helping to persuade me, I went in and sat down 



86 VIOLENT RAIN. 

in my tent — but the rain was so violent that my tent was ready 
to be beaten down with it, and I was forced to go into my cave, 
though very much afraid and uneasy for fear it should fall on my 
head. 

This violent rain forced me to a new work — namely, to cut a 
hole through my new fortification like a sink to let the water go 
out, which would eise have drowned my cave. After I had been 
in my cave some time and found still no more shocks of the earth- 
quake follow, I began to be more composed; and now to support 
my spirits — which indeed wanted it very much — I went to my 
little Store and took a small sup of rum, which however I did then 
and always very sparingly, knowing I could have no more when 
that was gone. 

It continued raining all that night and great part of the next 
day, so that I could not stir abroad; but my mind being more 
composed, I began to think of what I had best do, concluding that 
if the island was subject to these earthquakes there would be no 
living for me in a cave, but I must consider of building me some 
little hut in an open place which I might Surround with a wall as 
I had done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts or 
men; but concluded, if I stayed where I was, I should certainly) 
one time or other, be buried alive. 

With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent from the 
place where it stood, which was just under the hanging precipice 
of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken again, would certainly 
fall upon my tent. And I spent the two next days, being the 
19th and 20th of April, in contriving where and how to remove 
my habitation. 

The fear of being swallowed up alive made me that I never 
slept in quiet, and yet the apprehension of lying abroad withoat- 
any fence was almost equal to it; but still when I looked about^ 
and saw how everything was put in order, how pleasantly con— 
cealed I was, and how safe from danger, it made me very loath to^ 
remove. 

In the meantime it occurred to me that it woidd reqiüre a vast 
deal of time for me to do this, and that I must be contented to 
run the venture where I was, tili I had formed a camp for myself) 




CRÜSOlfS GRINDSTONK. 87 

aod had secured it so as to remove to it So with this resolution 
I composed myself for a time, and resolved that I would go to 
work with all speed to build me a wall with piles and cables, &c.» 
inadrcleas before, and set mj tent up in it when it was finished, 
bnt that I would venture to stay where I was tili it was finished 
and fit to remove to. This was the 2 Ist. 

Aprü 22. The next moming I began to consider of means to 

put this resolve in execution, but I was at a great loss about my 

^k I had three large axes and abundance of hatchets (for we 

carried the hatchets for traffic with the Indians), but with much 

chopping and cutting knotty hard wood they were all füll of 

notches and dull ; and though I had a grindstone, I could not tum 

it aod grind my tools too. This cost me as much thought as a 

statesman would have bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or 

a jadge upon the life and death of a man. At length I contrived 

a wheel with a string to tum it with my foot, that I might have 

both my hands at liberty. — Not^, I had never seen any such thing 

^ England, or at least not to take notice how it was done, though 

sincel have observed it is very common there; besides that, my 

grindstone was very large and heavy. This machine cost me a 

feil week's work to bring it to perfection. 

April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding my 
^Is, my machine for tuming my grindstone perforaaing very 
well 

April 30. Having perceived my bread had been low a great 
^hile, now I took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one bis- 
cnitKake a day, which made my heart very heavy. 

May 1. In the moming, looking towards the sea-side, the tide 
being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary, 
and it looked like a cask. When I came to it, I found a small 
barrel and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which 
Were driven on shore by the late hurricane; and looking towards 
the wreck itself, 1 thought it seemed to lie higher out of the water 
than it used to do. I examined the barrel which was driven on 
shore, and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had 
taken water, and the powder was caked as hard as a stone. 
However, I rolled it further on shore for the present, and went 



88 



THE WBECK SHIFTED. 



on apoD the sanda as near aa I could to tbe wreck of the ship to 
look for more. 

When I came down to the ship I found it strangely removed. 
The forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was heaved up 
at least six foot; and the etem, which was broken to pieces and 
parted from the reat by the force of the sea soon after I had left 




nimmagiDg her, was tossed, as it were, up and cast on one dde; 
and the sand was thrown so high on that side next her stern, that 
whereas there was a great place of water before, so that I could 
not come witbin a quarter of a mile of the wreck witbout swim- 
ming, I could now walk quite up to her when the tide was out. 
I was surprised with this at first, but soon concluded it must be 
done by the earthqnake. And as by this violence the ship was 
more broken open tban formerly, so many things came dailj od 
shore which the sea had loosened, and which the winda and water 
relied by degrees to the land. 



WORKING ON THE WRECK. 89 

This whoDy diverted my thoughts from the design of removing 
myhabitation; and I busied myself mightily, that day especially, 
in searching whether I could make any way into the ship; but I 
foand nothing was to be expected of that kind, for that all the 
^e of the ship was choked up with saud. However, as I had 
Ittnied not to despair of aDything, I resolved to pull everything 
^ pieces that I could of the ship, concluding that everything I 
^<1 get from her would be of some use or other to me. 

^(ijf 3. 1 began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam through, 

*tich I thought held some of the upper part or quarter-deck 

^ther; and when I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand 

«well as I could from the side which lay highest; but the tide 

wming in, I was obliged to give over for that time. 

Maji 4. I went a-fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst 

j ^of, tili I was weary of my sport; when just going to leave off, 

; I caoght a young dolphin. I had made me a long line of some 

I '^Peyarn, but 1 had no hooks, yet I frequently caught fish enough, 

' *8much as 1 cared to eat; all which I dried in the sun, and ate 

[ ftem dry. 

^öjf 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another beam asunder, and 
öwyoght three great fir planks off from the decks, which I tied to- 
^^, and made swim on shore when the tide of flood came on. 

^fljf 6. Worked on the wTeck, got several iron bolts out of her, 
*^ other pieces of iron-work, worked very hard, and came home 
^«ry mach tired, and had thoughts of giving it over. 

^fly7. Went to the wreck again, but with an intent not to 
*ork; bot found the weight of the wreck had broken itself down, 
«le beams being cut, that several pieces of the ship seemed to lie 
wose, and the inside of the hold lay so open that I could see into 
^ but ahnost füll of water and sand. 

^öjf 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to wrench 
''P 4e deck, which lay now quite clear of the water or sand. I 
'^nched open two planks, and brought them on shore also with 
^ tide. I left the iron crow in the wreck for next day. 

May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way 
*to the body pf the wreck, and feit several casks, and loosened 
^ with the crow, but could not break them up. I feit also the 



90 FINDS A TURTLR 

roll of English lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy tc:^ 
remove. 

May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Went every day to the wreck, and go«::^ 
a great deal of pieces of timber and boards, or planks, and two ocr" 
three hundredweight of iron. 

May 15. I carried two hatchets to try if I could not cut a pieces* 
off of the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet and — 
driving it with the other; but as it lay about a foot and a half in— 
the water, I could not make any blow to drive the hatchet 

May 16. It had blowed hard in the night, and the wreck ap- 
peared more broken by the force of the water; but I stayed so 
long in the woods to get pigeons for food, that the tide prevented 
me going to the wreck that day. 

May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore, at a 
great distance, near two miles off me, but resolved to see what 
they were, and found it was a piece of the head, but too heavy 
for me to bring away. 

May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the wreck, and 
with hard labour I loosened some things so much with the crow, 
that the first blowing tide several casks fioated out, and two of the 
seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from the shore, nothing 
came to land that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead which 
had some Brazil pork in it, but the salt water and the sand had 
spoiled it. 

I continued this work every day to the 15th of June, except the 
time necessary to get food, which I always appointed, during this 
part of my employment, to be when the tide was up, that I might 
be ready when it was ebbed out; and by this time I had gotten 
timber and plank and iron-work enough to have built a good boat, 
if I had known how; and also, I got at several times and in several 
pieces, near one hundredweight of the sheet lead. 

June 16. Going down to the seaside, I found a large tortoise or 
turtle. This was the first I had seen; which, it seems, was only 
my misfortune, not any defect of the place or scarcity; for had I 
happened to be on the other side of the island, I might have had 
hundreds of them every day, as I found afterwards; but, perhaps, 
had paid dear enough for them. 



CRUSOE BECOHES ILL. 91 

Ak 17. I apent in cooking the turtle. I found in her three- 
Hwe e^; and her flesh was to me at that time the most savouiy 
uid pletsaot that ever I tasted in my life, having had no flesh, but 
of g«tUuid fowls, since I landed in this horrid place. 

Jtne 18. Rained all day, and I atayed within. I thougbt at 




tili« time the rain feit cold, and I was something ehilly, which I 
her vu not xanai in that latitude. 
Jim 19. Very ill, and sbivering, as if the weather had been 



Jm 2 



No reat all night, violent pains in my head, and 



■^«w 21. Very iU. Frightened almost to death with the appre- 
DtMiong ot my sad condition — to be aick and no help. Prayed to 
f^ for the firat time since the storm off Hüll; but acarce knew 
'lut I Said, or why, my thought« being all confused. 



92 A FIT OF AGUE. 

JuTU 22. A little better, but under dreadful apprehensions of, 
sickness. 

June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and then a violent 
headache. 

Jwne 24. Much better. 

June 25. An ague, very violent The fit held me seven hours, 
cold fit and bot, with faint sweats after it. 

June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took my gun, 
but found myself very weak However, I killed a sbe-goat, and 
with nrnch diöiculty got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate. 
I would fain have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no 
pot 

Jum 27. The ague again, so violent that I lay a-bed all day, 
and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish for thiret, but 
so weak, I had not strength to stand up or to get myself any wat«r 
to drink. Prayed to God again ; but was light-headed, and when 
I was not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; only I 
lay and cried, "Lord, look upon me; Lord, pity me; Lord, have 
mercy upon mel" I suppose I did nothing eise for two or three 
hours, tili the fit wearing off I feil asleep, and did not wake tili far 
in the night. When I waked I found myself much refreshed, 
but weak and exceeding thirsty. However, as I had no water 
in my whole habitation, I was forced to lie tili morning, and 
went to sleep again. In this second sleep I had this terrible 
dream : — 

I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the outside of my 
wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the earthquake, and 
that I saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in a bright 
flame of fire, and light upon the ground. He was all over as bright 
as a flame, so that I could but just bear to look towards hinL His 
countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words 
to describe. When he stepped upon the groimd with his feet, I 
thought the earth trembled, just as it had done before in the earth- 
quake; and all the air looked, to my apprehension, as if it had 
been fiUed with flashes of fire. 

He was no sooner landed upon the earth but he moved forward 
towards me, with a long spear or weapon in his band, to kill me. 




crusoe's terrible dream. 93 

And when he came to a rising ground at some distance, he spoke 
to me, or I heard a voice so terrible, that it is impossible to express 
theterror of it All that I can ßay I understood was this, "Seeing 
all these things have not brought thee to repentance, now thou 
shalt di&" At which words, I thought he lifted up the spear that 
was in bis band to kill me. 

No one that shall ever read this account will expect that I should 
be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible visioa 
I mean, that even while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those 
borrors. Nor is it any more possible to describe the impression 
that remained upon my mind, when I awaked and found it was but 
adreaoL 

I had, alas! no divine knowledge. What I had received by the 

good Instruction of my father was then wom out by an uninter- 

rupted series, for eight years, of sea-faring wickedness, and a con- 

stant conversation with nothing but such as were like myself, 

wicked and profane to the last degree. I do not remember that 

I bad in all that time one thought that so much as tended either 

to looking upwards toward God, or inwards towards a reflection 

npon my own ways. But a certain stupidity of soul, without 

desire of good or conscience of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me, 

and 1 was all that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature 

among cur common sailors can be supposed to be, not having the 

least sense, either of the fear of God in danger, or of thankfulness 

to God in deHverances. 

In the relating what is already past of my story, this will be the 
more easily believed, when I shall add, that through all the variety 
*of miseries that had to this day befallen me, I never had so much 
as one thought of it being the band of God, or that it was a just 
punishment for my sin, my rebellious behaviour against my father, 
or my present sins, which were great; or so much as a punish- 
ment for the general course of my wicked life. When I was on 
the desperate expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I never 
had so much as one thought of what would become of me; or 
one wish to God to direct me whither I should go, or to keep me 
from the danger which apparently surrounded me, as well from 
voracious creatures as cruel savages. But I was merely thoughtless 



94 WHOLESOME THOUGHTS. 

of a God, or a Providence; acted like a mere brüte from the prin 
ciples of nature, and by the dictates of common sense only, anc 
indeed hardly that. 

When I was delivered and taken up. at sea by the Portuga 
captain, well used, and dealt justly and honourably with, as wel 
as charitably, I had not the least thankfulness on my thoughts 
When again I was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drownin^ 
on this Island, I was as far from remorse, or looking on it as s 
judgment; I only said to myself often that I was an tmfortunati 
dog, and born to be always miserable. 

It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found all my ship'j 
crew drowned, and myself spared, I was surprised with a kind oi 
ecstasy and some transports of soul, which, had the grace of God 
assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness. But it ended 
where it begun, in a mere common flight of joy, or, as I may say, 
being glad I was alive, without the least reflection upon the distin- 
guishing goodness of the band which had preserved me, and had 
singled me out to be preserved, when all the rest were destroyed 
or an inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful to me — even 
just the same common sort of joy which seamen generally havc 
after they have got safe ashore from a shipwreck, which they drowii 
all in the next bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it ie 
over; and all the rest of my life was like it. 

Even when I was afterwards, on due consideration, made sen- 
sible of my condition, how I was cast on this dreadful place, out 
of the reach of human kind, out of all hope of relief or prospect oi 
redemption, as soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and that ] 
should not starve and perish for hunger, all the sense of my afflic- 
tion wore off, and I begun to be very easy, applied myself to the 
works proper for my preservation and supply, and was far enough 
from being afflicted at my condition, as a judgment from heaven, 
or as the band of God against me. These were thoughts which 
very seldom entcred into my head. 

The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my Journal, had at 
first some little iniiuence upon me, and began to affect me with 
seriousness, as long as I thought it had something miraculoue 
in it; but as soon as ever that part of the thought was removed. 



A FATHER'S ADVICE RECALLED. 95 

all the impression which was raised from it wore off also, as I have 
noted already. 

Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more terrible in 
its nature, or more immediately directing to the Invisible Power 
which alone directs such things, yet no sooner was the first fright 
orer, bot the impression it had made went off also. I had no 
more sense of God or his judgments, much less of the present 
affliction of my circumstances being from his band, than if I had 
been in the most prosperous condition of life. 

But now when I began to be sick, and a leisurely view of the 
miseriea of death came to place itself before me; when my spirits 
began to sink under the bürden of a streng distemper, and nature 
was exhausted with the violence of the fever; conscience, that had 
slept so long, began to awake, and I began to reproach myself 
with my past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon 
wickedness, provoked the justice of God to lay me under uncom- 
mon strokes, and to deal with me in so vindictive a manner. 

These reflections oppressed me for the second or third day of 
my distemper, and in the violence, as well of the fever as of the 
dreadful reproaches of my conscience, extorted some words from 
me like praying to God, though I cannot say they were either a 
prayer attended with desires or with hopes; it was rather the 
voice of mere fright and distress. My thoughts were confused, 
the convictions great upon my mind, and the horror of dying in 
such a miserable condition raised vapours into my head with the 
Jöereapprehensions; and in these hurries of my soul I know not 
what my tongue might express. But it was rather exclamation, 
such as, " Lord, what a miserable creature am I ! If I should be 
8ick, I shall certainly die for want of help, and what will become 
of me?' Then the tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say no 
more for a good while. 

In this interval, the good advice of my father came to my mind, 
^d presently his prediction, which I mentioned at the beginning 
^^ this Story, namely that if I did take this foolish step, God would 
'Jot bless me, and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon 
«aviug neglected his counsel, when there might be none to assist 
^ my recovery. " Now," said I aloud, " my dear father*s words 



96 THE FIRST PRAYER. 

are come to pass: God's justice has overtaken me, and I have 
none to help or hear me. I rejected the voice of Providence, 
which had mercifully put me in a posture or Station of lif e wherein 
I might have been happy and easy; but I would neither see it 
myself nor leam to know the blessing of it from my parent^ I 
left them to moum over my foUy, and now I am left to mourn 
under the consequences of it I refused their help and assistance 
who would have lifted me into the world, and would have made 
everything easy to me; and now I have diflSculties to struggle 
with, too great for even nature itself to support, and no assistance, 
no help, no comfort, no ad vice." Then I cried out, " Lord, be my 
help; for I am in great distress." 

This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had made 
for many years. But I return to my joumaL 

June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had 
had, and the fit being cntirely off, I got up; and though th» 
fright and terror of my dream was very great, yet I considered 
that the fit of the ague would return again the next day, and no^ 
was my time to get something to refresh and support myself when 
I should be ilL And the first thing I did, I filled a large square 
case-bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my 
bed; and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the wat«r,I 
put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it and mixed them toge- 
ther. Then I got me a piece of the goat's flesh and broiled it oa 
the coals, but could eat very.little. I walked about, but was veif 
weak, and withal very sad and heavy;hearted in the sense of mjr 
miserable condition, dreading the return of my distemper the next^ 
day. At night I made my supper of three of the turtle's e^ 
which I roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the shell: 
and this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing 
to, even as I could remember, in my whole life. 

After I had eaten I tried to walk, but found myself so weak 
that I could hardly carry the gun (for I never went out without 
that) ; so I went but a little way, and sat down upon the ground, 
looking out upon the sea, which was just before me, and very calm 
and smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts as these occunred 
to me : — 



'- ! 



i 



THE VOICE OF CONSCIENCK 97 

Wliat is this earth and sea of which I have seen so much, 
whence is it prodaced; and what am I and all the other creatures, 
wild and tarne, human and brutal, whence are we *? 

Sure we are all made by some secret Power, who formed the 
earth and sea, the air and sky; and who is that? 

Then it followed most naturally, It is God that has made it all. 
Well, but then it came on strangely, If God has made all these 
t^hings, he guides and govems them all, and all things that concem 
them; for the Power that could make all things must certainly 
^ve power to guide and direct them. 

If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of his works, 
öitiier without his knowledge or appointment. 

And if nothing happens without his knowledge, he knows that 
^ am here, and am in this dreadful condition; and if nothing 
^ppens without his appointment, he has appointed all this to 
l>efallme. 

Kothing occurred to my thought to contradict any of these con- 
clusions; and therefore it rested upon me with the greater force, 
&at it must needs be that God had appointed all this to befall 
Qie; that I was brought to this miserable circumstance by his 
toection, he having the sole power, not of me only, but of every- 
thing that happened in the world. Immediately it followed, — 

Why has God done this to me? What have I donc to be thus 
^sedl 

My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had 
blasphemedy and methought it spoke to me like a voice : Wretch ! 
dost thou ask what thou hast donel Look back upon a dreadful 
Q^spent life, and ask thyself what thou hast not done! Ask, 
^y is it that thou wert not long ago destroyedl Why wert 
4omiot drowned in Yarmouth Eoads? killed in the fight when 
4e ahip was taken by the Sallee man-of-war? devoured by the 
^db^sts on the coast of Africa? or, drowned here, when all the 
'^^perished but thyself 1 Dost thou ask, What have I done] 

I Was Struck dumb with these reflections, as one astonished, and 
^ not a Word to say — no, not to answer to myself ; but rose up 
P^ödve and sad, walked back to my retreat, and went up over my 
^ as if I had been going to bed; but my thoughts were sadly 

(248) o 



98 A PRECIOUS INVITATION. 

disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in my 
chair, and liglited my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now as the 
apprehension of the return of ray distemper temfied me very 
much, it occurred to my thought that the Braziüans take no physic 
but their tobacco for almosb all distempers; and I had a piece of 
a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite cured, and 
some also that was green and not quite cured 

I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; for in this ehest I found 
a eure both for soul and body. I opened the ehest tnd found 
what I looked fpr, namely, the tobacco; and as the few books I 
had saved lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I 
mentioned before, and which to this time I had not found leisure, 
or so much as inclination to look into — I say, I took it out, and 
brought both that and the tobacco with me to the table. 

What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my distem- 
per, or whether it was good for it or no; but I tried several 
experiments with it, as if I was resolved it should hit one way or 
other. I first took a piece of a leaf and chewed it in my mouth, 
which indeed at first almost stupified my brain, the tobacco being 
green and strong and that I had not been much used to it; then 
I took some and stecped it an hour or two in some rum, and 
resolved to take a dose of it when I lay down; and lastly I bumed 
some upon a pan of coals, and held my nose close over the smoke 
of it as long as I could bear it, as well for the heat as almost for 
sujBfocation. 

In the interval of this Operation, I took up the Bible and began 
to read; but my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco to 
bear reading, at least that time. Only, having opened the bock 
casually, the first words that occurred to me were these, "Call 
upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver thee, and thou shalt 
glorify me." ^ 

The words were very apt to my case, and made some impressipn 
upon my thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so 
much as they did afterwards; for, as for being delivered, the word 
had no sound, as I may say, to me; the thing was so remote, so 
impossible in my apprehension of things, that I began to say as 

1 Psalm 1. 15. 



A STRONG DOSE. 



99 



of Israel did, when they were promised flesh to eat, 

;pread a table in tlie wildemess?" so I began to say, 

aself deliver me from this place] and as it was not for 

that any hope appeared, this prevailed very of ten upon 

;; but, however, the words made a great Impression 

id I mused upon them very often- It grew now late, 

acco had, as I said, dozed my head so much that I 

sleep; so 

aap bum- | 

ive lest I 

anything 

and went 

, before I 

did what 

[ done in 

I kneeied 

)rayed to 

oim the 

me, that 

ipon him 

f trouble, 

tliver me. 

oken and 

•ayer was ** Itookup the BiWe and began toiwd.* 

(the nun 

Lad steeped the tobacco, which was so streng and rank 
kcco that indeed I could scarce get it down. Im- 
pon this I went to bed I found presently it flew up 
violently, but I feil into a sound sleep, and waked no 
7 the sun, it must necessarily be near three o'clock in 
•n the next day. Nay, to this hour I am partly of the 
b I slept all the next day and night, and tili almost 
ay after; for otherwise I knew not how I should lose 
my reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared 
after I had done. For if I had lost it by crossing and 
he line, I should have lost more than one day; but, 
lost a day in my accouut, and never knew which way. 




( 



100 HE BEGINS TO RECOVER. 

Be that, however, one way or the other, when I awaked I found 
myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful; 
when I got up I was strenger than I was the day before, and my 
stomach better, for I was hungry; and, in short, I had no fit the 
next day, but continued much altered for the better. This was 
the 29tb. 

The 30th was my well-day, of course, and I went abroad with 
my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a sea-fowl or 
two, something like a brand-goose,^ and brought them home, but 
was not very forward to eat them; so I ate some more of the 
turtle's eggs, which were very good. This evening I renewed the 
medicine which I had supposed did me good the day before — 
namely, the tobacco steeped in rum; only I did not take so much 
as before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over 
the smoka However, I was not so well the next day, which was 
the Ist of July,.as I hoped I should have been; for I had a little 
spiee of the cold fit, but it was not much. 

July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways, and dosed 
myself with it as at first; and doubled the quantity which I 
drank. 

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not 
recover my füll strength for some weeks after. While I was thus 
gathering strength my thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scrip- 
ture, "I will deliver thee;" and the impossibility of my deliver- 
ance lay much upon my mind in bar of my ever expecting it. 
But as I was discouraging myself with such thoughts it occurred 
to my mind that I pored so much upon my deliverance from the 
main affliction that I disregarded the deliverance I had received; 
and I was, as it were, made to ask myself such questions as these 
— namely, Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from 
sickness — from the most distressed condition that could be, and 
that was so frightful to mel And what notice I had taken of it: 
Had I done my part? God had delivered me, but I had not 
glorified him; that is to say, I had not owned and been thankful 
for that as a deliverance. And how could I expect greater deliver- 
ance? 

^ Or brent-gooBe; so called from its bumt or ashen>gray oolour. 



A GOOD RESOLUTION. 101 

This touched my heart very much, and immediately I kneeled 
down and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from my sick- 
nesa. 

My 4. In the moming I took the Bible» and, beginning at the 
New Testament, I began seriously to read it, and imposed upon 
myself to read a while every moming and eveiy night, not tying 
myself to the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts 
ahoold ODgage ma It was not long after I set seriously to this 
vork, but I found my heart more deeply and sincerely affected 
vith the wickedness of my past lif e. The impression of my dream 
leriTed, and the words, *' AU these things have not brought thee 
to repentance," ran seriously in my thought. I was eamestly 
begging of Grod to give me repentance, when it happened provi- 
dentially the very day that, reading the Scripture, I came to these 
woida, "He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance, 
»nd to give remission." I threw down the book and with my 
leart as well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy 
o( joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of David, Jesus, thou 
exalted Prince and Saviour, give me repentance ! " 

This was the first time that I could say, in the true sense of the 
^ords, that I prayed in all my life; for now I prayed with a sense 
^ my condition, and with a true Scripture view of hope founded 
on the encooragement of the Word of Grod; and from this time, I 
Btty say, I began to have hope that God would hear me. 

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, " Call on 
0^ and I will deliver thee,'' in a different sense from what I had 
ever done before; for then I had no notion of anything being 
calleddeliverance but my being delivered from the captivity I was 
^' for though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the island 
vas certainly a prison to me, and that in the worst sense in the 
vorld; but now I leamed to take it in another sense. Now I 
Jooked back upon my past lifo with such horror, and my sins ap- 
Peared so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God but 
deliverance from the load of guilt that bore down all my comfort 
A« for my solitary life, it was nothing; I did not so much as pray 
tobe delivered from it, or think of it; it was all of no considera- 
^OB m comparison to this. And I add this part here, to hint to 



102 INWARD COMFORT. 

whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to a true sense 
of things, they will find deliverance from sin a much greater 
blessing than deliverance from affliction. 

But leaving this part, I return to my joumal. 

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to 
my way of living, yet much easier to my mind; and my thoughts 
being directed, by a constant reading the Scripture and praying 
to God, to things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of com- 
fort within, which tili now I knew nothing of. Also as my health 
and strength retumed, I bestirred myself to fumish myself with 
everything that I wanted, and make my way of living as regulär 
as I could. 

From the 4th of July to the 14th I vras chiefly employed in 
Walking about with my gun in my band, a little and a little at 
a time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit of 
sickness; for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to 
what weakness I was reduced. The application which I made use 
of was perfectly new, and perhaps what had never curcd an ague 
before, neither can I recommend it to any one to practise, by this 
experiment; and though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather con- 
tributed to weakening me, for I had frequent convulsions in my 
nerves and Umbs for some time. 

I leamed from it also this in particular, that being abroad in the 
rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my health that could 
be, especially in those rains which came attended with storms 
and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came in the dry 
season was always most accompanied with such storms, so I found 
that rain was much more dangerous than the rain which feil in 
September and Oötober. 

I had been now in this unhappy island above ten months; all 
possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely 
taken from me, and I firmly believed that no human shape had 
ever set foot upon that place. Having now secured my habitation, 
as I thought, fuUy to my mind, I had a great desire to make a 
more perfect discovery of the island, and to see what other pro- 
ductions I might find which I yet knew nothing of. 

It was the 15th of July that I began to take a more particular 




A SURVEY OF THE ISLAND. 103 

«onrey of the Island itself. I went up the creek first, where, as I 
binted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about 
two miles up, that tho tide did not flow any higher, and that it 
was no more than a littlo brook of running water, and very fresh 
ind good; but this being the dry season, there was hardly any 
water in some parts of it, at least not enough to run in any stream 
80 as it coald be perceived. On the bank of this brook I found 
many pleasant savannas, or mcadows, piain, smooth, and covered 
wiüi grass; and on the rising part3 of them, next to the higher 
groundg, where the water, as it might bo supposed, never over- 
flowed, I found a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a 
great and yery strong stalk. There were divers other plants which 
I Iiad no notion of, or understanding about, and might perhaps 
h»ve yirtues of their own, which I could not find out 

I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians in all that 
dimate make their bread of ; but I could find none. I saw large 
plants of aloes, but did not then understand them. I saw several 
5ugar canes, but wild, and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I 
contented myself with these discoveries for this time, and came 
Wk rausing with myself what course I might take to know the 
^rtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which I should 
<liscoTer, but could bring it to no conclusion; for in short, I had 
^*de so little Observation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew 
Kttle of the plants in the field, at least very little that might serve 
me to any purpose now in my distress. 

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again, and 
*fter going something farther than I had gone the day before, I 
fonnd the brook, and the savannas began to cease, and the country 
^came more woody than before. In this part I found diiferent 
^its, and, particularly, I found melons upon the ground in great 
wundance, and grapes upon the trees; the vines had spread in- 
deed over the trees, and the Clusters of grapes were just now in 
their primo, very ripe and rieh. This was a surprising discovery, 
*nd I was exceeding glad of them; but I was wamed by my 
^xperience to eat sparingly of them, remembering that, when I 
^ ashore in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed several of our 
Engliahmen, who were slaves there, by throwing them into floxos 



HE DiaCOVER8 GRAPE3. 



and fevers. But I foimd an excellent use for these gnpes, a 
that waa to eure or dry them in the sun and keep them as dn 
grapes or raiaiits are kept which I thougbt would be aa inde 




they were, as wholesome aa agreeable to eat, when no ( 
raiglit be to be had. J 

I Bpent all that evening there, and went not back to myl 
tion, which, by the way, was the first night, aa I m^ht saj 
lain from home. In tho ni^t I took my firet contriraf 
got up into a tree, wbere I elept well; and the nezt mornl 
ceeded upon my discovery, travelling near foiir miles, ass/ 
judge by the length of the Valley, keeping atill due norti 
ridge of hilU on the Bouth and north side of me. 

At the end of this march I came to an opening, ^ 



A STORE OF FRUIT. 105 

country seemed to descend to the west, and a Utile spring of fresh 
water, which issued out of the side of the hill by me, ran the other 
way, that is due east; and the country appeared so fresh, so green, 
80 flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure, or flourish 
of spring, that it looked like a planted garden. 

I descended a Utile on the side of that delicious vale, surveying 
it vith a secret Idud of pleasure (though mixed with my other 
^cting thoughts) — to think that this was all my own, that I was 
Ung and lord of all this country indefeasibly, and had a right of 
pofisession; and if I could convey it, I might have it in inherit- 
AQce, as completely as any lord of a manor in England. I saw 
bere abondance of cocoa trees, orange, and lemon, and citron irees, 
bat all wild, and very few bearing any fruit, at least not then. 
Höherer, the green limes that I gathered were not only pleasant 
to eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterwards 
with water, which made it very wholesome, and very cool, and re- 
fresbmg. 

I found now I had business enough to gather and carry home; 
^i I resolved to lay up a störe, as well of grapes as limes and 
kmons, to fnmish myself for the wet season, which I knew was 
»Pproaching. 

In Order to ihis, I gathered a great heap of grapes in one place, 
^<i a lesser heap in another place, and a great parcel of limes and 
^^iDons in another place; and, taking a few of each with me, I 
tfavelled homeward, and resolved to come again, and bring a bag 
or sack, or what I could make to carry the rest home. 

Accordingly, having spent ihree days in this joumey, I came 
iome; — so I must now call my tent and my cav& But, before I 
got thither the grapes were spoiled — the richness of the fruits and 
the weight of the juice having broken them, and bruised them, 
thej were good for Utile or nothing; as to the Umes, they were 
good, but I could bring but a few. 

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made me 
two small bags to bring home my harvest But I was surprised 
when, Coming to my heap of grapes, which were so rieh and fine 
wben I gathered them, I found them all spread about, trod to 
pieces, and dragged about, some here, some there, and abundance 



106 A SUMMER BOWER. 

eaten and devoured. By this I concluded there were some wild 
creaturcs thereabouts which had done this, but what they were I 
knew not 

However, as I found that there was no laying them up on heaps, 
and no carrying them away in a sack, but that one way they would 
be destroyed, and the other way tliey would be crushed with their 
own weight, I took another course; for I gathered a large quantity 
of the grapes, and hung them up upon the out branches of the 
trees, that they might eure and dry in the sun; and as for the 
limes and lemons, I carried as many back as I could well stand 
under. 

When I came home from this joumey I contemplated with great 
pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley and the pleasantness of the 
Situation, the security from storms on that side the water, and the 
wood, and concluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my 
abode which was by far the worst part of the country. Upon the 
whole I began to consider of removing my habitation, and to look 
out for a place equally safe as where I now was situate, if possible, 
in that pleasant fruitful part of the island. 

This thought ran long in my head, and I was exceeding fond 
of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting nae; 
but when I came to a nearer view of it, and to consider that I was 
now by the sea-side, where it was at least possible that something 
might happen to my advantage, and by the same ill fate that 
brought me hither might bring some other unhappy wretches to 
the same place; and though it was scarce probable that any such 
thing should ever happen, yet to enclose myself among the hiU^ 
and woods, in the centre of the island, was to anticipate my bond- 
age, and to render such an affair not only improbable but impos- 
sible; and that, therefore, I ought not by any means to remove. 

However, I was so enamoured of this place, that I spent much 
of my time there for the whole remaining part of the month of 
July ; and though, upon second thoughts, I resolved as above, not 
to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and suirounded 
it at a distance with a streng fence, being a double hedge, as hig^ 
as I could reach, well staked, and fiUed between with brushwood; 
and here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights together, 




INCREASE OF CATS. 107 

jJways going over it with a ladder as before ; so that I fancied 
now I bad my country house and my sea-coast house. And this 
work took me up to the beginning of August 

I had but newly finisbed my fence and begun to enjoy my 
kboor, but tbe rains came od, and made me stick close to my 
firet habitation. For though I had made me a tent like the other, 
with a piece of a sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not the 
shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me to 
retreat into when the rains were extraordinary. 

Aboat the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my 
bowcr and began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August I found 
the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and, indeed, were 
excellent good raisins of the sun ; so I began to take them down 
from the trees, and it was very happy that I did so, for the rains 
which followed would have spoiled them, and I had lost the best 
partof my winter food, for I had above two hundred large bunches 
of them. No sooner had I taken them all down, and carried most 
of them home to my cave, but it began to rain, and from hence, 
whichwas tl:e 14th of August, it rained more or less every day 
tili the middle of October; and sometimes so violently that I could 
not Star out of my cave for several days. 

In this season I was much surprised with the increase of my 
family. I had been concemed for the loss of one of my cats, 
who ran away from me, or as I thought had been dead, and I 
heard no more tale or tidings of her tili, to my astonishment, she 
«me home about the end of August with three kittensl This 
VBs the more stränge to me because, though I had killed a wild 
cat, as I called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was a quite 
different kind from our European cats; yet the young cats were 
thesame kind of house breed like the old one; and both my cats 
being females, I thought it very stränge. But from these three 
<^ts I afterwards came to be so pestered with cats that I was 
forced to kill them like vermin or wild beasts, and to drive them 
from my house as much as possible. 

From the 14th of August to the 26th incessant rain, so that I 
could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet. In 
4i& confinement I began to be straitened for foodj but venturing 



THE DAILY DIETARY. 



out twice, I one day killed a goat^ and the last day, which was the 
2Gth, found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me; and 
my food was regulated thus: — I eat a bunch of raisins for my 
breakfast, a piece of the goat's flesh or of the turtle for my dinner 
broiled — for to my great misfortune I had no vessel to boil or 
stew anything — and two or three of the turtle's eggs for my supper. 




During this confinement in my oover by the rain I worked daily 
two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and by dc^;rees worked 
it on towards one aide tili I came to the outaide of the hill, and 
made a door or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall, and 
80 I came in and out this way. Dut I was not perfectly easy at 
lying so open; for as I had raanaged myself before, I was in a 
perfect enclosure, whereas now I thought I iay ezposed and open 
for anything to come in upon me. And yet I could not perceive 
that there was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature that 
I had yet seen upon the island being a goat 

Septemher tke 30/A. I was now come to the unhappy anni- 




THE INK FAILS. 109 

rersary of my landing. I cast up the notches on my post, and 

foond I had been on shore 365 days. I kept this day as a solemn 

hsty setting it apart to religious exercise, prostrating myself on 

the gFoond with the most serious hiuniliation, confessing my sins 

to Gtxi, acknowledging his righteous judgments upon me, and 

pnjmg to him to have inercy on me through Jesus Christ. And 

iuiTing not tasted the least relreshment for twelve hours, even tili 

the going down of the sun, I then eat a biscuit cake and a birnch 

of grapes, and went to hed, finishing the day as I began it 

I had all this time observed no Sabbath day; for as at first I 
had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had after sometime 
omitted to distinguish the weeks by making a longer notch than 
ordinary for the Sabbath>day, and so did not really know what 
any of the days were. But now having cast up the days as above, 
I found I had been there a year, so I divided it into weeks, and 
set apart every seventh day for a Sabbath ; though I found at the 
end of my account I had lost a day or two in my reckoning. 

A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I contented 
myself to use it more sparingly, and to write. down only the most 
remarkable events of my life, without continuing a daily memo- 
randum of other things. 

The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear regu- 
lär to me; and I leamed to divide them, so as to provide for them 
accordingly. But I bought all my experience before I had it; 
and this I am going to relate was one of the most discouraging 
experiments that I made at all. I have mentioned that I had 
sayed the few ears of barley and rice which I had so surprisingly 
found springing up, as I thought of themselves, and believe there 
were about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley. And 
now I thought it a proper time to sow it after the rains, the sun 
being in its southem position going from me. 

Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground as well as I could with 
my wooden spade, and dividing it into two parts, I sowed my 
grain; but as I was sowing it casually occurred to my thoughts 
that I would not sow it all at first, because I did not know when 
was the proper time for it, so I sowed about two-thirds of the 
seed, leaving about a handful of each. 



110 THE TIME FOll SOWING. 

It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not 
one grain of that I sowed this time came to anything; for the drj 
months following, the carth having had no rain after the seed was 
sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth, and never c^me up 
at all tili the wet season had come again, and then it grew as if it 
had been but newly sown. 

Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily imagined 
was by the drought, I sought for a moister piece of ground to 
make another trial in; and I dug up a piece of groimd near my 
new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little 
before the vemal equinox; and this having the rainy months of 
March and April to water it, sprung up very pleasantly, and 
yielded a very good crop. But having part of the seed left only, 
and not daring to sow all that I had, I had but a small quantity 
at last, my whole crop not amounting to above half a peck of eaeh 
kind. 

But by this experiment I was made master of my business, and 
knew exactly when the proper season was to sow; and that I 
might expect two seed-times and two harvests every year. 

While this com was growing I made a little discovery, which 
was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over and 
the weather began to settle, which was about the month of No- 
vember, I made a visit up the country to my bower, where, though 
I had not been some months, yet I found all things just as I left 
them. The circle, or double hedge, that I had made was not only 
firm and entire, but the stakes, which I had cut out of some trees 
that grew thereabouts, were all shot out and grown with long 
branches, as much as a willow-tree usually shoots the first year 
after loppir.g its head. I could not teil what tree to call it that 
these stakes were cut from. I was surprised and yet very well 
pleased to see the yoimg trees grow; and I pruned them, and led 
them up to grow as much alike as I could; and it is scarce credible 
how beautiful a figure they grew into in three years. So that, 
though the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in 
diameter, yet the trees (for such I might now call them) soon 
covered it; and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under 
all the dry ^eason. 




DIVISIONS OF THE SEASONS. 111 

This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make me 

a hedge like this in a semicircle round my wall — I inean that of 

my hist dwelling — which I did ; and placing the trees or stakes 

in a double row, at about eight yards distance from my first f ence, 

they grew presently, and were at first a fine cover to my habita- 

tfon, and afterwards served for a defence also, as I shall observe 

in its Order. 

I found now that the seasons of the year might generally be 
dirided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe, but into the 
nuny seasons and the dry seasons, which were generally thus : — 

Half Februaiy, 

March, }. Rainy — the sun being then od or near the Equinox. 

Half Aprü, 

Half April, 

May, 

June, ]. Dry — the sun being then to the north of the Line. 

July, 
Half August, 

Half August, 

September, \ Bainy — the sun being then come back. 
Half Octobcr, 

Half Octobcr, 

NoTember, 

December, V Dry— the sun being then to the south of the line. 

January, 1 
Half February, J 

The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, as the 
winds happened to blow, but this was the general Observation I 
made. After I had found, by experience, the ill consequence of 
being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with pro- 
visions beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out; and I 
sat witbin doors as much as possible during the wet months. 

In this time I found much employment (and very suitable also 
to the time), for I found great occasion of many things which I 
had no way to furnish myself with but by hard labour and con- 
stant application; particularly I tried many ways to make myself 
a basket, but all the twigs I could get for the purpose proved so 
brittle that they would do nothing. It proved of excellent advan- 
tage to me now, that when I was a boy I used to take great 



112 BASKET-MAKING. 

delighb in atanding at a basket-maker'B in the town wh< 
father lired to see thera make their wicker-ware; and be 
boys usuallyare, very oflicious to he)p, and a great observei 
manner how they worked those things, and sometimes len 
band, I had by thie means füll knowledge of tbe method 
that I wanted nothing bat the materials, vhen it came ii 




mind that the twigs of that trec froni whence I cut mf 
grew might possibly bo aa tough as the sallowB, and' 
oaiers in England, and I resolved to try. f 

Accordingly the next day I went to my countri 
called it, and cutting some of the amaller twiga, I f 
my purpoae as much aa I could desire; whereup« 
next time prepared witb a hat«het to cut down a <f 
I soon found, for there waa great plenty of tbem. f 
to dry witbin my circle or hedge, and when tliey 1 



TWO GREAT WANTS. 113 

• 

I curied them to my cave, and here during the next season I em- 
piojed myself in making, as well as I could, a great many baskets, 
both to carry earth, or to carry or lay up any thing aa I had occa- 
sion; and though I did not finish them yery handsomely, yet I 
Mdethem sufficiently serviceable for my purpose; and thus after- 
vards I took care never to be without them. And as my wicker- 
wtredecayed I made more; especially I made strong deep baskets 
to place my com in instead of sacks, when I should come to have 
My quantity of it 

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of timc 
aboat it, I bestirred myself to see if possible how to'supply two 
vuita I had no vessels to hold anything that was liquid except 
twoninlets, which were almost füll of rum, and some glass bottles, 
6ome of the common size, and others which were case-bottles 
squire, for the holding of water, spirits, &c. I had not so much 
*8 » pot to boil anything, except a great kettle, which I saved out 
of the ship, and which was too big for such use as I designed — 
Damelj, to make broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The 
second thing I would fain have had was a tobacco-pipe, but it was 
unpoasible to me to make one; however I foimd a contrivance for 
that too at last 

1 employed myself in planting my second rows of stakes or 
piles and in this wicker-working, all the summer or dry season, 
^ben another business took me up more time than it could be 
ÜDagined I could spare. 

Imentioned before that I had a great mind to see the whole 
uland, and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to where 
1 buiJt my bower, and where I had an opening quite to the sea on 
the other side of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across 
^ the sea-shore on that side; so taking my gun, a hatchet, and 
^7 dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual, 
^th two biscuit cakes, and a great bunch of raisins in my pouch 
^or my störe, I began my joumey. When I had passed the vale 
ifhere my bower stood as above, I came within view of the sea to 
tie West, and it being a very clear day I fairly descried land, 
vhether an island or a continent I could not teil; but it lay very 
%h, extending from the west to the west-south-west at a very 

(248) B 



114 



HE CB0S8ES THE ISIAND. 



great dietance. By my guesB it could not be lesB thaD fifteen or 
twenty leagues off. 

I conld not teil what part of the world thie might be, otberwiu 
than that I knew it must be part of America, and, as I concluded 
by all my obaervationa, must be near the Spanisb dominions; and 
perhaps was all inhabited by eavages, where, if I should have 
landed, I had been in a worae condition than I was now; and 
therefore I acqniesced in the dispositiona of Providence, which I 




began now to own and to believe ordered everything for the best; 
1 say I quieted my mind with this, and left aflicting myself vith 
fruitlesa wishea of being thera 

Beaidos, after some pause npon thia affair, I considered that if 
thia land was the Spanlsh coast, I should certainly, one time or 
other, see eome veaael pasa or repasa one way or other; but if not, 
then it was the savage coast between the Spanish country and 
Brazil, 'which are indeed the worst of savages, for they are can- 
nibals, or men-eaters, and fall not to murder and devour all the 
human bodiea that fall into their hands. 

With these considerationa I walked very leisurely forward. I 
fonnd that aide of the Island where I now was mach pleasanter 
than mine; the opcn or aavanna fields aweet, adorned with flowera 



SECTURES A PARROT. 115 

and gnss, and full of very fine woods. I saw abnndance of parrots, 
um! fam I woold have caught one, if posaible, to have kept it to 
be tarne, and taught it to speak to ma I did, after some pains- 
taking, catch a young parrot, for I knocked it down with a stick, 
andbaving recoTered it I brought it home; bat it was some years 
beiore I could make him speak. However, at last I taugbt him 
to call me by my name yeiy familiarly. But the accident that 
föüowed, tbongh it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its placa 

I was exceedingly diverted with this jonmey. I found in the 
low gromids hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes; bat they 
differed greatly f rom all the other kinds I had met with, nor could 
1 aatisfy myself to eat them, though I killed severaL But I had 
no need to be ventaroos, for I had no want of food, and of that 
which was very good too; especially these three sorts — ^namely, 
goats, pigeons, and tartle or tortoise, which, added to my grapes, 
^^enhall Market could not have fumished a table better than I 
in Proportion to the Company. And though my case was deplor- 
ftble enough, yet I had great cause for thankfulness, and that I 
was not driven to any extremities for food, but rather plenty, even 
todainties. 

I nerer travelled in this jonmey above two miles outright in a 
Ml or thereabouts. Bat I took so many tums and retums to 
^ what discoveries I could make that I came weary enough to 
Ad place where I resolved to sit down for all night; and then I 
flther reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row 
of stakes set upright in the ground, either from one tree to 
ttother, or so as no wild creature could come at me without 

Ab soon as I came to the searshore I was surprised to see that I 
W taken up my lot on the worst side of the island; for here, 
indeed, the shore was covered with innumerable turtles, whereas 
Ol) the other side I had found but three in a year and a half. 
Here was also an infinite nomber of fowls of many kinds; some 
which I had seen, and some which I had not seen of before — and 
many of them very good meat — bat such as I knew not the names 
of, except those called penguins. 

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very sparing of 



THE MAN WHO WROTE 



he adherents of the House of Stui 
je more he began to write diJigc 
an opportunity to min him. 
Ol by Publishing an ironical pam] 
y with the Dissenters," which 
aged the High Church party thi 
) House of Commons ordered tl 
Lmon hangmaU) and a Warrant wi 
3e Foe, with the proclamation ofl 
) should bring him to justice, 
'his proclamation gives us a des( 
earance — "A middle-sized, spi 
. brown complexion and dark 
ig, a hooked nose, sharp chin, 
mouth." He was soon arreste( 
that he should stand in the 
. sureties for his good behavioui^ 
•risoned in Newgate tili all thif 
i of raised platform set up on 
)se hands were secured to a 
d, stood there to be the obj< 
), who pelted him with fih 
jries in London: one in froi 
Conduit in Cheapside, and 
it made a great mistake inj 
irding him as the champioi 
i kind of triumphal proc< 
5re the pillories stood. It 
, mounted one of thesc pl 
ers to be had, the pillory 
its were brought to him 
crowd accompanying hii 
!n the penance was over. 
on his courage and indi 
^e, and among other thin| 




REACHES HOME A6AIN. 117 

^irliich might supply me when my powder and shot should be all 
gpent. 

I made a collar to this little creature, and with a string which 
I mide of some rope-yam, which I always carried about me, I led 
iüm along, though with some difficulty, tili I came to my bower ; 
md there I enclosed him and left him, for I was very impatient to 
be at home, from whence I had been absent above a montL 

1 caiinot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into 
my old hutch and lie down in my hammock-bed. This little 
Wandering joumey, without settled place of abode, had been so 
onpleasant to me, that my own house, as I called it to myself, was 
& perfeet settlement to me compared to that; and it rendered 
eveiything about me so comfortable that I resolved 1 would never 
go a great way from it again while it should be my lot to stay on 
theidand. 

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself after 

my long joumey; during which most of the time was taken up in 

the weighty affair of making a cage for my poU, who began now 

tobe a mere domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted with me. 

Theo 1 began to think of the poor kid which I had penned in 

within my little circle, and resolved to go and fetch it home or 

gi^e it some food. Accordingly I went, and found it where I left 

it; for, indeed, it could not get out, but almost starved for want 

offood I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of such 

^bs as I could find, and threw it over; and having fed it, I tied 

It as 1 did bef ore, to lead it away. But it was so tarne with being 

bongry that I had no need to have tied it, for it foUowed me like 

^ dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature became so 

loring, so gentle, and so fond, that it became from that time one 

of my domestics also, and would never leave me af terwards. 

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come, and 
1 kept the 30th of September in the same solemn manner as 
before; being the anniversary of my landing on the island, having 
now been there two years, and no more prospect of being delivered 
than the first day I came there. I spent the whole day in humble 
and Üiankful acknowledgments of the many wonderful mercies 
which my solitary condition was attended with, and without which 



118 RELIGIOUS CX)NSOLATIOMS. 

it might have been infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and 
hearty thanks that Gk)d had been pleased to discover to me even 
that it was possible I might be more happy in this solitary con- 
dition than I shoold have been in a liberty of society and in all 
the pleasures of the world; that he could fully make up to me the 
deficiencies of my solitary State, and the want of human society, 
by bis presence, and the Communications of his grace to my soul — 
supporting, comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon his 
providence here, and hope for his etemal presence hereafter. 

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy 
this life I now led was, with all its miserable circumstances, thao 
the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part of my 
days. And now I changed both my sorrows and my joys: my 
very desires altered, my affections changed their gusts, and my 
delights were perfectly new from what they were at my first 
Coming, or indeed for the two years past. 

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting or for viewing 
the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition would break 
out upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would die within me 
to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in, ajod 
how I was a prisoner locked up with the etemal bars and bolts of 
the ocean, in an uninhabited wildemess, without redemption. 1° 
the midst of the greatest composures of my mind, this wauJ<^ 
break out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my hands 
and weep like a child. Sometimes it would take me in the middJe 
of my work; and I would immediately sit dovm and sigh, and 
look upon the ground for an hour or two together. And this "»^ 
still worse to me; for if I could burst out into tears or vent 
myself by words it would go off, and the grief, having exhaust^ 
itself, would abate. 

But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts. ^ 
daUy read the Word of God, and applied all the comf orts of it ^ 
my present State. One moming, being very sad, I opened t^e 
Bible upon these words, "I will never leave thee, nor forsak^ 
thee." * Immediately it occurred that these words were to ©e. 
Why eise should they be directed in such a manner, just at th0 

^ HebrewB ziü. 5. 



i 




THE P&BCIOUS BIBLK. 119 

moment when I was mouming over my condition as one forsaken 
of God and man! " Well, then/' said I, *^ if Grod does not forsake 
nie, of what ill consequence can it be, or what matters it, though 
the World should all forsake me, seeing on the other band if I had 
all the World, and should lose the favour and blessing of Grod, 
there would be no comparison in the lossl" 

From this moment I began to conclude in my mind that it was 
posslble for me to be more happy in this forsaken, solitary con- 
dition, than it was probable I should ever have been in any other 
particukr state in the world; and with this thought I was going 
to give thanks to God for bringing me to this placa I know not 
vhat it was, but something shocked my mind at that thought^ 
and I dorst not speak the wQrda ^' How canst thou be such a 
typocrite," said I, even audibly, " to pretend to be thankf ul for a 
condition which, however thou mayst endeavour to be contented 
inth, thou wouldst rather pray heartily to be dehvered froml" 
So I stopped there. But though I could not say I thanked God 
for being there, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for opening 
mj eyes, by whatever afilicting providences, to see the former con- 
dition of my Ufe, and to moum for my wickedness and repent I 
never opened the Bible or shut it but my very soul within me 
blessed God for directing my friend in England, without any order 
of mine, to pack it up among my goods, and for assisting me af ter- 
wards to save it out of the wreck of the ship. 

Thus^ and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year. 
And though I have not given the reader the trouble of so particular 
aocount of my works this year as the first» yet in general it may 
be observed that I was very seldom idle, but having regularly 
divided my time according to the several daily employments that 
were before me — such as, first, my duty to God and the reading 
the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart some time for thrice 
every day; secondly,' the going abroad with my gun for food, 
which generally took me up three hours in every moming when it 
did not rain; thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and cook- 
ing what I had killed or caught for my supply, — ^these took up 
great part of the day. Also it Ib to be considered that the middle 
of the day, when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of the 



120 DIFFICULTIES OVERCOMK 

heat was tx>o great to stir out, so that about four hours in the 
eveniDg was all the time I could be supposed to work in; with 
this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and 
working, and went to work in the moming and abroad with my 
gun in the af temoon. 

To this Short time aUowed for labour I desire may be added 
the ezceeding laboriousness of my work — the many hours which, 
for want of tools, want of help, and want of skill, everything I did 
took up out of my time. For example, I was füll two-and-forty 
days making me a board for a long shelf which I wanted in my 
cave; whereas two sawyers, with their tools and a saw-pit, would 
have cut six of them out of the same tree in half a day. 

My case was this : It was to be a large tree which was to be 
cut down, because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I 
was three days a cutting down, and two more cutting off the 
boughs, and reducing it to a log or piece of timber. With inex- 
pressible hacking and hewing I reduced both the sides of it into 
Chips tili it begun to be light enough to move; then I tumed it, 
and made one side of it smooth and flat as a board from end to 
end; then, tuming that side downward, cut the other side, tili I 
brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth on 
both sides. Any one may judge the labour of my hands in such a 
piece of work; but labour and patience carried me through that 
and many other things. I only observe this in particular, to show 
the reason why so much of my time went away with so little 
work — namely, that what might be a little to be done with help 
and tools, was a vast labour and required a prodigious time to do 
alone and by band. 

But notwithstanding this, with patience and labour I went 
through many things; and, indeed, everything that my circum- 
stances made necessary to me to do, as will appear by what f ollows. 
I was now — in the months of November and December — ezpect- 
ing my crop of barely and rice. The ground I had manured or 
dug up for them was not great; for, as I observed, my seed of 
each was not above the quantity of half a peck, for I had lost one 
whole crop by sowing in the dry season- But now my crop 
promised very well, when on a sudden I foimd I was in danger of 



HIS CROP THR£ATEN£D. 121 

loemg it all again by enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce 
posable to keep f rom it : as, first^ the goats, and wild creatures 
vHch I called hares, who, tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay 
in it night and day as soon as it came up, and ate it so close that 
itcould get no time to shoot up into stalk This I saw no remedy 
for bat by making an enclosure about it with a hedge; which I did 
^th a great deal of toil, and the more because it required speed. 
Hovever, as my arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I 
got it totaUy well fenced in about three weeks' time; and shooting 
some of the creatures in the day-time, I set my dog to guard it in 
the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he would 
stand and bark all night long. So in a little time the enemies 
forsook the place, and the com grew very stroug and well, and 
^an to ripen apace. 

But as the beasts ruined me before while my com was in the 
l>l>de, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now when it was in 
theear; for going along by the place to see how it throve, I saw 
^J Kttle crop surrounded with fowls of I know not how many 
^ftB, who stood as it were watching tili I should be gone. I 
^niediately let fly among them, for I always had my gun with 
^& I had no sooner shot but there rose up a little cloud of fowls 
—which I had not seen at all — from among the com itself. 

This touched me sensibly, for I f oresaw that in a f ew days they 
woold devour all my hopes ; that I should be starved, and never 
^ able to raise a crop at all: and what to do I could not telL 
However, I resolved not to lose my com, if possible, though I 
^oold watch it night and day. In the first place, I went among 
^t to see what damage was already done; and found they had 
*Poüed a good deal of it, but that, as it was yet too green for them, 
^0 1088 was not so great but that the remainder was like to be a 
good crop if it could be saved. 

I Btayed by it to load my gun; and then Coming away I could 
^7 see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if they 
only waited tili I was gone away. And the event proved it to be 
^; for as I walked off as if I was gone, I was no sooner out of 
theirsight but they dropped down one by one into the com again. 
I was so provoked that I could not have patience to stay tili more 



122 BBIS ÜP 8CABECR0W6. 

came on, knowing that every grain that they ate uow was, as it 
might be eaid, a peck loa! to me in the cooBequence; but comiiig 
up to the hedge I fired again, and kitled tbre« of them. This was 
what I wished for : ao I took them up, and aerved them as we 
MTve DOtorioua thieves in England — namely, hanged them in 
chains for a teiror to others. It is impossible to imagine ahnost 




that this should have such an efTect as it had; for the fowk would 
not only not come at the com, but, in short, they forsook all that 
part of the Island, and I could neyer eee a bird near the place aa 
long as my Bcarecrows himg there. 

This I was very glad of, you may be eure; and about the latter 
end of December, which was our second harveet of the year, I 
reaped my crop. I was sadly put to it for a ecythe or a sickle to 
cut it down ; and all I could do was to make one as well as I 
could out of one of the broad ewoids or cutlaeses which I saved 
unong Üie anns out of the ship. However, as my first crop waa 



WORKING FOR BREAD. 123 

bad no great difficultj to cut it down. In short, I 
j way, for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried 
great basket wbicb I had made, and so rubbed it out 
ids; and at tbe end of all my barvesting I found tbat 
lalf-peck of seed I bad near two busbels of rice and 
isbels and a balf of barle j — tbat is to say, bj my guess, 
measure at tbat time. 

tbis was a great encouragement to nie, and I foresaw 
it would please Grod to supply me witb bread. And 
as perplexed again : for I neitber knew bow to grind 
d of my com, or, indeed, bow to clean it and part it; 
i into meal, bow to make bread of it; and if bow to 
t I knew not bow to bake it Tbese tbings being 
y desire of baving a good quantity of störe, and to 
Qstant supply, I resolved not to taste any of tbis 
preserve it all for seed against tbe next season; and 
ime to employ all my study and bours of working to 
ibis great work of providing myself witb com and 

be truly said tbat now I worked for my bread. It is 
derful, and wbat I believe few people bave tbougbt 
-namely, tbe stränge multitude of little tbings neces- 
providing, producing, curing, dressing, making, and 
3 one article of bread. I tbat was reduced to a mere 
ire found tbis to my daily discouragement, and was 
and more sensible of it every bour, even after I bad 
bandful of seed-com; wbicb, as I bave said, came up 
jT, and indeed to a surprise. 

id no plougb to tum up tbe eartb, no spade or sbovel 
üVell, tbis I conquered by making a wooden spade, as 
before. But tbis did my work in but a wooden 
1 tbougb it cost me a great many days to make it, yet 
iron it not only wore out tbe sooner, but made my 
Tder, and made it be performed mucb wor& How- 
K)re witb, and was content to work it out witb patience, 
itb tbe badness of tbe Performance. Wben tbe com 
[ had no barrow, but was forced to go over it myself, 



124 INCREASE OF GRAIM. 

and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to Scratch it, as it 
may be called, rather than rake or harrow it 

When it was growing and grown, I have observed abeady, how 
many things I wanted, to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, eure 
and carry it home, thrash, part it from the chaff, and save it 
Then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt 
to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it; and yet all these 
things I did without, as shall be observed; and yet the com was 
an inestimable comfort and advantage to me too. All this, as I 
Said, made everything labörious and tedious to me, bat that there 
was no help for, neither was my time so much loss to me, 
because, as I had divided it, a certain part of it was every day 
appointed to these works. And as I resolved to use none of the 
com for bread tili I had a greater quantity by me, I had the next 
six months to apply myself wholly by labour and invention to 
fumish myself with Utensils proper for the performing all the 
Operations necessary for the making the com (when I had it) fit 
for my use. 

But, first, I was to prepare more.land, for I had now seed 
enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this I had 
a week's work at least to make me a spade ; which, when it was 
done, was but a sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and required 
double labour to work with it However, I went through that^ 
and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground as near my 
house as I could find them to my mind, and fenced them in with 
a good hedge, the stakes of which were all cut of that wood which 
I had set before, and knew it would grow; so that in one year's 
time I knew I should have a quick or living hedge, that would 
want but little repair. This work was not so little as to take me 
up less than three months, because great part of that time was of 
the wet season, when I could not go abroad. 

Within doors — that is, when it rained, and I could not go out 
— I found employment on the following occasions, always observ- 
ing that all the while I was at work I diverted myself with talking 
to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I quickly leamed 
him to know his own name, and at last to speak it out pretty 
loud — PoLL, which was the first word I ever heard spoken in the 



CRUSOES DIVERSroNS. 



126 



»Uiid by tiny mouth but my own. This, therefore, was not my 
Work, bnt an assistant to my irork ; for dow, as I said, I had a 
greit employment upon my h&nds, aa foUows — n&mely, I had long 
ettidied by aome means or other to make myself some eatthcn 




djhU Irith Ulklna Ut Dij pamt ~ 



Tcsselg, which indeed I want«d sorely, but knew not where to 
^"w tt them. However, considering the heat o[ the climat«, I 
^i not doubt but if I coald find out any such clay, I might botch 
i^KiDie Btich pot as might, being dried in the aun, be hard enough 
uid strong enough to bear handling, and to hold anything that 
«u dry aod required to be kept bd. And aa this was necessary 
■n the preparing com, meal, &c., which waa the thing I was upon. 



126 EFTORTS AT POT-MAKINO. 

I resolved to make some as large as I could, and fit only io stand 
like jars to hold what should be put into them. 

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to 
teil how many awkward ways 1 took to raise this paste; what odd, 
misshapen, ugly things I made; how many of them feil in, and 
how many feil out, the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own 
weight; how many cracked'by the over-violent heat of the sun, 
being set out too hastily; and how many feil in pieces with only 
removing as well before as after they were dried; and, in a word, 
how, after having laboured hard to find the clay, to dig it, to 
temper it, to bring it home and work it, I could not make above 
two large earthen ugly things — I cannot call them jars — in about 
two months' labour. 

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I 
lifted them very gently up, and set them down again in two great 
wicker baskets which I had made on purpose for them, that they 
might not break; and as between the pot and the basket there 
was a little room to spare, I stuffed it füll of the rice and barley 
straw. And these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought 
would hold my dry com, and perhaps the meal, when the com 
was bruised. 

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet 
I made several smaller things with better success — such as little 
round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and any things my 
band tümed to; and the heat of the sun baked them strangely 
hard. 

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an 
earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the fire, which none 
of these could do. It happened after some time, making a pretty 
large fire for cooking my meat, when I went to put it out after I 
had done with it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthen- 
ware vessels in the fire bumed as hard as a «tone, and red as a 
tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it, and said to myself that 
certainly they might be made to burn whole if they would bum 
broken. 

This set me to studying how to order my fire, so as to make it 
burn me some pot& I had no notion of a kiln, such as the pottcrs 



SÜCCEEDS AT LAST. 127 

bon in; or of glazing them with lead, thongh I had some lead to 
do it irith; but I placed three large pipkins and two or three pote 
in 1 pQe, one apon anotber, and ptaced mf fire-wood all round it, 
■ith 1 great heap of embere under tbem. I plied the fire with 
(resh fnel round the outeide and upon the top, tili I saw the pots 
in th« imide red hot quite thiough, and observed that they did 




notcTick at alL When I saw them clear red, I let them stand 
in tliat heat about fire or six hours, tili I found one of them, 
Oitm^ it did not crack, did melt or ruu; for the sand wbicb was 
niied with the clay melted by the violence of the heat, and 
wuld have run into glass if I had gone on, so I slacked my fire 
giidnally, tili the pots began to abate of the red colour; and 
»itching them all night that I might not let the fire abate too 
liKt, in the moming I had three very good — I will not say hand- 
»oiDe — ptpirins and two other earthen pots aa hard bnmed as 



128 ANOTHER DIFFICULTY. 

could be desired, and one of them perfectly glazed with thc 
running of the sand. 

After this experiment I need not say that I wanted no sort oi 
earthenware for my use; but I must needs say, as to the shapes 
of them, they were very indifferent, as any one may suppose, 
when I had no way of making them bat as the children make 
dirt-pies, or as a woman would make pies that never leamed to 
raise paste. 

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine 
when I found I had made an earthen pot that would bear the fire; 
and I had hardly patience to stay tili they were cold before I set 
one upon the fire again with some water in it to boil me some 
meat, which it did admirably weil And with a piece of a kid I 
made some very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal, and several 
other ingredients requisite to make it so good as I would have had 
it been. 

My next concem was, to get me a stone mortar to stamp or 
beat some com in; for as to the mill, there was no thought &t 
arriving to that perfection of art with one pair of hands. To 
supply this want I was at a great loss ; for of all trades in tbe 
World, I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter as for any 
whatever; neither had I any tools to go about it with. I spent 
many a day to find out a great stone big enough ta cut hollow, 
and make fit for a mortar, and could find none at all, except what 
was in the solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out; 
nor, indeed, were the rocks in the island of hardness suflficient^ 
but were all of a sandy, crumbling stone, which neither would 
bear the weight of a heavy pestle, or would break the com without 
filling it with sand. So af ter a great deal of time lost in searching 
for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out for a grea^ 
block of hard wood, which I found indeed much easier; and getting 
one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it i^ 
the outside with my axe and hatchet, and then, with the help oi 
fire and infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, as the Indiana 
in Brazil make their canoes. After this I made a great heavy 
pestle or beater of the wood called the iron-wood, and this I pre- 
pared and laid by against I had my next crop of com, when I 




MILLING AND BAKING. 129 

proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my com into med 
to m&ke my bread. 

Hy next difficolty was to make a sieve, or search, to dress my 
meal, and to part it f rom the bran and the husk, without which I 
did not 6ee it possible I could have any bread. This was a most 
difficult thing so much as but to think on; for to be sure I had 
nothing like the necessary thing to make it — I mean fine thin 
canTas, or stuff to search the meal througL And here I was at 
a fall 8top for many months; nor did I really know what to do. 
Linen I had none left, but what was mere rags. I had goats' hair, 
bat neither knew I how to weaye it or spin it; and had I known 
bow, here were no tools to work it witt All the remedy that I 
found for this was, that at last I did remember I had among the 
seamen's clothes which were saved out of the ship some neckcloths 
of calico or muslin; and with some pieces of these I made three 
fflnall sieres, but proper enough for the work And thus I made 
shift for some years. How I did af terwards I shall show in its 
plac«L 

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how 
I should make bread when I came to have com ; for, first, I had 
no jeast As to that part, as there was no supplying the want, 
K> I did not concem myself much about it; but for an oven I was 
indeed in great pain. At length I found out an experiment for 
tbatalso, which was this — I made some earthen vessels very broad, 
bnt not deep; that is to say, about two foot diameter, and not 
»bove nine inches deep, these I bumed in the fire, as I had done 
the other, and laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I made 
& great fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with some square 
tües of my own making and buming also — but I should not call 
tibem Square. 

When the firewood was bumed pretty much into embers, or 
Kve coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to cover it 
*fl oyer, and there I let them lie tili the hearth was very hot; 
Aen sveeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf or loaves, 
*öd whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers 
•D round the ontside of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat; 
*öd thna, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my 

(S48) I 



130 HIS GRAIN CROP. 

barley loafs, and became in little time a mere pastrj-cook into 
the bargain; for I made myself several cakes of the rice, and 
puddings. Indeed I made no pies, neither had I anything to 
put into them supposing 1 had, except the flesh either of fowls er 
goats. 

It need not be wondered at if all these things took me up most 
part of the third year of my abode here; for it is to be observed 
that, in the intervals of these things, I had my new harvest and 
husbandry to manage; for I reaped my com in its season, and 
carried it home as well as I could, and laid it up in the ear in my 
large baskets tili I had time to rub it out, for I had no floor to 
thrash it on, or instrument to thrash it with. 

And now indeed my stock of com increasing, I really wanted to 
build my bams bigger. I wanted a place to lay it up in, for the 
increase of the corn now yielded me so much that I had of the 
barley about twenty busheis, and of the rice as much or more; 
insomuch that now I resolved to begin to use it freely, for my 
bread had been quite gone a great whila Also I resolved to 
what quantity would be sufficient for me a whole year, and to so 
but once a year. 

lipon the whole, I found that the forty busheis of barley aa 
rice was much more than I could consume in a year, so I resolved 
to sow just the same quantity every year that I sowed the laat, in 
hopes that such a quantity would f ully provide me with bread, &rc 

All the while these things were doing you may be sure my 
thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land which I had 
Seen from the other side of the island; and I was not without 
secret wishes that I were on shore there, fancying the seeing th« 
mainland, and in an inhabited country I might find some way or 
other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find Bom^ 
means of escape. 

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of such 
a condition, and how I might fall into the hands of savages, ft^d 
perhaps such as I might have reason to think far worse than the 
lions and tigers of Africa. That if I once came into their powtf 
I should run a hazard more than a thousand to one of being killed, 
and perhaps of being eaten; for I had heard that the people of the 



VISITS THE SHIP'8 BOAT. 



131 



Cuibbean coasts were cannibals, or man-eaten; and I knew by 
the Utitade that I could not be far off from that ehore: that 
mppow they were not cannibala, yet that they mtght kill me, aa 
mmy Europeana who had fallen into their hands had been served, 
neD when they had been ten or twenty together, mucb more I 
thit was but one, and could make little or no defence; all tbeso 
lliings, I say, which I ought to have conddered well of, and dld 







tut up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took np none of my appre- 
Baiäong at fint; but my head ran mightily upon tbe thoi^ht of 
SWting OTer to the ehnre. 

Sow I wished for my boy Xury and the long-boat with the 
'lionlder-öf-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand milea 
01 the coaet of Africa; but this was in valn. Then I thougbt I 
*o[)lil go and look at our ahip'« boat, which, aa I have aaid, was 
™»n Hp upon the shore a great way in the Storni when we were 
Erst cast away. She lay almost where she did at first, but not 
V''-^; and was tumed by the force of the wavea and the winde 
^nioat bottom upward agoinst a high ridge of beachy rough eand, 
Dni no water about her as before. 



132 THE CANOE OR PERIAGUA. 

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to haye launched 
her into the water, the boat would have done well enough, and I 
might have gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough; 
but I might have foreseen that I could no more tum her and set 
her upright upon her bottom than I could remove the Island. 
However, I went to the woods and cut levers and rollers, and 
brought them to the boat, resolved to try what I could do, sug- 
gesting to myself that if I could but tum her down, I might easily 
repair the damage she had received, and she would be a very good 
boat, and I might go to sea in her very easily. 

I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent, 
I think, three or four weeks about it. At last, Unding it impossible 
to heave it up with my little strength, I feil to digging away the 
sand to undermine it, and so to make it fall down, setting pieces 
of wood to thrust and guide it right in the fall 

But when I had done this I was unable to stir it up again or 
to get under it, much less to move it forward towards the water, 
so I was forced to give it over; and yet, though I gave over the 
hopes of the boat, my desire to venture over for the main increased 
rather than decreased as the means for it seemed impossibla 

This at length put me upon thinking whether it was not possible 
to make myself a canoe, or periagua,^ such as the natives of those 
cUmates make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without 
hands — namely, of the trunk of a great tree. This I not onlj 
thought possible but easy, and pleased myself extremely with the 
thoughts of making it, and with my having much more convenience 
for it than any of the negroes or Indians; but not at all con- 
sidering the particular inconveniences which I lay under more thao 
the Indians did — namely, want of hands to move it, when it was 
made, into the water, a diiBculty much harder for me to surmouD^ 
than all the consequences of want of tools could be to them. For 
what was it to me, that when I had chosen a vast tree in th^ 
woods, I might with much trouble cut it down, if after I might be 
able with my tools to hew and dub the outside into the prop6f 
shape of a boat, and bum or cut out the inside to make it hollow, 
so to make a boat of it, — if, after all this, I must leave it just 

* Or, pirogue. 



BBGINS Tax BOAT. 



133 



tbere wliere I found it, uid wu not able to Uunch it iiito Uta 
iriter. 

One «onld have thought I could not have had tho least reflec- 
tJon apon m; mind of m; drcumstance, vhile I was making this 
boat, bot I should have immediately thought how I ahould get it 
into the eea. But my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage 
DTer the aea in it, that I never once conaidered how I should get 




it off of the land; and it was reaÜy in its own nature moro easy 
for me to guide it over forty-five miiea of sea, than about forty-five 
fatbom of land, where it lay, to sct it afloat in the water. 

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever 
man did who had any of his eenses awake. I pleaaed myaelf with 
the design, without det^nnining whether I waa ever able to under' 
take it ; not but that the difCculty of launching roy boat came often 
into my head, but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by 
this foolish answer which I gave myself, " Let's first make it; I'll 
Warrant I'll find aome way or other to get it along when 'tis done." 

Thie was a most preposterouB method; bnt the eagemess of my 
faucy prevailed, and to work I went I felled a cedar tree — I 



134 THE BOAT FINISHED. 

question much whether Solomon ever had such a one f or the build- 
ing of the temple at Jerusalem 1 It was five feet ten inches 
diameter at the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven 
inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it 
lessened for a while, and then parted into branches. It was not 
without infinite labour that I felled this tree. I was twenty days 
hacking and hewing at it at the bottom. I was fourteen more 
getting the branches and limbs and the vast spreading head of it 
cut off, which I hacked and hewed through with axe and hatchet, 
and inexpressible labour. After this it cost me a month to shape 
it and dub it to a proportion, and to something like the bottom of 
a boat, that it might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me 
near three months more to clear the inside, and work it out so as 
to make an exact boat of it. This I did indeed without fire, by 
mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, tili I had 
brought it to be a yery handsome periagua, and big enough to 
have carried six-and-twenty men, and consequently big enough to 
have carried me and all my cargo. 

When I had gone through this work I was extremely delighted 
with it The boat was really much bigger than I ever saw a canoe 
or periagua, that wa^s made of one tree, in my life. Many a weary 
stroke it had cost, you may be sure, and there remained nothing 
but to get it into the water; and had I gotten it into the water, I 
make no question but I should have begim the maddest voyage, 
and the most unlikely to be performed, that ever was undertaken, 

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me, though 
they cost me infinite labour too. It lay about one hundred yards 
from the water, and not more; but the first inconvenience was, it 
was up-hill towards the creek Well, to take away this discourage- 
ment, I resolved to dig into the surf ace of the earth, and so make 
a declivity. This I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of 
pains; — but who grudge pains that have their deliverance in viewi 
But when this was worked through, and this difficulty managed, 
it was still much at one; for I could no more stir the canoe than I 
could the other boat. 

Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to cut a 
dock or canal to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I could 




A FAILXJRE. 135 

not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this work, 
and when I began to enter into it, and caiculate how deep it was 
to be dag, bow broad, how the stuff to be thrown out, I found, 
that by the number of hands I had, being none but my own, it 
mast haye been ten or twelve years before I should have gone 
throogh with it; for the shore lay high, bo that at the upper end 
it most haTB been at least twenty foot deep. So at length, though 
with great reluctancy, I gave this attempt over also. 

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late, the 
folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and before we 
jadge rightly of our own strength to go through with it 

In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in this 
place, and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and with 
as mach comfort as ever before; for by a constant study and serious 
application of the Word of God, and by the assistance of his grace, 
I gained a difierent knowledge from what I had before. I enter- 
tained different notions of things. I looked now upon the world 
as a thing remote, which I had nothing to do with, no expectation 
from, and indeed no desires about: in a word, I had nothing indeed 
to do with it, nor was ever like to have. So I thought it looked 
as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter — namely, as a place I 
had lived in, but was come out of it; and well might I say, as 
Father Abraham to Dives, " Between me and thee is a great gulf 
fixed" 

In the first place, I was removed from all the wickedness of the 
World here; I had neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, 
nor the pride of lif& I had nothing to covet, for I had all that I 
was now capable of enjoying. I was lord of the whole manor; or, 
if I pleased, I might call myself king or emperor over the whole 
country which I had possession of. There were no rivals; I had 
no competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or command with me. 
1 might have raised ship-loadings of com, but I had no use for it; 
80 I let as little grow as I thought enough for my occasion. I had 
tortoise or turtles enough; but now and then one was as much as 
1 coüld put to any use. I had timber enough to have built a fleet 
of ships. I had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured 
iuto raisins, to have loaded that fleet when they had been built. 



136 



USELE33 stuft! 



But all I could make ose of was all tbat was valiMble. I had 
enough to eat and to supply my wante, and what was all the rest 
to mel If I killed more flesh than I could eat, the dog muat «at 
it, or the vermin. If I sowed more com than I could eat, it muat 
be spoiled. The trees that 
I cut down wen lying to 
rot on the ground; I could 
make no more ose of them 
than for fuel, and that I had 
no occasion for bat to dresa 
my food. 

In a Word, the nature and 
expenence of things dictated 
to me, upon just reflection, 
that all the good things of 
this World are no further 
good to US than they are for 
OUT UBC, and that whatever 
we may heap up indeed to 
give othera, we enjoy jiut 
as much as we can use, and 
no more. The most coveU 
OU9 gnpmg miser m tha 
World would hs\ e been ctmd 
of the vice of covetousDes« 
if he had been in my cue, 
for I possessed infiut«ly 
more than I tmew wbat to 

do with. I had no room for 

desire, except it was of Üanp 
which I had not, and they were but trifles, though indeed of gw»' 
use to me. I had, as I binted before, a parcel of money, as "cH 
gold as silver, about thirty-dx pounds Sterling Alas ! there the 
naaty, sorry, uieless stuff lay; I had no manner of business for it; 
and I often thought with myself that I would have given a htniU 
of it for a gross of tobacco pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my 
com ; nay, I would have given it all for eixpenny-worth of tumiii 




WISE REFLECTIONa 137 

and carrot seed out of England, or f or a handful of pease and beans 
and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had not the least advantage hj 
it or benefit {rom it, but there it laj in a drawer, and grew mouldy 
widi tha damp of the cave in the wet season; and if I had had the 
drawer füll of diamonds it had been the same case, and they had 
been of no manner of value to me, because of no use. 

I had now brought my state of life to be much easier in itself 
than it was at first^ and much easier to my mind, as well as to my 
body. I frequently sat down to my meat with thankfulness, and 
admired the band of God's providence, which had thus spread my 
table in the wildemess. I leamed to look more upon the bright 
side of my condition and less upon the dark aide, and to consider 
what I enjoyed rather than what I wanted; and this gave me 
sometimes such secret comforts that I cannot express them, and 
which I take notice of here to put those discontented people in 
mind of it who cannot enjoy comf ortably what God has given them 
because they see and covet something that he has not given them. 
All OUT discontents about what we want appeared to me to spring 
from the want of thankf ulness for what we have. 

Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless would 
be so to any one that should fall into such distress as mine was, 
and this was, to compare my present condition with what I at first 
expected it should be, nay, with what it would certainly have been 
if the good providence of God had not wonderf ully ordered the ship 
to be cast up nearer to the shore, where I not only could come at 
her, but could bring what I got out of her to the shore, for my 
relief and comf ort; without which I had wanted for tools to 
work, weapons for defence, or gunpowder and shot for getting 
my f ood 

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to 
myself in the most lively colours how I must have acted if I had 
got nothing out of the ship ; how I could not have so much as got 
any food except fish and turtles, and that as it was long before I 
found any of them, I must have perished first : that I should have 
lived, if I had not perished, like a mere savage; that if I had 
küled a goat or a f owl by any contrivance, I had no way to fiay or 
open them, or part the flesh from the skin and the beweis, or to 



138 crusoe's rkpentance. 

cut it up, bat must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my 
claws like a beast. 

These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of Pro- 
yidence to me, and very thankful for my present condition, with 
all its hardships and misfortunes. And this part also I cannot 
bat recommend to the reflection of those who are apt in their 
misery to say, ''Is any affliction like minel" Let them consider 
how mach worse the cases of some people are, and their case 
have been if Providence had thought fit. 

I had another reflection which assisted me also to comfort my 
mind with hopes, and this was, comparing my present condition 
with what I had deserved, and had therefore reason to expect f rom 
the hand of Providence. I had lived a dreadf al lif e, perf ectly des- 
titute of the knowledge and fear of God I had been well in- 
stracted by father and mother, neither had they been wanting to 
me, in their early endeavours, to infuse a religious awe of God into 
my mind, a sense of my duty, and of what the nature and end of 
my being required of ma But, alas I falling early into the sea- 
faring life, which of all the lives is the most destitute of the fear 
of God, though bis terrors are always before them; I say, falling 
early into the seafaring life, and into seafaring Company, all that 
little sense of religion which I had entertained was laughed out of 
me by my messmates, by a hardened despising of dangers and the 
views of death, which grew habitual to me, by my long absence 
from all manner of opportunities to converse with anything but 
what was like myself, or to hear anything that was good, or tended 
towards it 

So void was I of everything that was good, or of the least sense 
of what I was, or was to be, that in the greatest deliverances I en- 
joyed — such as my escape from Sallee, my being taken up by the 
Portuguese master of the ship, my being planted so well in the 
Brazils, my receiving the cargo from England, and the like — I 
never had once the word " Thank God " so much as on my mind, 
or in my mouth; nor in the greatest distress had I so much as a 
thought to pray to him, or so much as to say, " Lord, have mercy 
upon me;" no, nor to mention the name of God, unless it was to 
swear by and blaspheme it 



KESIGNATION TO GOD. 139 

I had temble reflectioiis npon my mind for many months, as I 
haye already observed, on the account of my wicked and hardened 
life past; and when I looked about me, and considered what par- 
ticolar providences had attended me since my Coming into this 
place, and how God had dealt bountifuUy with me — had not only 
punished me less than my iniquity had deserved, bat had so plenti- 
fnlly provided for me; this gave me great hopes that my repentance 
was accepted, and that God had yet mercy in störe for me. 

With these reflections I worked my mind up not only to resig- 
naüon to the will of God in the present disposition of my circum- 
stances, but even to a sincere thankfulness for my condition; and 
that ly who was yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing I 
had not the due ponishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so many 
mercies which I had no reason to have expected in that place; that 
I ought never more to repine at my condition, bat to rejoice, and 
to give daily thanks for that daily bread which nothing but a 
crowd of wonders coüld have brought: that I ought to consider I 
had been fed even by miracle, even as great as that of feeding 
fHijah by ravens; nay, by a long series of miracles: and that I 
could hardly have named a place in the unhabitable part of the 
World where ,1 could have been cast more to my advantage — a 
place where, as I had no society, which was my affliction on one 
handy so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, 
to threaten my life, no venomous creatures or poisonous, which I 
might feed on to my hurt, no savages to murder and devour me. 

In a Word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way, so it was a 
life of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to make it a life of 
comfort but to be able to make my sense of God's goodness to me 
and care over me in this condition be my daily consolation. And 
after I did make a just improvement of these things, I went away 
and was no more sad. 

I had now been here so long that many things which I brought 
on shore for my help were either quite gone or very much wasted 
and near spent 

My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time, all but a 
very little, which I eked out with water a little and a little tili it 
was so pale it scarce lef t any appearance of black upon the paper. 



140 FATAL OR FOBTUNATE DAYS. 

As long as it lasted I made use of it to minute down the days of 
the month on whicb any remarkable thing happened to me, and 
first by Casting up times past. I remember that there was a 
Strange concurrence of days in the various providences which befel 
me, and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to observe 
days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to have looked 
upon with a great deal of curiosity. 

First, I had observed that the same day that I broke away from 
my father and my friends, and ran away to Hüll, in order to go 
to sea» the same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man-of- 
war, and made a slave. 

The same day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck of 
that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day-year afterwards I 
made my escape from Sallee in the boat. 

The same day of the year I was bom on — namely the 30th of 
September — the same day I had my life so miraculously saved 
twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore on this island, so 
that my wicked life and my solitary life began both on a day. 

The next thing to my ink's being wasted was that of my bread 
— I mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship. This I had 
husbanded to the last degi^ee, allowing myself but one cake of 
bread a day for above a year, and yet I was quite without bread 
for near a year before I got any com of my own; and great reason 
I had to be thankful that I had any at all, the getting it being, 
as has been already observed, next to miraculous. 

My clothes began to decay too mightily. As to linen, I had had 
none a good while, except some checkered shirts which I found 
in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully preserved, 
because many times I could bear no other clothes on but a shirt: 
and it was a very great help to me that I had among all the mens 
clothes of the ship almost three dozen of shirts. There were also 
several thick watch-coats of the seamen's, which were left indeed, 
but they were too bot to wear. And though it is true that the 
weather was so violently hot that there was no need of clothes, y«^ 
I could not go quite naked : no, though I had been inclined to it, 
which I was not, nor could not abide the thoughts of it, though 
I was all alone. 



crusoe's clottong. 141 

The reason why I could not go quite naked was, I could not 
bear the heat of the sun so well when quite naked as with some 
elothes on ; nay, the veiy heat frequently blistered mj skin, where- 
as, with a ahirt on^ the air itself made some motion, and whistling 
ander that shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No more 
conld I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun without 
a cap or a hat, the heat of the sun beating with such violence as 
it does in that place would give me the headache presently, by 
darting so direcüy on my head without a cap or hat on, so that I 
could not bear it, whereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently 
go away. 

lipon those views I began to consider about putting the few 
rags I had, which I called elothes, into some order. I had wom 
out all the waistcoats I had, and my business was now to try if I 
could not make jackets out of the great watch-coats which I had 
by me, and with such other materials as I had; so I set to work 
artailoring, or rather indeed a-botching, for I made most piteous 
work of it. However I made shift to make two or three new 
waistcoats, which I hoped would serve me a great while. As for 
breeches or drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed tili 
afterward. 

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures 
that I killed — I mean four-footed ones — and I had hung them up 
stretched out with sticks in the sun, by which means some of them 
were so dry and hard that they were fit for Httle, but others it 
seems were very usefuL The first thing I made of these was a 
great cap for my head, with the hair on the outside to shoot off 
the raln; and this I performed so well, that after this I made me 
a suit of elothes wholly of these skins — that is to say, a waistcoat, 
and breeches open at knees, and both loose, for they were rather 
wanting to keep me cool than to keep me warm. I must not 
omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made; for if I was 
a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor. However, they were such 
as I made veiy good shift witL And when I was abroad, if it 
happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap being outer- 
most I was kept very dry. 

After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to make me 



142 UAEES AM ÜHBRELLA. 

an umbrella. I was indeed in great want of one, and had a great 
mind to make one. I bad seen them made in tbe Braidla, whero 
they are very useful in the great heata which are there; and I feit 
the heats every jot aa great here, and greater too, being nearer the 
oquinox. Besides, as I was obliged to be much abroad, it was a 




moEt useful thing to me, ae well for tbe rains as the heata. I tooK 
a World of pains at it^ and was a great while before I could ffl»** 
anything likely to hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the wsj, | 
spoiled two or three before I made one to my mind, but at l»at' 
made one that answered indifferently welL The main difficulty ' 
found was to make it to let dowa I could make it to spreii 
but if it did not let down too and draw in, it was not portable f« 
me any way but just over my head, which would not do^ Bov- 



crusoe's comfort. 143 

ever, &t last, as I said, I made one to answer, and covered it with 
skins, the bair upwards, so that it cast off the rains like a pent- 
hoQse, and kept off the sun so effectually that I could walk out in 
the hottest of the weather with greater advantage than I could 
before in the coolest; and when I had no need of it, could close it 
md carry it under my arm. 

Thos I lived mighty con^ortably, my mind being entirely com- 
pofled by resigning to the will of God, and throwing myself wholly 
npon the disposal of bis providence. Tbis made my life better 
than Bociable; for when I began to regret the want of conversation 
1 woold ask myself whether thus conversing mutually with my 
own thooghts, and, as I hope I may say, with even God himself 
^7 ejacolations, was not better than the utmost enjoyment of 
human society in the worlA 

I cannot say that after tbis, for five years, any extraordinary 
^^ happened to me, but I lived on in the same course, in the 
s^e postore and place, just as befora The chief things I was 
employed in, besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and 
nee and curing my raisins, of both which I always kept up just 
enough to have sufficient stock of one year's provisions beforehand; 
^ tty, besides this yearly labour and my daily labour of going out 
vith my gun, I had one labour to make me a canoe, which at last 
1 finished; so that, by digging a canal to it of six feet wide and 
^our feet deep, I brought it into the creek, almost half a mile. 
As for the first, which was so vastly big, as I made it without 
considering beforehand, as I ought to do, how I should be able 
^ Uunch it^ so never being able to bring it to the water, or bring 
^ water to it» I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a me- 
^orandnm to teach me to be wiser next tima Indeed, the next 
^^^% though I could not get a tree proper for it, and in a place 
eitere I could not get the water to it, at any less distance than as 
^We Said, near half a mile; yet, as I saw it was practicable at 
y\ I never gave it over : and though I was near two years about 
^ Jet I never grudged my labour, in hopes of having a boat to go 
offtoseaatlast. 

However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the size 
of it was not at all answerable to the design which I had in view 



144 STARTS ON A VOYAGE. 

when I made the first — ^I mean, of yentnring over to tbe terra 
firma, where it was above forty miles broad Accordingly, the 
smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to tbat design, and 
now I thought no more of it But as I had a boat, my next 
deaign was to make a toor round the Island; for as I had been 
on the other side in one place, crossing, as I have abeady 
described it, over the land, so the discoveries I made in that 
little joumey made me very eager to see other parts of the coast; 
and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing round the 
island. 

For this purpose, that I might do everything with discretion 
and consideration, I fitted up a little mast to my boat, and made 
a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the ship's sail, which lay 
in Store, and of which I had a great stock by me. 

Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, 1 found she 
would sail very well. Then I made little lockers, or boxes, at 
either end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries, and ammu- 
nition, &c., into, to be kept dry either from rain or the spray of 
the sea; and a little long hollow place I cut in the inside of the 
boat, where I could lay my gun, making a Aap to hang down orer 
it to keep it dry. 

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stem, like a mast, to 
stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off me like an 
awning; and thus I every now and then took a little voyage upon 
the sea, but never went far out, not far from the little creek. 
But at last, being eager to view the drcumference of my little 
kingdom, I resolved upon my tour, and accordingly I victualled 
my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of my loaves (cakes 
I should rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen pot füll of 
parched rice— a food I ate a great deal of — ^a little bottle of rum, 
half a goat, and powder and shot for killing more, and two large 
watch-coats of those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved 
out of the seamen's chests : these I took, one to lie upon, and the 
other to cover me in the night. 

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or 
my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and 
I found it much longer than I expected. For though the island 



AN OBSTACLE. 



145 



itself WM not Teiy large, yet, when I came to the east side of it, 
1 foond a great ledge of rocks lie ottt above two leagues into the 
8^ fiome abote water, some undel* it; ähd beyoüd that a shoal of 
»öd, lying dry half a leägue tüot^. So that I was obliged to go 
i great way out to seä to double the poiiit 
Wien firet I discoyeted them I Was going to givfe over my 




«r d'.'Cdki- 



** I Mt ont on thi« voyase. 



^^iprise and come back ägain, not knowing hotr far it might 
<>Hige me to go out to sea; and äbove all, doubting how I should 
t^ back again; bo I came to an anchor — for I had made me a 
fed of an anchor With a piece of a broken graplitig, which I got 
^'W of the ßhip. 

Hanng secured tny boat, 1 took my gun and went on shore, 
cfcnKng up upon a hill which seemed to overlook that point, 
^re t 6äW the füll fexteiit of it, atld resolVed to venture. 

(2*8) ^ 



146 A DANGEROÜS CURRENT. 

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood,.! perceived 
a Btrong, and indeed a most furious current, which ran to the east, 
and even came close to the point And I took the more notice 
of it, because I saw there might be some danger that when I came 
into it I might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and not 
be able to make the island again. And, indeed, had I not gotten 
firet up upon this hill, I believe it would have been so; for there 
was the same current on the other side the island, only that it set 
off at a farther distance. And I saw there was a streng eddy ander 
the shore; so I had nothing to do but to get in out of the first 
current, and I should presently be in an eddy. 

I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blowing pretty 
fresh at east-south-east, and that being just contrary to the said 
current, made a great breach of the sea upon the point; so that 
it was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore for the breach, 
nor to go too f ar off because of the stream. 

The third day, in the moming, the wind having abated over- 
night^ the sea was calm, and I ventured. But I am a waming 
piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I 
come to the point, when even I was not my boat's length from the 
shore, but I found myself in a great depth of water, and a current 
like the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with it with 
such violence that all I could do could not keep her so much as 
on the edge of it; but I found it hurried me farther and farther 
out from the eddy, which was on my left band. There was no 
wind stirring to help me; and all I could do with my paddlers 
signified nothing. And now I began to give myself over for lost; 
for as the current was on both sides the island, I knew in a few 
leagues distance they must join again, and then I was irrecoverably 
gone. Nor did I see any possibility of avoiding it; so that I had 
no prospect before me but of perishing — not by the sea, for that 
was calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I had, indeed, 
found a tortoise on the shore as big almost as I could lif t^ and 
had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh water 
— that is to say, one of my earthen pots; but what was all this 
to being driven into the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there was no 
shore, no mainland or island for a thousand leagues at least ! 



CRUSOES DESPAIR. 



U7 



Aad now T saw how easy it was for the proridence of God to 
mike the most miserable condition mankind could be in, worse. 
Sow 1 looked back upon my desolat« solitaiy ieland as the moat 
pleuant place in tbe world, and alt the happineaa my heart could 
nih for waa to be but there ^ain. I stretched ont my handa to 
it irith eager wishes. *' happy desert," aaid I, " I shaJl never 




•* thee roore! O miserable creature," said I, "whither am I 
liMigr Then I reproached myself with my unthankful teniper, 
md how I had repined at my solitary condition; and now what 
•Mdd I give to be on ahore there againl Thua we nevei; see the 
■nie itate of cur condition, tili it ie illustrated to us by ita con- 
'"fi«; nor know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want 
^ iL It ia Bcarce possible to imagine tbe conaternation I was now 
"•i Iwing driven from my beloved Island {for so it appeared to me 
"ow to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leaguea, and in tlie 
"toost deepair of ever recovering it again. However, I worked 
wd, tili indeed my atrength was almost exhausted, and kept my 
W as much to the northward — that is, towarde the aide of the 



148 



A JOYFUL SURPRISE. 



current which the feddy lay on — as possibly I coüld; when about 
noon, as the sun pasied the meridiati, I thöught I feit a little 
brceze öf wind in my face, sbringing up from the öouth-Bouth-east 
This cheered hiy heart a little, and especially when in about 
lialf an hour more it blew a pretty small gentle gala By this 
time I was gotten at a frightful distance from the Island, and 
had the least cloud or hazy weather intervened, I had been 
undone another way too; for I had no compass on board, and 
shoiild never have known how to have steered towards the island, 
if I had but once lost sight of it. But the weather continuing 
clear, I applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread my 
sail, Standing away to the north as much as possible, to get out of 
the current. 

Just as I had set my mast änd sail, and the boat began to 
Stretch away, I saw even by the cleamess of the water some 
alteration of the current was near; for where the current was so 
strong, the water was foul; but perceiving the water clear, I found 
the current abate, and presently I found to the east, at about half 
a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks. These rocks, I foundg 
caused the current to part again, and as the main stress of it 
away more southerly, leaving the rocks to the north-east, so 
othcr retumed by the repulse of the rocks, and made a sti 
eddy, which ran back again to the north- west, with a very shi 
stream. 

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to tl 
upon the ladder, or to be rescüed from thieves just goiiij 
murder them, or who have been in such like extremities, 
gucss what my ptesent sürprise Of joy was, and hoW gladly t| 
my boat^nto the stream of this eddy, and, the wind also frfesh( 
how gladly I spread my sail to it, IninniHg chfeferfully befoi 
wind, and with a strong tide or feddy uöder foot 

This eddy carried me about ä leägue in my if^ay back] 
directly towards the Island, but about two leagues more 
northward than the current which cairied me away at 
that when I came near the island, I found myself opei 
northern shore of it — that is to say, the other end öf tl 
opposite to that which I went out from. 



REAC^ES THE ISUND. 149 

When I had made something more t^ai^ a Ie?igue o{ ^ay hy tho 
help oi this cui^ent or eddy, I found it was spent, ap4 ßßrvßd mß 
HO faither. However, I found that being betweei^ the t^o great 
cTirreats, namelj, that on the south si^e, which bad burried me 
away, and that on the north, which lay i^bout ^ leag^ß on the 
other aide : I say, between these two, in the wake of the island, I 
found the water at least still and running no way; and having still 
a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the 
islapd, though not making such fresh way as I did before. 

AboQt four Q'cjock in the evening, being then within about a 
leagae of the isl^^nd, I found the point of the rocks which occa- 
sioned this disaster stretching out, as is described before, to the 
soathward, and casting off the current more southwardly bad of 
course nu^e another eddy to the north; and this I found very 
stroDg, hut not directly setting the way jny course lay, whjch was 
dae west, but alpiost füll north. However, having a fres}; gale, I 
stretched across this eddy slanting north-west, aud in ^bout an 
honr came within about a mile of the shore, where, it being 
smooth water, I soon got to land. 

When I was on shore, I feil on my knees and gave God thanks 
for my d^hverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my 
deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself with such things 
as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore in a little cove 
that I had spied under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, 
being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the voyage. 

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat. 
I had run so much hazard, and knew too much the case, to think 
of attempting it by tl^e way I went out; and what might be at 
the other side (I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any 
mind to run any more ventures ; so I ojily resolved in the moming 
to make my way westward alopg the shore, and to see if there 
was no creek where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to 
have her again if I wanted her. In about three mile, or thereabout, 
coasting the shore, I came to a very good inlet or bay about a 
mile over, which narrowed tili it came to a very little rivulet or 
brook, where I found a very convenient haibour for my boat, and 
where she lay as if she had been in a httle dock made on purpose 



150 POLL'S VISIT. 

for her. Here I put Id, and having Btowed my boat veiy eafe, I 
went on shore to look about me and eee where I was. 

I Boon found I had but a little paased by tbe place where I had 
been before, when I travelied an foot to that ehore; so taking 
nothing out of my boat but my gun and my umbrella, for it was 
exceoding bot, I hegan my march. The way was comfortable 
enough after such 
a voyage as I had 
been upon, and I 
reached my old 
bower in the even- 
ing, where I found 
everytbing stand' 
ingaB I left it; for 
I always kept it in 
good Order, being, 
as I Said before, my 
couutry housa 

I got over the 
fence, and laid me 
down in the shode 
to rest my hmbs, 
for I was very 
weaty, and feil a- 
sleep. But judge 

— you, if you can, 

that read my etory, 
what a surprise I nrnafbe iu, when I was waked out of my sleep 
by a voice calling me by my name several tlmes, " Robin, Eobin, 
Robin Crusoe; poor Eobin Ci-usoe! Where are yon, Eobin Crusoet 
Where are you) Where have you been!" 

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, or 
paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day, aod with Walking 
the latter part, that I did not wake thoroughly; but dozing 
between aleeping and waldng, thought I dreamed that somehody 
spoke to me. But as the voice continued to repeat, "Kobin 
Crusoe, Eobin Crusoe," at last I began to wake more perfectiy. 





LOSES HIS BOAT. 161 

and was at first dreadfully frightened, and started up in the 
Qtmost constemation. Bat no sooner were my eyes open, bat I 
wwmy Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and immediately knew 
tiut it was he that spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning 
langaage I had used to talk to him, and teach him; and he had 
leamed it so perfectly, that he would sit upon my finger, and lay 
Ws bill close to my face, and cry, " Poor Kobin Crusoe, where are 
youl Where have you been) How come you here]*' and such 
tUngs as I had taught hinL 

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed 
it could be nobody eise, it was a good while before I could com- 
p06e myself : first, I was amazed how the creature got thither, and 
tHen how he should just keep about the place, and nowhere eise. 
fiutas I was well satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll, I got 
it orer; and holding out my hand, and calling him by his name 
Poll, the sociable creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, 
J«he used to do, and contmued talking to me, "Poor Robin 
Crusoe," and "How did I come here?" and "Where had I beenl" 

• 

just as if he had been overjoyed to see me again; and so I carried 
lim home along with ma 

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and 

l*d enough to do for many days to sit still and reflect upon the 

^ger I had been in. I would have been very glad to have had 

^J boat again on my side of the Island; but I knew not how it 

^ practicable to get it about. As to the east side of the island, 

»hieb I had gone round, I knew well enough there was no ventur- 

ing that way ; my very heart would shrink, and my very blood run 

^11 but to think of it And as to the other side of the island, I 

M not know how it might be there; but supposing the current 

^ with the same force against the shore at the east as it passed 

^y it on the other, I might run the same risk of being driven 

down the stream, and carried by the island, as I had been before 

<rf being carried away from it; so with these thoughts I contented 

Kyself to be without any boat, though it had been the product of 

to many months' labour to make it, and of so many more to get it 

onto the sea. 

In this govemment of my temper I remained near a year — lived 



152 MAKJS A TOBACCO-PIPE. 

a verjjT sedate, retirpd life, 9^ yo\\ jpay wejl suppose; and my 
thoughts bpii^g yery muph composßd as to my poudition, ^4 fully 
comforted in ^ esigning myself to the ^ispo^it-ions of Providence, 
I tbQ^ght I lived i^Gsfiy veyy bfl-ppijy in ^1 thingg, ^xcept th^t of 
Society. 

I improyed n^yspU in this time in all the meqbanic ex^rcises 
wbich my nepes^itiea put fue upQ^ ^pplyix^g i^yself to, and I 
believe could, upon occ^sioii, mal^e a yery gopd carppnter, ^specially 
considering how few tools I had. 

Be8i4es this, f arrivßd at an luiß^ected perfectipn in my 
eart^enware, and contpyed wpll enpugh to pi^l^e (bpin wjth a 
wheel, which I foi^id ii^fi^it^ely ea^ier and bitter; b^cause l niade 
thii^gs ro^^4 ai^d sbape^bjß, w^ip); bßf o^ were filtjiy tl^ngs indeed 
to look oa But I t}x\vk I v^& nßyef piio^p vain of my own 
Performance, or more joyful for ai^ytbjng I fouud out, than fo^ my 
being able to make a tobacpo-pipp. A^d tbough it w^ a very 
ugly cluQisy thi^g -^hen it wa^ done, and only b^med red like 
other eartbe^Tyare, yet, as it waa bard and fir?^, and would dra^ 
tbe smoke, I was e^pceedingly cqmforted witb \t; iov I bad been 
always used to smoke, and tbere were pipes ip tbe sbip, but I 
forgot tbem at first, no^ knQwing tbat tbere was tob^pco iß the 
island; and afterwards, when I searched tbe sbjp agaiuj I coi4d 
not come at any pipes at aU* 

In my wicker wäre, also, l ipproved much, and n^ade i^bun- 
dance of necessary baskets, s^ well as my inve^tip^ sbowed me. 
Thougb pot very bandspme, yet tbey were such as were very bandy 
and couvenient for my layiug tbingQ up ip, or fetching tbings 
bome in. For example, if I killed a goat abroad, I could bang it 
up in a tree, flay it, and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring 
it bome in a basket; and tbe like by a turtle, — f could cut it up, 
take out tbe eggs, and a piece or two of tbe flesb, ?rbicb was 
enougb for me, and bring them bome in a basket, and leave the 
rest bebind me. Also large deep baskets were my receiyers for 
iny corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and 
cured, and kept it in great baskets. 

I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably, and 
tbis was a want which it was impossib}e for n^^e to s^pply, and I 



HE THAPS SOME GOATS. 



153 



bf^äp senouftly to couQi4^r yyhsLt I must do when I ßl^Quld l^ave 

no more powder; th^t ^ to s^y, l^pw I shqidd dp fp 1^11 a^y goat 

I had, as is oba^nr^ m thp thir4 yeaf Qf my beijig here, kppt a 

yoong lad, and bred he^ up tan^e, an4 I w^ lA ^ope of getting a 

be-goat, but I coiild aot by any meaps bring it to pass, tiU ix^y kid 

grew an old goat; apd I cpuld neyer ü^d in p^y heait to kiU hier, 

tili she died at last of mere age. 

But being now in the eleyepth year of jxxj resi4ence, and, ^B I 

We ssud, my am^iunition grow|i^g Ipir, I set myself to study 3ome 

vt to trap and si^^e t)ie gpa^, to see whetber l cpuld not catch 

(ome o| them aliye, ^4 particuli^ly I w^ted ^ she-goat great 

»ith young. 

To this purpose I made snares to hampei* tbem; a^d I do 
kliere they were ^üovq t|iau puce takeQ i|i tbemj but jpßy tackle 
Vag not goo4, for l had no wire, ^d { alway^ f ound thpm brolf en, 
«id my bait deyoured. 

At length I reaolved to try a pit-fs^}}. Sp I dug seye^:^ large 

piU m the eartb, i^ p)%P6s wbere I had ob^eryed the go^ta u^ed to 

'eed; and over these pits I placed hurdles of my own maki^g too, 

^th 4 great weight upon then^. A^d ^eyßf al tiiues I put ears of 

^kj^ and dry rice, wit^oi^t »etting the frap; and J could easily 

P^rceive that the go^ta hs^d gone in and eateo up the corn, for I 

^uid See the mark of their fe^t. At length I set three traps in 

One night ; and going the nei;:t mo^niug, I f oun4 them all Standing, 

^d yet the bait eaten and gone. This waa yery discouraging. 

Bovever, I altered my t^^p; aiid, uot to trouble you with parti- 

^^lUn, going one mQf Qipg to see my trap, l found in oue of them 

^ large ol4 hp-go^t; aud i^ one of the pther, three Idds — a malq 

^ two fem^G^ 

As to the 0I4 one, I l^new pot what to do wit>h him; he was so 
'erce I durst not go into the pit tp him — that is to say, to go 
^Qt to bring him away aliye, which was what I wanted. I 
fOQld have killed bimi ^^^ that was not my business, nor would 
't aoswer my end. So I eyen let him out, and he ran away as if 
lieliad been fnghted out of bis wits. But I had forgot theu what 
Ileamed afterwards — that huuger will tarne a Uou. If I had let 
i^ stay there three or fpur days without food, apd then haye 



154 HIS THREE KIDS. 

carried him some water to drink, and then a little com, he would 
have been as tarne as one of the kids — for they are mighty saga- 
cious, tractable creatures where they are well used. 

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at 
that time. Then I went to the three kids; and taking them one 
by one, I tied them with strings together, and with some difficulty 
brought them all homa 

It was a good while before they would feed; but throwing them 
some sweet com, it tempted them, and they began to be tarne. 
And now I found that if I expected to supply myself with goat- 
flesh when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame 
was my only way ; when, perhaps, I might have them about my 
house like a flock of sheep. 

But then it presently occurred to me that I must keep the tame 
from the wild, or eise they would always run wild when they grew 
up. And the only way for this was to have some enclosed piece 
of ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them in 
so effectually, that those within might not break out, or those 
without break in. 

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands. Yet, as I 
saw there was an absolute necessity of doing it, my first piece of 
work was to find out a proper piece of ground — namely, where 
there was likely to be herbage for them to eat, water for them to 
drink, and cover to keep them from the sun. 

Those who understand such enclosures will think I had very 
little contrivance when I pitched upon a place very proper for 
all these, being a piain open piece of meadow-land or savanna (as 
our people call it in the westem colonies), which had two or three 
little rills of fresh water in it, and at one end was very woody. I 
say they will smile at my forecast, when I shall teil them I began 
my enclosing of this piece of ground in such a manner that my 
hedge or pale must have been at least two mile about 1 Nor was 
the madness of it so gi*eat as to the compass, for if it was ten mile 
about, I was like to have time enough to do it in. But I did not 
consider that my goats would be as wild in so much compass as if 
they had had the whole island, and I should have so much room 
to chase them in that I should never catch them. 




GOATS* FLESH AND MILK. 155 

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about fif ty yards, 
when this thought occurred to ma So I presently stopped short, 
tnd for the first begiiming I resolved to enclose a piece of about 
one hondred and fifty yards in length, and one hundred yards in 
breadth; which, as it would maintain as many as I should have in 
U17 reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I could add more 
groond to my enclosure. 

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work with 
coonge. I was about three months hedging in the first piece; 

uid tili I had done it, I tethered the three kids in the best part of 
It, and used ihem to feed as near me as possible, to make them 
^niiliar; and very often I would go and carry them some ears 
of Wley, or a handful of rice, and feed them out of my band; 
^ that, after my enclosure was finished and I let them loose, 
thej woold follow me up and down, bleating after me for a hand- 
W of com. 

This answered my end. And in about a year and half I had a 
flock of about twelve goats — kids and all; and in two years more, 
J had three-and-forty — besides several that I took and killed for 
^y food. And after that I enclosed five several pieces of ground 
^ feed them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take them 
^ I wanted, and gates out of one piece of ground ibto another. 

Bat this was not all; for now I not only had goat's flesh to feed 

On when I pleased, but milk too — a thing which, indeed, in my 

'^ginning, I did not so much as think of, and which, when it came 

löto my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise. For now I 

tet up my dxdry, and had sometimes a gaUon or two of milk in 

* day. And as Nature, who gives supplies of food to every 

^^reature, dictates even naturally how to make use of it; so I that 

W never milked a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese 

^e, very readily and handily, though after a great many essays 

^d miscarriages, made me both butter and cheese at last, and 

Dever wanted it afterwards. 

How mercifully can our great Creator treat his creatures, even 

in those conditions in which they seem to be overwhelmed in 

rfestraction ! How can he sweeten the bitterest providences, and 

pye US cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons ! What a 



156 



CRUSOE AT DINNER. 



tab)e WOB hera apread for me in a wildernesi, whpre { saw nothing 
at fint but to periah foc hungerl 

It would have tnade a State anule to tave aesQ me and my litlJe 
family sit down to dinnor. There was my Maje»ty, the priticp stad 
lord of the vrhole t«laiid- I bad the Uvea of all my aubjects at niy 




absolute command — I could hang, di'aw, give liberty, apd take it 
away; and no rebels araong a!l ray subjects. 

Then to seo bow like a, king I dincd, too, all alone, att^nded 1y 
my Bßrvants. Poll, aa if be liad becu my favourite, was the onij 
person permitted to talk to me. My dog — wbo was now grown 
very old and crazy, and bad found no apecies to multiply bis LinJ 
upon— sat always at my rigbt band; and two cats, one on one sid» 
the table and one on tbe other, expecting now and tlicn a hit frvm 
my band, as a mark of special favour. 




CRüSOE'S SKETCH. 157 

Büt these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at 
first— for they wete both of them dead, and had been interred 
near my habitation by my own band; but one of them having 
multiplied by I know not what kind of creature, these were two 
which I had preserved tarne, whereas the rest ran wild in the Woods, 
and became indeed troablesome to me at last — for they would 
often eotne into my house, and plunder me too, tili at last I was 
obliged to sboot them, and did kill a great many. At length they 
left me with this attendance, and in this plentiful manner I lived. 
Neither eould I be said to want anything but Society; and of that, 
in 8ome time after this, I was like to have too much. 

I was someihing impatient^ as I have obserred, to have the use 
of my boat — ^though very loath to run any more hazards; and 
theretofe sometimes I sat contriring ways to get her about the 
Island^ and at other times I sat myself down contented etioügh 
without het. 6ttt I had a stränge un^asiness iti my mind to go 
down to the point of the Island where, as I have said, in my last 
rambl^ I went up the hill to see how the shore lay and how the 
ciuteht aei, that I might see what I had to do. This inclinätion 
incr^aaed tipon me every day, and at length I resolved to travel 
thitber by land, following the edge of the shore. I did so. But 
bad any one in England been to meet such a man as I was, it 
must eithet bave frighted them, or raised a great deal of laughter. 
And as I frequeütly stood still to loök at myself, I could not but 
smile at the notion of my traVelling thtough Yorkshire with such 
an eqtdpage atid in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of 
my figure as follows. 

I had a great high shapeless cäp, made of a goat's skih, with a 
Aap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun from me as to 
shoot the rain off from running into my neck — nothing being so 
hurtfnl in these climates as the tain upon the flesh under the 
dothes. 

I had a shott jacket of goat-skiii, the skirts coming down to 
aboüt the middle of my thighs; and a pair of open-kneed breeches 
of the same — the breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goat, 
whose hair hung down such a length on either side, that like 
pant^loons it reached to the middle of my legs; stockings and shoes 



158 crusok's moustaches. 

I had none, but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know 
what to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs and lace on 
either side like spatterdashes, but of a most barbarous shape — as 
indeed were all the rest of my clothes. 

I had on a broad belt of goat-skin dried, which I drew together 
with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles, and in a kind of 
a frog ^ on either side of this. Instead of a sword and a dagger 
hung a little saw and a hatchet, one on one side, one on the other. 
I had another belt not so broad, and fastened in the same manner, 
which hung over my Shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left 
arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin too — in one of 
which hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my back I 
carried my basket; on my Shoulder my gun; and over my head a 
great clumsy, ugly goat-skin umbreDa — ^but which, after all, was 
the most necessary thing I had about me, next to my gun. As 
for my face, the colour of it was really not so Mulatto-like as one 
might expect from a man not at all careful of it, and living within 
nineteen degrees of the equinox. My beard I had once suffered 
to grow tili it was about a quarter of a yard long; but as I had 
both scissors and razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except 
what grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a large 
pair of Mohammedan whiskers, such as I had seen wom by some 
Turks whom I saw at Sallee; for the Moors did not wear such, 
though the Turks did. Of these moustaches or whiskers I will 
not say they were long enough to hang my hat upon thera; but 
they were of a length and shape monstrous enough, and such as 
in England would have passed for frightful. 

But all this is by-the-by. For as to my figure, I had so few to 
observe me, that it was of no manner of consequence; so I say 
no more to that part. In this kind of figure I went my new 
joumey, and was out five or six days. I travelled first along the 
sea-shore, directly to the place where I first brought my boat to 
an anchor to get up upon the rocks; and having no boat now to 
take care of, I went over the land a nearer way to the same height 

^ Frog^ a tassel or small bobbin of sük, clotb, or braid used instead of a button 
by passing over it a loop whicb is sewn to the other side of the ooat. The word is 
deriyed from the Portuguese ^roco, a tuft or flock of wool or silk. 




WATCHES THE CURRENT. 159 

that I was upon before ; when looking forward to the point of the 
rocks which lay out, and which I was obliged to double with my 
boat, as is said above, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth 
and quiet — no rippling, no motion, no current any more there 
than in other places. 

I was at a stränge loss to understand this, and resolved to spend 

some time in the observing it, to see if nothing from the sets of 

the tide had occasioned it; but I was presently convinced how it 

was — ^namely, that the tide of ebb setting from the west, and 

joining with the current of waters from some great river on the 

shore, must be the occasion of this current ; and that according as 

the wind blew more forcibly from the west, or from the north, 

this current came near, or went farther from the shore. For 

waiting thereabouts tili evening, I went up to the rock again; and 

then the tide of ebb being mado, I plainly saw the current again 

as before, only that it ran farther off, being near half a league 

from the shore; whereas in my case it set close upon the shore, 

and hurried me and my canoe along with it, which at another 

time it would not have done. 

This Observation convinced me that I had nothing to do but to 
obsenre the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I might very 
easily bring my boat about the island again. But when I began 
to think of putting it in practice, I had such a terror upon my 
apirits at the remembrance of the danger I had been in, that I 
could not think of it again with any patience. But on the con- 
trary, I took up another resolution, which was more safe, though 
more laborious; and this was, that I would build, or rather make 
me another periagua or canoe, and so have one for one side of the 
iäland, and one for the other. 

You are to understand that now I had, as I may call it, two 
plantations in the island : one my little f ortification or tent, with 
the wall about it under the rock, with the cave behind me, which 
by this time I had enlarged into several apartments, or caves, one 
within another. One of these, which was the driest and largest, 
and had a door out beyond my wall or f ortification — that is to say 
beyond where my wall joined to the rock — was all fiDed up with 
the large earthen pots of which I have given an account, and with 



160 crüsoe's plAntations. 

fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which wonld hold five or six 
bushels each, where I laid up my stores of provisioü, especially my 
corn, some in the ear cut off short from the Btraw, and the other 
rubbed out with my band. 

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes ot piles, those 
piles grew all like trees, aüd were by tbis time grown so big, and 
spread so very much, tbat there was not the least a|)pearance to 
any one's riew of ahy habitation behind them. 

Near this dwelling of tnine, but a little farther within the land, 
and upon lower ground, lay toy two pieces öf com-ground, which I 
kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which dtily yielded me their 
harvest in its season; and whenever I had occasion for more com, 
I had more land adjoining as fit as that. 

Besides this I had tny coimtry seat, and I had now a tolerable 
plantation there also 5 for first, I had my little bowel*, as I called 
it, which I kept in repair-^thät is to sfty, I kept the hedge which 
circled it in constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder 
Standing aJways in the itiside. I kept the trees, which at first 
were no more than my stakes, but were now groWn very firm and 
tall — I kept them always so cut that they might spread and grov 
thick and wild, and make the more agreeable shade, which thej 
did effectually to my mind. In the middle of this I had my tcnfc 
always Standing, being a piece of a sail spread over poles set up 
for that purpose, and which Heter wänted ätty repair or renewiflg; 
and urider this I had itiade ttie a squäb or coüch, with the Bkms 
of the creatures I had killed, änd with other soft things, and » 
blanket laid on them; such as belohged to our sea-bedding, which 
I had saved, and a great wätfeh-coat to cövet me; and here, when- 
ever I had occasion to be absent from my chief seat, I took up my 
country habitation. 

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my catÜe, that is to 
say, my göats; and as I had taken an incohceivable deal of paißs 
to fence and enclose this ground, so I was so uneasy to see it kept 
eütire, lest the goats should break through, that I never left off 
tili with infinite labour I hö,d stuck the outside of the hedge so 
füll of small stakes, and so near to one another, that it was rather 
a pale than a hedge, and there \vas scurce room to put a band 



w 



HIS INDUSTRY. 161 

through between them; which, afterwards, when those stakes grew, 
as thej all did in the next rainy season, made the enclosure strong 
Üke a wall; indeed, stronger than any wall. 

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I spared 
no pains to bring to pass whateyer appeared necessary for my com- 
fortable sapport; for I considered the keeping up a breed of tarne 
creatnres thus at my band would be a living magazine of flesb, 
milk, batter, and cheese for me as long as I lived in the place, if 
it were to be forty years; and that keeping them in my reach 
depended entirely npon my perfecting my enclosures to such a 
degree tliat I might be sure of keeping them together; which by 
this metbod, indeed, I so effectually secured, that when these little 
stakes began to grow, I had planted them so very thick I was 
forced to pull some of them up again 

In this place, also, I had my grapes growing, which I princi- 
pally depended on for my winter störe of raisins; and which I 
never failed to preserve very carefuDy, as the best and most agree- 
able dainty of my whole diet; and, indeed, they were not agree- 
able only, but physical, wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to 
the last degrea 

As this was also about half way between my other habitation 
uid the place where I had laid up my boat, I generally stayed and 
lay here in my way thither; for I used frequently to visit my 
boat, and I kept all things about or belonging to her in very good 
Order. Sometimes I went out in her to divert myself ; but no 
more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above a 
stone's cajst or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive of 
being hurried out of my knowledge again by the currents, or 
winds, or any other accident. But now I come to a new scene 
of my lif e. 

It bappened one day about noon, going towards my boat, I was 
exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on the 
shore, which was very piain to be seen in the sand. I stood like 
one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition. I listened, 
I looked round me; I coidd hear nothing, nor see anything. I 
went up to a rising ground to look f arther. I went up the shore 
and down the shore; but it was all one, I could see no other im- 

(2«) ^ 



162 



TRACKS OF HAN. 



presaion but that one. I went to it agüa to aee if there were SDy 
more, asd to observe if it might not be my fancy; but there vas 
no room for that, for there was exactly the very print of a foot, 
toes, heel, and every part of a foot; — How it came tliitber I Icnew 
Qot, nor could in the least imagina But af ter iimumerable flutter- 
ing thoughts, like a man perfectly confused and out of myself, 1 




-_^Sr': 



came Home to my fortification, not 
I went on, but terrified to the last 
every two or three atepa, niistakii 
fancying every stump at a distance 
eible to describe how many various 
represented things to me in; hi 
every moment in my fancy, and 
whimaies came into my tboughts by 
When I came to my caatle, for bi 
this, I fled into it like one pursued. 
ladder as first couttived, or went in 



feeling, as we say, the grcuDd 
degree, looking behind im »* 

lg every buah and tree, uw 
to he a man. Nor is it p»" 

. ehapea affrighted imi^&ü<i'^ 
many wild ideas were fouM 
what Strange unaccounUlil< 
the way. 

I think I called it ever tlt«r 
Whether I went over by the 
at the hole in the rock wtuch 



CRUSOE'S ALARM. 163 

I ealled adoor, I cannot remember; no, nor could I remember the 
next morning; for never frighted hare fled to cover, or fox to 
ettth, with more terror of mind than I to this retreat 

I glept none that night The forther I was from the occasion 

of my fright the greater my apprehensions were, which is some- 

thing oontrary to the nature of such things, and especially to the 

Visual practice of all creatures in fear. But I was so embarrassed 

with my own frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed nothing 

bat dismal imaginations to myself, even though I was now a great 

w&j off it Sometimes I fancied it must be the devil; and 

reasoQ joined in with me upon this supposition. For how should 

anj other thing in human shape come into the place ? \Vhere 

was the vessel that brought theml What marks were there of 

anj other footsteps? And how was it possible a man should come 

therel But, then, to think that Satan should take human shape 

lipon him in such a place, where there could be no manner of 

occasion for it but to leave the print of his foot behind him, and 

that even for no purpose, too, for he could not be sure I should 

See it; this was an amusement^ the other way. I considered that 

the devil might have found out abundance of other ways to have 

terrified me, than this of the single print of a foot; — that, as I lived 

qoite on the other side of the island, he would never have been 

80 simple to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thousand 

to one whether I should ever see it or not; and in the sand, too, 

which the first surge of the sea upon a high wind would have 

defaced entirely. AU this seemed inconsistent with the thing 

itself, and with all the notions we usually entertain of the subtilty 

of the devil. 

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of 
all apprehensions of its being the devil. And I presently con- 
duded, then, that it must be some more dangerous creature — 
namely, that it must be some of the savages of the mainland 
over against me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes, 
and either driven by the currents, or by contrary winds, had made 
the Island; and had been on shore, but were gone away again to 

* A -mvMment here means taking off the thotighta or cbanging the thcmo of 
meditatioiL 



164 HE LOSES HOPE. 

sea, being as loath, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate Island 
as I would have been to have had them. 

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very 
thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not to be there- 
abouts at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by which 
they would have concluded that some inhabitants had been in the 
place, and perhaps have searched farther for me. Then terrible 
thoughts racked my Imagination about their haviug found my boat, 
and that there were people here; and that if so, I should certainly 
have them come again in greater numbers and devour me; that if 
it should happen so that they should not find me, yet they would 
find my enclosure, destroy all my corn, carry away all my flock of 
tame goats, and I should perish at last for mere want. 

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all that former 
confidence in God which was founded upon such wonderful ex- 
perience as I had had of his goodness, now vanished, as if he 
that had fed me by miracle hitherto could not preserve by his 
power the provision which he had made for me by his goodness. 
I reproached myself with my easiness, that would not sow any 
more com one year than would just serve me tili the next season, 
as if no accident could intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop 
that was upon the ground; and this I thought so just a reproof, 
that I resolved for the future to have two or three years' com 
beforehand, so that whatever might come, I might not perish for 
want of bread. 

How Strange a checker-work of providence is the life of man ! 
and by what secret differing Springs are the affections hurried 
about, as differing circumstances present! To-day we love what 
to-morrow we hate; to-day we seek what to^morrow we shun; 
to-day we desire what to-morrow we fear — nay, even tremble at 
the apprehensions of. This was exemplified in me at this time 
in the most lively manner imaginable : for I, whose only affliction 
was that I seeroed banished from human society, that I was alone, 
circumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut off from mankind, and 
condemned to what I called silent life — that I was as one whom 
Heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among the living, or 
to appear among the rest of his creatures; that to have seen one 




1 WAS TERKIKIEÜ TO THK I.AST DECBtE." 



MVINE COMFORT. 165 

of my own species would have seemed to me a raising me from 
(ieath to life, and the greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to 
the snpreme blessing of salvation, could bestow; — I say, that I 
should now tremble at the verj apprehensions of seeing a man, 
and was ready to sink into the ground at but the shadow or silent 
appearance of a man's having set his foot in the island. 

Such is the uneven State of human life. And it afforded me 
a great many corious speculations afterwards, when I had a little 
recoTered my first surprise. I considered that this was the Station 
of life the infinitely wise and good providence of God had deter- 
mined for me; that as I could not foresee what the ends of divine 
wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute his sove- 
reignty, who, as I was his creature, had an undoubted right by 
creadon to govern and dispose of me absolutely as he thought fit; 
and who, as I was a creature who had offended him, had likewise 
a judicial right to condemn me to what punishment he thought fit; 
and that it was my part to submit to bear his indignation, because 
1 had sinned against him. 

I then reflected that God, who was not only righteous but 
omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to punish and afflict me, so 
he was able to deliver me; that if he did not think fit to do it, 
it was my unquestioned duty to resign myself absolutely and 
entirely to his will; and, on the other hand, it was my duty also 
to hope in him, pray to him, and quietly to attend the dictates 
and directions of his daily providence. 

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may say, 
weeks and months; and one particular effect of my cogitations on 
this oecasion I cannot omit — namely, one morning early, lying 
in my bed, and filled with thought about my danger from the 
appearance of savages, I found it discomposed me very much; upon 
which those words of the Scripture came into my thoughts, " Call 
Qpon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver, and thou shalt 
glorify me." 

Üpon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my heart was not 
oDly comf orted, but I was guided and encouraged to pray eamestly 
to God for deliverance. When I had done praying I took up my 
Bible, and opening it to read, the first words that presented to me 



1 66 HE .FEELS CHEERED. 

were, "Wait on the Lord and be of good cheer, and he shall 
strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the Lord." It is impossible 
to express the comfort this gave me. In answer, I thankfully 
laid down the book, and was no more sad — at least, not on that 
occasion. 

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflec- 
tions, it came into my thought one day that all this might be a 
mere chimera of my own; and that this foot might be the print 
of my own foot when I came on shore from my boat This 
cheered me up a little, too, and I began to persuade myself it 
was all a delusion; that it was nothing eise but my own foot; 
and why might not I come that way from the boat as well as I 
was going that way to the boati Again, I considered also that I 
could by no means teil for certain where I had trod and where I 
had not; and that if at last this was only the print of my own 
foot, I had played the part of those fools who strive to make 
stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are frighted at them 
more than anybody. 

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again; for I 
had not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so that 
I began to starve for provision; for I had little or nothing within 
doors but some barley cakes and water. Then I knew that my 
goats wanted to be milked, too, which usually was my evening 
di Version; and the poor creatures were in great pain and incon- 
venience for want of it: and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of 
them, and almost dried up their milk. 

Heartening myself therefore with the belief that this was noth- 
ing but the print of one of my own feet, and so I might be truly 
Said to Start at my own shadow, I began to go abroad again, and 
went to my country house to milk my flock; but to see with what 
fear I went forward, how often I looked behind me, how I was 
ready every now and then to lay down my basket and nm for my 
life, it would have made any one have thought I was haunted 
with an evil conscience, or that I had been lately most terribly 
frighted, and so indeed I had. 

However, as I went down thus two or three days, and having 
Seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to think there was 



HEASt!RES THE FOOTUARK. 



167 



leally Qotbing in it but mj owd imaginat on. But I could not 
pereuade myself fully of this 1 11 I should go down to the shore 
igain and eee this pnnt of a foot, and measure t b> my own and 
tee if there was anj b miLtnde or fitness that I m ght be aesured 
it ms my own foot But when I camc to the place F sl It ap- 
peared evidently to me that when I laid up my boat I could not 




posöbly bc on shore anywhere thereabout Secmäly, WTien I 
Mme to measure the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not 
M luge by a great deal Both theae things filled my head with 
nev imaginations, and gave me the vapoun agaiu to the highest 
d^ree; eo that I ehook with cold likc one in an ague. And I 
went liome again, filled with the belief that Eome man or men had 
W on shore there; or, in ehort, that the island was inhabited, 
Wd I migbt be surprised before I was aware — and what course to 
'»ke for my security I knew not 



168 THE FEAR OF DANGER. 

Oh, what ridiculous resolution men take when possessed with 
fear! It deprives them of the use of those means which reason 
offers f or their relief . The first thing I proposed to myself was to 
throw down my enclosures, and turn all my tarne cattle wild into 
the woods, that the enemy might not find them, and then frequent 
the island in prospect of the same or the like booty; then to the 
simple thing of digging up my two com-fields, that they might 
not find such a grain there, and still be prompted to frequent the 
island; then to demolish my bower and tent, that they might not 
see any vestiges of habitation, and be prompted to look farther, 
in Order to find out the persons inhabiting. 

These were the subject of the first night's cogitation, after I 
was come home again, while the apprehensions which had so over- 
run my mind were fresh upon me, and my head was füll of vapours, 
as above. Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrify- 
ing than danger itself, when apparent to the eyes; and we find the 
bürden of anxiety greater by much than the evil which we are 
anxious about; and, which was worse than all this, 1 had not that 
relief in this trouble from the resignation I used to practise that I 
hoped to have. I looked, I thought, like Saul, who complained 
not only that the Philistines were upon him, but that God had 
forsaken him; for I did not now take due ways to compose wy 
mind, by crying to God in my distress, and resting upon his 
providence, as I had done before, for my defence and deliverance; 
which if I had done, I had at least been more cheerf ully supported 
imder his new surprise, and perhaps carried through it with more 
resolution. 

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all night; but 
in the moming I feil asleep, and having by the amusement of my 
mind been as it were tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very 
soundly, and waked much better composed than I had ever been 
before; and now I began to tliink sedately. And upon the utmost 
debate with myself, I concluded, That this island, which was so 
exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from the mainland 
than as I had seen, was not so entirely abandoned as I ndght 
imagine. That although there were no stated inhabitants vbo 
lived on the spot, yet that there might sometimes come boats 



I 





ALTERS HIS DWELUNG. 169 

off from the shore, who either with design, or perhaps never 
but when they were driven by cross winds, might come to this 
place. 

That I had lived here fifteen years now, and had not met with 
the least shadow or figure of any people yet; and that if at any 
time they should be driven here, it was probable they went away 
again as soon as ever they could, seeing they had never thought 
fit to fix there upon any occasion, to this time. 

That the most I could suggest any danger from was, from any 
such casual accidental landing of straggling people from the main, 
who, as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were here against 
their wills; so they made no stay here, but went off again with all 
possible speed, seldom staying one night on shore, lest they should 
not have the help of the tides and daylight back again; and that, 
therefore, I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, 
in case I should see any savages land upon the spot. 

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so large 
as to bring a door through again; which door, as I said, came out 
beyond where my fortification joined to the rock. Upon maturely 
considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second forti- 
fication, in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my 
wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees about tweLve 
years before, of which I made mention. These trees having been 
planted so thick before, they wanted but a few piles to be driven 
between them that they should be thicker and stronger, and my 
wall would be soon finished. 

So that I had now a double wall, and my outer wall was 
thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and every thing I could 
think of to make it strong; having in it seven little holes about 
as big as I might put my arm out at In the inside of this I 
thickened my wall to above ten foot thick, with continual bring- 
ing earth out of my cave and iaying it at the foot of the wall and 
Walking upon it; and through the seven holes I contrived to plant 
the muskets, of which I took notice that I got seven on shore out 
of the ship; these, I say, I planted like my cannon, and fitted 
them into frames that held them like a carriage, that so I could 
fire all the seven guns in two minutes' time. T\da v?äÄ. \ ^«ä 



170 



PLANTS A GROVE. 



many a woary month in finishing, and yet never thougbt myself 
saie tili it was done. 

When this was done I stutk all tlie ground without my wall, for 
a great way every way, as tull with stakes or aticks of the OBierlike 
wood, which I fonnd so apt to grow, as they could well stand; 
inaomuch that I believe I might set in near twenty tbousand of 




them, ieaving a pretty large Space between tbem and my wall, that 
I might have room to see an enemy, and they migbt bave no 
shelter from the young trees, if they attempted to approach my 
outer wall, 

Thus in two ycara' tirac I liaJ a thick grovß, and in five or six 
years' time I bad a wood before my dwelling, growing so monstroua 
tbick and atrong, that it was indeed perfectiy inipassable; and no 
mon, of what kind Boever, would evcr imagine that there was any- 
thing beyond it, much leas a habitation. As for the way whicb I 
propoBed to myself to go in and out (for I left no avenne), it was 






CONCERN FOR HIS GOATS. 171 

by setting two ladders: one to a part of the rock which was low, 
and theo broke in, and left room to place another ladder upon 
that So, when the two ladders were taken down, no man living 
could come down to me without mischieving himself ; and if they 
had come down, they were still on the outside of my outer walL 

Thus I took all the measores human prudence could suggest for 
my own preservation; and it will be seen at length that they were 
not altogether without just reason, though I foresaw nothing at 
that time more than my mere fear suggested to me. 

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other 
affairs; for I had a great concem upon me for my little herd of 
goats. They were not only a present supply to me upon every 
occasion, and began to be sufficient to me, without the expense of 
powder and shot, but also without the fatigue of hunting after 
the wild ones; and I was loath to lose the advantage of them, and 
to have them all to nurse up over again. 

To this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but 
two ways to preserve them : one was, to find another convenient 
place to dig a cave Underground, and to drive them into it every 
night; and the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of 
land, remote from one another, and as much concealed as I could, 
wherq I might keep about half-a-dozen young goats in each place; 
so that, if any disaster happened to the flock in general, I might 
be able to raise them again with little trouble and time. And 
this, though it would require a great deal of time and labour, I 
thought was the most rational design. 

Accordingly I spent some time to find out the most retired 
parts of the island; and I pitched upon one which was as private 
indeed as my heart could wish for. It was a little damp piece of 
ground in the middle of the hollow and thick woods where, as is 
observed, I almost lost myself once before, endeavouring to come 
back that way from the eastem part of the island. Here I found 
a clear piece of land — near three acres — so surrounded with woods 
that it was almost an enclosure by nature; at least, it did not want 
near so much labour to make it so as the other pieces of ground I 
had worked so hard at 

I immediately went to work with this piece oi gco\iiidL\ mA m 



172 THE FEAR OF MAN. 

less than a month's time I had so fenced it round that my flock or 
herd — call it which you please — ^who were not so wild now aa at 
first they might be supposed to be, were well enough secured in it. 
So, without any further delay, I removed ten young she-göats and 
two he-goats to this piece; and when they were there I continued 
to perfect the fence tili I had made it as secure as the other; which, 
however, I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a 
great deal. 

All this labour I was at the expense of purely from my appre- 
hensions on the account of the print of a man's foot which I had 
secn ; for as yet I never saw any human creature come near the 
island, and I had now lived two years under these uneasinesses, 
which indeed made my life much less comfortable than it was 
before — as may well be imagined by any who know what it is to 
live in the constant snare of ihe fear of man. And this I must 
observe with grief, too, that the discomposure of my mind had too 
great impressions also upon the religious part of my thoughts; for 
the dread and terror of falling into the hands of savages and canni- 
bals lay so upon my spirits that I seldom found myself in a due 
temper for application to my Maker — at least, not with the sedate 
calmness and resignation of soul which I was wont to do. I rather 
prayed to God as under great affliction and pressure of mind, sur- 
rounded with danger, and in expectation every night of being 
murdered and devoured before moming. And I must testify from 
my experience that a temper of peace, thankfulness, love, and 
affection, is much more the proper frame for prayer than that of 
terror and discomposure; and that, under the dread of mischief 
impending, a man is no more fit for a comforting Performance of 
the duty of praying to God tlian he is for repentance on a sick- 
bed : for these discomposures affect the mind as the others do the 
body; and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as 
great a disability as that of the body — and much greater, praying 
to God being properly an act of the mind, not of the body. 

But to go on. After I had thus secured one part of my little 
living stock, I went about the whole island searching for another 
private place to make such another deposit, when, wandering more 
to the west point of the island than I had ever done yet, and 



A HORRID DISCOVERY. 173 

looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat npon the soa at a great 
distance. I had found a prospective-glass or two in one of the 
seamen's chests* which I saved out of our ship; but I had it not 
about me, and this was so remote that I could not teil what to 
make of it, though I looked at it tili my eyes were not able to 
hold to look any longer. Whether it was a boat or not I do not 
know; but as I descended from the hill I could see no more of it; 
so I gave it over — only I resolved to go no more out without a 
prospective-glass in my pocket 

When I was come down the hill to the end of the island — 
where, indeed, I had never been bef ore — I was presently convinced 
that the seeing the print of a man's foot was not such a stränge 
thing in the island as I imagined. And but that it was a special 
providence that I was cast upon the side of the island where the 
savages never came, I should easily have known that nothing 
was more frequent than for the canoes from the main, when they 
happened to be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side 
of the island for harbour; likewise, as they often met and fought 
in their canoes, the victors having taken any prisoners would bring 
them over to the shore, where, according to their dreadful customs, 
being all cannibals, they would kill and eat them : of which here- 
after. 

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, 
being the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly confounded 
and amazed — nor is it possible for me to express the horror of my 
mind — at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and 
other bones of human bodies; and particularly I observed a place 
where there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth 
like a cockpit, where it is supposed the savage wretches had sat 
down to their inhuman feastings upon the bodies of their fellow- 
creatures. 

I was so astonished with the sight of these things that I enter- 
tained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while. 
All my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch 
of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of 
human nature; which though I had heard of often, yet I never 
had so near a view of before. In short, I tumed away my face 



174 crusoe's auazement. 

from the hornd spectacle: my stomacb grew «ck, and I was just 
at bhe point of fainting, when natura discharged the diBorder from 
my stomacb; and having vomited with an uncommon violence, I 
was a little relieved, but could not bear to stay in the place a 
moment So I gat me up the hill again with all the speed I could, 
and walked on towards my own habitation. 




When I came a Httte out ot that part of the ialand, I stood atill 
a while as amazed; and then recovering myself, I looked np with 
the ntmost aflection of my Gout, and, with a äood of tears in my 
eyea, gave God thanks that hail cast. my first lot in a part of tlie 
World where I waa distinguished from such dreadful creatures as 
tbese; and that though I had esteemed my present condition very 
miserable, had yet given me so many comforts in it that I had still 
more to give thanks for than to complain of; and this above all, 
tliat I had, even in this miserable condition, been comfortcd with 



HE CONFINES HIMSELF. 175 

the knowledge of himself and the hope of his blessing — which was 
a felicity more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which 
I had sufifered or could suffer. 

In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my Castle, and 
began to be much easier now as to the safety of my circumstances 
than ever I was before; for I observed that these wretches never 
came to this island in search of what they could get — perhaps not 
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting anything here, and having 
often, no doubt^ been up in the covered woody part of it without 
finding anything to their purpose. I knew I had been here now 
almost eighteen years, and never saw the least footsteps of human 
creature there before; and I might be here eighteen more, as 
entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not discover myself to 
them — which I had no manner of occasion to do, it being my only 
business to keep myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I 
found a better sort of creatures than cannibals to make myself 
known to. 

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches 
that I have been speaking of, and of the wretched inhuman custom 
of their devouring and eating one another up, that I continued 
pensive and sad, and kept close within my own circle for almost 
two years af ter this. When I say my own circle, I mean by it my 
three plantations — namely, my Castle, my country seat, which I 
called my bower, and my enclosure in the woods. Nor did I look 
after this for any other use than as an enclosure for my goats j for 
the aversion which nature gave me to these hellish wretches was 
such that I was fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil him- 
self. Nor did I so much as go to look after my boat in all this 
time, but began rather to think of making me another; for I could 
not think of ever making any more attempts to bring the other 
boat round the island to me, lest I should meet with some of these 
creatures at sea, in which, if I had happened to have fallen into 
their hands, I knew what would have been my lot. 

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no 
danger of being discovered by these people, began to wear off my 
uneasiness about them; and I began to live just in the same com- 
posed manner as before — only with this difference, that I used more 



I 



176 REASONS FOR CONTENTMENT. 

caution, and kept my eyes more about me than I did before, lest 
I should happen to be seen by any of them; and, particularly, I 
was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any of them being on the 
island should happen to hear of it And it was therefore a very 
good providence to me that I had fumished myself with a tamo 
breed of goats, that I needed not hunt any more about the woods 
or shoot at them ; and if I did catch any of them af ter this, it was 
by traps and snares, as I had done bef ore : so that f or two years 
after this I believe I never fired my gun once off, though I never 
went out without it And, which was more, as I had saved three 
pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out with me — or at 
least two of them — sticldng them in my goat-skin belt; also I fur- 
bished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out of the ship, and 
made me a belt to put it on also : so that I was now a most formi- 
dable fellow to look at when I went abroad, if you add to the 
former description of myself the particular of two pistols, and a 
great broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but without a 
scabbard. 

Things gomg on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed, 
excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my former calm, sedate 
way of living. All these things tended to showing me more and 
more how far my condition was from being miserable, compared to 
some others; nay, to many other particulars of life which it might 
have pleased God to have made my lot. It put me upon reflect- 
ing how little repining there would be among mankind at any 
condition of life, if people woidd rather compare their condition 
with those that are worse, in order to be thankf ul, than be always 
comparing them with those which are better, to assist their mur- 
murings and complainings. 

As in my present condition there were not really many things 
which I wanted, so indeed I thought that the frights I had been 
in about these savage wretches, and the concem I had been in for 
my own preservation, had taken off the edge of my invention for 
my own conveniences; and I had dropped a good design which I 
had once bent my thoughts too much upon, and that was to try 
if I could not make some of my barley into malt, and then try to 
brew myself some beer. This was really a whimsical thought, 




PLANS AGAINST THE SA VAGES. 177 

and I reproved myself often for the simplicity of it; for I 
presently saw there would be the want of several things necessary 
to the making my beer that it would be impossible for me to 
supply. As, first, casks to preserve it in; which was a thing that, 
as I have observed already, I could never compass — no, though 
I spent, not many days, but weeks, nay months, in attempting it, 
bat to no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to make 
it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make 
it boil. And yet all these things notwithstanding, I verily 
believe had not these things intervened — I mean the frights and 
terrors I was in about the savages — I had undertaken it, and 
perhaps brought it to pass too; for I seldom gave any thing over 
without accomplishing it, when I once had it in my head enough 
to begin it. 

But my invention now run quite another way; for night and 
day I could think of nothing but how I might destroy some of 
these monsters in their cruel, bloody entertainment, and, if possi- 
ble, save the victim they should bring hither to destroy. It would 
take up a larger volume than this whole work is intended to be, 
to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded upon 
in my thought, for the destroying these creatures, or at least 
frighting them, so as to prevent their coming hither any mora 
But all was abortive: nothing could be possible to take effect 
unless I was to be there to do it myself. And what could one 
man do among them when perhaps there might be twenty or 
thirty of them together, with their darts or their bows and arrows, 
with which they could shoot as true to a mark as I could with my 
gun? 

Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place where 
they made their fire, and put in five or six pound of gunpowder, 
which when they kindled their fire would consequently take fire, 
and blow up all that was near it. But as, in the first place, I 
should be very loath to waste so much powder upon them, my 
Store being now within the quantity of one barrel, so neither 
could I be sure of its going off at any certain time, when it might 
surprise them, and at best that it would do little more than just 
blow the fire about their ears and fright them, but not sufficient 

(248) M 



178 THOÜGHTS OF REVENGE. 

to make them forsake the place : so I laid it aside, and then pro- 
posed that I would place myself in ambush, in some convenient 
place, with my three guns all double-loaded, and in the middle of 
their bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when I should be sure to 
kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shot; and then fall- 
ing in upon them with my three pistols and my sword, I made no 
doubt but that if there was twenty I should kill them all This 
fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so füll of 
it that I often dreamed of it, and sometimes that I was just going 
to let fly at them in my sleep. 

I went so far with it in my imagination, that I employed my- 
self several days to flnd out proper places to put myself in ambos- 
cade, as I said, to watch for them; and I went frequently to the 
place itself, which was now grown more familiär to me: and 
especially while my mind w^as thus filled with thoughts of reveoge, 
and of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as 
l| 1 may call it; the horror I had at the place, and at the signals of 

the barbarous wretches devouring one another, abated my malice. 

Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill, where I 
was satisfied I might securely wait tili I saw any of their boats 
Coming, and might then, even before they would be ready to come 
on shore, convey myself unseen into thickets of trees, in one of 
which there was a hollow large enough to conceal me entirely, and 
where 1 might sit and observe all their bloody doings, and take 
my füll aim at their heads, when they were so close together tf 
that it would be next to impossible that I should miss my shoot, 
or that I could fail wounding three or four of them at the firs^ 
shoot. 

In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design, and accordinglj 
I prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece. The two 
muskets I loadcd with a brace of slugs each, and four or fi^® 
smaller bullets, about the size of pistol bullets; and the fowling- 
piece I loaded with near a handful of swan-shot, of the largest siie; 
I also loaded my pistols with about four bullets each, and in this 
l)osture, well provided w^ith ammunition for a second and thir« 
Charge, I prei>ared myself for my expedition. 

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and in voj 

»in 



. 'I 



DAILY WATC'HI\GS. 



179 



Imagination put it in practice, I continually made my toiir every 

morning up to tlie top of the hi!l which was from my Castle as I 

ealled it, about three milei or more to sco if I could observe any 

boats upoQ the sea, comin^ near tlie laland or standing over 

towards it. But I bcgan to tire of this hard dut} after I had 

for two or three montha constantly kept my watch but come 

always back with 

oat any diacoverj 

there having not in 

all that timc been 

the least appear 

ance, not only on or 

near the ehore but 

not on the wboie 

ocean, so far as my 

oyes orglasscs could 

roach every way 

Aa long as I 
kept up my iaiiy 
tour to the hill to 
look out, 80 long 
alao I kept up the 
vigour of my de 
sign, and my apirite 
seemed to be all 
the while in a 
suitable form for 
so outrageoua an 

execution as the kllling twenty or thirty naked savages, for an 
ofTence which I had not at all entered into a discussion of in my 
thoughts, any farther than my passions were at first fired by the 
horror I conceived at the unnatural custom of that people of the 
country, who it secma had been suffered by Frovidonce, in hia wiae 
disposition of the world, to have no other guido than that of their 
own abominable and vitiated passione; and consequently were left, 
and perhaps had been so for some ages, to act such horrid things, 
and receive auch dreadfui cuBtoms, as nothing but nature entirely 




V* 



180 CALMER THOUGHTS. 

abandoned of Heaven and acted by some hellish degeneracy, could 
have run them into. £ut now, when, as I have said, I began to 
be weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made so long, and 
so far, every morning in vain, so my opinion of the action itself 
began to alter, and I began with cooler and calmer thoughts to 
consider what it was I was going to engage in; — what autho- 
rity or call I had to pretend to be judge and executioner upon 
these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit for so many 
ages to suffer unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it were, the 
executioners of his judgments one upon another. How far these 
people were offenders against me, and what right I had to engage 
in the quarrel of that blood, which they shed promiscuously one 
upon another. I debated this very of ten with myself thus : How 
do 1 know what God himself judges in this particular case 1 It is 
certain these people do not commit this as a crime; it is not against 
their own consciences reproving or their light reproaching them. 
They do not know it to be an offence, and then commit it in 
defiance of divine justice, as we do in almost all the sins we com- 
mit They think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in 
war, than we do to kill an ox ; nor to eat human flesh, than we do 
to eat mutton. 

When I had considered this a little, it followed necessarily that 
I was certainly in the wrong in it; that these people were not 
murderers in the sense that I had before condemned them in my 
thoughts; any more than those Christiaus were murderers who often 
put to death the prisoners taken in battle; or, more frequently, 
upon many occasions put wliole troops of men to the sword, 
without giving quarter, though they threw down their arms and 
submitted. 

In the next place, it occurred to mo that albeit the usage they 
thus gave one another was thus brutish and inhuman, yet it was 
really nothing to me; these people had done me no injury. That 
if they attempted me, or I saw it necessary for my immediate pre- 
servation to fall upon them, something might be said for it; but 
that as I was yet out of their power, and they had really no 
knowledge of me, and consequently no design upon me; and 
therefore it could not be just for me to fall upon them. That 




A WISE OONCLUSION. 181 

this would justify the conduct of the Spaniards in all their 
barbarities practised in America, and where they destroyed millions 
of these people, who, however they were idolaters, and barbarians, 
and had several bloody and barbarous rites in their cuetoms, such 
as sacrificing human bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the 
Spaniards, very innocent people; and that the rooting them out 
of the country is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and 
detestation, by even the Spaniards themselves, at this time, and 
by all other Christian nations of Europe, as a mere butchery, a 
bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God 
or man; and such as for which the very name of a Spaniard is 
reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all people of humanity, or 
of Christian compassion — as if the kingdom of Spain were particu- 
larly eminent for the product of a race of men who were without 
principles of tendemess, or the common bowels of pity to the 
miserable, which is reckoned to be a maik of generous temper in 
the mind. 

These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a kind of 
a füll stop; and I began by little and httle to be off of my design, 
and to conclude I had taken wrong measures in my resolutions to 
attack the savages; that it was not my business to meddle with 
them, unless they first attacked me, and this it was my business 
if possible to prevent; but that, if I were discovered and attacked, 
then I knew my duty. 

On the other band, I argued with myself, that this really was 
the way not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin and destroy 
myself; for unless I was sure to kill every one that not only 
should be on shore at that time, but that should ever come on 
shore afterwards, if but one of them escaped to teil their country- 
people what had happened, they would come over again by thou- 
sands to revenge the death of their fellows, and I should only 
bring upon myself a certain destruction, which at present I had no 
manner of occasion for. 

Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in principles nor in 
policy I ought one way or other to concem myself in this affair ; — 
that my business was by all possible means to conceal myself from 
them, and not to leave the least signal to them to guess by that 



182 A BETTER DISPOSITION. 

there were any living creatures upon the Island, — I mean of human 
shape. 

Religion joined in with this prudential, and I was convinced 
now many ways that I was perfectly out of my duty, when I was 
laying all my bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent crea- 
tures, — I mean innocent as to me. As to the crimes they were 
guilty of towards one another, I had nothing to do with them; 
they were national, and I ought to leave them to the justice of 
God, who is the Governor of nations, and knows how by national 
punishments to make a just retribution for national offences, and 
to bring public judgments upon those who offend in a public man- 
ner, by such ways as best pleases him. 

This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was a greater 
satisfaction to me than that I had not been suffered to do a thing 
which I now saw so much reason to believe would have been no 
less a sin than that of wilful murder, if I had committed it And 
I give most humble thanks on my knees to God, that had thus 
delivered me from blood-guiltiness; beseeching him to grant me 
the protection of his providence, that I might not fall into the 
hands of the barbarians ; or that I might not lay my hands upon 
them, unless I had a more clear call from Heaven to do it, in 
defence of my own life. 

In this disposition I continued for near a year after this, and so 
far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon these wretches, 
that in all that time I never once went up the hill to see whether 
there were any of them in sight, or to know whether any of them 
had been on shore there or not^ that I might not be tempted to 
renew any of my contrivances against them, or be provoked by 
any advantage which might present itself, to fall upon themj only 
this I did, I went and removed my boat, which I had on the other 
side the Island, and carried it down to the east end of the whole 
island, where I ran it into a little cove which I found under some 
high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the currents, the 
savages durst not, at least would not, come with their boats upon 
any account whatsoever. 

With my boat I carried away everything that I had left there 
belonging to her, though not necessary for the bare going thither — 



FURTHER PRECAÜTIONS. 183 

namely, a mast and sail which I had made for her, and a thing 
like an anchor, but indeed which could not be called either anchor 
or grapling ^ — however, it was the best I could make of its kind. 
All these I removed, that thero might not be the least shadow of 
any diacovery, or any appearance of any boat or of any human 
habitation upon the Island. 

Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than ever, 
and seldom went from my cell, other than upon my constant 
employment — namely, to milk my she-goats and manage my little 
flock in the wood; which, as it was quite on the other part of the 
island, was quite out of danger ; for certain it is, that these savage 
people who sometimes haimted this island, never came with any 
thoughts of finding anything here, and consequently never wan- 
dered off from the coast. And I doubt not but they might have 
been several times on shore after my apprehensions of them had 
made me cautious as well as before; and, indeed, I looked back 
with some horror upon the thoughts of what my condition would 
have been, if I had chopped upon them, and been discovered 
before that, when naked and unarmed, exccpt with one gun, and 
that loaded often only with small shot. I walked everywhere 
peeping and peeping about the island to see what I could get; — 
what a surprise should I have been in, if, when I discovered the 
print of a man's foot, I had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty 
savages, and found them pursuing me, and, by the swiftness of 
their running, no possibility of my escaping them ! 

The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul within me, 
and distressed my mind so much that I could not soon recover it, 
to think what I should have done, and how I not only should not 
have been able to resist them, but even should not have had pre- 
sence of mind enough to do what I might have done; much less 
what now, after so much consideration and preparation, I might 
be able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of these things, I 
should be very melancholy, and sometimes it would last a great 
while; but I resolved it at last all into thankfulness to that Pro- 
vidence which had delivered me from so many unseen dangers, 
and had kept me from those mischiefs which I could no way have 

^ OrapUng or grapndf a kind of anchor with four flukes used for boats. 



( 



184 SECRET DICTATES. 

been the agent in delivering myself from, because I had not the 
least notion of any such thing depending, or the least supposition 
of it being possible. 

This renewed a contemplation which often had come to my 
thoughts in former time, when first I began to see the merciful 
dispositions of Heaven in the dangers we run through in this life; 
How wonderfully we are delivered when we know nothing of it: 
how, when we are in a quandary, as wo call it, a doubt or hesita- 
tion whether to go this way or that way, a secret hint shall direct 
US this way when we intended to go that way; nay, when sense, 
our own inclination, and perhaps business, has called to go the 
other way, yet a stränge impression upon the mind, from we know 
not what Springs, and by we know not what power, shall overrule 
US to go this way; and it shall afterwards appear that had we 
gone that way which we should have gone, and even to our ima- 
gination ought to have gone, we should have been ruined and lost 
Upon tliese and many like reflections, I afterwards made it a 
certain rule with me, that whcnever I found those secret hinta or 
pressings of my mind to doing or not doing any thing that pro- 
sented, or to going this way or that way, I never failed to obey 
the secret dictate, though I knew no other reason for it than that 
such a pressure or such a hint hung upon my mind. I could give 
many examples of the success of this conduct in the course of my 
life, but more especially in the latter part of my inhabiting this 
unhappy island, besides many occasions which it is very likely I 
might have taken notice of if I had seen with the same eyes then 
that I saw with now. But it is never too late to be wise; and I 
cannot but advise all considering men, whose lives are attended 
with such extraordinary incidents as mine, or even though not so 
extraordinary, not to slight such secret intimations of Providence. 
Let them come from what invisible intelligence they will — that I 
shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot account for — ^but certainly 
they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and the secret com- 
munication between those embodied and those unembodied, and 
such a proof as can never be withstood. Of which I shall have 
occasion to give some very remarkable instances in the remainder 
of my solitary residence in this dismal place. 



I 




ANXIETY AND DANGER. 185 

I believe the reader of this will not think stränge if I confess 
that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the 
concem that was now upon me, put an end to all invention and 
to all the contrivances that I had laid for my future accom- 
modations and conveniences. I had the care of my safety more 
now upon my hands than that of my food. I cared not to drive a 
nail or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I should make 
should be heard; much less would I fire a gun, for the same 
reason. And, above aU, I was intolerably uneasy at making any 
fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day, 
should betray me; and for this reason I removed that part of my 
business which required fire, such as buming of pots and pipes, 
&C., into my new apartment in the woods, where, aiter I had been 
some time, I found to my unspeakable consolation a mere natural 
cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I dare 
say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy 
aä to venture in, nor indeed would any man eise; but one who, 
like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat. 

The mouth of this hoUow was at the bottom of a great rock, 
where, by mere accident (I would say, if I did not see abundant 
reason to ascribe all such things now to Providence), I was cutting 
down some thick branches of trees to make charcoal. And before 
I go on I must observe the reason of my making this charcoal, 
which was thus : — 

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I said 
before; and yet I could not live there without baking my bread, 
cooking my meat, &c. So I contrived to bum some wood here, 
as I had seen done in England, under turf, tili it became chark, 
or dry coal; and then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal 
to carry home and perform the other Services which fire was wrfnt- 
ing for at home without danger of smoke. 

But this by-the-by. While I was cutting down some wood here, 
I perceived that behind a very thick brauch of low brushwood 
or underwood there was a kind of hoUow place. I was curious to 
look into it) and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I 
found it was pretty large; that is to say, sufficient for me to stand 
upright in it, and perhaps another with me. But I must confess 



to you I made more haste out thau I did in, wheii looking further 
into the place, and which was perfectly dark, I aaw two broad 
Hhining eyea of some creature, whether devil or man I knev Dot, 
which twinkled like two Btare, the dim light from the G«ve's moutb 
Hhining directly in and making the reflection. 

However after some pause 1 recovered myielf and b^ut to 
call myself a thousand fools and teil myself that he that was afraid 
to see the devü was not fit to hve twenty yeara in an Island tu 
alone, and that I 
durat to belien 
there was notbing 
m this cave that 
was more fnghtiol 
than myself Upon 
this, pluckiDg up 
my courage, I took 
np a great fire- 
brand and ut I 
nished again with 
tlie stick äsming 
m my band. I h»d 
not gone three 
Steps m but I wu 
almost BS mach 
fnghted sa I "» 
before; for I heuJ 
a very loud aigh, like that of a man in some pain; and It wu fol- 
lowed by a broken noise, as if of words half expressed, and then * 
deep sigh again. I stepped back, and waa indeed Struck with eucIi 
a eurprise that it put me into a cold sweat; and if I had bad ■ bü 
on my head, I will not answer for it that my hair might not b*" 
lifted it off! But still, plucking up my apitits as well as I coold, 
and encouraging myself a little with considering that the povf' 
and presence of God was everywhere, and was able to protect nA ; 
upcn this I stepped forward again, and by the light of the fi 
brand, holding it up a little over my head, I oaw lying on ll>' I 
ground a most monstrous frightful old he-goat, just maJui^ hi> I 




MgtltfDl old htlUl 



DISCOVERS A CAVR 187 

will, as we say, and gasping for life, and dying indeed of mere 
old age. 

I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he essayed 
to get up, but was not able to raise himself. And I thought with 
myself he might even lie there; for if he had frighted me so, he 
would certainly fright any of the savages, if any of them should be 
80 iiardy as to come in there while he had any life in him. 

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look round 
me, when I found the cave was but very small; that is to say, it 
might be about twelve foot over, but in no manner of shape, either 
round or Square, no hands having ever been employed in making 
it but those of mere Nature. I observed also that there was a 
place at the farther side of it that went in farther, but was so low 
that it required me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into 
it, and whither I went I knew not. So, having no candle, I gave 
it over for some time, but resolved to come again the next day, 
provided with candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the 
lock of one of the muskets, with some wildfire^ in the pan. 

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large candles 
of my own making — for I made very good candles now of goat's 
tallow — and going into this low place, I was obliged to creep upon 
all-fours, as I have said, almost ten yards; which, by the way, I 
thought was a venture bold enough, considering that I knew not 
ho'w far it might go, nor what was beyond it. When I was got 
through the strait I found the roof rose higher up — I believe near 
twenty foot. But never was such a glorious sight seen in the 
Island, I dare say, as it was to look round the sides and roof of 
this vault or cave. The walls reflected a hundred thousand lights 
to me from my two candles. What it was in the rock, whether 
diamonds or any other precious stones, or gold, which I rather 
supposed it to be, I knew not. 

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity or grotto of its 
kind as could be expected, though perfectly dark. The floor was 
dry and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel upon it, so 
that there was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither 

^ Ounpowder wetted and made into a paste so that it bums more slowly, but can 
be Hgbted by a spark Struck from a flint. 



188 REMOVES HIS AMMUNITION. 

was there any damp or wet on the sides or roof. The only diffi- 
culty in it was the entrance, which, however, as it was a place of 
security, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a 
convenience; so that I was really rejoiced at the discovery, and 
resolved without any delay to bring some of those things which 
I was most anxious about to this place. Particulariy, I resolved 
to bring hither my magazine of powder and all my spare arms — 
namely, two fowling-pieces, for I had three in all; and three 
muskets, for of them I had eight in alL So I kept at my castle 
only five, which stood ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on 
my outmost fence, and were ready also to take out upon any ex- 
pedition. 

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I took occasion 
to open the barrel of powder which I took up out of the sea, and 
which had been wet; and I found that the water had penetrated 
about three or four inches into the powder on every side, which, 
caking and growing hard, had preserved the inside like a kemel 
in a Shell. So that I had near sixty pounds of very good powder 
in the centre of the cask, and this was an agreeable discovery to 
me at that time. So I carried all away thither, never keeping 
above two or three pound of powder with me in my castle for fear 
of a surprise of any kind. I also carried thither all the lead I had ' 
lef t, for buUets. 

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which were 
Said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could come 
at them. For I persuaded myself, while I was here, if five hun- 
dred savages were to hunt me, they could never find me out; or 
if they did, they would not venture to attack me hera 

The old goat, who I found expiring, died in the mouth of the 
cave the next day after I made this discovery; and I found it 
muth easier to dig a great hole there, and throw him in and cover 
him with earth, than to drag him out So I interred him there 
to prevent offence to my nose. 

I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in this Island, 
and was so naturalized to the place and to the manner of living, 
that could I have but enjoyed the certainty that no savages would 
come to the place to disturb me, I could have been content to 



DIVERSIONS AND AMÜSEMENTS. 189 

have capitulated for spendiDg the rest of my time there even to 
the last moment, tili I had laid me down and died, like the old 
goat in the cave. I had also arrived to some little diversions and 
amusem^nts, which made the time pass more pleasantly with me 
a great deal than it did before. As ürst, I had taught my Poll, 
as I noted before, to speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked 
so articulately and piain, that it was very pleasant to me: and he 
lived with me no less than six-and-twenty years. How long he 
might live afterwards I know not; though I know they have a 
notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred years. Perhaps 
poor Poll may be alive there still, calling after poor Kobin 
Crusoe to this day. I wish no Englishman the ill-luck to come 
there and hear him; but if he did, he would certainly believe it 
was the deviL My dog was a very pleasant and loving companion 
to me for no less than sixteen years of my time, and then died of 
mere old aga As for my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed, 
to that degree that I was obliged to shoot several of them at first, 
to keep them from devouring me and all I had. But at length, 
when the two old ones I brought with me were gone, and after 
some time continually driving them from me, and letting them 
have no provision with me, they all ran wild into the woods except 
two or three favourites, which I kept tame, and whose young, 
when they had any, I always drowned. And these were part of 
my family. Besides these, I always kept two or three household 
kids about me, which I taught to feed out of my band. And I 
had two more parrots which talked pretty well, and would all call 
Kobin Crusoe, but none like my first. Nor indeed did I take the 
pains with any of them that I had done with him. I had also 
several tame sea-fowls, whose names I know not, which I caught 
upon the shore and cut their wings. And the little stakes which 
1 had planted before my Castle wall being now grown up to a good 
thick grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred 
there ; which was very agreeable to me. So that, as I said above, 
I began to be very well contented with the life I led, if it might 
but have been secured from the dread of the savages. 

But it was otherwise directed. And it may not be amiss for 
all people who shall meet with my story to make this just obser- 



190 A FIRE ON THE SHORE. 

vation from it — ^namely, how frequently in the course of our lives 
the evil which in itself we eeek most to shun, and which, when 
we are fallen into is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the 
very means or door of oiir deliverance, by which alone we can be 
raised again from the affliction we are fallen into. I could give 
many examples of this in the course of my unaccountable life, 
but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable than in the 
circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in this Island. 

It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my 
twenty-third year; and this being the southem solstice,^ for 
winteir I cannot call it, was the particular time of my harvest, and 
required my being prettymuch abroad in the fields: when going 
out pretty early in the moming, even before it was thorough day. 
light, I was surprised with seeing a hght of some fire upon the shore, 
at a distance from me of about two mile, towards the end of the 
Island where I had observed some savages had been as before; but 
not on the other side, but, to my great affliction, it was on my side 
of the island. 

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stepped short 
within my grove, not daring to go out lest I might be surprised; 
and yet I had no more peace within, from the apprehensions I 
had that if these savages, in rambling over the island, should find 
my com standing or cut, or any of my works and improvements, 
they would immediately conclude that there were people in the 
place, and would then never give over tili they had found me out. 
In this extremity I went back directly to my Castle, pulled up the 
ladder after me, and made all things without look as wild and 
natural as I could. 

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of 
defenca I loaded all my cannon, as I called them — that is to 
say, my muskets, which were mounted upon my new fortification 
— and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the last 
gasp; not forgetting serioualy to commend myself to the divine 
protection, and eamestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the 

^ Juan Femandez, or Masatierra, the island of tho Pacific which it is believed 
fche author intended as tho island of Robinson Crnsoo, is situated in 33° 4(K S. 
latitude, and about lOO** W. longitudo. 



OH THB WATX'H. 



191 



hands of the barbarians. Änd in this posturc' I continued about 
two hours, but began to be migbty impatient for intelligeace 
abroad, for I had no spies to send out 

After aitting a wbile longer, and musiag what I should do in 
thie cue, I was not able to bear eitting in ignorance any longer; 
80 eettJng up my ladder to the aide of the hill, where there was a 




flat place, aa I observed before, and then pulling the ladder up 
after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the top of the hill, 
and pulling out my perspective-glaas, which I had taken on pur- 
pose, I loid me down flat on my bcUy on the ground, and began 
to look for the place. I preaently found there was no leas than 
nine naked savages, sitting round a small üre they had made, Dot 
to warm them, for they had no need of that, the weather being 
extreme hot, but, aa I eupposed, to dresa some of their barbaroua 
diet of human ßesh, which they had brought with thero, whetber 
alive or dead I could not know. 



192 A DREADFUL SIOHT. 

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up 
upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed 
to me to wait for the retum of the flood to go away again. It is 
not easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, espe- 
cially seeing them come on my side the Island, and so near me too ; 
but when I observed their Coming must be always with the current 
of the ebb, I began aften^'ards to be more sedate in my mind, 
being satisfied that I might go abroad with safety all the time of 
the tide of flood, if they were not on shore before. And having 
made this Observation, I went abroad about my harvest-work with 
the more composure. 

As I expected, so it proved ; for as soon as the tide made to the 
westward, I saw them all take boat, and row, or paddle, as we call 
it, all away. I should have observed that for an hour and more 
before they went off they went to dancing, and I could easily dis- 
cem their postures and gestures by my glasses. I could not per- 
ceive, by my nicest Observation, but that they were stark naked, 
and had not the least covering upon them ; but whether they were 
men or women, that I could not distinguish. 

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns upon 
my Shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, and my great sword 
by my side without a scabbard, and with all the speed I was able 
to make, I went away to the hill where I had discovered the first 
appearance of all ; and as soon as I gat thither, which was not less 
than two hours (for I could not go apace, being so laden with arms 
as I was), I perceived there had been three canoes more of savages 
on that place; and looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea 
together, making over for the main. 

This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when, going down to 
the shore, I could see the marks of horror which the dismal work 
they had been about had left behind it — namely, the blood, the 
bones, and part of the fiesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured 
by those wretches with merriment and sport. I was so fiUed with 
indignation at the sight, that I began now to premeditate the 
destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be who or how 
many soever. 

It seemed evident to me that tlie Visits which they thus makei 



PERPLEXITY AND ANXIETY. 193 

to ÜnB island are not very frequent; for it was above fifteen 
months before anj niore of them came on shore there again; — that 
18 to say, I never saw them, or any footsteps or sign als of them, 
in all that time; for as to the rainy seasons, then they are sure 
not to come abroad, at least not so far. Yet all this while I lived 
tmcomfortably, by reason of the constant apprehensions I was in 
of their Coming upon me by surprise ; from whence I observe that 
tbe expectation of evil is more bitter than the suifering, especially 
if there is no rooin to shake off that expectation or those ap- 
prehensions. 

During all this time I was in the murdering humonr, and took 
np most of my hours, which should have been better employed, 
in contrinng how to circumvent and fall upon them the very next 
time I should see them, especially if they should be divided, as 
thej were the last time, into two parties. Nor did I consider at 
»U that if I killed one party — suppose ten or a dozen — I was still 
the next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and so another, 
eren ad infiniium, tili I should be at length no less a murderer 
thiQ they were in being man-eaters, and perhaps much more so. 

I «pent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind, 
expecting that I should one day or other fall into the hands of 
these merciless creatures ; and if I did at any time venture abroad, 
it was not without looking round me with the greatest care and 
cantion imaginabla And now I found to my great comfort how 
h^pj it was that I provided for a tarne flock or herd of goats; 
for I durst not upon any account fire my gun, especially near that 
«de of the island where they usually came, lest I should alarm 
the savages; and if they had fled from me now, I was sure to have 
them come back again, with perhaps two or three hundred canoes 
with them, in a few days, and then I knew what to expect 

However, I wore out a year and three months more before I 
«r» saw any more of the savages, and then I found thera again, 
m I shall soon observe. It is true they might have been there 
iBee or twice, but either they made no stay, or at least I did not 
iew them; but in the month of May, as near as I could calculate, 
lud in my four-and-twentieth year, I had a very stränge encounter 
rith them, of wliich in its place. 

(MS) ^ 



i 



194 AN EVENTFUL DAY. 

The perturbatio!! of my mind during this fifteen or sixteen 
months' interval was very great. I slept unquiet, dreamed always 
frightful dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night 
In the day great troubles overwhelmed my mind, and in the night 
I dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the reasons why I 
might justify the doing of it. But to waive all tliis for a while, it 
was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as well 
as my poor wooden calendar would reckon; for I marked all upoD 
the post still. I say it was the sixteenth of May, that it blew a 
very great sfeorm of wind all day, with a great deal of lightning 
and thunder, and a very foul night it was after it I know not 
what was the particular occasion of it; but as I was reading in the 
Bible, and taken up with very serious thoughts about my present 
condition, I was surprised with a noise of a gun, as I thought, 
fired at sea. 

This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite different nature from 
any I had met with before; for the notions this put into my 
thoughts were quite of another kind. I started up in the greatest 
haste imaginable, and in a trice clapped my ladder to the middle 
place of the rock, and pulled it after me, and mounting it the 
second time, got to the top of the hill, the very moment th&t » 
flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, which accordingly in 
about half a niinute I heard, and by the sound knew that it was 
from that part of the sea where I was driven down the current in 
my boat 

I immediately considered that this must be some ship in distress, 
and that they had some comrade or some other ship in Company, 
and fired these guns for signals of distress and to obtain help I 
had this presence of mind at that minute as to think that thoogh 
I could not help them, it may be they might help me; so I brought 
together all the dry wood I could get at band, and maldng a good 
handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hilL The wood was dry 
and blazed freely, and though the wind blew very hard, yet it 
burned fairly out, that I was certain if there was any such thing tf 
a ship they must needs see it; and no doubt they did, for as soon 
as ever my fire blazed up I heard another gun, and after that 
several others, all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night 




A WRECK ON THE ISLAND. 195 

long tili day broke; and when it was broad day, and the air 

deared up, I saw something at a great distance at sea, füll east of 

the Island, whether a sali or a huU I could not distinguish, no not 

wiüi my glasses, the distance was so great, and the weather still 

something hazy also; at least, it was so out at sea. 

1 looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that 

it did not move; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at an 

inchor; and being eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took 

my gan in my hand, and ran toward the south side of the Island, 

to the rocks where I had formerly been carried away with the 

current; and getting up there, the weather by this time being 

perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck 

of a skip cast away in the night upon those concealed rocks which 

Hound when I was out in my boat; and which rocks, as they 

ckecked the violence of the stream, and made a kind of counter- 

streÄin or eddy, were the occasion of my recovering from the 

i&ost desperate hopeless condition that ever I had been in in all 

Jnylife. 

Thas, what is one man's safety is another man's destruction; 

for it seems these men, whoever they were, being out of their 

knowledge, and the rocks being whoUy under water, had been 

(inren upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at east and 

^^north-east Had they seen the Island, as I must necessarily 

wppose they did not, they must, as I thought, have endeavoured 

to have saved themselves on shore by the help of their boat. But 

^ir firing of guns for help, especially when they saw, as I 

üJugined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts. First, I 

uoagined that upon seeing my light they might have put them- 

ielves into their boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore; 

tat that the sea going very high, they might have been cast away. 

Oüier times I imagined that they might have lost their boat 

before, as might be the case many ways, as particularly by the 

iireaking of the sea upon their ship, which many times obliges 

laen to stave or take in pieces their boat, and sometimes to throw 

i overboard with their own hands. Other times I imagined they 

liad 8ome other ship or ships in Company, who, upon the signals of 

dktreaa they had made, had taken them up and carried them ofif. 



196 THANKFULNESS TO GOD. 

Other whiles I fancied they were all gone off to sea in t 
and being hurried away by the cuirent that I had been 
in, were carried out into the great ocean, where there wa 
but misery and perishing, and that perhapa they migli 
time think of starving, and of being in a condition t< 
another. 

As all these were but conjectures at best, so in the cc 
was in I could do no more than look on upon the mis€ 
poor men and pity them; which had still this good effe 
side, that it gave me more and more cause to give thanlt 
who had so happily and comfortably provided for me in m 
condition; and that of two ships' companies who were 
away upon this part o£ the world, not one life should 
but mine. I leamed here again to observe that it is 
that the providence of God casts us into any condition 
low, or any misery so great, but we may see something 
to be thankful for, and may see others in worse circumsta 
our own. 

Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I 
so much as see room to suppose any of them were saved. 
could make it rational, so much as to wish or expect tha 
not all perish there, except the possibility only of their b( 
up by another ship in Company; and this was but mere ] 
indeed, for I saw not the least signal or appearance of 
thing. 

I cannot explain by any possible energy of words what 
longing or hankering of desires I feit in my soul upon 1 
breaking out sometimes thus: ^'Oh that there had been 1 
two — nay, or but one soul saved out of this ship, to ha^ 
to me; that I might but have had one companion, oi 
creature to have spoken to me, and to have conversed ¥ 
all the time of my solitary life I never feit so eamest, s< 
desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, or so dee 
at the want of it. 

There are some secret moving Springs in the affectioi 
yj! when they are set agoing by some object in view, or b 

object, though not in view, yet rendered present to the 




HIS EARNEST WISHES. 197 

the power of Imagination, that motion carries out the soul by its 
impetuosity to such violent eager embracings of the object, that 
the absence of it is insupportable. 

Such were these eamest wishings that but one man had been 
saved! "Oh, that it had been but one!" I believe I repeated 
the words, "Oh, that it had been but onel" a thousand times; and 
the desires were so moved by it, that when I spoke the words my 
hands would clinch together, and my fingers press the pahns of my 
hands, that if I had had any soft thing in my band, it would have 
crushed it involuntarily; and my teeth in my head would strike 
together, and set against one another so strong, that f or some time 
I could not part them again. 

Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason and 
manner of them. All I can say to them is, to describe the fact, 
which was even snrprising to me when I found it; though I knew 
not from what it should proceed. It was doubtless the efFect of 
ardent wishes and of strong ideas formed in my mind, realizing the 
comfort which the conversation of one of my fellow-Christians 
would have been to me. 

But it was not to be. Either their fate or mine, or both, forbid 
it; for until the last year of my being on this island, I never knew 
whether any were saved out of that ship or no; and had only 
the affliction some days after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy 
come on shore, at the end of the island which was next the ship- 
wreck. He had on no clothes, but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of 
open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to 
direct me so much as to guess what nation he was of. He had 
nothing in his pocket but two pieces of eight and a tobacco pipe. 
The last was to me of ten times more value than the first. 

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my 
boat to this wreck; not doubting that I might find something on 
board that might be useful to me. But that did not altogether 
press me so much as the possibility that there might be yet some 
living creature on board, whose life I might not only save, but 
might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree; 
and this thought clung so to my heart that I could not be quiet, 
night nor day, but I must venture out in my boat on board this 



198 A STRONG IMPRESSION. 

wreck; and committing the rest to God's providence, I thought the 
impression was so strong upon my mind that it could not be re- 
sisted, that it must come from some invisible direction, and that I 
should be wanting to myself if I did not go. 

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my 
Castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of 
bread, a great pot for fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle 
of rum, — for I had still a great deal of that left, — a basket füll of 
raisins. And thus loading myself with everything necessary, I 
went down to my boat, got the water out of her, and got her afloat, 
loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home again for more. 
My second cargo was a great bag füll of rice, the umbrella to set 
up over my head for shade, another large pot füll of fresh water, 
and about two dozen of my sraall loaves, or barley cakes, more 
than before, with a bottle of goat's milk, and a cheese; all which, 
with great labour and sweat, I brought to my boat; and praying 
to God to direct my voyage, I put out, and rowing or paddling tlie 
canoe along the shore, I came at last to the utmost point of the 
island on that side — namely, north-east. And now I was to 
launch out into the ocean, and either to venture, or not to venture. 
I looked on the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides 
of the island, at a distance, and which were very terrible to me, 
from the remembrance of the hazard I had been in before, and my 
heart began to fail me; for I foresaw that if I was driven into 
either of those currents, I should be carried a vast way out to sea, 
and perhaps out of my reach or sight of the island again; and that 
then, as my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should 
rise, I should be inevitably lost. 

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give over 
my enterprise, and having hauled my boat into a little creek on the 
shore, I stepped out, and sat me down upon a little rising bit of 
ground, very pensive and anxious, between fear and desire about 
my voyage ; when, as I was musing, I could perceive that the tide 
was turned and the flood come on, upon which my going was for 
so many hours impracticable. Upon this, presently it occurred to 
me that I should go up to the highest piece of ground I could 
find, and observ^e, if I cöuld, how the sets of the tide or currents 



VISITS THE NEW WRECK. 199 

lay when the flood came in, that I might judge whether, if I was 
driven one way out, I might not expect to be driven another way 
home, with the same rapidness of the currents. This thought was 
no sooner in my head, but I cast my eye upon a little hill, which 
sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I had 
a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and which way I 
was to guide myself in my return. Here I found that as the cur- 
rent of the ebb set out close by the south point of the island, so 
the current of the flood set in close by the shore of the north side, 
and that I had nothing to do but to keep to the north of the island 
in my retum, and I should do weU enough. 

Encouraged with this Observation, I resolved the next morning 
to set out with the first of the tide; and reposing myself for the 
night in the canoe, under the great watch-coat I mentioned, I 
launched out. I made first a little out to sea füll north, tili I 
began to feel the benefit of the current, which set eastward, and 
which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not so hurry me as 
the southem side current had done before, and so as to take from 
me all government of the boat; but having a streng steerage with 
my paddle, I went at a great rate, directly for the wreck, and in 
less than two hours I came up to it. 

It was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which by its build- 
ing was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two rocks; all 
the stem and quarter of her was beaten to pieces with the sea; 
and as her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had nm on with 
great violence, her mainmast and foremast were brought by the 
board — that is to say, broken short off; but her boltsprit was 
sound, and the head and bow appeared firm. When I came close to 
her, a dog appeared upon her, who seeing me Coming, yelped and 
cried; and as soon as I called him, jumped into the sea to come 
to me, and I took him into the boat, but found him almost dead 
for hunger and thirst I gave him a cake of my bread, and he 
ate it like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a fortnight 
in the snow. I then gave the poor creature some fresh water, 
with which, if I would have let him, he would have burst himself. 

After this I went on board ; but the first sight I met with was 
two men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of the ship, 



200 OBTAINS NEW SUPPLIES. 

with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as is indeed 
probable, that when the ship Struck, it being in a storm, the sea 
broke so high and so continually over her, that the men were not 
able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in 
of the water, as much as if they had been ander water. Besides 
the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that had life; nor any 
goods that I could see, but what were spoiled by the water. 
There were some casks of liquor — whether wine or brandy, I knew 
not — which lay lower in the hold, and which, the water being 
ebbed out, I could see; but they were too big to meddle with. 
I saw several chests, which I believed belonged to some of the 
seamen, and I got two of them into the boat, without examining 
what was in them. 

Had the stern of the ship been fixed and the fore part broken 
off, I am persuaded I might have made a good voyage; for by 
what I found in these two chests, I had room to suppose the ship had 
a great deal of wealth on board; and if I may guess by the course 
she steered, she must have been bound from the Buenos Ayres or 
the Bio de la Plata, in the south part of America, beyond the 
Brazils, to the Havannah, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so, perhaps, 
to Spaia She had, no doubt, a great treajsure in her, but of no 
use at that time to anybody; and what became of the rest of her 
people I then knew not. 

I found, besides these chests, a little cask füll of liquor, of about 
twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much difficulty. 
There were several muskets in a cabin, and a great powder-hom, 
with about four pounds of powder in it. As for the muskets, I 
had no occasion for them— so I left them; but took the powder- 
hom. I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted extremely; 
as also two little brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and 
a gridiron. And with this cargo and the dog I came away, the 
tide beginning to make home again. And the same evening, about 
an hour within night, I reached the island again, weary and 
fatigued to the last degree. 

I reposed that night in the boat, and in the moming I resolved 
to harbour what I had gotten in my new cave, not to carry it home 
to my Castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore^ 



AN ISVENTORY. 201 

and began to examino the particulara. The cask of liquor I found 

to be a kind of rum, but not auch as we had at the Brazils — and, 

in a Word, not at all good ; but when I came to open the chesta, 

I foimd several thinga of great uae to me. For example, I found 

in one a fine caae of bottlea, of an extraordinary kind, and filled 

with cordial watere, fine, and veiy good ; the bottlea held about 

three pints each, 

and were tipped 

with silver: I found 

two pots of very 

good Buccadea, or 

Bweetmeata, bo fas- 

tened also on top 

that the Salt water 

had not hurt them; 

and two more of 

the same which the 

wator had spoiled: 

I found some very 

good shirtB, which 

were very welcome 

to me, and about 

a dozen and half 

of linen white 

handkerchiefa, and 

coloured neckclotha — the former were also very welcome, being 

ezceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a bot day: besides thia, 

when I came to the tili in the cheata, I found there three great 

bags of pieces of eight, which held out about eleven hundred piecea 

in all; and in one of them, wrapped up in a paper, aix doubloona 

of gold,' and aome amall bara or wedgea of gold; I auppoae they 

might all weigh near a pound. 

The other ehest I found had some clothes in it, but of little 
value; but by the circumatancea it muat have belonged to the 

J Spanüli gold double 
guinofl«. Pieo» of eigl 
ii M. to U 6d. SBch. 




202 FINDS SOME MONEY. 

gunner*8 mate, though there was no powder in it bat about two 
pound of fine glazed powder in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, 
for charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the whole, I 
got very littie by this voyage that was of any use to me : for as 
to the money, I had no manner of occasion for it; it was to me as 
the dirt under my feet ; and I would have given it all for three or 
four pair of English shoes and stockings, which were things I 
greatly wanted, but had not had on my feet now for many years. 
I had, indeed, gotten two pair of shoes now, which I took off of 
the feet of the two drowned men who I saw in the wreck; and I 
found two pair more in one of the chests, which were very wel- 
come to me; but they were not like our English shoes, either for 
ease or service, being rather what we call pumps than shoes. I 
found in this seaman's ehest about fifty pieces of eight in royals, 
but no gold. I suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the 
other, which seemed to belong to some officer. 

Well, however, I lugged this money home to my cave, and laid 
it up, as I had done that before which I brought from our own 
ship; but it was great pity, as I said, that the other part of this 
ship had not come to my share — for I am satisfied I might have 
loaded my canoe several times over with money, which, if I had 
ever escaped to England, would have lain here safe enough tili I 
might have come again and fetched it. 

Having now brought all my things on shore and secured them, 
I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along the 
shore to her old harbour, where I laid her up, and made the best 
of my way to my old habitation, where I found everything safe 
arid quiet : so I began to repose myself, live af ter my old fashion, 
and take care of my family affairs; and for a while I lived easy 
enough; only that I was more vigilant than I used to be, looked 
out oftener, and did not go abroad so much ; and if at any time I 
did stir with any freedom, it was always to the east part of the 
island, where I was pretty well satisfied the savages never came, 
and where I could go without so many precautions, and such a 
load of arms and ammunition, as I always carried with me if I 
went the other way. 

I lived in this condition near two years more. But my unlucky 



THE PLAGUE OF MANKIND. 203 

head, that was always to let me know it was bom to make my body 
miserable, was all the two years filled with projects and designs 
how, if it were possible, I might get away from this island: for 
sometimes I was for making another voyage to the wreck, though 
my reason told me that there was nothing left there worth the 
hazard of my voyage; sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes 
another; and I believe verily, if I had had the boat that I went 
from Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea, bound anywhere, I 
knew not whither. 

I have been, in all my circumstances, a memento to those who 
are touched with the general plague of mankind, whence, for 
aught I know, one-half of their miseries flow — I mean, that of not 
being satisfied with the Station wherein Grod and nature hath placed 
them. For, not to look back upon my primitive condition, and 
the excellent advice of my father, the Opposition to which was, 
as I may call it, my origincU sin; my subsequent mistakes of the 
same kind had been the means of my Coming into this miserable 
condition : for had that Providence which so happily had seated 
me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me with confined desires, 
and I could have been contented to have gone on gradually, I 
might have been by this time, I mean in the time of my being in 
this island, one of the most considerable planters in the Brazils. 
Nay, I am persuaded that, by the improvements I had made in 
that little time I lived there, and the increase I should probably 
have made if I had stayed, I might have been worth a hundred 
thousand moidores. And what business had I to leave a settled 
fortune, a well-stocked plantation, improving and increasing, to 
tum supercargo to Guinea to fetch negroes, when patience and 
time would have so increased our stock at home that we could 
have bought them at our own door from those whose business it 
was to fetch them ? And though it had cost us something more, 
yet the difFerence of that price was by no means worth saving at 
so great a hazard. 

But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so reflection 
upon the folly of it is as ordinarily the exercise of more years or 
of the dear-bought experience of time. And so it was with me 
now. And yet so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper 



1 



204 PROFITABLE REFLECTIONS. 

that I could not satisfy myself in my Station, bat was continually 
poring upon the means and possibility of my escape from this 
place. And that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader, 
bring on the remaining part of my story, it may not be improper 
to give some account of my first conceptions on the subject of this 
foolish scheme for my escape, and how and upon what foundation 
I acted. 

I am now to be supposed retired into my castle after my late 
voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured ander water 
as usaal, and my condition restored to what it was before. I had 
more wealth, indeed, than I had before, bat was not at all the 
richer: for I had no more ose for it than the Indians of Peru had 
before the Spaniards came there. 

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the four- 
and-twentieth year of my lirst setting foot in this island of solitari- 
ness. I was lying in my bed or hammock awake, very well in 
health; had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body; no, nor 
any uneasiness of mind, more than ordinary: but could by no 
means close my eyes; that is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink all 
night long : otherwise that as f oUows. 

It is as impossible as needless to set down the innumerable 
crowd of thoughts that whirled through that great thoroughfare of 
the brain, the memory, in this night's time. I ran over the whole 
history of my life in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call 
it, to my Coming to this island, and also of the part of my life 
since I came to this island. In my reflectious upon the state of 
my case since I came on shore on this island, I was comparing the 
happy posture of my affairs in the first years of my habitation 
here, compared to the life of anxiety, fear, and care which I had 
lived ever since I had seen the print of a foot in the sand. Not 
that I did not believe the savages had frequented the island even 
all the while, and might have been several hundreds of them at 
times on shore there; but I had never known it, and was incapable 
of any apprehensions about it My satisfaction was perfect, though 
my danger was the same; and I was as happy in not knowing my 
danger as if I had never really been exposed to it This f umished 
my thoughts with many very profitable reflectious, and particularly 



» 



HIS GREAT SECURTTY. 205 

this one : How infinitely good that Providence is which has pro- 
vided, in its govemment of mankind, Buch narrow bounds to his 
sight and knowledge of things; and though he walks in the midst 
of so many thousand dangers, the sight of which, if discovered to 
him, would distract his mind and sink his spirits, he is kept serene 
and calm by having the events of things hid from his eyes, and 
knowing nothing of the dangers which Surround him. 

After these thoughts had for some tinuB entertained me, I came 
to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been in for so many 
years in this very island, and how I had walked about in the 
greatest security and with all possible tranquillity, even when 
perhaps nothing but a brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual 
approach of night, had been between me and the worst kind of 
destruction; namely, that of falling into the hands of cannibals and 
savages, who would have seized on me with the same view as I 
did of a goat or a tui-tle, and have thought it no more a crime to 
kill and devour me than I did of a pigeon or a curlew. I would 
unjustly Blander myself if I should say I was not sincerely thank- 
ful to my great Preserver, to whose singular protection I acknow- 
ledged, with great humility, that all these unknown deliveraiices 
were due, and without which I must inevitably have fallen into 
their merciless hands. 

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time 
taken up in considering the nature of these wretched creatures, I 
mean, the savages; and how it came to pass in the world that the 
wise Govemor of all things should give up any of his creatures to 
such inhumanity, nay, to something sa much below even brutality 
itself, as to devour its own kind. But as this ended in some, at 
that time fruitless, speculations, it occurred to me to inquire what 
part of the world these wretches lived in; how far off the coast 
was from whence they came; what they ventured over so far from 
home for; what kind of boats they had; and why I might not 
Order myself and my business so that I might be as able to go 
over thither as they were to come to me. 

I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should 
do with myself when I came thither, what would become of me if 
I feil into the hands of the savages, or how I should escape fiom 



206 MENTAL EXCITEMENT. 

them if they attempted me ; no, nor so much as how it was possible 
for me to reach the coast and not be attempted by some or other 
of them without any possibility of delivering myself; and if I 
should not fall into their hands, what I should do for provision, or 
whither I should bend my course; — none of these thoughts, I say, 
so mach as came in my way, but my mind was whoUy bent upon 
the notion of my passing over in my boat to the mainland. I 
looked back upon my present condition as the most miserable that 
could possibly be : that I was not able to throw myself into any- 
thing but death that could be called worse; that if I reached the 
shore of the main I might perhaps meet with relief, or I might 
coast along, as I did on the shore of Africk, tili I came to some 
inhabited country, and where I might find some relief ; and, after 
aU, perhaps I might fall in with some Christian ship that might 
take me in; and if the worse came to the worst I could but die, 
which would put an end to all these miseries at once. Pray note, 
all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind, an impatient temper, 
made as it were desperate by the long continuance of my troubles, 
and the disappointmeats I had met in the wreck I had been on 
board of, and where I had been so near the obtaining what I so 
earnestly longed for, namely, somebody to speak to, and to leam 
some knowledge from of the place where I was, and of the probable 
means of my deliverance: I say, I was agitated wholly by these 
thoughts; aU my calm of mind in my resignation to Providence, 
and waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be 
suspended; and I had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts 
to anything but to the project of a voyage to the main, which 
came upon me with such force and such an impetuosity of desire 
that it was not to be resisted. 

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more 
with such violence that it set my very blood into a ferment, and 
my pulse beat as high as if I had been in a fever, merely with the 
extraordinary fervour of my mind about it — nature, as if I had 
been fatigued and exhausted with the very thought of it, threw 
me into a sound sleep. One would have thought I should have 
dreamed of it; but I did not, nor of anything relating to it But 
I dreamed that as I was going out in the moming as usual from 



A DREAM. 207 

my Castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages 
Coming to land, and that they brought with them another savage,' 
who they were going to kill in order to eat him; when on a 
sudden the savage that they were going to kill jumped away and 
ran for his life. And I thought in my sleep that he came running 
into my little thick grove before my fortification to hide himself ; 
and that I, seeing him alone, and not pereeiving that the others 
sought him that way, showed myself to him, and, smiling upon 
him, encouraged him: that he kneeled down to me, seeming to 
pray me to assist him; upon which I showed my ladder, made him 
go up, and carried him into my cave, and he became my servant : 
and that, as soon as I had gotten this man I said td myself; Now 
I may certainly venture to the mainland, for this fellow will serve 
me as a pilot, and will teil me what to do, and whither to go for 
provisions, and whither not to go for fear of being devoured; what 
places to venture into, and what to escape. — I waked with this 
thought^ and was under such inexpressible impressions of joy at 
the prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disappointments 
which I feit upon coming to myself and finding it was no more 
than a dream were equally extravagant the other way, and threw 
me into a very great dejection of spirit. 

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that my only way 
to go about an attempt for an escape was, if possible, to get a 
savage into my possession, and, if possible, it should be one of 
their prisoners who they had condemned to be eaten and should 
bring thither to kilL But these thoughts still were attended with 
this difficulty, that it was impossible to effect this without attack- 
ing a whole caravan of them, and killing them alL And this was 
not only a very desperate attempt and might miscarry, but, on the 
other band, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to me; and 
my heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding so much blood, 
though it was for my deliverance. I need not repeat the argu- 
ments which occurred to me against this, they being the same 
mentioned before. But though I had other reasons to offer now 
— namely, that those men were enemies to my life, and would 
devour me if they could; that it was self-preservation in the 
highest degree to deliver mvself from this death of a life, and was 



208 A NEW RESOLVE. 

acting in my own defence as much as if they were actually assault- 
ing me, and the like; — I say, though these tbings argued for it, 
yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for my deliverance 
were very terrible to me, and such as I could by no means recoo- 
cile myself to a great while. 

However, at last, after many secret disputes with myself, and 
after great perplexities about it — for all these arguments one waj 
and another struggled in my head a long time — the eager, prevail- 
ing dosire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest, and I 
resolved, if possible, to get one of those savages into my hands, 
cost what it would. My next thing then was to contrive how to 
do it; and this, indeed, was very difficult to resolve on. But as 
I could pitch upon no probable means for it, so I resolved to put 
myself upon the watch to see them when they came on shore, and 
leave the rest to the event, taking such measures as the opportuoitj 
should present, let be what would be. 

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon the 
scout as often as possible; and indeed so often tiU I was heartüy 
tired of it, for it was above a year and half that I waited, and 
for great part of that time went out to the west end and to the 
south-west corner of the island almost every day to see for canoes, 
but none appeared. This was very discouraging, and began to 
trouble me much; though I cannot say that it did in this caseas 
it had done some time before that— namely, wear off the edge of 
my desire to the thing. But the longer it seemed to be delayed, 
the more eager I was for it: in a word, I was not at first so care- 
ful to shun the sight of these savages, and avoid being seen by 
them, as I was now eager to be upon them. 

Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two or three 
savages, if I had them, so as to make them entirely slaves to me, 
to do whatever I should direct them, and to prevent their being 
able at any time to do me any hurt It was a great while that 1 
pleased myself with this affair ; but nothing still presented. All 
my fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no savages came near 
me for a great while. 

About a year and half after I had entertained these uotions, 
and by long musing had, as it were, resolved them all into uothiDg 



THE SAVAGES LAND. 209 

; of an occasion to put them in execution, I was surprised 
ning early with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore 

on my side the Island, and the people who belonged to 

landed and out of my sightl The number of them broke 
measures; for seeing so many, and knowing that they 
.ame four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not 
it to think of it, or how to take my measures to attack 
>r thirty men single-handed; so I lay still in my castle, 
id and discomforted. However, I put myself into all the 
stures for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was 
ly for action if anything had presented. Having waited 
rhile, listening to hear if they made any noise, at length, 
sry impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and 
ed up to the top of the hill by my two stages, as usual; 
; so, however, that my head did not appear above the hill, 
hey could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed, 
lelp of my perspective-glass, that they were no less than 
i number, that they had a fire kindled, that they had had 
sssed. How they had cooked it, that I knew not, or what 
but they were all dancing, in I know not how many bar- 
lestures and figures, their own way round the fire. 
; I was thus looking on them I perceived by my perspec- 
) miserable wretches dragged from the boats, where it 
bey were laid by, and were now brought out for the 
r. I perceived one of them immediately feil, being 

down, I suppose, with a club or wooden sword, — for that 
r way, — and two or three others were at work immediately 
him open for their cookery, while the other victim was 
iding by himself tiU they should be ready for him. In 
y moment this poor wretch, seeing himself a little at 
nature inspired him with hopes of lifo, and he started 
•m them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands 
towards me; I mean, towards that part of the coast where 
tation was. 

dreadfuUy frighted, that I must acknowledge, when I 
1 him to run my way; and especially when, as I thought, 
m pursued by the whole body ; and now I expected that 

B) o 



210 A SAVAOS ESCAPBS. 

part of my dream was ooming to pass, and that he would cer 
take aheiter in my grove; but I could not depend by any i 
upon my dream for the rest of it — namely, that the other ss 
would not pursue him thither and find him there. How€ 
kept my Station, and my spirits began to recover when I 
that there were not above three men that foUowed him; an« 
more was I encouraged, when I found that he outstripped 
exceedingly in running, and gained ground of them, so that 
could but hold it for half an hour, I saw easily he would fair 
away from them alL 

There was between them and my castle the creek, which I 
tioned often at the first part of my story, when I landed m 
goes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must neces 
swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken there. But 
the savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, tl 
the tide was then up, but plunging in, swam through in 
thirty strokes or thereabouts, landed and ran on with exce 
strength and swiftness. When the three persons came t 
creek, I found that two of them could swim, but the third 
not, and that Standing on the other side, he looked at the 
but went no farther; and soon after went softly back agaiD, ^ 
as it happened, was very well for him in the main. 

I observed that the two who swam were yet more than 
as long swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled 
them. It came now very warmly upon my thoughts, and i 
irresiBtibly, that now was my time to get me a Borvant, m 
haps a companion or assistant; and that I was called plaii 
Providence to save this poor creature's life. I immediate 
down the ladders with all possible expedition, fetches m 
guns, for they were both but at the foot of the ladders 
observed above; and getting up again with the same haste 
top of the hill, I crossed toward the sea; and having a very 
cut and all down hill, clapped myself in the way between tL 
suers and the pursued; hallooing aloud to him that fled^ 
looking back, was at first perhaps as much frighted at 
at them: but I beckoned with my band to him to come 
and in the meantime I slowly advanced towards the two tl 



CKUSOE HXEtB ntlDAV. 



SU 



lowed; theu nuihing at onoe upon the foremost, I knocked him 
down with the stock of my piece. I was loath to fire, because I 
would not have the rest hear; though at that distance it vould 
not have been easily lieard, and betng out of sight of the Bmoke 
too, they vould not have eaaily known what to make of it. Hav- 




ing knocked this fellow down, the other who puraued with him 
stopped, BS if he had been frighted, and I advanced apace towards 
him; bat aa I came nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow 
and arrow, and was iitting it to shoot at me; bo I was theo neces- 
sitated to shoot at him firet, which I did and killed him at the 
first shoot The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though 
he iaw both bis enemies fallen, and killed, as he thought, yet was 
so frighted with the 6re and noise of my piece, that he etood 
etockstiU, and neither came forward nor went backward, though 



212 FRIDA Y*S ALARM. 

he seemed rather inclined to fly still than to come on. 1 hallooed 
again to him, and made signs to come forward, which he easily 
understood, and came a little way, then stopped again, and then 
a little farther, and stopped again, and I could then perceive that 
he stood trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and had just 
been to be killed as bis two enemies were. I beckoned hun again 
to come to me, and gave him all the signs of encouragement that 
I could think of, and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down 
every ten or twelve steps in token of acknowledgment for my sa?- 
ing bis life. I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned 
to him to come still nearer. At length he came close to me, and 
then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid bis head 
upon the ground, and taking me by the foot, set my foot upon 
bis head : this, it seems, was in token of swearing to be my slave 
for ever. I took him up and made much of him, and encouraged 
him all I could. But there was more work to do yet; for I per- 
ceived the savage whom I knocked down was not killed, but 
stunned, with the blow, and began to come to himself; so I 
pointed to him, and showing him tbe savage, that he was not 
dead. Upon this he spoke some words to me, and though I could 
not understand them yet I thought they were pleasant to hear, 
for they were the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, 
my own excepted, for above twenty-five years. But there was no 
time for such reflections now. The savage who was knocked down 
recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the ground, and I per- 
ceived that my savage began to be afraid ; but when I saw that, 
I presented my other piece at the man, as if I would sboot him- 
Upon this my savage, for so I called him now, made a motion to 
me to lend him my sword, wliich hung naked in a belt by my 
side; so I did. He no sooner had it, but he runs to bis enemv, 
and at one blow cut oflF his head as cleverly, no executioner in 
Germany could have done it sooner or better; which I thought 
very stränge for one who I had reason to believe never saw a 
sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords. How- 
ever, it seems, as I leamed afterwards, they made their wooden 
swords so Sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard,that they will 
cut off heads even with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow 



THE SA VAGES BURIED. 213 

When he had done this, he coraes laughing to me in sign of 
ik, and brooght me the sword again, and with abundance of 
es, which I did not understand, laid it down with the head 
savage that he had kiUed just before ma 
that which astonished him most, was to know how I had 
the other Indian so f ar off So pointing to him, he made 
o me to let him go to him; so I bade him go as well as I 
When he came to him he stood like one amazed, looking 
» tumed him first on one side, then on the other, looked at 
and the bullet had made, which it seems was just in bis 
where it had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood 
llowed; but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. 
k up bis bow and arrows and came back, so I tumed to go 
und beckoned to him to follow me, making signs to him 
ore might come after them. 

Q this he signed to me that he should bury them with sand, 
ley might not be seen by the rest if they followed; and so 
i signs again to him to do so. He feil to work, and in an 
he had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big 
i to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and 
i him, and did so also by the other. I believe he had 
them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away 
id him, not to my Castle, but quite away to my cave, on the 
part of the island. So I did not let my dream come to 
that part; namely, that he came ihto my grove for shelter. 
i I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a 
t of water, which I found he was indeed in great distress 
his running. And having refreshed him, I made signs for 
go lie down and sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid 
parcel of rice straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to 
pon myself sometimes; so the poor creature lay down and 
> sleep. 

ras a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with 
b strong limbs, not too large, tall and well shaped, and as I 
aboat twenty-six years of age. He had a very good coun- 
!, not a fierce and surly aspect; but seemed to have some- 
9ry manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness and 




but of a bright kind of a dan olive colonr, that had in it • 
thing veiy agreeable, thougb not vary easy to deacribe. Hi> 
was round and plump; liis noae small, not flat like tlie n^rt» 



HIS SUBMISSION. 215 

last he lays his head flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and 
sets my other foot upon bis head, as he had done before; and 
after this made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and 
Submission imaginable, to let me know how he would serve me as 
long as he lived. I understood bim in many tbings, and let bim 
know I was very well pleased witb bim. In a little time I began 
to speak to bim, and teacb bim to speak to me. And first, I 
made bim know his name should be Friday, which was the day I 
saved bis life. I called bim so for the memory of the time. I 
likewise taught bim to say Master, and then let bim know that 
was to be my name. I likewise taught bim to say Yes and No, 
and to know the meaning of them. I gave bim some milk in an 
eartben pot, and let bim see me drink it before bim, and sop my 
bread in it And I gave bim a cake of bread to do the like, which 
be quickly complied witb, and made signs that it was very good 
for bim. 

I kept there witb bim all that night; but as soon as it was day I 
beckoned to bim to come with me, and let bim know I would give 
bim some clothes; at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark 
naked. As we went by the place where be had buried the two 
men he pointed exactly to the place, and showed me the marks 
that be had made to find them again, making signs to me that we 
should dig them up again and eat theml At this I appeared very 
angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, made as if I would vomit at 
the thoughts of it, and beckoned witb my band to bim to come 
away; which he did immediately, with great Submission. I then 
led bim up to the top of the hill, to see if bis enemies were gone; 
and, pulling out my glass, I looked and saw plainly the place 
where they had been, but no appearance of them, or of their canoes; 
so that it was piain that they were gone, and had left their two 
comrades bebind them, without any search after them. 

But I was not content witb this discovery; but having now 
more courage, and consequently more curiosity, I takes my man 
Friday with me, giving bim the sword in his band with the bow 
and arrowB at bis back, which I found he could use very dexter- 
oiisly, making bim carry one gun for me, and I two for myself, 
and away we marched to the place where these creatures had been, 



216 A BRUTAL FEAST. 

for I had a mind now to get some fuller intelligence of them. 
When I came to the place, my very blood ran chül in my veins, 
and my heart Bunk within me at the horror of the spectacle. In- 
deed it was a dreadful sight — at least it was so to me; though 
Friday made nothing of it. The place was covered with human 
bones, the ground dyed with their blood, great pieces of flesh left 
here and there, half-eaten, mangled and scorched; and, in short, 
all the tokens of the triumphant feast they had been making there, 
af ter a victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five hands, 
änd the bonos of three or four legs and feety and abundance of 
other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me under- 
stand that they brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that 
three of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself, was 
the f ourth : That there had been a great battle between them and 
their next king, whose subjects it seems he had been one of ; and 
that they had taken a great number of prisoners, all which were 
carried to several places by those that had taken them in the fight, 
in Order to feast upon them, as was done here by these wretches 
upon those they brought hither. 

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and what- 
ever remained, and lay them together on a heap, and make a great 
fire upon it, and bum them all to ashes. I found Friday had still 
a hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a can- 
nibal in his nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the 
very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he durst 
not discover it; for I had by some means let him know that I 
would kill him if he offered it 

When we had done this, we came back to our Castle, and there 
I feil to work for my man Friday; and first of all I gave him a 
pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's ehest 
I mentioned, and which I found in the wreck, and which with a 
little alteration fitted him very welL Then I made him a jerkin 
of goat-skin, as well as my skill would allow, and I was now grown 
a tolerable good tailor; and I gave him a cap which I had made 
of a hare-skin, very convenient and fashionable enough; and thus 
he was clothed for the present tolerably well, and was mighty well 
pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his master. It is 



CRÜSOE'S PRECAUnONS. 217 

true, he went awkwardly in these things at first: wearing the 
drawers was very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat 
galled his Shoulders and the inside of his arms; but a little eas- 
ing them where he complained they hurt him, and using himself 
to them, at length he took to them very weil 

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, I began 
to consider where I should lodge him; and that I might do well 
for him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for 
him in the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the inside 
of the last, and in the outside of the first. And as there was a 
door or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed door- 
case, and a door to it of boards, and set it np in the passage, 
a little within the entrance; and causing the door to open on the 
inside, I barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so 
that Friday oould no way come at me in the inside of my inner- 
most wall without making so much noise in getting over, that it 
must needs waken me. For my first wall had now a complete 
roof over it of long poles covering all my tent, and leaning up to 
the side of the hill, which was again laid cross with smaller sticks 
instead of laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the 
rice straw, which was strong like reeds; and at the hole or place 
which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed sl kind 
of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would 
not have opened at all, but would have fallen down and made a 
great noise; and as to weapons, I took them all in to my side 
every night 

But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a 
more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday was to me; 
withöut passions, sullenness, or designs, perfectly obliged and 
engaged; his very affections were tied to me, like those of a child 
to a father, and I daresay he would have sacrificed his lifo for 
the saving mine upon any occasion whatsoever. The many testi- 
monies he gave me of this, put it out of doubt, and soon convinced 
me that I needed to use no precautions as to my safety on his 
account 

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with 
wonder, that however it had pleased God, in his providence, and 



218 SOVEREIGNTY OF GOD. 

in the government of the works of bis hands, to take from so great 
a part of the world of his creatures the best uses to which their 
faculties and the powers of their souIb are adapted; yet that he 
has bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the 
same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and Obligation, 
the same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same sense of 
gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good 
and receiving good, that he has given to us; and that when he 
pleases to offer to them occasions of exerting these, they are as 
ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to the right nses for which 
they were bestowed than we are. And this made me very melan- 
choly sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions presented, 
how mean a use we make of all these, even though we have these 
powers enlightened by the great Lamp of instruction, the Spirit 
of God, and by the knowledge of his Word, added to our under- 
Standing; and why it has pleased God to hide the like saving know- 
ledge from so many millions of souls, who, if I might judge by this 
poor savage, would make a much better use of it than we did. 

From hence I sometimes was led too far, to invade the sore- 
reignty of Providence, and, as it were, arraign the justice of so 
arbitrary a disposition of things, that should hide that light from 
some, and reveal it to others, and yet ezpect a like duty from both« 
But I shut it up, and checked my thoughts with this conclusion : 
first, That we did not know by what light and law these should 
be condemned ; but that as God was necessarily, and by the nature 
of his being, infinitely holy and just, so it could not be but that 
if these creatures were all sentenced to absence from himself, it 
was on account of sinning against that light which, as the Scrip- 
ture says, was a law to themselves; and by such rules as their 
consciences would acknowledge to be just, though the foundation 
was not discovered to us. And, secondly, That still as we are all 
the clay in the band of the Potter, no vessel could say to him, 
Why hast thou formed me thus) 

But to return to my new companion. I was greatly delighted 
with him, and made it my business to teach him everything that 
was proper to make him useful, handy, and helpful; but especially 
to make him speak, and understand me when I spake : and he was 



LESSONS FOR FRIDAT. 219 

si Scholar that ever was, and particularly was so merry, so 
\j diligent, and so pleased, when he could but understand 
lake me understand him, that it was very pleasant to me 

him. And now my lif e began to be so easy, that I began 
to myseli, that could I but have been safe from more 

1 cared not if I was never to remove from the place while 

I had been two or three days retumed to my castle, I 
that^ in order to bring Friday off from bis horrid way of 
and from the relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let 
» other flesh; so I took him out with me one moming to 
d& I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own 
id bring him home and dress it; but, as I was going, I saw 
at lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting 
I catched hold of Friday. "Hold," says I, "stand still;" 
ie signs to him not to stir. Immediately I presented my 
bot, and killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who 
a distance indeed seen me kill the savage his enemy, but 
know, or could imagine, how it was done, was sensibly 
d, trembled, and shook, and looked so amazed, that I 
he would have sunk down« He did not see the kid I had 
or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat to 
le was not wounded, and, as I found, presently thought I 
olved to kill him; for he came and kneeled down to me, 
bracing my knees, said a great many things I did not 
and, but I could easily see that the roeaning was to pray 
to kill him. 

m found a way to convince him that I would do him no 
nd taking him up by the band, laughed at him, and point- 
the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and 
, which he did; and while he was wondering and looking 
bow the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again, and 
by I saw a great fowl like a hawk sit upon a tree within 
0, to let Friday understand a Uttle what I would do, I 
lim to me again, pointing at the fowl, which was indeed a 
though I thought it had been a hawk. I say, pointing to 
rot, and to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, 



i 



220 



FRIDAyS AUAZEHBNT. 



to let him aee I would make it fall, I made him undenti 
I wonld ehoot and kill that bird. Accordingly I fired, i 
him look, and immediately he saw the parrot fall. Ue et 
one frighted again, notwithatanding all I had said to hin 
found he was the more amazed because he did not see 
anything into the gun, but thought that there must 




wonderfnl futid of death and deBtniction in that thing, ali 
man, beast, bird, or anything, near or far oS; and the 
taent this created in him was auch as could not wear 
long time; and I believe, if I would have let him, he wo 
worshipped me and my gun ! As for the gun itself, he v 
80 much as touch it for Beveral daya after; but would sp 
and talk to it as if it had anewered him, when he was by 
which, as I afterwards leamed of him, was to deeire it n 



f' 



HE IS SET TO WORK. 221 

Well, after his astonishment was a Utile over at this, I pointed 
to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot; which he did, but 
stayed some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, was 
fluttered a good way oflf from the place where she feil ; however, 
he found her, took her up, and brought her to me; and, as I had 
perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took this advantage 
to Charge the gun again, and not let him see me do it, that I might 
be rcady for any other mark that might present. But nothing 
more offered at that time ; so I brought home the kid, and the 
same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I could ; 
and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the 
flesh, and made some very good broth ; and after I had begun to 
eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of it, 
and liked it very well. But that which was strängest to him was 
to see me eat salt with it He made a sign to me that the salt 
was not good to eat, and putting a little into his own mouth, he 
seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing 
his mouth with fresh water after it. On the other band, I took 
some meat in my mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit and 
sputter for want of salt as fast as he had done at the salt But it 
would not do, he would never care for salt with his meat, or in 
his broth ; at least, not a great while, and then but a very little. 

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved 
to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid. This 
I did by hanging it before the fire in a string, as I had seen many 
people do in England, setting two poles up, one on each side the 
fire, and one cross on the top, and tying the string to the cross- 
stick, letting the meat tum continually. This Friday admired 
very much; but, when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many 
ways to teil me how well he liked it, that I could not but under- 
stand him; and at last he told me he would never eat man's flesh 
any more — which I was very glad to hear. 

The next day I set him to work to beating some com out, and 
sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and he 
soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had 
Seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread 
of ; for after that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it 



933 



FRIDAY IS TAUCHT. 



too, «nd in a. little tiine Friday wu able to do all ths work foi me 
u well as I could do it mysell 

I iMgan now to conaider that, having two mouths to feed iaitai 
of one, I muBt proride more grooiid for my harveat, and plmt > 
larger quantity of com than I lued to do; so I marked out ah^ 
piece of land, and began the fence in the same manner as bebst; 




in which Friday not only worked very willingly and vety har4 ^ 
did it very cheerfully. And I told him what it was for; tbif 
waa for com to make more bread, because he was now witb ii>*i 
and that I inight have enough for him and myself toa Ho »P" 
pcared very sensible of that part, and let me know that he thmp 
I had much more labour upon me on his account than I h*l fw 
myaelf ; and that he would work the harder for me, if I wouU '^ 
him what to do. 

This was the pleaeanteat year of all the life I led in thia pl*'^ 
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the nainea li 



HB IS INTERROGATED. 233 

erjthing I had occasion to call for, and of every place I 
end him to, and talk a great deal to me; so that, in 
>egan now to have some use for my tongue again, which 
had very little occasion for before — that is to say, about 
Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular 
»n in the fellow himself. His simple unfeigned honesty 
to me more and more every day, and I began really to 
Creatore; and, on his side, I believe he loved me more 
as possible for him ever to love anything before. 
i mind once to try if he had any hankering inclination to 
comitry again; and having leamed him English so well 
could answer me almost any questions, I asked him 
the nation that he belonged to never conquered in battlel 
1 he smiled, and said, "Yes, yes; we always fight the 
that is, he meant always get the better in fight; and so 
Q the following discourse: — "You always fight the 
iiid I^ ''how came you to be taken prisoner, then, 

My nation beat much, for all that 

How beat ; if your nation beat them, how come you to 
I 

. They more many than my nation in the place where 
they take one, two, three, and me. My nation over beat 
he yonder place, where me no was; there my nation take 
great thousand. 

But why did not your side recover you from the hands 
nemies thenl 

They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in the 
y nation have no canoe that time. 

Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the 

take; do they carry them away and eat them, as these 

Yes; my nation eat maus too, eat all up. 
. Where do they carry them? 
. Go to other place where they think. 
. Do they come hither? 
. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other eise place. 



224 FRIDAY*S INFORMATION. 

Master. Have you been here with them? 

Friday, Yes, I been here (points to the north-west aide of the 
island, which it seems was their side). 

By this I understood that my man Friday had fonnerly been 
among the savages who used to come on shore on the farther part 
of the Island on the said man-eating occasions that he was now 
brought for. And some time after, when I took the courage to 
carry him to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned, he 
presently knew the place, and told me he was there once when 
they eat up twenty men, two women, and one child. He could 
not teil twenty in English ; but he numbered them by la3dng so 
many stones on a row, and pointing to me to teil them over. 

I have told this passage because it introduces what foUows; 
that, after I had had this discourse with him, I asked him how far 
it was from our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were 
not often lost) He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever 
lost; but that, after a little way out to the sea, there was a current, 
and a wind, always one way in the morning, the other in the 
aftemoon. 

This I understood to be no more than the sets of the tide, as 
going out, or Coming in. But I afterwards understood it was 
occasioned by the great draught and reflux of the mighty river 
Orinoco, in the mouth or the gulf of which river, as I found after- 
wards, our island lay; and this land which I perceived to the west 
and north-west was the great island Trinidad, on the north point 
of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand questions 
about the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what 
uations were near. He told me all he knew with the greatest 
openness imaginable. I asked him the names of the several 
nations of his sort of people, but could get no other name than 
Caribs; from whence I easily understood that these were the 
Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of America which 
reaches from the mouth of the river Orinoco to Guiana, and 
onwards to St. Martha. He told me that up a great way beyoiid 
the moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must 
be west from their country, there dwelt white bearded men like 
me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before; 



] 



HOPES OF ESCAPfi. 225 

and that they had killed much maus, — that was bis word. By all 
which I understood he meant the Spaniards^ whose cruelties in 
America had been spread over the Whole countries, and were 
remembered by all the nations from father to son. 

I enquired if he could teil me how I might come from tbis 
island, and get among those white men. He told me, " Yes, yes, 
I might go in two canoe." I could not understand what he 
meant, or make bim describe to me what he meant by two canoe, 
tili at last, with great difficulty, I found he meant it must be in a 
large, great boat, as big as two canoes. 

This part of Frida/s discoorse began to relish with me very 
well, and from this time I entertaiüed some hopes that, one time 
or other, I might find an opportunity to make my escape from 
this place, and that this poor savage might be a means to help me 
to do it. 

During the long time that Friday has now been with me, and 
that he began to speak to me, and Understand me, I was not 
wanting to lay a foondation of religiotis knowiedge in bis mind 
Particularly, I asked him one time, "Who made bim?" The poor 
creature did not understand me at all, but thought I had asked 
who was bis father f But I took it by another handle, and asked 
him who made the sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills 
and woodsl He told me it was one old Benamuckee, that lived 
beyond all. He could describe notliing of this great person, but 
that he was very old; much older, he said, than the sea or the 
land, than the moon or the stars. I asked him then, " If this old 
person had made all things, why did not all things worship him?'' 
He looked very grave, and with a perfect look of innocence said, 
"All things said to him." I asked him if the people who die 
in bis country went away anjrwhere? He said, "Yes; they all 
went to Benamuckee." Then I asked him whether these they eat 
up went thither tool He said, "Yes." 

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowiedge of 

Ithe true God. I told him that the great Maker of all things lived 

kp there, pointing up towards heaven; that he governs the world 

iy the same power and providence by which he had made it; that 

\d was omnipotent — could do everything fot us, give everything to 

(248) P 



I 



226 RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION. 

US, take everything from us : and thus, by degrees, I opeued bis 
eyes. He listened with great attention, and received with pleasure 
the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us; and of the 
manner of making our prayers to God, and bis being able to hear 
US, even into heaven. He told me one day that if our God could 
hear us up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than 
their Benamuckee, who lived but a little way ofF, and yet could 
not hear, tili they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt, 
to speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to 
bim? He said, "No, they never went that were young men;" 
none went thither but the old men, who he called their Oowookakee 
— that is, as I made him explain it to me, their religious, or clergy ; 
and that they went to say (so he called saying prayers), and 
then came back and told them what Benamuckee said. By this I 
observed that there is priestcraft even amongst the most blinded 
ignorant pagans in the world; and the policy of making a secret 
religion, in order to preserve the veneration of the people to the 
clergy, is not only to be found in the Eoman, but perhaps among 
all religions in the world, even among the most brutish and bar- 
barous savages. 

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday, and told 
him that the pretence of their old men going up to the mountains 
to say to their god Benamuckee was a cheat, and their bringing 
Word from thence what he said wajs much more so; that if they 
met with any answer, or spoke with fpiy one there, it must be with 
an evil spirit And then I entered into a long discourse with him 
about the devil — the original of him, his rebellion against God, bis 
enmity to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark 
parts of the world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God ; 
and the many stratagems he made use of to delude mankind tp 
their ruin — how he had a secret access to our passions, and to our 
aifections, to adapt his snares so to our inclinations as to cause us 
even to be our own tempters, and to run upon our destruction by 
our own choice. 

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind 
about the devil ajs it was about the being of a God. Nature 
assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even the necessity of 



FRroAY S REASONING. 227 

»great first Cause and ovemiling governing Power, a secret direct- 
ing Prondence, and of the equity and justice of paying homage to 
iüm that made us, and the like. But there appeared nothing of 
lü this in the notion of an evil spirit, of his original, his being, 
bii nature, and, above all, of his inclination to do evil, and to 
linw Qs in to do so too; and the poor creature puzzled me once 
(D roch a manner, by a question merely natural and innocent, that 
[ scirce knew what to say to him. I had been talking a great 
ittl to him of the power of God, his omnipotence, his dreadful 
iTersion to sin, his being a consuming fire to the workers of 
niqoity; how, as he had made us all, he could destroy us and all 
i^ World in«a moment; and he listened with great seriousness to 
ne all the whila 

After this I had been telling him how the devil was God's 
nemy in the hearts of men, and used all his malice and skill to 
lefeat the good designs of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of 
-hrist in the World, and the like. "Well," says Friday; "but 
roQ saj God is so streng, so great, is he not much streng, much 
night as the devill" "Yes, yes," says I, "Friday, God is 
troDger than the devil, God is above the devil, and therefore we 
nj to God to tread him down under our feet, and enable us to 
esst his temptations, and quench his fiery darts.'' "But," says 
IC again, " if God much streng, much might as the devil, why God 
kill the devil, so make him no more do wickedl" 

I was strangely surprised at his question; and, after all, though 

was now an old man, yet I was but a young doctor, and ill 
Dodgh qualified for a casuist, or a solver of difficulties. And at 
nt I could not teil what to say ; so I pretended not to hear him, 
od asked him what he said. But he was too eamest for an 
nswer to forget his question; so that he repeated it in the very 
ime broken words as above. By this time I had recovered my- 
üf a litUe, and I said, " God will at last punish him severely ; he 

reserved for the judgment, and is to be cast into the bottomless 
t to dwell with everlasting fire." This did not satisfy Friday; 
rt he retums upon me, repeating my words, " * Reserve — at last,' 
5 DO understand. But why not kill the devil now, not kill 
»it agot" " You may as well ask me," said I, " why God does 



228 THE NOTIONS OF NATÜRR 

not kill you and me when wb do wicked things here that offend 
him. We are preserved to repent and be pardoned." He muses 
a while at this. "Well, well," says he, mighty afFectionately, 
"that well; so you, I, devil, all wicked, all preserve, repent, God 
pardon all/' Here I was run down again by him to the last 
degree; and it was a testimony to me how the mere notions of 
nature, though they will guids reasonable creatures to the know- 
ledge of a God, and oi a worship or homage due to the supreme 
being of God, as the consequence of onr nature, yet nothing but 
divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of 
a redemption purchased for us, of a Mediator of the new covenant^ 
and of an Intercessor at the footstool of God's throne; — I say, 
nothing but a revelation from heaven can form these in the soul; 
and that, therefore, the Gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus 
Christ, I mean the Word of God, and the Spirit of God, promised 
for the guide and sanctifier of his people, are the absolutely 
necessary iustructors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge 
of God and the means ßi salvation. 

I therefore diverted the present dipcourse between me and my 
man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden occasion of going 
out; then sending him for something a good way ofF, I seriously 
prayed to God that he would enable me to instruct savingly this 
poor savage; assisting, by his Spirit, the heart of the poor ignorant 
creature to reeeive the light of the knowledge of God in Christ, 
reconciling him to himself ; and would guide me to speak so to him 
from the Word of God, as his conscience might be convinced, his 
eyes opened, and his soul saved. When he came again to me I 
entered into a long discourse with him upon the subject of the 
redemption of man by the Saviour of the World, and of the 
doctrine of the gospel preached from Heaven; namely, of repent- 
ance towards God and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then 
explained to him, as well as I could, why our blessed Redeemer 
took not on him the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham, 
and how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the 
redemption; that he came only to the lost sheep of the house of 
Israel, and the like. 

I had, God knows, morö öincerity than knowledge iti all the 




A S90R8T JOY. 229 

{or this poor prefttore's instruction; and rnust 
lat I believe all that act upon the same principle 
i laying things open to him, I really informed and 
If in many things that either I did not know or 
)nfiidered before, but which occurred naturally to 
my searching into them for the information of this 
nd I had more affection in my inquiry after things 
Ion than ever I feit before; so that whether this 
h was the better for me or no, I had great reason 
that ever he came to me. My grief set lighter 
kbitation grew comfortable to me beyond measure; 
lected that in this solitary life which I had been 
tiad not only been moved myself to look up to 
seek to the band that had brought me there, but 
nade an instrument under Providence to save the 
ght I know, the soul of a poor savage, and bring 
3 knowledge of religion and of the Christian doc- 
night know Christ Jesus, to know whom is life 
, when I reflected upon all these things, a secret 

every part of my soul; and I frequently rejoiced 
is brought to this place, which I had so often 
>8t dreadful of all afflictions that could possibly 
e. 

dul frame I continued all the remainder of my 
Konversation which employed the hours between 
was such aa made the three years which we lived 
>erfectly and completely happy, if any such thing 
pine^s can be formed in a sublunary state. The 
a good Christian — a much better than I, though 
► hope, and bless God for it, that we were equally 
Doiorted, restored penitents; we had here the Word 
and no farther ofif from his Spirit to instruct than 
in England. 

lied myself to reading the Scripture, to let him 
a I could, the meaning of what I read; and he, 
rious inqqiries and questions, made me, aa I said 
better sdiolar in the Scripture knowledge than I 



i 



230 THE WORD OF GOD. 

should ever have been by my own private mere reading. Another 
thing I cannot refrain from observing here, also from experience 
in this retired part of my life — namely, how infinite and inexpres- 
sible a blessing it is that the knowledge of God, and of the doctnne 
of salvation by Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the 
Word of God, so easy to be received and understood, that ajs the 
bare reading the Scripture made me capable of understanding 
enough of my duty to carry me directly on to the great work 
of sincere repentance for my sins and laying hold of a Saviour 
for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice and 
obedience to all God's commands, and this without any teacher 
or instructor (I mean human), so the same piain instruction sufii- 
cientiy served to the enlightening this savage creature, and bring- 
ing him to be such a Christian as I have known few equal to him 
in my life. 

As to all the disputes, wrangling, strife and contention which 
has happened in the world about religion, whether niceties in 
doctrines or schemes of church govemment, they were all perfectly 
useless to us, as, for aught I can yet see, they have been to all the 
rest in the world. We had the sure guide to heaven — namely, the 
"Word of God ; and we had, blessed be God, comfortable views of 
the Spirit of God, teaching and instructing us by his Word, 
leading us into all truth, and making us both willing and obedient 
to the instruction of his Word; and I cannot see the least use that 
the greatest knowledge of the disputed points in religion, which 
have made such confusions in the world, would have been to us if 
we could have obtained it But I must go on with the historical 
part of things, and take every part in its order. 

After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and 
that he could understand almost all I said to him, and speak 
fluently, though in broken English, to me, I acquainted him with 
my own story, or at least so much of it as related to my coming 
into the place, how I had lived there, and how long. I let him 
into the mystery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, 
and taught him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he was 
wonderfully delighted with; and I made him a belt,*with a frog 
hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers in; and in the 



THE WHITE MANS. 231 

frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not 
only as good a weapon in some cases, but much more nseful upon 
other occasions. 

I described to him the coontry of Europe, and particularly 
England, which I came from; how we lived, how we worshipped 
God, how we behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships 
to all parts of the world. I gave him an account of the wreck 
which I had been on board of, and showed him as near as I could 
the place where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces before, 
and gone. 

I showed him the ruins of our boat which we lost when we 
escaped, and which I could pot stir with my whole strength then, 
but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, 
Friday stood musing a great whüe, and said nothing. I asked 
him what it was he studied upon. At last says he, " Me see such 
boat like come to place at my nation." 

I did not understand him a good while; but at last, when I had 
examined farther into it, I understood by him that a boat^ such as 
that had been, came on shore upon the country where he lived; 
that is, as he ezplained it, was driven thither by stress of weather. 
I presently imagined that some European ship must have been 
cast away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose and 
drive ashore; but was so dull, that I never once thought of men 
making escape from a wreck thither, much less whence they might 
come; so I only inquired after a description of the boat. 

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought me 
better to understand him when he added, with some warmth, '* We 
save the white maus from drown." Then I presently asked him 
if there were.any white maus, as he called them, in the boat. 
'' Yes," he said; '*the boat füll of white mans." I asked him how 
many. He told upon his fingers seventeen. I asked him then 
what became of them. He told me, "They live, they dwell at my 
nation." 

This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imagined 
that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast 
away in sight of my island, as I now call it; and who, after the 
ship was Struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had 



232 fridaVs own country. 

saved themaelvea ia their boat, and were lauded upon that wild 
shore amoQg the savages. 

Upon this I enquired of hhn more critically what was become 
of tbem. He assured ine they lived still there; that they had 
been there about four yeara; that the savages let them alone, and 
gave them victuals to live. I asked him how it came to^ pass they 
did not kill them and eat them. He said, "No, they make 
brother with them ; " that is, as I understood him, a truce. And 
theu he added, " They no eat mans but when make the war fight;" 
that is to say, they never eat any men but such as come to fight 
with them and are taken in battle. 

It was after this some considerable time, that being ou the top 
of the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence, as I have 
Said, I had in a clear day discovered the main, or contineut of 
America, Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very 
eamestly towards the mainland, and in a kind of surprise fall^ a 
jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some 
distance from himu I asked him what was the matter. "Oh, 
joy!" says he, "oh, glad! There see my country, there my 
nation!" 

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in bis 
face, and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a 
Strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own country 
again; and this observatioxi^ of mine put a great many thoughts 
into me, which made me at first not so easy about my new mau 
Friday as I was before; and I made no doubt but that if Friday 
could get back to his own nation again, he would not only forget 
all his religion, but all his Obligation to me; and would be forward 
enough to give his countrymen an account of me, and come back 
perhaps with a hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon 
me, at which he might be as merry as he used to be with those of 
his enemies when they were taken in war. 

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, for which 
I was very sorry afterwards. However, as my jealousy increased, 
and held me some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not 
so familiär and kiiid to him as before; in which I waa certainly 
in the wrong, too, the honest grateful creature having no thought 



crusoe's jealousy. 233 

about it, but what cousisted witb the best principles, both as s^ 
religious Christian and as a gratef ul friend, as appeared af terwarda 
to my füll satisfaction. 

\¥hile my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every 
day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of the new 
thoughts which I suspected were in him; but I found every thing 
he Said was so honest^ and so innocent, that I could find nothing 
to nourish my suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he 
made me at last entirely his own again; nor did he in the least 
perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him 
of deeeit. 

One day Walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy 
at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called to him, and 
Said, " Friday, do not you wish yourself in )'our own country, your 
own nationi" " Yes," he said; "I be much O glad to be at my 
own nation." "What would you do therel" said I. "Would 
you tum wild again, eat men's flesh again, and be a savage as 
you were beforel" He looked füll of concem, and shaking his 
head, said, "No, no; Friday teil tbem to live good, teil them to 
pray God, teil them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no eat 
man again." " Why then," said I to him, "they will kill you." 
He looked grave at that, and then said, " No, they no kill me, 
they willing love learn." He meant by this, they would be willing 
to leam. He added, they learned much of the bearded mans that 
come in the boat Then I asked him if he would go back to 
them. He smiled at that, and told me he could not swim so far. 
I told him I would make a canoe for him. He told me he would 
go if I would go with him. "I go!" says I; "why, they will eat 
me if I come there." " No, no," says he; " me make they no eat 
you; me make them much love you." He meant he would teil 
them how I had killed his enemies, and saved his life, and so he 
would make them love me. Then he told me as well as he could 
how kind they were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as 
he called them, who came on shore there in distress. 

From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over, and 
aee if I could possibly join with these bearded men, who, I made 
HO doubt, were Spaniords or Portuguese; not doubting but» if I 



234 friday's love for crusoe. 

could, we might find some method to escape from thence, being 
upon the continent, and a good Company together, better than I 
conld from an Island forty miles off the shore and alone without 
help. So, after some days, I took Friday to work again, by way 
of discourse, and told him I would give him a boat to go back to 
his own nation; and accordingly I carried him to my frigate, which 
lay on the other side of the Island, and having cleared it of water, 
for I always kept it sunk in the water, I brought it out, showed 
it him, and we both went into it. 

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it, would 
make it go almost as swif t and fast again as I could. So when he 
was in, I said to him, "Well now, Friday, shall we go to your 
nation 1" He looked very dull at my saying so; which it seems 
was because he thought the boat too small to go so far. I told 
him then I had a bigger. So the next day I went to the place 
where the first boat lay which I had made, but which I could not 
get into water. He said that was big enough. But then, as I 
had taken no care of it, and it had lain two or three and twenty 
years there, the sun had split and dried it, that it was in a manner 
rotten. Friday told me such a boat would do very well, and 
would carry "much enough vittle, drink, bread;" that was his 
way of talking. 

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of 
going OTer with him to the continent, that I told him we would 
go and make one as big as that, and he should go home in it. He 
answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad I asked 
him, "What was the matter with him?" He asked me again thus, 
"Why you angry mad with Friday, what me done?" I asked 
him what he meant; I told him I was not angry with him at 
all. "No angry! no angry!" says he, repeating the words several 
times; "why send Friday home away to my nation 1" "Why," 
says I, "Friday, did you not say you wished you were there?" 
" Yes, yes," says he; " wish be both there — no wish Friday there, 
no master there." In a word, he would not think of going there 
without me. "I go there, Friday!" says I; "what shall I do 
there?" He tumed very quick upon me at this. "Youdogreat 
deal much good," says he; "you teach wild mans be good sober 



MAKfNG A CANOE 235 

tune manB; you teil them know God, pray God, and live new 

Ht'* ^Alas! Friday,'* says I, "thou knowest not what thou 

ayest; I am bnt an Ignorant man myself." " Yes, yes," says he; 

"yoa teachee me good, you teachee them good." "No, no, 

Fridty," says I; "you shall go without me; leave me here to live 

bj mjself, as I did before." He looked confused again at that 

vord, and running to one of the hatchets which he used to wear, 

ke Ukes it up hastily, and gives it me. ** What must I do with 

tlüs?" says I to him. " You take kill Friday," says ha " What 

mast I kill you fort" said I again. He retums very quick, " What 

you send Friday away for? — take kill Friday, no send Friday 

*wiy." This he spoke so eamestly, that I saw tears stand in his 

«y«. In a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in 

Um to me, and a firm resohition in him, that I told him then, and 

oftcn after, that I would never send him away from me, if he was 

viDing to stay with ma 

Upon the whole, ajs I found by all his discourse a settied affection 
to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I found all 
tlie foondation of his desire to go to his own country was laid in 
iiis irdent affection to the people and his hopes of my doing them 
;ood ; a thing which, as I had no notion of myself, so I had not 
he least thought or intention or desire of undertaking it But 
tili I found a strong inclination to my attempting au escape, as 
ibove, founded on the supposition gathered from the discourse — 
tamely, that there were seventeen bearded men there; and there- 
DTC, without any more delay, I went to work with Friday to find 
nt a great tree proper to feil, and make a large periagua or canoe 
undertake the voyaga There were trees enough in the island 
have boilt a litUe fleet, not of periaguas and canoes, but even of 
ood large vessels. But the main thing I looked at, was to get 
De so near the water that we might launch it when it was made, 
) avoid the mistake I committed at first 

At last Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he kne^ much 
etter than I what kind of wood was fittest for it; nor can I teil, 
> this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down, except that it 
H yery like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the 
wood, for it was much of the same colour and smelL 



236 THK CANOE UUNCHED. 

Friday was for buming the hoUow or cavity of tbis tree out to 
make it for a boat; but I showed bim bow rather to cut it out 
witb tools; which, after I had sbowed bim bow to use, be did 
very bandily; aud in about a montb's bard labour, we finisbed 
it, and made it very bandsome, especially wben witb our axes, 
wbich I sbowed bim bow to bandle, we cut and bewed tbe outside 
into tbe true sbape of a boat After tbis, bowever, it cost us near 
a fortnigbt's time to get her along, as it were, incb by incb upon 
great rollers into tbe water. But wben sbe was in, sbe would bave 
carried twenty men witb great ease. 

Wben sbe was in tbe water, and tbougb sbe was so big, it 
amazed me to see witb wbat dexterity and bow swift my man 
Friday would manage ber, tum ber, and paddle ber along; so I 
asked bim if be would, and if we migbt venture over in ber. 
" Yes," be said; "he venture over in her very well, tbougb great 
blow wind." However, I had a fartber design that he knew 
nothing of ; and that was, to make a maat and sail, and to fit her 
witb an ancbor and cabla Ab to a mast, that waa easy enough to 
get; so I pitched upon a straigbt young cedar-tree, wbich I found 
near tbe place, and which there was great plenty of in tbe island; 
and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and gave bim directions 
how to sbape and order it But as to tbe sail, that was my par- 
ticular care. I knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of old saila 
enough; but as I had had them now twenty-six years by me, and 
had not been very careful to preserve them, not imagining that I 
sbould ever bave tbis kind of use for them, I did not doubt but 
they were all rotten ; and, indeed, most of them were so. However, 
I foimd two pieces wbich appeared pretty good, and witb these I 
went to work, and witb a great deal of pains, and awkward tedious 
stitching (you may be sure) for want of needles, I at lengtb made 
a tbree-cornered ugly thing, like wbat we call in England a Shoulder- 
of-mutton-sail, to go witb a boom at bottom, and a little short 
sprit at tbe top, such as usually our ships' long-boats sail witb; and 
such as I best knew bow to manage, because it was such a one as 
I had. to tbe boat in wbich I made my escape from Barbary, as 
related in the first part of my story. 

I was near two months performing tbia last work — ^namely, rig- 



FRIDAY TAtJGHT NAVIGATION. 



287 



lad fittmg my niaüt and sails; for I finished them very 
ete, makiDg a small stay, and a sail or fore-sail to it, to 
if we shonld tarn to windward. And, which was more than 
ixed a rudder to the stem of her, to steer with; and though 
bat a bnngling Bhipwright, yet as I knew the nsefulness, and 
nece^ty of such a thing, I applied myself with so mach 




lic WM «mftifxl when he nw me work the boai. 



to do it, that at last I brought it to pass, though considering 
my dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost 
nost as much labour as making the boat 
3r all this was done, too, I had tny man Friday to teach as 
It belonged to the navigation of my boat; for though he 
very well how to paddle a canoe, he knew nothing what 
;ed to a sail and a rudder, and was the most amazed when 
r me work the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder; 
OST the sail jibed, and filled this way or that way, as the 
we ^led changfed; — I say, when he saw thid he stood like 



I 



II 



ü 



■r n j 

: T i I 



u: 



J l .1 



I 



J 




238 



ANOTHER ANNIVERSARY. 



one astonishcd and aniazed. However, with a little use, I ma 
tliese things familiär to him ; and he became an expert sailor, i 
that, as to the compass, I could make him understand very 
of that Oll the other hand, as there was very httle ( 
weather, and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there w 
less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars wäre always to b 
by night and the shore by day, except in the rainy season 
then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea. 

I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year ( 
captivity in this place; though the three last years that 
this creature with me ought rather to be left out of the ac 
my habitation being quite of another kind than in all the i 
the time. I kept the ^nnivei-sary of my landing here wil 
same thankfulness to God for bis mercie^ as at first. And if 
such cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more » 
having such additional testimonies of the care of Providenc 
me, and the great hopes I had of being effectually and sp 
delivered; for I had an invincible impression upon my th( 
that my deliverance was at hand, and that I should not be a 
year in this place. However, I went on with my husb 
digging, planting, fencing, as usual; I gathered and cur< 
grapes, and did every necessary thing, as before. 

The rainy season was in the meantime upon me, when 
more within doors than at other times. So I had stowed oi 
vessel as secure as we could, bringing her up into the creek 
as I said, in the beginning I landed my rafts from the shi] 
hauling her up to the shore at high-water mark, I made n 
Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold her, and jus 
enough to give her water enough to fioat in : and then, wfa 
tide was out, we made a strong dam across the end of it, t 
the water out; and so she lay dry, as to the tide from the se 
to keep the rain off, we laid a great many boughs of trees sc 
that she was as well thatched as a house ; and thus we wai 
the months of November and December, in M'hich I desi^ 
make my adventure. 

When the settled season began to come in, as the thoughi 
design retumed with the fair weather, I was preparing d 



friday's sürprise. 239 

tke Tojage. And the first thing I did was to lay by a certain 
quintity of provisions, being the stores f or our voyage ; and in- 
teDded, in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock and 
kanch oat our boat I was busy one moming upon something 
of iHüs kind, when I called to Friday, and bid him go to the sea- 
«bore and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise — a thing which 
ve generally got once a week, f or the sake of the eggs as well as 
tbe flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came running 
Wk, and flew over my outer wall or fence like one that feit not 
tbegronnd or the steps he set his feet on; and before I had time 
toipeidc to him, he cries out to me, '*0 master! masterl — 
aorrow !— O bad ! " " What's the matter, Friday ? " says I. " 0— 
yonder — there," says he; "one, two, three canoe! — one, two, 
three!" By bis way of speaking I concluded there were six; but 
OD inquiry, I found it was but three. " Well, Friday," says I, "do 
tiot be frighted." So I heartened him up as well as I could. 
HoweTer, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared; for 
Dothing ran in his head but that they were come to look for him, 
ukI woold cut him in pieces and eat him; and the poor fellow 
trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with him. I com- 
Ported him as well as I could, and told him I was in as much 
üziger as he, and that they would eat me as well as him : " But," 
nys I, " Friday, we must resolve to fight them. Can you fight, 
Pridayl" "Me shoot," says he; "but there come many great 
inmber." "No matter for that," said I again; "our guns will 
tight them that we do not kill ;" so I asked him, " Whether, if I 
neaolTed to defend him, he would defend me, and stand by me, 
knd do just as I bid himf He said, " Me die, when you bid die, 
Laster." So I went and fetched ä good dram of rum and gave 
^; for I had been so good a husband of my rum that I had a 
freat deal left When he had drank it, I made him take the two 
birling-|>ieces, which we always carried, and load them "with large 
imui-fthot, as big as small pistol bullets; then I took four muskets, 
iid loaded tliem with two slugs and five small bullets each; and 
ly two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each; I hung my 
reat sword as usual naked by my side, and gave Friday his 
ttchet 



I 



240 THE SAVAGES AGAIN. 

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective-glass, 
and went up to the side öf the hill to see what I could diBCOver. 
And I found quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty 
savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole 
business seemed to be the triumphal banquet upon tfaese three 
human bodies (a barbarous feast indeed), but nothing more than 
as I had observed was usual with them. 

I observed, also, that they were landed, not where they had 
done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my creek, where 
the shore was low, and where a thick wood came close almost 
down to the sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman 
errand these wretches came about, fiUed me with such indigna- 
tion, that I came down again to Friday and told him I was 
resolved to go down to them and kill them all; and asked him 
if he would stand by me ? He was now gotten over his fright, 
and his spirits being a little raised with the dram I had given him, 
he was very cheerf ul, and told me, as before, " he would die, when 
I bid die." 

In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms which I 
had charged, as before, between us. I gave Friday one pistol to 
stick in his girdle, and three guns upon his Shoulder; and I took 
one pistol and the other three mjrself; and in this posture we 
marched out I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and 
gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullet. And as 
to Orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and not to stir, 
or shoot, or do anything tili I bid him; and in the meantime not 
to speak a word. In this posture I fetched a compass to my right 
band of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into the 
wood; so that I might come within shot of them before I should 
be discovered, which I had seen by my glass it was easy to do. 

While I was making this march, my former thoughts retuming, 
I began to abate my resolution. I do not mean that I entertained 
any fear of their number; for as they were naked, unarmed 
wretches, it is certain I was superior to them — nay, though I had 
been alone; but it occurred to my thoughts, what call, what 
occasion, much less what necessity, I was in to go and dip my 
hands in blood, to attack people who had neither done nor in- 




crusoe's preparations. 241 

tenddd me any wrong — who as to me were innocent; and whose 
Mrbaroas customs were their own disaster, being in them a token, 
ndeed, of God's having left thera, with the other nations of that 
irt of the World, to such stupidity and to such inhuman courses, 
ot did Dot call me to take upon me to be a judge of their actions, 
loch le« an ezecutioner of his justice : that whenever he thought 
t, he would take the cause into his own hands, and by national 
engeance ponish them as a people for national crimes; but that, 
I the meantime, it was none of my business : that it was true 
ridaj might jostify it, because he was a declared enemy, and in 
lUte of war with those very particular people, and it was lawful 
r him to attack them; but I could not say the same with respect 
* me. These things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts, 

I the way as I went, that I resolved I would only go and place 
jielf near them, that I might observe their barbarous feast, and 
At I would act then as 6od should direct; but that unless some- 
ing offered that was more a call to me than yet I knew of, I 
Mild not meddle with them. 

With Ulis resolution I entered the wood, and with all possible 
iriness and silence, Friday foUowing close at my heels, I marched 
i I came to the skirt of the wood, on the side which was nezt to 
em; only that one comer of the wood lay between me and them. 
?re I called softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which 
18 just at the comer of the wood, I bade him go to the tree and 
ing me word if he could see there plainly what they were doing. 
i did so, and came immediately back to me and told me they 
ght be plainly viewed there; that they were all about their fire, 
ting the flesh of one of their prisoners; and that another lay 
nnd upon the sand, a little from them, which he said they would 

II next, and which fired all the very soul within me. He told 
ie it was not one of their nation, but one of the bearded men 
rtio he had told me of, that came to their country in the boat 
IwufiUed with horror at the very naming the white bearded man, 
ß^ going to the tree I saw plainly by my glass a white man who 
*y ^n the beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet tied 
^ %8, or things like nishes; and that he was a European, and 
W Mes on. 



i 



242 THE SAVAGES ATTACKED. 

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it^ about 
fifty yards nearer to thein than the place where I was, which, by 
going a little way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and 
that then I should be within half shot of them : so I withheld my 
passion, though I was, indeed, enraged to the highest degree, and 
going back about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which 
held all the way tili I came to the other tree; and then I came to 
a little rising ground, which gave me a füll view of them, at tbe 
distance of about eighty yards. 

I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of the dreadful 
wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled together, and had 
just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring 
him perhaps limb by limb to their fire, and they were stooped 
down to untie the bands at bis feet I tumed to Friday. "Now, 
Friday," said I, "do as I bid thea" Friday said he would. 
" Then, Friday," says I, " do exactly as you see me do — fall in 
nothing." So I set down one of the muskets and the fowüng- 
piece upon the ground, and Friday did the like by his; and with 
the other musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him do 
the like. Then asking him if he was ready, he said, "Yes. 
**Then iire at them," said I; and the same moment I fired alsa 

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side tliat 
he shot he killed two of them, and wounded three more; and od 
my side, I killed one and wounded two. They were, you niay be 
sure, in a dreadful constemation ; and all of them who were not 
hurt jumped up upon their feet, but did not immediately know 
which way to run or which way to look — ^for they knew not from 
whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close upon 
me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe what I did. So as 
soon as the first shot was made, I threw down the piece and too» 
up the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like; he sees me cock 
and present; he did the same again. " Are you ready, Friday t 
said I. « Yes," says he. " Let fly, then," says I, " in the mwe 
of God ! " and with that I fired again among the amazed wretches, 
and so did Friday. And as our pieces were now loaded viü 
what I callcd swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we found only tv< 
drop; but so many were wounded, that they ran about yelün 



il 



\ 



■ '\ 



1 



THE VICTIM RESCÜED. 243 

and screaming, like mad creatures, all bloody and miserably 
woondedy most of them; whereof three more feil quickly after, 
though not quite dead. 

** Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces, and 

t^lfin^ up the musket which was yet loaded, "follow me," says I; 

urhich he did, with a great deal of couraga Upon which I rushed 

out of the wood and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot 

As soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, 

and bade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I could, — which, 

by the "way, was not very fast, being laden with arms as I was, — 

I made directly towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying 

apon the beach or shore, between the place where they sat and 

the sea. The two butchers, who were just going to work with 

h^wn^ had left him at the surprise of our first fire, and fled in a 

terrible fright to the sea-side and had jumped into a canoe, and 

tliree more of the rest made the same way. I tumed to Friday, 

and bid him step forward and fire at them. He imderstood me 

inunediately, and running about forty yards to be near them, he 

shot at them, and I thought he had killed them all; f or I saw 

tlieni all fall of a heap into the boat; though I saw two of them 

up B^sdn quickly. However, he killed two of them, and wounded 

tbe third; so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat, as if he 

h;gid. been dead. 

VThile my man Friday fired at them, I puUed out my knife and 
Cut the flags that bound the poor victim, and loosing bis hands 
and feety I lifted him up, and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, 
** \\"hat he wasf He answered in Latin, "Christianus;" but 
<vra3 BO 'wcäk <^d faint, that he could scarce stand or speak. I 
took my bottle out of my pocket and gave it him, making signs 
tlia.t he should drink, which he did; and I gave him a piece of 
brejul^ which he eat Then I asked him, " What countryman he 
^j.^jal" And he said "Espagniole;" and being a little recovered, 
let inB know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how 
nitich he was in my debt for bis deliverance. " Seignior," said I, 
[ «^th äb much Spanish as I could make up, " we will talk after- 
«frards, ^ot we must fight now. If you have any strength left, 
take this pistol and sword and lay about you." He took them 



r 



244 THE WGHT OONTINUID. 

very thankfully; and no sooner had he the arms in his handi, 
but, as if they had put new vigour into him, he flew upon hü 
murderers like a fury, and had cut two of them in pieces in ai 
instant For the truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, sc 
the poor creatures were so much frighted with the noise of ooi 
pieces, that they feil down for mere amazement and fear; and \ai 
no more power to attempt their own escape than their flesh hi 
to resist our shot And that was the case of those five that Frida} 
shot at in the boat; for as three of them feil with the hurt the} 
received, so the other two feil with the fright 

I kept my piece in my band still, without firing, being willin^ 
to keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard m} 
pistol and sword. So I called to Friday, and bade him run up t( 
the tree f rom whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which la} 
there that had been discharged — which he did with great swiftness 
and then giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load all tb( 
rest again, and bade them come to me when they wanted. Whili 
I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce engagemen 
between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at hin 
with one of their great wooden swords, — the same weapon tba 
was to have killed him before, if I had not prevented it Tb 
Spaniard, who was as bold and as brave as could be imagined 
though weak, had fought this Indian a good while, and had cut hii 
two great wounds on his head; but the savage, being a stout lust; 
fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him down (being faint| 
and was wringing my sword out of his band, when the Spaniani 
though undermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew the pistol froi 
his girdle, shot the savage through the body and killed him upo 
the spot, before I, who was running to help him, could come nea 
him. 

Friday, being now lef t to his liberty, pursued the flying vrretche 
with no weapon in his band but his hatchet; and with that li 
despatched those three who, as I said before, were woimded i 
first and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with. And tl 
Spaniard Coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowlini 
pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and woun4< 
them both : but as he was not able to mn, they both got fro 



THB KILLED AND WOUNDED. 245 

him into the wood, where Friday pursued them and killed one of 
them; bat the other was too nimble for him, and though he was 
wounded, yet had plunged himself into the sea, and swam with 
all his might off to tbose two who were left in the canoe; which 
three in the canoe, with one wounded, who we know not whether 
he died or no, were all that escaped our hands of one-and-twenty. 
The account of the rest is as foUows: — 

3 Killed at our fint shot f rom the tree. 

2 Killed at the next shot. 

2 KiUed by Friday in ihe boat. 

2 Killed by ditto^ of thoee at fixst wounded. 
1 Killed by ditto^ in the wood. 

3 Killed by the Spaniard. 

4 Killed, being found dropped here and there of their wounds, 

or killed by Friday in his cbase of them. 
4 Escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead. 

21 In all 

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gun- 
shot; and though Friday made two or three shot at them, I did 
not find that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had me 
take one of their canoes, and pursue them; and indeed I was very 
anxious about their escape, lest, carrying the news home to their 
people, they should come back, perhaps, with two or three handred 
of their canoes, and devoor us by mere multituda So I consented 
to pursue them by sea^ and running to one of their canoes, I 
jumped in, and bade Friday foiiow me; but when I was in the 
canoe I was surprised to find another poor ciBature lie there alive, 
bound band and foot» as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and 
almost dead with fear, not knowing what the matter was; for he 
had not been able to look up over the side of the boat, he was 
tied so hard, neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that he 
had really but little lifo in him. 

I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which they had 
bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could 
not stand or speak, but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems 
stiUy that he was only unbound in order to be killed. 



246 FRntAY FIKDS HIS FATHBR. 

When Friday cwne to him, I bade him Bpeak to him, and idl 
bim af bis debverance, and pulbng out nty bottle, made him gi'B 
tbe poor wretch a diam; whicb, with the newfl of bis bemg deliv«n4, 
revived faim, and he sat up in Uie boat But wben Friday cane b) 
bear bim apeak, and look in bis face, itirould bavemovedanfo» 
to tears to have eeen bow Friday kiesed bim, embraced bim, hngged 




■■ mal* «Uar intlri hl tu» poiir Mnai >t Uli liiht I 



him, cried, langbed, ballooed, jomped about, danced, smtg, tlM 
cried again, wrung bis banda, beat bis own face and bead, and tlM 
sung and jumped abont again like a diatracted creatni«. It nt > 
good wbile before I could make bim speak to me, or teil me w)i*t 
was tbe matter; but wben he caine a little to himaelf, he told w 
that it was bis father! 

It is not easy for me to express bow it moved me to tee vbit 
ecstasy and fibal affection bad worked in tbis poor savage al ll» 
sigbt of bis father, and of bis being delivered from death; n^ 
indeed can I describe half tbe extravagances of bis afiFection ifw . 
this— for he went into the boat and out of tbe boat a great mnj ' 



Q some rum oat ot my bottle to rub tnem witn, wmcn cLid 
great deal of good. 

acUon put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the 
vages, who were now gotten almost out of sight. And it 
)py for US that we did not; for it blew so hard within 
J8 after, and before they could be gotten a quarter of their 
d continued blowing so hard all night, and that from the 
est, which was against them, that I could not suppose 
)at could live, or that they ever reached to their own 



* 



t I 



retum to Friday, he was so busy about his father that I 
>t find in my heart to take him off for some time. But 
hought he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and 
jnmping and laughing and pleased to the highest extreme, 
isked him if he had given his father any bread? He shook 
[ and Said, " None. Ugly dog eat all up seif." So I gave 
kke of bread out of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I 
e him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but 
it to his father. I had in my pocket also two or three 
of my raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his 
He had no sooner given his father these raisins but I saw 
le out of the boat and run away as if he had been bewitched, 
t such a rate — for he was the swiftest fellow of his foot that 
aw; I say, he run at such a rate that he was out of sight. 



1 

]'-' 



248 THE SPANIARD RELIEVED. 

me, but the water he carried to bis fatber. However, as I was 
very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. This water revived bis 
fatber more than all tbe rum or spirits I had given himj for be 
was just fainting witb tbirst 

Wben bis fatber bad drank, I called to bim to know if tbere 
was any water left? He said '' Yes;" and I bade bim give it to 
the poor Spaniard, wbo was in as mach want of it as bis fatber; 
and I sent one of the cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard 
too, wbo was indeed very weak, and was reposing bimself upon a 
green place under tbe shade of a tree, and whose limbs were also 
very stiff and very much swelled witb tbe rüde bandage be bad 
been tied witb. Wben I saw that upon Friday^s Coming to bim 
witb tbe water, be sat up and drank, and took the bread and began 
to eat, I went to bim and gave bim a bandful of raisins. He 
looked up in my face witb all the tokens of gratitude and thankful- 
ness that could appear in any countenance; but was so weak, not- 
witbstanding he bad so exerted bimself in the fight, that be could 
not stand up upon bis feet He tried to do it two or three times, 
but was reaUy not able, bis ankles were so swelled and so painful 
to bim; so I bade bim sit still, and caused Friday to rub bis ankles 
and bathe them witb rum, as be bad done bis fatber's. 

I observed the poor affectionate creature every two minutes, or 
perbaps less, all tbe wbile be was bere, tumed bis bead about, to 
See if bis fatber was in tbe same place and posture as be left bim 
sitting; and at last he found be was not to be seen; at'whicb be 
Started up, and witbout speaking a word, flew witb that swift- 
ness to bim, that one could scarce perceive bis feet to touch tbe 
ground as he went But wben be came, be only found he had 
laid bimself down to ease bis limbs; so Friday came back to me 
presently, and I then spoke to tbe Spaniard to let Friday belp bim 
up if be could, and lead bim to tbe boat, and then be should carry 
bim to our dwelling, wbere I would take care of bim. But Friday, 
a lusty streng fellow, took tbe Spaniard quite up upon bis back, 
and carried bim away to tbe boat, and set bim down softly upon 
tbe side or gunwale of tbe canoe, witb bis feet in tbe inside of it, 
and then lifted bim quite in, and set bim close to bis fatber, and 
presently stepping out again, launched the boat off, and paddled it 



crusob's sovbreignty. 249 

along the shore faster than I could walk, though the wind blew 
pretty hard too. So he brought them both safe into our creek; 
and leaving him in the boat, runs away to fetch the other canoa 
And as he passed me I epoke to him, and asked him whither he 
wenti He told me, "Go fetch more boat" So away he went like 
the wind, for sure never man or horse run like him j and he had the 
other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land. So 
he wafted me over, and then went to help our new guests out of 
the boat, which he did. But they were neither of them able to 
walk, so that poor Friday knew not what to do. 

To remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calling to 
Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to me, I 
soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and 
I carried them up both together upon it between us. But when 
we got them to the outside of our wall or fortification, we were at 
a worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them over; 
and I was resolved not to break it down. So I set to work 
again; and Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a very 
handsome tent, covered with old sails, and above that with boughs 
of trees, being in the space without our outward fence, and 
between that and the grove of young wood which I had planted. 
And here we made Üiem two beds of such things as I had; 
namely, of good rice straw, with blankets laid upon it to lie on, 
and another to cover them on each bed. 

My islsmd was now peopled, and I thought myself very rieh in 
subjects. And it was a merry reflection which I frequently made^ 
how like a king I looked. First of all, the whole country was my 
own mere property; so that I had an undoubted right of dominion. 
Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected; I was absolute lord 
and lawgiver; they all owed their lives to me, and were ready to 
lay down their lives, if there had been occasion of it, for ma 
It was remarkable, too, we had but three subjects, and they were 
of three different religions. My man Friday was a Protestant, his 
f ather was a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist 

However, I allowed liberty of conscience throughout my domin- 
ions. But this is by the way. 

As soon as I had -secured my two weak rescued prisoners^ and 



250 TWO NEW SUBJBCTS. 

(pven them shelter and a place to rest them upon, I began to think 
of making some provision for them. And the first thing I did, I 
ordered Friday to take a yearling goat — betwixt a kid and a goat 
— out of my particiliar flock, tö be killed, when I cut off the 
hinder quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to 
work to boiling and stewing, and made them a very good dish, I 
assure you, of flesh and broth, having put some barley and rice 
also into the broth; and as I cooked it without doors, for I made 
no fire within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent; 
and having set a table there for them, I sat down and eat my own 
dinner also with them, and, as well as I could, cheered them and 
encouraged them; Friday being my Interpreter, especially to his 
father, and indeed to the Spaniard too, for the Spaniard spoke the 
language of the savages pretty welL 

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take 
one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other fire- 
arms, which for want of time we had left upon the place of battle : 
and the next day I ordered him to' go and bury the dead bodies 
of the savages, which lay open to the sun and would presently be 
offensive; and I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of 
their barbarous feast, which I knew were pretty much, and which 
I could not think of doing myself ; nay, I could not bear to see 
them if I went that way. All which he punctually performed, 
and defaced the very appearance of the savages being there; so 
that, when I went again, I could scarce know where it was, other- 
wise than by the comer of the wood pointing to the place. 

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two 
new subjects. And first I set Friday to inquire of his father 
what he thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and 
whether we might ezpect a retum of them with a power too great 
for US to resist His first opinion was, that the savages in the 
boat never could live out the storm which blew that night they 
went off, but must of necessity be drowned or driven south to 
those other shores where they were as sure to be devoured as 
they were to be drowned if they were cast away. But as to what 
they would do if they came safe on shore, he said he knew not; 
but it was his opinion that they were so dreadfully frighted with 



THE SAVAQ^' ALARM. 251 

the manner of their being attacked — the noise and the fire — that 
he believed they would teil their people they were all killed by 
thunder and lightning, not by the band of man ; and that the two 
which appeared — namely, Frid^ay and me — were two heavenly 
spirits or furies come down to destroy them, and not men with 
weapons. This he said he knew, because he heard them all cry 
out so in their language to one another; for it was impossible to 
them to conceive that a man could dart fire and speak thunder, 
and kill at a distance without lifting up the band, as was done now. 
And this old savage was in the right; for, as I understood since 
by other hands, the savages never attempted to go over to the 
island afterwards; they were so terrified with the accounts given 
by those four men (for it seems they did escape the sea) that they 
believed whoever went to that enchanted island would be destroyed 
with fire from the godsl 

This, however, I knew not, and therefore was under continual 
apprehensions for a good while, and kept always upon my guard, 
me and all my army; for as we were now four of us, I would 
have ventured upon a hundred of them fairly in the open field at 
any time. 

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of 
their Coming wore ofi*, and I began to take my former thoughts of 
a voyage to the main into consideration, being likewise assured by 
Friday's father that I might depend upon good usage from their 
nation on bis account, if I would go. 

But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a serious 
discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood that there 
were sixteen more of bis countr3rmen and Portuguese, who, 
having been cast away and made their escape to that side, lived 
there at peace indeed with the savages, but were very sore put to 
it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked bim all the par- 
ticulars of their voyage, and found they were a Spanish ship 
bound from the Bio de la Plata to the Havannah, being directed 
to leave their loading there, which was chiefly hides and silver, 
and to bring back what European goods they could meet with 
there; that they had üve Portuguese seamen on board, who 
they took out of another wreck; that five of their own men were 



252 DIBCOÜBSI WITH THX 8PA11UBD. 

drowoed when the firat »hip wm lost, and that these e«apei 
through infinite dangers and haiards, and arrived almtwt staned 
on the Cannibal coast, where they oipected to have been deTonreJ 
every moment 
He told me they had aome arms with them, but they were pw 




fectly uBeless, for that they had neither powder nor ball, th 
washing of tlie aea having spoiled aU tfaeir powder but a littiti 
which they uaed at their firat landing to provide themselTee hw 
food. 

I aaked him what he thought would become of them there, ü» 
if they had formed do design of maktng any escapel He ^ 
they had niany consulUttiona aboul it, but that having neitiw 
vessel Dor tools to build one, nor proviaiona of aoy idod, t^ 
couusela always ended in tean and despair. 



crusoe's profosal 253 

I asked him how he thought they woold receive a proposal 
irom me which might tend towards an escape? and whether, if 
tbej were all here, it might not be done ? I told him with freedom 
I fttred moetly their treacheiy and ill usage of me if I put my life 
in their hands; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the 
Mure of man; nor did men always Square their dealings by the 
obügUions they had received, so much as they did by the advan- 
Uges they ezpected. I told him it would be very hard that I 
ihoald he the instrument of their deliverance and that they should 
itftenrards make me their prisoner in New Spain, where an £ng- 
Kihmaii was certain to be made a sacrifice, what necessity or what 
iKideiit soeTer brought him thither ; and that I had rather be de- 
Ürered up to the savages and be devoured alive, than fall into the 
aerdless claws of the priests, and be carried into the Inquisition. 
I idded, that otherwise I was persuaded, if they were all here, we 
Bught with so many hands build a bark large enough to carry us 
^ tway, either to the Brazils southward, or to the islands or 
Spanish coast northward; but that if in requital they should, 
vlien I had put weapons into their hands, carry me by force 
>n>oog their own people, I might be ill used for my kindness to 
them, and make my case worse than it was bef ore. 

He mswered, with a great deal of candour and ingenuity, that 
^ condition was so miserable, and they were so sensible of it, 
^ he believed they would abhor the thought of using any man 
Qi^dly that should contribute to their deliverance ; and that if 
I pleaaed, he would go to them with the old man, and discourse 
vith them about it, and retum again, and bring me their answer: 
^t he would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, 
^ they should be absolutely under my leading as their com- 
Bttnder and captain; and that they should swear upon the holy 
lücraments and the gospel to be true to me, and go to such 
Christian country as that I should agree to, and no other; and to 
he directed wholly and absolutely by my Orders, tili they were 
Wed safely in such country as I intended; and that he would 
'»ing a contract from them under their hands for that purpose. 

Thcn he told me he would first swear to me himself, that he 
^onld never stir from me aa long as he lived tili I gave him 



ä 



254 CRUSOEfS RESOLUTION. 

Orders; and that he would take my side to the last drop of his 
blood if there should happen the least breach of faith among bis 
countrymen. 

He told me they were all of them very civil, honest men, and 
they were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither 
weapons nor clothes nor any food, but at the mercy and discrelion 
of the savages; out of all hopes of ever retuming to their own 
country; and that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief, 
they would live and die by me. 

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them ii 
possible, and to send the old savage and the Spaniard over to them 
to treat; but when we had gotten all things in a readiness to go, 
the Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so much 
prudence in it on one band, and so much sincerity on the otier 
band, that I could not but be very well satisfied in it; and bj to 
advice put off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a 
year. The case was thus: — 

He had been with us now about a month, during which time I 
had let him see in what manner I had provided, with the assistr 
ance of Providence, for my support; and he saw evidently what 
stock of com and rice I had laid up, which, as it was more than 
sufiicient for myself, so it was not sufficient, at least without good 
husbandry, for my family, now it was increased to number four. 
But much less would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, 
as he Said, fourteen still alive, should come over. And least of all 
would it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, 
for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of America. So he 
told me he thought it would be more advisable to let him and the 
two other dig and cultivate some more land, as much as I could 
spalte seed to sow; and that we should wait another harvest, that 
we might have a supply of com for his countrymen when thej 
should come; for want might be a temptation to them to disagree^ 
or not to think themselyes delivered otherwise than out of one 
difficulty into another. " You know," says he, " the children d 
Israel, though they rejoiced at first for their being delivered ont 
of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God himself that delivered 
them, when they came to want bread in the wilderaess." 



i 

I 



SEASONABLE CAÜTION. 255 

His caadon was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I~ 
ould not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I 
ras satisfied with his fidelity. So we feil to digging, all four of 
8, 18 well as the wooden tools we were fumished with permitted; 
3d in aboat a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time, 
e lud gotten as much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed 
rentj-two busheis of barley on and sixteen jars of rice — which 
IS, in short, all the seed we had to spare : nor, indeed, did we 
ive ooTselTes barley sufficient for our own food for the six months 
It we had to expect our crop; that is to say reckoning from the 
ne we set our seed aside for sowing, for it is not to be supposed 
is six months in the ground in that country. 
Haying now society enough, and our nuraber being sufEcient to 
It Qs out of fear of the savages if they had come, unless their 
unber had been very great, we went freely all over the island 
herever we found occasion; and as here we had our escape or 
iÜTerance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, 
' hive the means of it out of mine. To this purpose I marked 
it several trees which I thought fit for our work, and I set Friday 
)d his father to cutting them down; and then I caused the 
[ttniard, to whom I imparted my thought on that affair, to over- 
« and direct their work. I showed them with what indef atigable 
lins I had hewed a large tree into single planks, and I caused 
iem to do the like, tili they had made about a dozen large planks 
'' good oak, near two foot broad, thirty-five foot long, and from 
'0 inches to four inches thick. What prodigious labour it took 
p, any one may imagine. 

At the same time I contrived to increase my little flock of tarne 
»its as much as I could, and to this purpose I made Friday and 
ic Spaniard go out one day, and myself with Friday the next 
»y; for we took our tums: and by this means we got above 
»enty young kids to breed up with the rest; for whenever we 
^ the dam, we saved the kids, and added them to our flock, 
kit above all, the season for curing the grapes coming on, I caused 
•A a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that I 
tocve had we been at Ahcant, where the raisins of the sun are 
*^, we could have filled sixty or eighty barreis. And theso 



256 THS HABVEST OATHERED. 

with our bread was a great part of our food; and yerygoo( 
too, I assure you, for it is an exceeding nourishing food 

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order. It i 
the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but li 
it was enough to answer our end; for from our twenty-two 
of barley we brought in and thrashed out above two hund 
twenty busheis, and the like in proportion of the rice; wh 
Store enough for our food to the next harvest^ though all 
teen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or if we hi 
ready for a voyage, it would very plentifully have victual 
ship to have carried us to any part of the world — that is 
of America. 

When we had thus housed and secured our magazme . 
we feil to work to make more wicker-work, namely, great 
in which we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy a 
terous at this part, and often blamed me that I did nc 
some things for defence of this kind of work; but I saw 
ofit 

And now having a füll supply of food for all the gues 
pected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the maii 
what he could do with those he had left behind him tl 
gave him a strict charge in writing not to bring any m 
him who would not first swear in the presence of himself 
the old savage, that he would no way injure, fight with, o 
the person he should find in the Island, who was so kind 
for them in order to their deliverance; but that they wou 
by and defend him against all sucb attempts, and wherei 
went would be entirely under and subjected to his con 
and that this should be put in writing, and signed wi 
hands. How we were to have this done, when I knew i 
neither pen or ink — that indeed was a question which ¥ 
asked. 

Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old sa^ 
f ather of Friday, went away in one of the canoes which th< 
be Said to come in, or rather were brought in, when they 
prisoners to be devoured by the savages. 

I gave each of them a musket with a firelock on it, an 



A STRANGE iNClDfiNT. 257 

eight charges of powder and ball, charging them to be very good 
husbands of both, and not to ose either of them but upon urgent 
occasion. 

This was a cheerfui work, being the first measures used by me 
in view of my deliverance for now twenty-seven years and some 
days. I gave them provisions of bread and of dried grapes suffi- 
cient for themselves for many days, and sufficient for all their 
countrymen for about eight days' time; and wishing them a good 
voyage, I see them go, agreeing with them about a signal they 
should hang out at their return, by which I should know them again 
when they came back at a distance, before they came on shore. 

They went away with a fair gale on the day that the moon was 
at füll by my account, in the month of October. But as for an 
exact reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I could never re- 
Cover it again; nor had I kept even the number of years so punc- 
tually as to be sure that I was right, though, as it proved when I 
af terwards examined my account, I found I had kept a true reck- 
oning of years. 

It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a 
Strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has 
not perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my 
hutch one moming, when my man Friday came running in to me 
and called aloud, "Master, master, they are come, they are come!" 

I jamped up, and regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I 
could get my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the 
way, was by this time grown to be a very thick wood ; I say, re- 
gardless of danger, I went without my arms, which was not my 
custom to do; but I was surprised, when, tuming my eyes to 
the sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league and half s dis- 
tance, Standing in for the shore with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as 
they call it; and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in; 
also I observed, presently, that they did not come from that side 
which the shore lay on, but from the southemmost end of the island. 
Upon this I called Friday in, and bid him lie close, for these were 
not the people we looked for, and that we might not know yet 
whether they were friends or enemies. 

In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective-glass to see 

(248) R 



268 



A 8HIP ARRtVBS. 



what I could make of them; and haviog takeo tbe ladder out, I 
dimbed up to the top of the hill, as I ueed to do when I wu appre- 
hensive of anything, aod to take my view the plainer without bemg 
discovered. 

I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye plainly dis- 
covered a ship lying at an ancbor, at about two leaguee and a half b 
distance from nie Bouth-south-east, but not above a lei^e and a half 




from the shore, By my Observation it appeared plainly to be an 
Enghsh ship, and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat 

I cannot expresB the confusion I was in, though the joy of eee- 
ing a ship, and one who I had reaaon to believo was manned by 
my own countrymen and conaequently friends, was such as I can- 
not describa But yet I had some Beeret doubU hung about me, I 
cannot teil from whence they came, bidding me keep upon my 
guard In the first place, it occurred to me to consider what husi- 
ness an EnglJsh ship could have in that part of the world, since it 
waa not the way to or from any part of the world where the Eng- 
lish had any traffic; and I knew there had been no storms to drive 
tbem in there as in distress; and tbat if they were English really, 



A BOAT LANDS. 269 

it was most probable that they were here upon no good design, 
and that I had better continue as I was than fall into the hands of 
thieves and murderers. 

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger, which 
sometime are given him when he may think there is no possibility 
of its being real. That such hints and liotices are giyen us, I be- 
lieve few that have made any observations of things can deny ; that 
they are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and a converse 
of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to 
be to warn us of danger, why should we not suppose they are from 
some f riendly agent — whether supreme, or inferior and subordinate, 
is not the question; and that they are given for our good] 

The present question abundantly confirms me in the justice of 
this reasoning; for had I not been made cautious by this secret 
admonition, come it from whence it will, I had been undone inevi- 
tably, and in a far worse condition than before, as you will see 
presently. 

I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I saw the boat 
draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at 
for the convenience of landing. However, as they did not come 
quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet where I formerly 
landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at 
about half a mile from me; which was very happy for me, for 
otherwise they would have landed just, as I may say, at my door, 
and would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have 
plundered roe of all I had. 

When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied that they were 
Englishmen, at least most of them. One or two I thought were 
Dutch; but it did not prove so. There were in all eleven men, 
whereof three of them I found were unarmed, and, as I thought, 
bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped on 
shore, they took these three out of the boat as prisoners. One of 
the three I could perceive using the most passionate gestures of 
entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind of extravagance; 
the other two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, 
and appeared concemed indeed, but not to such a degree as the 
first 



260 THE THREE PRISONERS. 

I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the 
meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in English as 
well as he coold, ''0 roaster! you see English mans eat prisoner 
as well as savage maus." — " Why," says I, " Friday, dö you think 
they are a going to eat them, thenl" — " Yes," says Friday, "they 
will eat them." — "No, no," says I, "Friday; I am afraid they 
will murder them, indeed, but you may be sure they will not eat 
them." 

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was, 
but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every 
moment when the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I 
saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as 
the seamen call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I 
expected to see him fall every moment, at which all the blood in 
my body seemed to run chill in my veins. 

I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage that was 
gone with him, or that I had any way to have come undiscovered 
within shot of them, that I might have rescued the three men, for 
I saw no firearms they had among them; but it feil out to my 
mind another way. 

After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by 
the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows run scattering about 
the land, as if they wanted to see the country. I observed that 
the three other men had liberty to go also where they pleased; 
but they sat down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and 
looked Uke men in despair. 

This put me in mind of the first time when I came on shore 
and began to look about me; how I gave myself over for lost; 
how wildly I looked round me; what dreadful apprehensions I 
had; and how I lodged in the tree all night for fear of being 
devoured by wild beasts. 

As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was to receive by 
the providential driving of the ship nearer the land by the storms 
and tide, by which I have since been so long nourished and sup- 
ported; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how 
certain of deliverance and supply they were, how near it was to 
them, and how effectually and really they were in a condition of 



CRUSOE ON THE WATCH. 261 

safety, at the same time that they thought themselves lost, and 
their case desperate. 

So little do we see before us in the world, and so much reason 
have we to depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, 
that he does not leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but 
that in the worst circumstances they have always something to be 
thankf ul for, and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they 
imagine ; nay, are even brought to their deliverance by the means 
by which they seem to be brought to their destruction. 

It was just at the top of high-water when these people came on 
shore, and while partly they stood parle3ring with the prisoners 
they brought, and partly while they rambled about to see what 
kind of a place they were in, they had carelessly stayed tili the 
tide was spent^ and the water was ebbed considerably away, leav- 
ing their boat aground. 

They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found afterwards, 
having drank a little too much brandy, feil asleep; however, one 
of them waking sooner than the other, and Unding the boat too 
fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed for the rest who were 
straggling about, upon which they all.soon came to the boat; but 
it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat being very 
heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost 
like a quicksand. 

In this condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps the least of 
all mankind given to forethought, they gave it over, and away 
they stroUed about the country again; and I heard one of them 
say aloud to another, calling them ofif from the boat^ " Why, let 
her alone, Jack, can't ye; she will float next tide;" — ^by which I 
was f ully confirmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they 
were. 

All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring to stir 
out of my Castle any farther than to my place of Observation near 
the top of the hill; and very glad I was to think how well it was 
fortified I knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat 
could be on float again, and by that time it would be dark, and I 
might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear their 
discourse, if they had any. 



262 CRUSOE REVEALS HIMSELF. 

In the meantime I fitted myself up for a battle as before; thou^ 
with more caution, knowing I had to do with another kind of 
enemy than I had at first. I ordered Friday also, who I had 
made an excellent marksman with his gun, to load himself vith 
arms. I took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three 
muskets. My figure indeed was very fierce : I had my fonnidable 
goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked 
sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a gun npon each 
Shoulder. 

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt 
tili it was dark; but about two o'clock, being the heat of the dar, 
I found that in short they were all gone straggling into the woods, 
and, as I thought, were laid down to sleep. The three poor dis- 
tressed men, too anxious fpr their condition to get any sleep, were, 
however, set down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a 
quarter of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any 
of the rest. 

lipon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learo 
something of their condition. Immediately I maix;hed in tbe 
figure as above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as 
formidable for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring ^ 
spectre-like figure as I did. 

I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then, before 
any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, " ^f^^ 
are ye, gentlemen?" 

They started up at the noise, but were ten times more con- 
founded when they saw me, and the uneouth figure that I mada. 
They made no answer at all, but I thought I perceived them jnsl 
going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in Ejiglish. " Gentle- 
men," said I, "do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may have 
a friend near you when you did not expect it" — " He must be 
sent directly from heaven then," said one of them very gravely to 
me, and pulling ofif his hat at the same time to me, *' for our con- 
dition is past the help of man." — " All help is from heaven, sir," 
said I; "but can you put a stranger in the way how to help yo«, 
for you seem to me to be in some great distress ? I saw you whe« 
you landed; and when you seemed to make applications to th« 




THE PRISONERS' ASTONISHMENT. 



263 



brntes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to 
külyoa." 

The poor man, with tears nmning down his face, and trembling, 
ooking like one astonishexi, retumed, " Am I talking to God or 
BMt Ig it a real man or an angell" — "Be in no fear about 
iÄtjOT," Said I; "if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he 




** Oentlemen, Mid I, do noi b« rarprised at me." 

oold have come better clothed, and armed after another manner 
tan you aee me in. Pray lay aside your fears; I am a man, an 
igiishman, and disposed to assist yoa, you see. I have one 
rrant only; we have arms and ammunition; teil us freely. Can 
i serve you t What is your case ? " 

"Our case,'* said he, "sir, is too long to teil you while our 
utlerers are so near; but in short, sir, I was Commander of that 
p; my men have mutinied against me ; they have been hardly 
rvafled on not to murder me, and at last have set me on shore 
thifl desolate place, with these two men with me; one my mate, 



1 



264 THE TWO CONDITIONS. 

the other a passenger, where we expected to perish, believing the 
place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to think of it." 

"Where are those brutes, your enemies?" said I; "do you 
know where they are gonel" — "There they lie, sir," said he, 
pointing to a thicket of trees. " My heart trembles for fear they 
have Seen us and heard you speak; if they have, they will certainly 
murder us all." 

" Have they any firearms?" said I. He answered they had only 
two pieces, and one which they left in the boat "Well then," 
said I, "leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep; it is an 
easy thing to kill them all; but shall we rather take them 
prisoners?" He told me there were two desperate villains among 
them that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to ; but if they 
were secured, he believed all the rest would return to their duty. 
I asked him which they wera He told me he could not at that 
distance describe them ; but he would obey my Orders in anything 
I would direct. " Well," says I, " let us retreat out of their view 
or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve further ; " so they 
willingly went back with me, tili the woods covered us from 
them. 

" Look you, sir," said I, " if I venture upon your deliverance, 
are you willing to make two conditions with me?" He anticipated 
my proposals by telling me that both he and the ship, if recoveredj 
should be wholly directed and commanded by me in everything; 
and if the ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me 
in what part of the world soever I would send him, and the two 
other men said the same. 

"Well," says I, "my conditions are but two. 1. That while 
you stay on this island with me you will not'pretend to any 
authority here; and if I put arms into your hands, you will upon 
all occasions give them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or 
mine upon this island, and in the mean time be govemed by my 
Orders. 

2. " That if the ship is, or may be recovered, you will carry me 
and my man to England passage frea" 

He gave me aU the assurances that the invention and faith of 
man could devise, that he would comply with these most reason- 



THE MÜTINEERS ATTACKED. 265 

unands, and besides would owe bis life to roe, and acknow- 
t apon all occasions as long as he lived. 
3II, then," Said I, "here are three muskets for you, with 
' and ball; teil me next what you think is proper to be 

He showed all the testimony of bis gratitude tbat he was 
rtxt offered to be wholly guided by ma I told bim I 
t it was bard venturing anytbing; bat the best method I 
hink of was to fire upon them at once as they lay; and if 
s not killed at the first volley, and ofiered to submit, we 
^ave them, and so put it wholly upon God's providence to 
he sbot 

aid very modestly, tbat be was loath to kill them if he 
lelp it, but tbat those two were incorrigible villains, and 
m the autbors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they 

we sbould be undone still; for they would go on board 
ng the whole ship's Company, and destroy us all. " Well 
ays I, *• necessity legitimates my advice, for it is the only 

save our lives." However, seeing him still cautious of 
g blood, I told him they sbould go themselves, and manage 
found convenient 

e middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, 
n after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him if 
f them were of the men who he had said were the heads 
autiny ? He said, " No." " Well then," said I, " you may 
1 escape; and Providence seems to have wakened them on 
'■ to save themselves. Now,'' says I, ''if the rest escape 
la your fault" 

lated with this, he took the musket I had given him in bis 
nd a pistol in bis belt, and bis two comrades with him, 
ch man a piece in bis band. The two men who were with 
ing first, made some noise, at which one of the seamen who 
ake tomed about, and seeing them Coming, cried out to 
N But it was too late then; for the moment he cried out, 
ed — I mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving bis 
sce. They had so well aimed their sbot at the men they 
hat one of them was killed on the spot, and the other very 
rounded; bat not being dead, he started up upon bis feet, 



I 



366 



THZ HUTINEERS OVERCOMK 



and caJled eagerly for belp to the other; but the captain, stopping 
to him, told him it was too lata to cry for belp, be sbould call 
upon God to foFgive his villany, and with tbat word knocked him 
down with the stock of hia musket, so that he never spoke more, 
Tbere were threo more in the Company, and one of them was also 
Bligbtly wounded. Bj thia time I was come, and when they saw 
their danger, and 
that it waa in vain 




for mercy. The 
captain told them he 
would Bpare tbeir 
lives, if they would 
give him any assur- 
unce of tbeir abhor- 
rcnce of the treacbery 
they had been guilty 
of, and would Ewear 
to be faithful to him 
in recovering the 
ship, and afterwarda 
in carrying her back 
to Jamaica, from 
whence they came, 
They gave bim all 
the protestattons of 
their sincerity tbat could be desired, and he was willing to believe 
them and spare their Uvea, whicb I was not againat; only I 
obliged him to keep them bound band and foot while they were 
upon the Island. 

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain'a mate to 
the boat, witb Orders to secure her and bring away the oara and 
eail; wbich they did. And by-and-by, three straggling men, that 
were (bappily for them) parted from tho rest, came back upon 
bearing the guns fired; and seeing their captain, who before waa 
their priaooer, now tbeir conqueror, they snbmitted to be bound 
also, and so our victory was comptete. 



THE captain's difficülty. 267 

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one 
another's circumstances. I began first, and told him my whole 
history, which he heard with an attention even to amazement; 
and particularly at the wonderful manner of my being fumished 
with provisions and ammunition. And, indeed, as my story is a 
whole coUection of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when 
he reflected from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have 
been preserved there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran 
down his face, and he could not speak a word more. 

After this communication was at end I carried him and his two 
men into my apartment, leading them in just where I came out^ 
namely, at the top of the house; where I refreshed them with 
such provisions as I had, and showed them all the contrivances I 
had made during my long, long inhabiting that place. 

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing; 
but above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how per- 
fectly I had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, 
having been now planted near twenty years, and the trees growing 
much faster than in England, was become a little wood, and so 
thick, that it was unpassable in any part of it but at that one side 
where I had reserved my little winding passage into it. I told 
him this was my Castle and my residence, but that I had a seat 
in the country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat upon 
occasion, and I would show him that too another time, but at 
present our business was to consider how to recover the ship. 
He agreed with me as to that, but told me he was perfectly at 
a loss what measures to take; for that there were still six-and- 
twenty hands on board, who, having entered into a cursed con- 
spiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law, 
would be hardened in it now by desperation, and would carry it 
on, knowing that if they were reduced they should be brought 
to the gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any of the 
English colonies; and that therefore there would be no attacking 
them with so small a number as we were. 

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was 
a very rational conclusion; and that therefore something was to 
be resolved on very speedily, i^ well to draw the men on board 



268 THE BOAT STAVED. 

into some snare for their suiprise as to prevent their landing upon 
US and destroying us. Upon this it preseutly occurred to me that 
in a little while the ship's crew, wondering what was become of 
their comrades and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in 
their other boat to see for them, and that then perhaps they 
might come armed, and be too strong for us. This he allowed 
was rational 

Upon this I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave 
the boat which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry 
her oflf; and taking everything out of her, leave her so far uselesQ 
as not to be fit to swim. Accordingly we went on board, took 
the arms which were left on board out of her, and whatever elso 
we found there, which was a bottle of brandy and another of rum, 
a few biscuit cakes, a hom of powder, and a great lump of sugar 
in a piece of canvas — ^the sugar was five or six pounds; all which 
was very welcome to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of which 
I had had none left for many years. 

When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast, 
sai], and rudder of the boat, were carried away before, as above), 
we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they had come 
strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the 
boat. 

Indeed it was not much in my thoughts that we could be able 
to recover the ship; but my view was, that if they went away 
without the boat, I did not much question to make her fit again 
to carry us away to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our 
friends the Spaniards, in my way, for I had them still in my 
thoughts. 

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first by 
main strength heaved the boat up upon the beach, so high that the 
tide would not float her off at high-water mark ; and besides, had 
broke a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and 
were sat down musing what we should do; we heard the ship fire 
a gun, and saw her make a waft with her ancient, as a signal for 
the boat to come on board; but no boat stirred; and they fired 
several times, making other Signals for the boat. 

At last, when all their signals and firings proved fruitless, and 



ANOTHER CREW LAND. 269 

tley found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of my 
gi<^ hobt another boat out, and row towards the shore; and 
ve foond as they approached tbat there was no less than ten men 
10 lier, and that they bad firearms with them. 

As the ship lay almost two leagues from tbe shore, we bad a 
Wl TicF of them as they came, and a piain sight of the men, even 
;ir faces ; because tbe tide having set them a little to the east 
other boat, they rowed up under shore to come to the same 
P^ where the other bad landed, and where tho boat lay. 

Bj this means, I say, we bad a füll view of them, and the 
ciptain knew the persons and characters of all the men in the 
W, of whom he said that there were three very honest fellows, 
^ko, he was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being 
OTerpowered and frighted. 

Bat that as for tbe boatswain, who it seems was the chief 
oiSceramong them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any 
^i the ship's crew, and were no doubt made desperate in their new 
Enterprise; «id terribly apprebensive he was that they would be 
^ powerful for us. 

I smiied at bim, and told him that men in our circumstances 
^«re past tbe Operation of fear : that seeing almost every condi- 
^wn that coold be was better than that which we were supposed 
^ be in, we ought to expect that the consequence, whether death 
^ life, would be sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he 
^ought of the circumstances of my life, and whether a deliverance 
^ere not worth venturing for? "And where, sir," said I, "is your 
*^hef of my being preserved here on purpose to save your life, 
^iüch elevated you a little while ago? For my part," said I, "there 
•^Dw to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it." "Wbat's 
^1" says be. "Why," said I, "'tis that, as you say, there are 
^kree or four honest fellows among them, which should be spared. 
ä*d they been all of the wicked part of the crew, I should have 
thought God's providence bad singled them out to deliver them 
>nto your hands; for, depend upon it, every man of them that 
^mes asbore are our own, and shall die or live as they behave to 

US." 

Aa I gpoke this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I 



270 THE ^nmNEERS SEPARATED. 

found it greatly encouraged him; so we set vigorously to our 
business. We had upon the first appearance of the boat's Coming 
from the ship considered of separating our prisoners, and had 
indeed secured them effectually. 

Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than ordi- 
nary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three (delivered men) to 
my cave, where they were remote enough, and out of danger of 
being heard or discovered, or of finding their way out of the woods 
if they could have delivered themselves. Here they left them 
bound, but gave them provisions, and promised them if they con- 
tinued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a day or two ; 
but that if they attempted their escape, they should be put to death 
without mercy. They promised faithfuUy to bear their confine- 
ment with patience, and were very thankful that they had such 
good usage as to have provisions and a light left them; for Friday 
gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort; 
and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at 
the entrance. 

The other prisohers had better usage. Two of them were kept 
pinioned indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them, 
but the other two were taken into my service upon their captain's 
recommendation, and upon their solemnly enga^ng to live and 
die with us. So with them and the three honest men, we were 
seven men, well armed; and I made no doubt we should be able 
to deal well enough with the ten that were a-coming, considering 
that the captain had said there were three or four honest men 
among them also. 

As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay, 
they run their boat into the beach, iBnd came all on shore, haling 
the boat up after them; which I was glad to see, for I was afraid 
they would ratlier have left the boat at an anchor some distance 
from the shore, with some hands in her to guard her, and so we 
should not be able to seize the boat 

Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their 
other boat; and it was easy to see that they were under a great 
surprise to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and 
a great hole in her bottom. 



A PRÜITLESS SEARCH. 



271 



After they had mused a while upon this, they set up two or 
great shouts, haUooing with all their might, to try if they 
cooid nuke their companions hear; but all was to no purpose. 
^ they c&me all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small 
^nns; which indeed we heard, and the echoes made the woods 
^ bat it was all one; those in the cave, we were sure, could not 



; 




" Tbey ludlooed with all their might, and fired a volley." 

*'^; and those in our keeping, though they heard it well enough, 
^^t duret give no answer to them. 

They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that, as they 
^U OS afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again to their 
^P, and let them know there that the men were all murdered, 
*^d the long-boat staved. Accordingly, they immediately launched 
^eir boat again, and gat all of them on board. 

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded at this, 
"^eving they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, 
ÖTing üieir comrades up for lost, and so he should still lose the 



i 



272 THE SEARCH RENEWED. 

ship, which he was in hopes we should have recovered But ke 
was quickly as much frighted the other way. 

They had not been long put off with the boat, but we perceived 
them all Coming on shore again; but with this new measure in 
their conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon— 
namely, to leave three men in the boat, and the rest to go od 
shore, and go up into the country to look for their fellows. 

This was a great disappointment to us; for now we were at a 
loss what to do : for our seizing those seven men on shore would 
be no ad van tage to us if we let the boat escape; because thej 
would then row away to the ship, and then the rest of them would 
be sure to weigh and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would 
be lost. 

However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue 
of things might present. The seven men came on shore, and the 
three who remained in the boat put her off to a good distance from 
the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that it was 
impossible for us to come at them in the boat 

Those that came on shore kept close together, marching towards 
the top of the little hill under which my habitation lay; and we 
could see them plainly, though they could not perceive us. We 
could have been very glad they would have come nearer to us, so 
that we might have fired at them, or that they would have gone 
farther off, that we might have come abroad. 

But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where they 
could see a great way into the Valleys and woods which lay towards 
the north-east part, and where the Island lay lowest, they shouted 
and hallooed tili they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to 
venture far from the shore, nor far from one another, they sat down 
together under a tree to consider of it. Had they thought fit to 
have gone to sleep there, as the other party of them had done, they 
had done the Job for us; but they were too füll of apprehensions 
of danger to venture to go to sleep, though they could not teil 
what the danger was they had to fear neither. 

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consul- 
tation of theirs, namely, that perhaps they would all fire a yolW ^ 
again, to endeavour to make their fellows hear, and that we should J 



crusoe's stratagem. 273 

}on them jast at the juncture when their pieces were all 
!, and they would certÄinly yield, and we should have 
out bloodshed. I liked the proposal provided it was 
i we were near enough to come up to them before they 

their pieces again. 

i event did not happen, and we lay still a long time very 
nrhat coarse to take. At length I told them there would 
; to be done in my opinion tili night, and then, if they 
itnm to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get 
hem and the shore, and so might use some stratagem 

in the boat to get them on shore. 
ted a great while, though very impatient for their re- 
nd were very uneasy when, after long consultations, we 
Start all up and march down toward the sea. It seems 
mch dreadful apprehensions upon them of the danger of 
that they resolved to go on board the ship again, give 
»anions over for lost, and so go on with their intended 
th the ship. 

as I perceived them go towards the shore, I imagined it 
t really was, that they bad given over their search, and 
oing back again; and the captain, as soon as I told him 
its, was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it; but I 
thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and 
prered my end to a tittle. 

k1 Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little 
ward, towards the place where the sa vages came on shore 
lay was rescued; and as soon as they came to a little 
and, at about half a mile distance, I bade them halloo 
they could, and wait tili they found the seamen heard 
.t as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them 
:d retum it again; and then, keeping out of sight, take 
iways answering when the other hallooed, to draw them 

the island, and among the woods, as possible; and then 
at again to me by such ways as I directed them. 
ere just going into the boat when Friday and the mate 

and they presently heard them, and answering, run 

shore westward, towards the voice they heard, when 
) 8 



274 THE BOAT TAKEN. 

they were presently stopped by the creek, where the water being 
up, they could not get over, and called for the boat to come up 
and set them over, as indeed I expected. 

When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat, 
being gone up a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a 
harbour within the land, they took one of the three men out of 
her to go along with them, and left only two in the boat, havisg 
fastened her to the stomp of a little tree on the shore. 

This was what I wished for, and immediately leaving Friday 
and the captain's mate to their business, I took the rest with me, 
and Crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the tvo 
men before they were aware; one of them lying on shore, and the 
other being in the boat The fellow on shore was between sleep- 
ing and waking, and going to start up, the captain, who was fore- 
most, ran in upon him, and knocked him down, and theo caUed 
out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a dead man. 

There needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to 
yield when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade knocked 
down; besides, this was, it seems, one of the three who were not 
80 hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was 
easily persuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to join vciT 
sincerely with us. 

In the meantime Friday and the captain's mate so well managed 
their business with the rest, that they drew them, by hallooing j 
and answering, from one hill to another, and from one vood to 
another, tili they not only heartily tired them, but left thew 
where they were very sure they could not reach back to the boit 
before it was dark; and indeed they were heartily tired themseWe« 
also by the time they came back to us. 

We had nothing now to do but to watch tov them in the dark, 
and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them. 

It was several hours af ter Friday came back to me before th^ 
came back to their boat : and we could hear the f oremost of the» 
long before they came quite up, calling to those behind to coo^ 
along; and could also hear them answer and complain how laD* 
and tired they were, and not able to come any faster — which w»|^ 
very welcome news to us. 



THE MÜTINEERS' CONFÜSION. 275 

At leDgth they came up to the boat; but 'tis impossible to ex- 
» their confasion when they found the boat fast aground in 
f creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone ! We could 
ii them call to one another in a most lamentable manner, telling 
t another they wcre gotten into an enchanted island : that either 
re were inhabitants in it, and they shonld all be murdered; 
ilse there were deviU and spirits in it, and they should be all 
ied away, and devonred. 

liey hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their 
les a great many times ; but no answer. After some time we 
Id see them, by the little light there was, run about wringing 
r hands like men in despair; and that sometimes they would 
md dt down in the boat to rest themselves, then come ashore 
D and walk about again, and so the same thing over again. 
[y men would fain have me give them leave to fall upon them 
mce in the dark; but I was willing to take them at some 
intage, so to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could; 

especially I was unwilling to hazard the killing any of our 

men, knowing the other were very well armed. I resolved 
rait to see if they did not separate; and therefore to make 

of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday 
the captain to creep upon their hands and feet as close to the 
tnd ajs they could, that they might not be discovered, and get 
ear them as they could possibly, before they offered to fire. 
hey had not been long in that posture but that the boatswain, 

was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now 
rn himself the most dejected and dispirited of all the rest, came 
dng towards them with two more of their crew. The captain 
so eager, as haring this principal rogue so much in his power, 

he could hardly have patience to let him come so near as to 
ore of him; for they only heard his tongue before. But when 

came nearer, the captain and Friday starting up on their feet, 
y at them. 

le boatswain was kQled upon the spot, the next man was shot 
the body, and feil just by him, though he did not die tili an 

or two after; and the third run for it 

tlie noise of the fire I immediately advanced with my whole 



276 THE MUTINEERS OVERCOMK 

army, which was now eight men, namely, myself generdissmOj 
Friday my lieutenant-general, the captain and bis two men, and 
the three prisoners of war, who we had trusted with anns. 

We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they could not 
see our number; and I made the man we had left in the boat^who 
was now one of us, call to them by name, to try if I could bring 
them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to tenns; 
which feil out just as we desired. For indeed it was easy to 
think, as their condition then was, they would be very willing to 
capitulate. So he calls out as loud as he could to one of theio, 
" Tom Smith, Tom Smith." Tom Smith answered immedi&tely, 
" Who's that, Robinson 1" for it seems he knew bis voiee^ The 
other answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith, Üirow 
down your anns and yield, or you are all dead men this moment" 

"Who must we yield to? where are they?" says Smith again. 
" Here they are," says he; "here's our captain, and fifty men with 
bim, have been hunting you this two hours; the boatswain is 
killed. Will Frye is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if yoa do 
not yield, you are all lost" 

"Will they give us quarter, then," says Tom Smith, "and we 
will yield]" "I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield,** sap 
Robinson. So he asked the captain, and the captain then calls 
himself out> " You, Smith, you know my voice, if you lay down 
your anns immediately and submit, you shall have your h?es— aU ^ 
but Will Atkins." \ 

Upon this Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, c^tain, j 
give me quarter; what have I done) They have been all as 
as I;" — which, by the way, was not true neither; for it seems 
Will Atkins was the first man that laid hold of the captain when 
they first mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying bis händig 
and giving him injurious language. However, the captain Uii 
him he must lay down bis arms at discretion, and trust to the 
govemor's mercy; by which he meant me, for they all called m« 
govemor. 

In a Word, they all laid down their arms, and begged th^ 
lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with them, and two 
more, who bound them all; and then my great anny of fifty mö»» 



THBY 8UE FOR QUARTER. 277 

which particolarly with those three, were all but eight, came up 
and seized upon them all, and upon their boat — only that I kept 
myself and one more out of sight, for reasons of State. 

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing the 
ship; and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with 
them, he expostolated with them upon the villany of their prac- 
tices with him, and at length upon the farther wickedness of their 
design, and how certainly it must bring them to misery and dis- 
tress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows. 

They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their 
lives. As for that, he told them, they were none of his prisoners, 
but the Commander of the island; that they thought they had set 
him on shore in a harren uninhabited island, but it had pleased 
God so to direct them, that the island was inhabited, and that the 
govemor was an Englishman : that he might hang them all there 
if he pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, he supposed 
he would send them to England to be dealt with there, as justice 
required — except Atkins, who he was commanded by the govemor 
to advise to prepare for death, for that he would be hanged in 
the morning. 

Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had its desired 
effect. Atkins feil upon his knees to heg the captain to intercede 
with the govemor for his life; and all the rest begged of him for 
God's sake that they might not be sent to England. 

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was 
come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these fellows 
in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship; so I retired in 
the dark from them, tha*t they might not see what kind of a 
goyemor they had, and called the captain to me. When I called, 
as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak again, 
and say to the captain, '' Captain, the Commander calls for you." 
And presently the captain replied, " Teil his excellency I am just 
a-coming." This more perfectly amused them; and they all be- 
lieved that the Commander was just by with his fifty men. 

Upon the captain's coming to me I told him my project for 
seizing the ship, which he liked of wonderfuUy well, and resolved 
to put it in execution the next morning. 



278 ' THE captain's proposal. 

But in Order to execute it with more art, and secure of success, 
I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that he should go 
and take Atkins and two more of the worst of them, and send 
them pinioned to the cave where the others lay. This was com- 
mitted to Friday and the two men who came on shore with the 
captain. 

They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison; and it was in- 
deed a dismal place, especially to men in their condition. 

The other I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I 
have given a füll description ; and as it was fenced in, and they 
pinioned, the place was secure enough, considering they were upon 
their behaviour. 

To these in the raoming I sent the captain, who was to enter 
into a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and teil me 
whether he thought they might be trusted or no to go on board 
and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury done him, 
of the condition they were brought to; and that though the 
governor had given them quarter for their lives as to the present 
action, yet that if they were sent to £ngland they would all be 
hanged in chains, to be sure; but that if they would join in so 
just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have the govemor's 
engagement for their pardon. 

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be 
accepted by men in their condition. They feil down on their 
knees to the captain, and promised, with the deepest imprecations, 
that they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they 
should owe their lives to him, and would go with him all over the 
World; that they would own him for a father to them as long as 
they lived. 

"Well," says the captain, "I must go and teil the governor what 
you say, and see what I can do to bring him to consent to it." So 
iie brought me an account of the temper he found them in, and 
that he verily believed they would be faithfuL 

However, that we might be very secure, I told him he should 
go back again, and choose out five of them, and teil them they 
might see that he did not want men, that he would tako out those 
five to be his assistants, and that the governor would keep the 



THE TERMS ACCEFTED. 279 

other two, and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my 
cave) as hostages, for the fidelity of those five; and that if they 
proved unfaithful in the* execution, the üve hostages should be 
hanged in chains alive upon the shore. 

This looked severe, and convinced them that the govemor was 
in eamest. However, they had no way left them but to accept it; 
and it was now the business of the prisoners, as mnch as of the 
captain, to persuade the other five to do their duty. 

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: 1. The 
captain, his mate, and passenger; 2. Then the two prisoners of 
the first gang, to whom, having their characters from the captain, 
I had given their liberty, and trusted them with arms; 3. The 
other two who I had kept tili now in my bower pinioned, but upon 
the captain's motion had now released; 4. These five released at 
last : so that they were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners 
in the cave for hostages. 

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands 
on board the ship; for as for me and my man Friday, I did not 
think it was proper for us to stir, having seven men left behind, 
and it was employment enough for us to keep them asunder and 
supply them with victuals. 

As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast, but 
Friday went in twice a day to them to supply them with neces- 
saries; and I made the other two carry provisions to a certain 
distance, where Friday was to take it 

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the 
captain, who told them I was the person the govemor had ordered 
to look after them, and that it was the govemor's pleasure they 
should not stir any where but by my direction; that if they did, 
they should be fetched into the castle and be laid in irons. So 
that as we never suffered them to see me as govemor, so I now 
appeared as another person, and spoke of the govemor, the garrison, 
the Castle, and the like, upon all occasions. 

The captain now had no difiiculty before him but to fumish his 
two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made his 
passenger captain of one, with four other men; and himself, and 
his mate and five more, went in the other. And they contrived 



280 THE SHIP SECURED. 

their business very well, for they came up to the ship about mid- 
night As soon as they came within csü of the ship, he made 
Eobinsou hail them, and teil them they had brought off the men 
and the boat, but that it was a long time before they had found 
them, and the like, holding them in a chat tili they came to the 
ship's side; when the captain and the mate, entering first with 
their arms, immediately knocked down the second mate and car- 
penter with the butt-end of their muskets. Being very faithfully 
seconded by their men, they secured all the rest that were upon 
the main and quarter-decks, and began to fasten the hatches to 
keep them down who were below, when the other boat and their 
men, entering at the fore-chains, secured the fore-castle of the ship, 
and the scuttle which went down into the cook-room, making 
three men they found there prisoners. 

When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the captain 
ordered the mate with three men to break into the round-house^ 
where the new rebel captain lay, and having taken the alarm, was 
gotten up, and with two men and a boy had gotten Rrearms in 
their hands; and when the mate with a crow split open the door, 
the new captain and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded 
the mate with a musket ball, which broke his arm, and wounded 
two more of the men, but killed nobody. 

The mate, calling for help, rushed however into the round-house, 
wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new captain 
through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth and came out 
again behind one of his ears, so that he never spoke a word; upon 
which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, without 
any more lives lost. 

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven 
guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to give 
me notice of his success; which, you may be sure, I was very glad 
to hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it tili near two of 
the clock in the moming, 

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it 

^ At that time, the upper cabin in the stem of the ship was the master's room 
and was called the ronnd-house, probably because it had a round top raised above 
the deck. 



DELIVBRANCE AT HAND. 



281 



a a day of great fatigue to me, I slept veiy sound, tili 
thing surprised with the noise of a gun; and presently 
, I heard a man call me by the name of " Govemor, 
and presently I knew the captain's voice, when climb- 
le top of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the 
»raced me in his arms. " My dear friend and deliverer," 




** He stood, pointing to the ihlp." 

lere's your ship; for she is all yours, and so are we and 
mg to her." I cast my eyea to the ship, and there she 
little more than half a mile of the shore; for they 
1 her anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and 
' being fair, had brought her to an anchor just against 
>f the little creek; and the tide being up, the captain 
b the pinnace in near the place where I at first landed 
id so landed just at my door. 

first ready to sink down with the surprise; for I saw 
.nee indeed visibly put into my hands, all things easy, 
ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased to 
3t, for some time, I was not able to answer him one 




282 THE CAPTAIN'S JOY. 

Word; but as he had takea me in his arms I held fast by him, or 
I should have f«illen to the ground. 

He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a bottle out of 
his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial, which he had brought 
on purpose for me. After I had drank it, I sat down upon the 
ground; and though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good 
while before I could speak a word to him. 

All this while the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as I, only 
not ander any surprise, as I was; and he said a thousand kind 
tender things to me, to compose me and bring me to .myself; but 
such was the flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits 
into confusion. At last it broke out into tears, and in a little 
while after, I recovered my speech. 

Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer, and 
we rejoiced together. I told him I looked upon him as a man 
sent from Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole transaction 
seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such things as these were 
the testimonies we had of a secret band of Providence governing 
the World, and an evidence that the eyes of an Infinite Power 
could search into the remotest corner of the world, and send help 
to the miserable whenever he pleased. 

I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven : and 
what heart could forbear to bless him, who had not only in a 
miraculous manner provided for one in such a wildemess, and in 
such a desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance must 
always be acknowledged to proceed ? 

When he had talked a while, the captain told me he had 
brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship afiforded, and 
such as the wretches that had been so long his masters had not 
plundered him of. Upon this, he called aloud to the boat, and 
bid his men bring the things ashore that were for the govemor; 
and indeed it was a present, as if I had been one not that was to 
be carried away along with them, but as if I had been to dwell 
upon the island still, and they were to go without me. 

First he had brought me a case of bottles füll of excellent 
cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held 
two quarts apiece), two pound of excellent good tobacco, twelve 



SBASONABLE SUPPL1ES. 283 

pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag 

o^peasc, and about a hundred weight of biscuit. 
He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag füll of 
lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and abiindance of other 
tbiogs. Bot besides these, and what was a thousand times more 
öseful to me, he bronght me six clean new shirts, six very good 
Deckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one 
pairof stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of his own, which 
lud been wom but very little. In a word, he clothed me from 
beid to f oot 

It vts a very kind and agreeable present, as any one may 
mugine, to one in my circumstancea But never was anything in 
^e World of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy, as it 
ras to me to wear such clothes at their first putting on. 

After these ceremonies past, and after all his good things were 
>n>Qght into my little apartment, we began to consult what was 
be done with the prisoners we had ; for it was worth considering 
rtether we might venture to take them away with us or no, espe- 
»11? two of them, who we knew to be incorrigible and refractory 
the last degree ; and the captain said, he knew they were such 
'ogues that there was no obliging them, and if he did carry them 
*»y it must be in irons as malefactors to be delivered over to 
Istice at the first English colony he could come at. And I found 
lj*t the captain himself was very anxious about it 

Upon thia, I told him that if he desired it I durst undertake to 
►ring the two men he spoke of to make it their own request that 
^ »hould leave them upon the island. " I should be very glad of 
K" says the captain, " with all my heart." 

"Well," says I, "I will send for them up, and talk with them 
öfyou.'' So I caused Friday and the two hostages — for they 
^fre now discharged, their comrades having performed their 
romiae; I say, I caused them to go to the cave, and bring up the 
^e men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep them 
^ere tili I came. 

After some time I came thither dressed in my new habit; and 
öw I was called govemor again. Being all met, and the captain 
ith me, I caused the men to be brought before me; and I told 



284 AN UNPLEA8ANT ALTERNATIVE. 

them I had bad a füll account of their villanous behavioor to the 
captain, and how tbey had run away witb the ship, and were pre- 
paring to commit farther robberies, biit that Providence had en- 
snared them in their own ways, and that tbey were fallen into the 
pit which tbey had digged for others. 

I let them know that by my direction the ship bad been seW, 
that she lay now in the road; and tbey might see by-and-by that 
their new captain had received the reward of bis villany, for Üi*t 
tbey might see bim hanging at the yard-arm. 

That as to them, I wanted to know what tbey bad to say why 
I should not execute them as pirates taken in the fact, as by wy 
commission tbey could not doubt I had authority to do. 

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that tbey had 
nothing to say but this, that when tbey were taken the captain 
promised them their live« ; and tbey humbly implored my mercy 
But I told them I knew not what mercy to show them; for aa for 
myself I had resolved to quit the island witb all my men, and had 
taken passage witb the captain to go for England; and as for the 
captain he could not carry them to England other tban as prisoneis 
in irons to be tried for mutiny and running away witb tbe ship, 
the consequence of which, tbey must needs know, would be the 
gallows : so that I could not teil which was best for them, unlesa 
tbey bad a mind to take their fate in the island. If they desiied 
that (I did not care, as I had liberty to leave it), I had some 
inclination to give them their lives, if they thought they could 
shift on shore. 

They seemed very thankful for it, said tbey would much rather 
venture to stay there tban to be carried to England to be hanget. 
So I left it on that issue. 

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, ^ 
if be durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little 
angry witb the captain, and told bim that they were my prisoners, 
not bis; and that seeing I had oflfered them so much favour, I 
would be as good as my word; and that if be did not thinkß^ 
to consent to it, I would set them at liberty as I found tbem, a^d 
if he did not like it, he might take tbem again if he could catch 
them. 




PREPARATIONS FOR LEAVING. 285 

)o this thej appeared yery thankful, and I accordingly set 
it iibertj, and bade them retire into the woods to the place 
3 thej came, and I woold leave them some firearms, some 
litioD, and some directions how they should live very well, 
thonght fit 

1 this I prepared to go on board the ship, bat told the cap- 
at I woold stay that night to prepare my things, and 
him to go on board in the meantime and keep all right in 
S and send the boat on shore the next day for me; order- 

in the meantime to cause the new captain, who was kiUed, 
uiged at the yard-arm that these men might see him. 
i the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me to my 
Qt, and entered seriously into discourse with them of their 
tances. I told them I thought they had made a right 
that if the captain carried them away, they would certainly 
ed I showed them the new captain hanging at the yard- 
he ship, and told them they had nothing less to expect 
i they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then 
Dl I woold let them into the story of my living there, and 
n into the way of making it easy to them. Accordingly 
hem the whole history of the place and of my coming to 
red them my fortifications, the way I made my bread, 
my com, cured my grapes; and in a word, all that was 
Y to make them easy. I told them the story also of 
Jen Spaniards that were to be expected; for whom I left 
and made them promise to treat them in common with 
res. 

them my firearms, namely, five muskets, three fowling- 
nd three swords. I had above a barrel and half of pow- 

for after the first year or two I used but little and wasted 
[ gave them a description of the way I managed the goats, 
ctions to milk and fatten them, and to make both butter 
»e. 

HTord, I gave them every part of my own story. And I 
m I woold prevail with the captain to leave them two 
\l gonpowder more, and some garden-seeds, which I told 
woold have been very glad of ; also I gave them the bag 




286 BIDS ADIEU TO THE ISLAND. 

of pease which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade t 
be sure to sow and increase them, 

Having done all this I left them the next day, and wen 
board the ship. We pregared immediately to sail, but did 
weigh that night. The next morning early two of the five 
came «wimming to the ship's side, and making a most lament 
complaint of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship 
God's sake, for they should be murdered, and begged the cap 
to take them on board though he hanged them immediately. 

Upon this the captain pretended to have no power without 
But af ter some difiiculty, and af ter their solemn promises of am* 
ment, they were taken on board, and were some time after soui 
whipped and pickled;^ after which they proved very honest 
quiet fellows. 

Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore, the 
being up, with the things promised to the men; to which 
captain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes t 
added; which they took, and were very thankful for. I also 
couraged them, by telling them that if it lay in my way to i 
any vessel to take them in, I woold not forget them. 

When I took leave of this island I carried on board for p 
the great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and my pai 
also I forgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned, wl 
had lain by me so long useless that it was grown rusty, or 
nished, and could hardly pass for silver tili it had been a 1 
rubbed and handled; as also the money I found in the wrec 
the Spanish ship. 

And thus I left the island the 19th of December, as I founc 
the ship's account, in the year 1 686, after I had been upon it e 
and twenty years, two months, and nineteen days; being deliv< 
from this second captivity the same day of the month that I 
made my escape in the Barco Longo from among the Moor 
Sallee. 

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England 

^ When aailon were flogged the pumshment was sometimeB increaaed bypou 
aalt water or brine upon the sore places macle by the lash. This wat o> 
"pickling." 



"J 



AKRIVBS IK ENGLAND. 287 

lune, in the year 1687, having been thirty and fire yearB 

I csme to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all the 
if I had never been known there. My benefactor aad 
«ward, who I faad lefl in tnist with my money, waa alive, 
ad great miafortunes in the world; was become a widow 







^ 


'^M 


^^Ö 


^3 


^^^b 



I tixne, and very low in the world. I made her easy as 
he owed me, assuring her I wonld give her no trouble; 
e contrary, in gratitude to her former care and faithful- 
e, I relieved her as my little stock would afford, which 
me would indeed allow me to do but little for her; but 
her I would never folget her former kindneaa to me : 
foi^t her when I had suffident to help her, as aball be 
in ite place, 
iown aft«rwardB into Yorkshire, but my father was dead, 



288 GOES TO LISBON. 

and my mother and all the family extinct, ezcept that I found two 
sisters and two of the children of one of my brothers; and as I 
had been long ago given over f or dead, there had been no provision 
made for me: so that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or 
assist me; and that little money I had would not do much for me 
as to settling in the world. 

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not 
expect; and this was, that the master of the ship, who I had so 
happily delivered, and by the same means saved the ship and 
cargo, having given a very handsome account to the owners of the 
manner how I had saved the lives of the men, and the ship, they 
invited me to meet them and some other merchants concemed, and 
all together made me a very handsome compliment upon the sub- 
ject, and a present of almost two hundred pounds Sterling. 

But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of 
my life, and how little way this would go towards settling me in 
the World, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come 
by some information of the State of my plantation in the Brazils, 
and of what was become of my partner, who I had reason to sap- 
pose had some years now given me over for dead. 

With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in 
April foUowing, my man Friday accompanjring me very honestly 
in all these ramblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon 
all occasions. 

When I came to Lisbon I found out by inquiry, and to my 
particular satisfaction, my old friend, the captain of the ship who 
first took me up at sea ofF the shore of Africk. He was now 
grown old, and had left off the sea, having put his son, who was 
far from a young man, into his ship, and who still used the 
Brazil trade. The old man did not know me, and indeed I hardly 
knew him; but I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as 
soon brought myself to his remembrance when I told him who I 
was. 

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance, I 
inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and my partner. 
The old man told me he had not been in the Brazfls for about 
nine years; but that he could a^sure me that when he came away 




MEETS AN OLD FRIEND. 289 

Qer was living, but the trustees who I had joined with him 
cognizance of my part were both dead. That, however, 
'ed Uiat I would have a very good account of the improve- 
the plantation : for that, upon the general belief of my 
t away and drowned, my trustees had given in the account 
dduce of my part of the plantation to the procurator-fiscal, 
appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it; one 
iie King, and two thirds to the monastery of St Augus- 
le expended for the benefit of the poor, and for the con- 
l the Indiana to the Catholic faith; but that if I appeared, 
le for me, to claim the inheritance, it should be restored, 
the improvement or annual production being distributed 
üble uses could not be restored. But he assured me 
Steward of the Hing's revenue (from lands) and the pro- 
»r Steward of the monastery, had taken great care all 
\t the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave every 
thful account of the produce, of which they received duly 

1 him if he knew to what height of improvement he had 
the plantation; and whether he thought it might be 
)king after? or whether, on my going thither, I should 
1 no obstruction to my possessing my just right in the 

1 me he could not teil exactly to what degree the planta- 
improved, but this he knew, that my partner was grown 
l rieh upon the enjo3ring but one half of it; and that^ to 
)f his remembrance, he had heard that the King's third 
vrt, which was, it seems, granted away to some other 
Y or religious house, amounted to above two hundred 
a year: that as to my being restored to a quiet posses- 
., there was no question to be made of that, my partner 
fe to witness my title, and my name being also enrolled 
tgister of the country. Also, he told me that the sur- 
my two trustees were very fair, honest people, and very 
and he believed I would not only have their assistance 
lg me in possession, but would find a very considerable 
loney in their hands for my account; being the produce 
) ^ 



I 



290 COÜNT AND RECKONING. 

of the f arm while their f athers held the trust, and bef ore it was gi ven 
up as above, which, as he remembered, was for about twelve years. 

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, 
and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the 
trustees should thus dUpose my efifects when he knew that I had 
made my will, and had made him, the Poi*tuguese captain^ my 
universal heir, &c. 

He told me that was tnie; but that, as there was no proof of 
my being dead, he could not act as executor until some certain 
account should come of my death, and that, besides, he was not 
willing to intermeddle with a thing so remote; that it was true 
he had regietered my will, and put in his claim; and could he 
have given any account of my being dead or alive, he would have 
acted by procuration, and taken possession of the ingenio (so they 
called the sugar-house), and had given his son, who was now at 
the Brazils, order to do it. 

"But," says the old man, "I have one piece of news to teil 
you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable to you as the rest, 
and that is, that believing you were lost, and all the world be- 
lieving so also, your partner and trustees did offer to account 
to me in your name for six or eight of the first years of profits, 
which I received; but there being at that time," says he, "great 
disbursements for increasing the works, building an ingenio, and 
buying slaves, it did not amount to near so much as afterwards 
it produced. However," says the old man, " I shall give you a 
true account of what I have received in all, and how I have dis- 
posed of it*' 

After a few days' farther Conference with this ancient friend, he 
brought me an account of the six first years' income of my planta- 
tion, signed by my partner and the merchants' trustees, being 
always delivered in goods, namely, tobacco in roll, and sugar in 
chests, besides rum, molasses, &c, which is the consequence of a 
sugar work; and I found by this account tliat every year the 
income considerably increased, but, as above, the disbursement 
being large, the sum at first was smalL However, the old man 
let me see that he was debtor to me 470 moidores of gold,^ besides 

^ A gold Portuguese moidore was worth about 27«. l^nyliftli. 



■J 



HONBSTY AND KUJDNBSS. 291 

Mthots of Bugar and 15 double rolle of tobacco, which were lost 
iahuilüp; he havisg been shipwrecked Coming home to Lisbon 
»boot eieren yeare af ter my leaving the place. 

Um good man then began to complain of his miBfortunea, and 
'>o* iie hid been obliged to make use of my money to recover his 
""w, and bny him a ehare in a new ship. " However, my old 




■naid," says he, "you ahall not want a aupply in your neceHsityj 
^ u toon as my BOn returns, you sball be fully Batisfied." 

'JpoQ this he puUs out an old pouch, and gives me 1 60 Fortugal 
""HdweB in gold; and giving me thc writing af his title to the 
"«ip vhich his aon was gone to the Brazila in, of wiiich he was a 
fvta part owner and his son another, he puts them both into 
"y Wds for Bccurity of the rest 

I vu too much moved with the honesty and kindnese of the 
Poorman to be able to bear thia; and reinemhering what he had 
''oDe for me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously he 
hid lued me on all occasions, and particularly how sincere a friend 



I 



292 THE BRAZIL PLANTATION. 

he was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at ^ 
to me. Therefore first I asked him if his circumstan< 
him to spare so much money at that time, and if i 
straiten him 1 He told me he could not say but it m 
him a little; but, however, it was my money, and I 
it more than he. 

Everything the good man said was füll of affection, 
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke. In short, 1 1 
dred of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink t< 
receipt for them; then I retumed him the rest, and 
ever I had possession of the plantation, I would retu 
to him also, as indeed I af terwards did : and that as t 
sale of his part in liis son's ship, I would not take it hy 
but that if I wanted the money, I found he was hone! 
pay me; and if I did not, but came to receive what 
reason to expect, I would never have a penny more fi 

When this was past, the old man began to ask me 
put me into a method to make my claim to my ph 
told him I thought to go over to it myself. He said 
so if I pleased, but that if I did not, there were waj 
secure my right, and immediately to appropriate the j 
use. And as there were ships in the river of Lisbon j 
go away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a pi 
with his affidavit, affirming upon oath that I was ali 
I was the same person who took up the land for the 
said plantation at first 

This being regularly attested by a notary, and a 
affixed, he directed me to send it with a letter of his 
merchant of his aequaintance at the place, and then ] 
staying with him tili an account came of the retum. 

Never anything was more honourable than the 
upon this procuration; for in less than seven months 
large packet from the survivors of my trustees the m 
whose account I went to sea, in which were the foUowij 
letters and papers enclosed. 

First, Thore was the account current of the produc< 
or plantation from the year when their fathers had b 




OLD ACJCOUNTS. 293 

mj old Poitagal captain, belog for six years. The balance ap- 
pearcd to be 1174 moidores in my favour. 

Semäy^ There was the account of four years more while they 
kq>t the efifecU in their hands, before the Government claimed 
theadmimstration, as being the effects of a person not to be found, 
▼hich they call civil death; and the balance of this, the value of 
the plantation increasing, amounted to as many crusadoes^ as 
n»le3241 moidores. 

Krdly, There was the Prior of the Augustiners account, who 
W receired the profits for above fourteen years; but not being 
^ account for what was disposed to the hospital, very honestly 
^Wared he had 872 moidores not distributed, which he acknow- 

'^dged to my account; as to the King's part, that refunded 

öothing. 

There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating me very 

^ectionately upon my being alive; giving me an account how the 

®^Ute was improved, and what it produced a year, with a particular 

^f the number of Squares or acres that it contained, how planted, 

*iow many slaves there were upon it; and maldng two and twenty 

^»osses for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave Marias to 

^^Unk the Blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very 

P^ssionately to come over and take possession of my own, and in 

^e meantime to give him Orders to whom he should deliver my 

Effects if I did not come myself ; concluding with a hearty tender 

^f his friendship and that of his family, and sent me as a present 

^ven fine leopards' skins, which he had, it seems, received from 

Africa by some other ship which he had sent thither, and who, it 

^ins, had made a better voyage than I. He sent me also five 

^ests of excellent sweetmeats, and an hundred pieces of gold un- 

^»Ded, not quite so large as moidores. 

%the same fleet my two merchant trustees shipped me 1200 
^heats of sugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole 
*««ouiit in gold. 

I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was 
"^tter than the beginning. It is impossible to express the flutter- 

^ Portugaeee coin, so called because it had a cross stamped upon it, yalue 



i 




294 crusoe's sudden wealth. 

ings of my very heart when I looked over these letters, and espe- 
cially when I found all my wealth about me. For as the Braal 
ships come all in fleets, the same ships which brought my letters 
brought my goods, and the efFects were safe in the river before 
the letters came to my band. In a word, I tumed pale, and grew 
sick; and had not the old man nin and fetched me a cordial,! 
believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset nature and I had 
died upon the spot 

Nay, after that I continued very ill, and was so some hours, tili 
a physician being sent for, and something of the real cause of my 
illness being known, he ordered me to be let blood,^ after which I 
had relief, and grew well ; but I verily believe if it had not been 
eased by a vent given in that manner to the spirits,^ I shoald 
have died. 

I was now master, all on a sudden, of above £5000 Sterling in 
money; and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the Brazil^ 
of above £1000 ayear, as sure as an estate of lands in England. 
And in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew how to 
understand, or how to compose myself for the enjoyment of it 

The first thing I did was to recompense my original benefactor, 
my good old captain, who had been first charitable to me in my 
distress, kind to me in my beginning, and honest to me at the 
end. I showed him all that was sent me; I told him that next 
to the providence of Heaven, which disposes all things, it was 
owing to him; and that it now lay on me to reward him, whichl 
would do a hundredfold. So I first retumed to him the W 
moidores I had received of him, then I sent for a notaiy, ^^ 
caused him to draw up a genend release or discharge for the 470 
moidores which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the füllest 
and firmest manner possible: after which I caused a procoration 
to be drawn empowering him to be my receiver of the annual 
Profits of my plantation, and appointing my partner to account to 
him, and make the returns by the usual fieets to him in my nam^* 

^ Bled in the arm : the common surgical remedy for yarious disorders in tko^ 
days. 

' Doctors in those days thought that illneeBes were caused by what they a^ 
** humours " or " spiritB " affecting the blood or the brain and caused by excitemtot- 



WHAT TO DO WITH IT. 296 

d a clause in the end, being a grant of 100 moidores a year to 
n doring bis b'fe out of the effects, and 50 moidores a year to 
! son after bim f or bis life. And tbus I requited my old man. 
[ was now to consider ^wbicb way to steer my course next, and 
at to do witb tbe estate tbat Providence had tbus put into my 
uls; and indeed I bad more care upon my bead now tban I 
I in my silent state of life in tbe island, wbere I wanted notbing 

what I bad, and bad notbing but wbat I wanted : wbereas I 
I now a great cbarge upon me, and my business was bow to 
ire it I bad never a cave now to bide my money in, or a 
:e wbere it migbt lie witbout lock or key tili it grew mouldy 

tamisbed before anybody would meddle witb it. On tbe 
trary. I knew not wbere to put it, or wbo to trust witb it 

old patron tbe captain, indeed, was bonest, and tbat was tbe 
j refuge I bad. 
n the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon 

thither; but now I could not teil bow to tbink of going 
«her tili I bad settled my affairs, and left my effects in some 
i hands bebind me. At first I thought of my old friend tbe 
low, wbo I knew was bonest, and would be just to me; but 
Q she was in years, and but poor, and for aught I knew migbt 
in debt So that, in a word, I bad no way but to go back to 
^d myself, and take my effects witb me. 
t was some months, bowever, before I resolved upon this; and 
refore, as I bad rewarded tbe old captain fully and to bis satis- 
aon, wbo bad been my former benefactor, so I began to tbink 
my poor widow wbose busband had been my first benefactor, 
I she wbile it was in her power my faithful steward and 
uructor. So tbe first thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon 
imte to bis correspondent in London, not only to pay a bill, 

to go find her out, and carry her in money an bundred pounds 
n me, and to talk witb her, and comfort her in her poverty by 
mg her she sbould, if I lived, have a fartber supply. At tbe 
16 time I sent my two sisters in tbe country eacb of them an 
idred pounds, they being, thougb not in want, yet not in very 
d circumstances ; one having been married and left a widow, 
[ the other having a busband not so kind to her as be sbould 



i 



296 HIS PLANS AND PROJECTS. 

be. But among all my relations or acquaintances I could not yet 
pitch upon one to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock, 
that I might go away to the Brazils and leave things safe behind 
me; and this greatly perplexed ma 

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have settled 
myself there, for I was, as it were, naturalized to the place; but I 
had some little scniple in my mind about religion, which insensibly 
drew me back, of which I shall say more presently. However, it 
was not religion that kept me from going there for the present; 
and as I had made no scruple of being openly of the religion of 
the country all the while I was among them, so neither did I yet; 
only that now and then having of late thought more of it (than 
f ormerly) when I began to think of living and dying among them, 
I began to regret my having professed myself a Papist, and thought 
it might not be the best religion to die with. 

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me 
from going to the Brazils; but that really I did not know with 
whom to leave my effects behind me. So I resolved at last to go 
to England with it; where, if I arrived, I concluded I should 
make some acquaintance, or find some relations that would be 
f aithful to me. And accordingly I prepared to go for England with 
all my wealth. 

In Order to prepare things for my going home, I first, the 
Brazil fleet being just going away, resolved to give answers suit- 
able to the just and faithful account of things I had from thenca 
And, first, to the prior of St Augustine I wrote a letter füll of 
thanks for their just dealings, and the ofifer of the 872 moidores 
which was indisposed of ; which I desired might be given, 500 to 
the monastery, and 372 to the poor as the prior should direct, 
desiring the good padre*s prayers for me, and the like. I wrote 
nezt a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all the acknowledg- 
ment that so much justice and honesty called for. As for sending 
them any present, they were far above having any occasion of it. 
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his industry in the 
improving the plantation, and his integrity in increasing the stock 
of the works; giving him instructions for his future govemment 
of my part, according to the powers I had left with my old patron, 



HIS GREAT ÜNCERTAINTY. 297 

to whom I desired him to send whatever became due to me tili 
heshoold hear from me morö particularly; assuring him that it 
vu mj intention, not only to come to him, but to settle myself 
Acre for the remainder of my life. To this I added a very 
Ittiidsome present of some Italian silks for his wife and two 
(iiaghters, for such the captain's son informed me he had; with 
(vo pieces of fine English broadcloth, the best I could get in 
Ubon, fiye pieces of black baize, and some Flanders lace of a good 

HiYing thus settled my afiairs, sold my cargo, and tumed all 
ny efiects into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty was 
^kich wtLj to go to England. I had been accustomed enough to 
^ sea, and yet I had a stränge avei*sion to going to England by 
«a&t that time; and though I could give no reason for it, yet the 
h&olty increased upon me so much that though I had once 
lipped my baggage in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and 
^ not once, but two or three timea 

It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this might 
« some of the reason ; but let no man slight the strong impulses 
i his own thoughts in cases of such moment Two of the ships 
riiich I had singled out to go in; I mean, more particularly 
ingled out than any other, that is to say, so as in one of them to 
nt my things on board, and in the other to have agreed with the 
*pUin; I say, two of these ships miscarried, namely, one was 
^en by the Algerines, and the other was cast away on the Start 
*» Torbay, and all the people drowned except three : so that in 
^r of those vessels I had been made miserable; and in which 
1^ it was hard to say. 

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to 
rhom I communicated everything, pressed me eamestly not to go 
7 sea, but either to go by land to the Groyne, and cross over the 
^J of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and 
^^ journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or to 
> q> to Madrid, and so all the way by land through France. In 
Word, I was so prepossessed against my going by sea at all, 
cept from Calais to Dover, that I resolved to travel all the way 

land; which, as I was not in haste and did not value the charge. 




to aave the chargcj and aa for me, I got an English sai 
travel with me aa a servant, besides my man Friday, who •» 
much a stranger to be capable of Bupplying the place of a s 
on the read. 



SEVERE WEATHER. 299 

8 that happened to os in this tedious and difficult journey I 
t not omit 

lien we came to Madrid, we being all of ns strangers to Spain, 
; willing to staj some time to see the court of Spain, and to 
rhat was worth observing; but it being the latter part of the 
ner we hastened away, and set out from Madrid about the 
Ue of October. But when we came to the edge of Navarre, 
ere alarmed at several towns on the way with an account that 
ach snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains that 
•al travellers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after 
lg attempted at an extreme hazard to pass on. 
hen we came to Pampeluna itself we found it so indeed; and 

9 that had been always used to a hot climate, and indeed to 
tnes where we could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was 
ÜBnble. Nor, indeed, was it more painful than it was sur- 
ig to come but ten days before out of the Old Castile, where 
reather waa not only warm but very hot, and immediately 
bI a wind from the Pyrenean mountains so very keen, so 
üy cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger benumbing 
yerishing of our fingers and toes. Poor Friday was really 
:ed when he saw the mountains all covered with snow and 
old weather, which he had never seen or feit before in his 

mend the matter, when we came to Pampeluna it continued 
ng with so much violence and so long that the people said 
r was come before its time : and the roads, which were diffi- 
)cfore, were now quite impassable ; for, in a word, the snow 
I some places too thick for us to travel, and being not hard 
1, as is the case in northem countries, there was no going 
ut being in danger of being buried alive every step. We 
i no 1^8 than twenty days at Pampeluna; when, seeing the 
r Coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it was 
rerest winter all over Europe that had been known in the 
ry of man, I proposed that we should all go away to Font- 
^ and there take shipping for Bordeaux, which was a very 
royage. 
, while we were considering this, there came in four French 




300 DANGERS OF THE ROAD. 

gentlemen, who, having been stopped on the French side of the 
passes as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guido who, 
traversing the country near the head of Languedoc, had brought 
them over the mountains by such ways that they were not much 
incommoded with the snow; and where they met with snow in 
any quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to bear them 
and their horses. We sent for this guido, who told us he would 
undertake to carry us the same way with no hazard from the snow, 
provided we were armed sufficiently to protect us from wild 
beasts; for he said upon these great snows it was frequent for 
some wolves to show themselves at the foot of the mountains, 
being made ravenous for want of food, the ground being covered 
with snow. We told him we were well enough prepared for such 
creatures as they were, if he would insure us from a kind of two- 
legged wolves, which we were told we were in most danger from, 
especially on the French side of the mountains. He satisfied us 
there was no danger of that kind in the way that we were to go: 
so we readily agreed to foUow him; as did also twelve other 
gentlemen with their servants, some French, some Spanish, who, 
as I said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come back 
again. 

Accordingly, we all set out from Pampeluna with our guido, on 
the 15th of November. And indeed I was surprised when, 
instead of going forward, he came directly back with us on the 
same road that we came from Madrid, abovo twenty miles; when, 
being past two rivers, and come into the piain country, we found 
ourselves in a warm climate again, where the country was pleasant 
and no snow to be seen. But on a sudden, tuming to the left, he 
approached the mountains another way; and though, it is true, 
the hills and precipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many 
tours, such meanders, and led us by such winding ways, that we 
were insensibly past the height of the mountains without being 
much encumbered with the snow. And all on a sudden he showed 
US the pleasant fruitful, provinces of Languedoc and Gascony, all 
green and flourishing; though, indeed, it was at a great distance, 
and we had some rough way to pass yet 

We were a little uneaay, however, when we found it snowed one 



ATTACKED BY WOLVES. 301 

hole day and a night so fast that we could not travel; but he 
id OS be easj, we should soon be past it all. We found, indeed, 
iiat we began to descend every day, and to come more north than 
tdore; and so, depending upon our guide, we went on. 

It was about two hours before night, when, our guide being 
xmething before us and not just in sight, out rushed three mon- 
itions woIycs, and after them a bear, out of a hoUow way adjoin- 
ing to a thick wood. Two of the wolves flew upon the guide; and 
bd he been half a mile before us he had been devoured indeed 
befofe we could have helped him. One of them f astened upon bis 
iM»«e; and the other attacked the man with that violence that he 
b»d not time or not presence of mind enough to draw his pistol, 
bot hallooed and cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday 
being next to me, I bid him ride up and see what was the matter. 
As soon as Friday came in sight of the man, he hallooed as loud 
tt the other, ''Oh master! oh masterl" but, like a bold fellow, 
rode directly up to the poor man, and with his pistol shot the wolf 
idiat attacked him into the head. 

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday; for 
Ite having been used to that kind of creature in his country, had 
10 fear upon him, but went close up to him, and shot him as 
kboTe: whereas any of us would have fired at a farther distance, 
■d have perhape either missed the wolf or endangered shooting 
keman. 

Bot it was enough to have terriiied a bolder man than I, and 
ideed it alarmed all our Company, when with the noise of Friday's 
irtol we heard on both sides the dismallest howling of wolves, 
wi the noise redoubled by the echo of the mountains, that it was 
»OS as if there had been a prodigious multitude of them: and 
iriiaps indeed there was not such a few as that we had no cause 
fapprehensions. 

However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had 
Heiied upon the horse left him immediately, and fled; having 
IppQy fajBtened upon his bead, where the bosses of the bridle had 
Kk in his teeth, so that he had not done him much hurt The 
m, indeed, was most hurt; for the raging creature had bit him 
once on the arm, and the other time a little above his knee; 



i 



302 A bear's qualtties. 

and he was just as it were tumbling down by the disorder of his 
horse, when Friday came up and shot the wolf. 

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all 
mended our pace, and rid up as fast as the way, which was very 
difficult, would give us leave, to see what was the matter. As 
soon as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we 
saw clearly what had been the case, and how Friday had disen- 
gaged the poor guide, though we did not presently discem what 
kind of creature it was he had killed. 

But never was a iight managed so hardily and in such a surprising 
manner as that which f ollowed between Friday and the bear, which 
gave US all (though at first we were surprised and afraid for him) 
the greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy 
creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift and 
Iight, so he has two particular qualities, which generally are the 
rule of his actions. First, as to men, who are not bis proper 
prey; I say, not his proper prey, because, though I cannot say 
what excessive hunger might do, which was now tbeir case, the 
groimd being all covered with snow; but as to men, he does not 
usually attempt them unless they first attack him. On the con- 
trary, if you meet him in the woods, if you don't meddle with him 
he won't meddle with you. But then you must take care to be 
very civil to him, and give him the road; for he is a very nice 
gentleman, he won't go a step out of his way for a prince. Nay, 
if you are really afraid, your best way is to look another way, and 
keep going on; for sometimes if you stop and stand still, and look 
steadily at him, he takes it for an afifront But if you throw or 
toss anything at him, and it hits him, though it were but a bit of 
a stick as big as your finger, he takes it for an afiront, and sets all 
his other business aside to pursue his revenge; for he will have 
satisfaction in point of honour. That is his first quality. The 
next is, that if he be once affronted, he will never leave you night 
or day tili he has his revenge, but foUows at a good round rate tili 
he overtakes you. 

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up 
to him he was helping him off from his horse — for the man was 
both hurt and frighted, and indeed the last more than the first — 



i 



FRIDAY'S MANGEUVRES. 303 

Q the suddeD, we spied the bear come out of the wood. 
'ast monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I 
7e were all a little surprised, when we saw him ; but when 
aw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's 
ince. "Oh! oh! oh!" says Friday, three times, pointing 
"oh, master! you give me te leave; me shakee te band 
i; me make yon good laugh." 

surprised to see the fellow so pleased. " You fool you," 
'*he will eat you up!" "Eatee me up! eatee me up!" 
day, twice over again; "me eatee him up; me make you 
igh. You all stay here; me show you good laugh." So 
) siu, and gets bis boots off in a moment, and put on a 
>umps (as we call the flat shoes^they wear, and which he 
is pocket), gives my other servant bis horse, and with bis 
y he flew swift like the wind. 

>ear was Walking softly on, and offered to meddle with 
tili Friday, coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear 
iderstand him. "Hark ye! hark ye!" says Friday; "me 
wit yoa" We followed at a distance; for now, being 
wn on the Gascony side of the mountains, we were entered 
reat forest, where the country waa piain and pretty open, 
nany trees in it scattered here and there. 
fj who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came up with 
skly, and takes up a great stone and throws at him, and 
just on the head, but did him no more barm than if he 
)wn it against a wall But it answered Friday's end; for 
le was so void of fear that he did it purely to make the 
low him, and show us some laugh, as he called it. As 
the bear feit the stone and saw him, he tums about and 
fter him, taking devilish long strides, and shuffling along 
-ange rate, so as would have put a horse to a middling 
Away runs Friday, and takes bis course as if he run 
US for help. So we all resolved to fire at once upon the 
d deliver my man; though I was angry at him heartily 
ging the bear back upon us when he was going about bis 
siness another way. And especially I was angry that he 
ned the bear upon us and then run away; and I called 



{ 



304 A BEAR nUNT. 

out: " You dog," said I, "is this your making us laughl Come 
away, and take your horse, that we may shoot the creature." He 
hears me, and cries out, "No shoot! no shoot! Stand still; you 
get much laugh." And as the nimble creature run two foot for 
the beast's one, he turned on a sudden on one side of us, and seeing 
a great oak-tree fit for his purpose, he beckoned to us to foUow; 
and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up the tree, laying his gun 
down upon the ground at about five or six yards from the bottom 
of the tree. 

The bear soon came to the tree, and we foUowed at a distance. 
The first thing he did he stopped at the gun, smelt to it, but let it 
lie; and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing like a cat, though 
so monstrously heavy. I was amazed at the f oUy, as I thought it, 
of my man, and could not for my life see any thing to laugh at yet, 
tili seeing the bear get up the tree, we all rode nearer to him. 

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small 
end of a large limb of the tree, and the bear got about half-way 
to him. As soon as the bear got out to that part where the limb 
of the tree was weaker, "Ha," says he to us, "now you see me 
teachee the bear dance." So he falls a jumping and shaking the 
bough, at which the bear began to totter, but stood still, and began 
to look behind him to see how he should get back; then, indeed, 
we did laugh heartily. But Friday had not done with him by a 
great deal. When he sees him stand still, he calls out to him 
again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak English, " What! 
you no come fartherl Pray you come farther." So he left 
jumping and shaking the tree; and the bear, just as if he had 
understood what he said, did come a little farther; then he feil a 
jumping again, and the bear stopped again. 

We thought now was a good time to knock him on the head, 
and I called to Friday to stand still and we would shoot the bear. 
But he cried out eamestly, "O pray! pray! no shoot; me 
shoot by and then." He would have said by-and-by. However, 
to shorten the story, Friday danced so much, and the bear stood 
so ticklish, that we had laughiug enough indeed, but still could 
not imagine what the fellow would do : for first we thought he 
depended upon shaking the bear off; and we found the bear was 



A BEAR DANUE. 305 

too cunning for that too, (or he would not go out far enough to 
be thrown down, but clings fast with hia great broad claws and 
feet, so that we could not imagine what woiüd be the end of it, 
and where the jest 
would be at last 

But Friday put 
US out of doubt 
quickly; for see- 
ing the bear cling 
fast to the bough, 
and that he would 
not be pei-suaded 
to come any fur- 
ther, "Well, well," 
says Friday, "you 
no come farther, 
mego, mego; you 
no come to me, me 
go come to you." 
And upon tlus he 
goea out to the 
smalleat eiid of the 
bough, where it 
would bend witi» 
bis weight, and 
gently lets him- 
self down by it, 
sliding down the 

bough, tili he came near enough to jump down on bis feet, and 
away he run to bis gun, tokes it up, and Stands still. 

" Well," eaid I to him, " Friday, what will you do nowl Why 
don't you shoot himl" "No shoot," saya Friday, " no yet; me 
shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you one more laugh," And 
indeed ao he did, as you will see presently: for when the bear 
saw bis enemy gone, he comes back from the bough where he 
stood; but did it migbty leiaurely, looking bchind him every slep, 
and Coming backwaiä tili he got into the body of the tree. Tben 




306 



THE BEAR SHOT. 



with the same hinder end foremost, he come down the tree, 
ing it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very lei 
At this juncture, and just before he could set his hind fee 
the ground, Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the ] 
of his piece into his aar, and shot him dead as a stone. 

Then the rogue tumed about to see if we did not laug 
when he saw we were pleased by our looks, he falls a la 
himself very loud. " So we kill bear in my country," says 1 
" So you kill theml" says I. " Why, you have no guna." 
says he; ** no gun, but shoot, great much long arrow." 

This was indeed a good diversion to us; but we were sti 
wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and what to 
hardly knew. The howling of wolves run much in my hea< 
iudeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of Afr 
which I have said something already, I never heard anythin 
filled me with so much horror. 

These things and the approach of night called us off, or e 
Friday would have had us, we should certainly have take 
skin of this monstrous creature off, which was worth sai 
we had three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, sof 
him, and went forward on our joumey. 

The ground was still covered with snow, though noi 
and dangerous as on the mountains; and the ravenous 
as we heard afterwards, were come down to the forest 
country, pressed by hunger to seek for food; and 
great deal of mischief in the villages, where they si 
country people, killed a great many of their sheep and | 
some people too. 

We had one dangerous place to pass, which our 
if there were any more wolves in the country, we shoi 
there; and this was in a small piain surrounded 
every side, and a long narrow defile or lane, whi< 
pass to get through the wood, and then we shoul^ 
village where we were to lodge. 

It was within half an hour of sunset when we 
wood, and a little after sunset when we came into 
met with nothing in the first wood except that 



WOLVES AT HAND. 307 

within the wood, which was not above two furlongs over, we saw 
five great wolves cross the road, füll speed one after another, as if 
they had been in chase of some prey, and had it in view. They 
took no notice of us, and were gone, and out of our sight in a few 
moments. 

lipon this our guido, who, by the way, was a wretched, faint- 
hearted fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture, for he believed 
there were more wolves a Coming. 

We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us; but we saw 
no more wolves tili we came through that wood, which was near 
half a league, and entered the piain. As soon as we came into 
the piain we had occasion enough to look about us. The first 
object we met with was a dead horse — that is to say, a poor horse 
which the wolves had killed — and at least a dozen of them at 
work, we could not say eating of him, but picking of his bones 
rather, for they had eaten up all the flesh before. 

We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast; neither 
did they take much notice of us. Friday would have let fly at 
them, but I would not suffer him by any means; for I found we 
were like to have more business upon our hands than we were 
aware o£ We were not gone half over the piain but we began to 
hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left in a frightful 
manner; and presently after we saw about a hundred coming on 
directly towards us, all in a body, and most of them in a line as 
regularly as an army drawn up by experienced officers. I scarce 
knew in what manner to receive them; but found to draw our- 
selves in a close line was the only way; so we formed in a 
moment But that we might not have too much interval, I 
ordered that only every other man should fire, and that the others 
who had not fired should stand ready to give them a second volley 
immediately if they continued to advance upon us; and that then 
those who had fired at first should not pretend to load their f usees 
again, but stand ready with every one a pistol, for we were all 
armed with a fusee and a pair of pistols each man; so we were by 
this method able to fire six voUeys, half of us at a time. How- 
ever, at present we had no necessity; for upon firing the first 
volley the enemy made a füll stop, being terrified as well with the 



308 A HORRIBLE SIGHT. 

noise as with the fire. Four of them beiog shot into the head 
dropped, several others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as 
we could See by the snow. I found they stopped, but did not 
immediately retreat; whereupon remembering that I had been 
told that the fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, 
I caused all our Company to halloo as loud as we could; and I 
found the notion not altogether mistaken, for upon our shout they 
began to retire and tum about Then I ordered a second volley 
to be fired in their rear, which put them to the gallop, and away 
they went to the wooda 

This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and that we 
might lose no time, we kept going; but we had but little more 
than loaded our fusees, and put ourselves into a readiness, when 
we heard a terrible noise in the same wood on our left, only that 
it was farther onward the same way we were to go. 

The night was Coming on, and the light began to be dusky, 
which made it worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we 
could easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling of those 
hellish creatures; and on a sudden we perceived two or three 
troops of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one on our 
front; so that we seemed to be surrounded with them. However, 
as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way forward as fast as 
we could make our horses go, which, the way being very rough, 
was only a good large trot; and in this manner we came in view 
of the entrance of a wood through which we were to pass at the 
farther side of the piain; but we were greatly surprised when, 
Coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused number of 
wolves Standing just at the entrance. 

On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the 
noise of a gun; and looking that way, out rushed a horse with a 
saddle and a bridle on him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or 
seventeen wolves after him, füll speed ; indeed, the horse had the 
heels of them, but as we supposed that he could not hold it at 
that rate, we doubted not but they would get up with him at last, 
and no question but they did 

But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to the 
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcass of 



A FIGHT WITH WOLVES. 309 

iQother horse, and of two men, devoured by the ravenous 
creatores; and one of the men was no doubt the same who we 
heard fired the gon, for there lay a gun just by him fired off; but 
&3 to the man, bis head and the upper part of bis body was eaten 
up. 

Thia fiUed us with horror, and we knew not what course to 
take; but the creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about 
ttspresently in hopes of prey; and I verily believe there were three 
Wdred of them. It happened very much to our advantage that 
^ the entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there lay 
wme large timber trees, which had been cut down the summer 
Wore, and I suppose lay there for carriage. I drew my little troop 
ui among those trees, and placing ourselves in a line behind one 
kng tree, I advised them all to light,* and keeping that tree before 
^ for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, enclos- 
^ our horses in the centre. 

We did so, and it was well we did; for never was a more 
forioiis Charge than the creatures raade upon us in the place. 
They came on us with a growling kind of a noise, and mounted 
^e piece of timber, which, as I said, was our breastwork, 
*8 if they were only rushing upon their prey; and this fury of 
thcirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by their seeing our 
horses behind us, which was the prey they aimed at. I ordered 
Our men to fire as before, every other man ; and they took their 
*in 80 sure, that indeed they killed several of the wolves at the 
^t volley; but there was a necessity to keep a continual firing, 
^or they came on like devils, those behind pushing on those 
Wore. 

When we had fired our second volley of our fusees, we thought 
l^ej stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone off; but 
^ was but a moment, for others came forward again : so we fired 
^0 ToUeys of our pistols, and I believe in these four firings we 
^ kill^ seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as 
^^y; yet they came on again. 

I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily; so I called my 
•«rvant — not my man Friday, for he was better employed; for, 

^ Alight or dismount. 



M 



' ! I Pi 

t! ' 




charged pistol, close to the powder, set it on fire. 1 
were upon the timber were scorched with it, and sü 



THE WOLVES TURN TAIL. 311 

ttd we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame ones, who we 
found struggling on the ground, and feil a cutting them with our 
swords; which answered our expectation, for the crying and howl- 
ing they made was better understood by their fellows, so that 
% all fled and lef t us. 

We bad, first and last, killed about threescore of them; and 
Had it been daylight, we had killed many more. The field of 
^tle being thus cleared, we made forward again ; for we had still 
Dew a league to go. We heard the ravenous creatures howl and 
yell in the woods, as we went, several times, and sometimes we 
^öcied we saw some of them; but the snow dazzling our eyes, we 
^ere not certain: so in about an hour more we came to the 
tovn where we were to lodge, which we found in a terrible fright, 
*öd all in arms; for it seems that, the night before, the wolves 
*öd some bears had broken into the village in the night, and put 
^em in a terrible fright, and they were obliged to keep guard 
'^ight and day, but especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, 
*fid indeed their people. 

The next moming our guido was so ill, and his limbs swelled 

^th the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no farther ; 

®o we were obliged to take a new guido there, and go to Toulouse, 

allere we found a warm climate, a fruitful, pleasant country, and 

^0 snow, no wolves, or anything like them. But when we told 

^r Story at Toulouse, they told us it was nothing but what was 

o^iinary in the great forest at the foot of the mountains, especially 

^hen the snow lay on the ground. But they inquired much what 

■^fcd of a guide we had gotten that would venture to bring us 

^«ut way in such a severe season ; and told us it was very much 

^« were not all devoured. When we told them how we placed 

P^rselves, and the horses in the middle, they blamed us exceed 

^'^gly, and told us it was fifty to one but we had been all destroyed: 

'or it was the sight of the horses which made the wolves so furious, 

•^ing their prey; and that at other times they are really afraid 

^f a gun ; but the being excessive hungry, and raging on that 

^cconnt, the eagemess to come at the horses had made them sense- 

*^ of danger; and that if we had not by the continued fire, and 

^ last by the stratagem of the train of powder, mastered them, it 



l 



812 ARRIVES IN ENGLAND. 

had been great odds but that we had been tom to pieces; whereas 
had we been content to bave sat still on horseback, and fired as 
horsemen, they would not have taken the horses for so much their 
own, when men were on their backs, as otherwise: and withal 
they told, that at last, if we had stood all together, and left oor 
horses, they would have been so eager to have devoured them, that 
we might have come off safe, especially having our firearms in our 
hands, and being so many in number. 

For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my life; for 
seeing above three hundred devils come roaring and open-moathed 
to devour us, and having nothing to shelter us or retreat to, I gave 
myself over for lost; and as it was, I believe I shall never care to 
cross those mountains again. I think I would much rather go a 
thousand leagues by sea, though I were sure to meet with a stonn 
once a week. 

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my paasage 
through France, nothing but what other travellers have given an 
account of with much more advantage than I can. I travelied 
from Toulouse to Paris, and without any considerable stay, came 
to Calais, and landed safe at Dover, the Hth of January, after 
having had a severe cold season to travel in. 

I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little 
time all my new discovered estate safe about me, the bills of 
exchange which I brought with me having been very cunently 
paid. 

My principal guido and privy counsellor was my good ancient 
widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thougbt 
no pains too much or care too great to employ for me; and I 
trusted her so entirely with everything that I was pertecdy w^y 
as to the security of my effects; and indeed I was very happy 
from my beginning, and now to the end, in the unspotted integntj 
of this good gentlewoman. 

And now I began to think of leaving my effects with tto 
woman, and setting out for Lisbon, and so to the Brazik But 
now another scruple came in my way, and that was religion; ^^ 
as I had entertained some doubts about the Boman reli^on, eren 
while I was abroad, especially in my state of solitude, so I kn^^ 



I 



HIS BRAZIL PLANTATION. 313 

there was no going to the Brazils for me, much less going to settle 
tbere, nnlefis I resolved to embrace the Boman Catholic religion 
withoQt any reserve; unless, on the other hand, I resolved to be 
a sacrifice to mj principles, be a martyr for religion, and die in 
the Inquisition. So I resolved to staj at home, and if I could 
find means for it^ to dispose of my plantation. 

To this parpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon ; who in 
vetuni gave me notice that he conld easily dispose of it there, 
bat that if I thooght fit to give him leave to offer it in my 
wme to the two merchants, the survivors of my trustees, who 
li^ed in the Brazils, who must fully understand the value of it, 
»ho Ii?ed just upon the spot, and who I knew were very rieh, so 
^ he believed they would be fond of buying it, he did not 
<loabt but I should make 4000 or 5000 pieces of eight the more 
ofit 

Accordingly I agreed, gave him order to offer it to them, and 
^ did so; and in about eight months more, the ship being then 
^torned, he sent me an account that they had accepted the offer, 
»nd had remitted 33,000 pieces of eight to a correspondent of 
Aeire at Lisbon to pay for it. 

In retum, I signed the instrument of sale in the form which 

they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man, who sent me 

hüls of exchange for 32,800 pieces of eight to me for the estate; 

'Irving the payment of 100 moidores a year to him, the old man, 

^^'inng bis life, and 50 moidores afterwards to bis son for bis life, 

^hich I had promised them, which the plantation was to make 

&od as a rent-charge. And thus I have given the first part of a 

We of fortune and adventure, a life of Providence's checker- work, 

*nd of a variety which the world will seldom be able to show the 

•^e ot Beginning foolishly, but closing much more happily than 

^y part of it ever gave me leave so much as to hope for. 

Any one would think that in this State of complicated good 

'ortone I was past running any more hazards; and so indeed I 

W been, if other circumstances had concurred ; but I was inured 

^ a Wandering life, had no family, not many relations, nor, how- 

^er rieh, had I contracted much acquaintance; and though I had 

^(M my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep the country 



314 VISITS THE ISL^D. 

out of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the wing again; 
especially I could not resist the strong inclination I had to see my 
Island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were in being there, 
and how the rogues I had left there had used them. 

My true friend the widow eamestly dissuaded me from it, and 
80 far prevailed with me that for almost seven years she prevented 
my running abroad; during which time I took my two nephews, 
the children of one of my brothers, into my care. The eldest having 
something of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a 
settlement of some addition to his estate after my deceasa The 
other I put out to a captain of a ship; and after five years, finding 
him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I put him into a 
good ship, and sent him to sea. And this young fellow afterwards 
drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures myself. 

In the meantime, I in part settled myself here; for, first of all, 
I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction, 
and had three children, two sons and one daughter. But my wife 
dying, and my nephew coming home with good success from a 
voyage to Spain, my inclination to go abroad and his importunity 
prevailed, and engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to 
the East Indies. This was in the year 1694. 

In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island, saw my 
successors the Spaniards, had the whole story of their lives, and 
of the villains I left there; how at first they insulted the poor 
Spaniards; how they afterwards agreed, disagreed, united, separ- 
ated; and how at last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence 
with them; how they were subjected to the Spaniards; how 
honestly the Spaniards used them : a history, if it were entered 
into, as füll of variety and wonderful accidents as my own part, 
particularly also as to their battles with the Caribbeans, who 
landed several times upon the island ; and as to the improvement 
they made upon the island itself ; and how five of them made an 
attempt upon the mainland, and brought away eleven men and 
five women prisoners, by which, at my coming, I found about 
twenty young children on the island. 

Here I stayed about twenty days, left them supplies of all 
necessary things, and particularly of arms, powder, shot, clothes, 



^PH£ AOAIN. 315 

toola, and two workmen, which I broaght from England with me; 
oimely, a carpenter and a smith. 

Beddes this, I shared the Island into parts with them, reserved 
to myself the property of the whole, but gave them such parts re- 
spectively as they agreed on; and having settled all things with 
them, and engaged them not to leave the place, I left them there. 

From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I sent a 
Wk, which I bought there, with more people to the island; and 
in it, besides other supplies, I sent seven women, being such as I 
fwind proper for Service, or for wives to such as would take them. 
As to the Englishmen, I promised them to send them some women 
from England, with a good cargo of necessaries, if they would 
*Pply themselves to planting; which I afterwards performed. 
And the fellows proved very honest and diligent after they were 
•nastered, and had their properties set apart for them. I sent 
^tra also from the Brazils five cows, three of them being big 
^thcalf, some sheep, and some hogs; which, when I came again, 
*ere considerably increased 

Bat all these things, with an account how three hundred Carib- 
^ came and invaded them, and ruined their plantations, and 
'^ow they fought with that whole number twice, and were at first 
^^eated and three of them killed ; but at last a storm destroying 
^^ enemies' canoes,. they famished or destroyed almost all the 
^ and renewed and recovered the possession of their plantation, 
*öd still lived upon the Island : 

All these things, with some very surprising incidents in some 
^ adventures of my own, for ten years more, I may perhaps 
^^^ a farther account of hereaf ter. 
















THE FURTHER ADVENTURES 



OF 



EOBINSON CEUSOE; 



BEINO THE SECOND AND LAST PAET OF HIS LIFE. 



^T homely proverb used on so many occasions in England, 
^ely, " That what is bred in the bone will not go out of the 
^" was never more verified than in the story of my life. Any 
'c woald think that after thirty-five years' affliction and a variety 

anhappy circumstances, which few men, if any, ever went 

^Qgh before, and after near seven years of peace and enjoyment 

the fulness of all things, grown old, and when, if ever, it might 

allowed nie to have had experience of every state of middle 
^ and to know which was most adapted to make a man completely 
ppy: I say, after all this, any one would have thought that the 
tive propensity to rambling, which I gave an account of in my 
(t setting out into the world, to have been so predominant in 
' thoughts, should be worn out, the volatile part be fuUy 
Umated, or at least Condensed, and I might at sixty-one years 
^e have been a little inclined to stay at home, and have done 
^taring life and fortone any more. 

^ay, farther, the common motive of foreign adventures was taken 
ay in me; for I had no fortime to make, I had nothing to seek. 
^ had gained ten thousand pound, I had been no richer; for I had 
^y sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to : and that 
^ was visibly increasing ; for having no great family, I could 
' spend the income of what I had, unless I would set up for an 
^nsive way of living, such as a great family, servants, equipage, 
öty, and the like, which were things I had no notion of, or incli- 
ion to; so that I had nothing indeed to do but to sit still, and 




318 LONGINGS FOR ADVENTURE. 

fully enjoy what I had got^ and see it increase daily upon my 
handa 

Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least not 
enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad again, 
which hung about me like a chronica! distemper; particnlarly, the 
desire of seeing my new plantation in the island, and the colony I 
left there, run in my head continually. I dreamed of it all night, 
and my imagination run upon it all day; it was uppermost in all 
my thoughts, and my fancy worked so steadily and strongly upon 
it, that I talked of it out of sleep. In short, nothing could 
remove it out of my mind; it even broke so violently into all my 
discourses, that it made my conversation tiresome: for I could 
talk of nothing eise; aU my discourse run into it, even to imper- 
tinence, and I saw it myself. 

I have often heard persons of good judgment say that all the 
stir people make in the world about ghosts and appaiitions is 
owing to the strength of imagination and the powerful Operation 
of fancy in their minds; that there is no such thing as a spirit ap- 
pearing, or a ghost Walking, and the like: that people's poring 
affectionately upon the past conversation of their deceased friends 
so realizes it to them, that they are capable of fancying, upon some 
extraordinary circumstances, that they see them, talk to them, and 
are answered by them; when, in truth, there is nothing but 
shadow and vapour in the thing, and they really know nothing of 
the matter. 

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any 
such things as real apparitions, spectres, or Walking of people af ter 
they are dead : or whether there is anything in the stories they 
teil US of that kind more than the product of vapours,^ sick minds, 
and wandering fancies; but this I know, that my imagination 
worked up to such a height, and brought me into such ecstasies 
of vapours, or what eise I may call it, that I actually supposed 
myself oftentimes upon the spot, at my old Castle behind the trees: 
saw my old Spaniard, Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors I 

^ In former times the body was supposed to be äff ected by what were called spirits 
or "humouTB" of the blood; and melancholy or stränge fanoies were said to be 
oaused by " yapours" of the brain. 



ms STRANGE DREAM. 319 

leftapoii the Island; nay, I fancied I talked with them, and looked 

it them 80 steadily, though I was broad awake, as at persons just 

before me; and this I did tili I often frighted myself with the 

iQuges my f ancy represented to me. One time in my sleep I had 

the ?illany of the three pirate sailors so lively related to me 

hj the first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it was surprising. 

They told me how they barbarously attempted to murder all the 

Spaniards, and that they set fire to the provisions they had laid 

Qpv on porpose to distress and starve them; things that I had 

never heard of, and that indeed were never all of them true in 

fact Bat it was so warm in my imagination, and so realized to 

ine, that to the hour I saw them I could not be persuaded but 

tb*t it was or would be true ; also how I resented it, when the 

Spaniard complained to me, and how I brought them to justice, 

^ed them before me, and ordered them all three to be hanged. 

^^ there was really in this shall be seen in its place; for how- 

«Ter I came to form such things in my dream, and what secret 

wnyeree of spirits injected it, yet there was very much of it true. 

^ fi&y, I own that this dream had nothing in it Hterally and speci- 

ficilly true; but the general part was so true, the base, villanous 

^riour of these three hardened rogues was such, and had been 

^ mach worse than all I can describe, that the dream had too 

iQDch gimilitude of the fact; and as I would afterwards have 

Ponished them severely, so if I had hanged them all I had been 

mach in the right, and should have been justifiable both by the 

^▼s of God and man. 

Bnt to retum to my story. In this kind of temper I had lived 
^ome years ; I had no enjoyment of my life, no ple&sant hours, no 
^greeable di Version, but what had something or other of this in it; 
^ that my wife, who saw my mind so whoUy beut upon it, told 
^ Tery seriously one night that she believed there was some 
^wret powerful impulse of Providence upon me which had deter- 
^ed me to go thither again ; and that she f ound nothing hindered 
^y going but my being engaged to a wife and children. She told 
tue that it was true she could not think of parting with me, but 
^ die was assured that if she was dead it would be the first thing 
' ^ould do, so, as it seemed to her that the thing was determined 



320 



L W1FE8 DEVOTION. 



above, ahe would not he the only obstraction^ for if I thought fit, 

and rcBoIvod to go Here she found me very intent upon her 

words, and that I looked very eamestly at her, so that it a iitüe 
dJBordered her and she atopped. I aaked her whj ahe did not go 
on, and aay out wbat ehe was going to sayl But I perceived her 
heart was too füll, and some tears atood in her eyes. " Speak oQt, 




my dear," Said I; "are you willmg I should gol" "No,"»" 
she, very affectionately, " I am f ar f rom wilÜDg. But ii yW* 
resolved to go," aaya she, "and rather than I will bo the onlj' 
hindrance, I will go with you: for thongh I think it a moitpw- 
posteroua thing for one of your years, and in your condition, jet if 
it must be," said ahe, again weeping, "I won't leave you; forifit 
be of Hearen, you must do it — there is no reaiating it; an«! " 
Heaven makes it your duty to go, be will also make it mine to p 
with you, or otherwise dispoae of me, that I may not obatrmtit' 
Thi» affectionate behavioui of my wife's brought me a L'ltl«««'' 



SETTLES IN BEDFORD. 321 

of the Tapoors, and I began to consider what I was adoing. I 
corrected my wandering fancy, and began to argue with myself 
Bedatelj what business I had, af ter threescore years, and af ter such 
a üfe of tedious sofferings and disasters, and closed in so happy 
lud easy a manner, I say, what business I had to rush into new 
bazirds, uid put myself upon adventures fit only for youth and 
poverty to run intol 

With those thoughts, I considered my new engagement, that I 
had a wife, one child bom, and my wife then great with child of 
another; that I had all the world could give me, and had no need 
to seek hazards for gain; that I was declining in years, and ought 
to think rather of leaving what I had gained than of seeking to 
increase it; that as to what my wife had said, of its being an im- 
polfle from Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go, I had 
no notion of that : so, af ter many of these cogitations, I struggled 
^nth the power of my Imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as I 
beHeve people may always do in like cases, if they will; and, in 
» wofd, I conquered it; composed myself with such arguments as 
occoned to my thought, and which my present condition fumished 
mepleDttfally with, and particularly, as the most efifectual method, 
I retolyed to divert myself with other things, and to engage in 
some business that might efifectually tie me up from any more 
ttcorsions of this kind; for I found that thing retum upon me 
chiefly when I was idle, had nothing to do, or anything of moment 
immediately before ma 

To this purpose I bought a little farm in the country of Bedford, 
*od resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little convenient 
bottse upon it; and the land about it I found was capable of great 
^provement, and that it was many ways suited to my inclination, 
which delighted in cultivating, managing, planting, and iraproving 
^ Und: and particularly, being an inland country, I was removed 
fiom conversing among ships, sailors, and things relating to the 
l J^mote part of the world. In a word, I went down to my farm, 
^ttled my family, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, waggon, 
«Borges, cows, sheep, and, setting seriously to work, became in one 
*^f year a mere country gentleman. My thoughts were entirely 
^^n up in managing my servants, cultivating the ground, enclos- 

(248) X 



i 



322 



CRUSOE BECOHBS FARMER. 



ing, planting, &c. ; and I lived, as I thought, the most agreeable 
life ihai Nature was capable of directing, or that a man always 
bred to miafortimeB waB capablo of boing retreated to. 

I farmed upon my own land; I had uo rent to pay, waa limited 
by no Brticles; I could pull up or cut down &a I pleased; what I 
plantod was for myself, and what I improved was for my family : 




and having tlius left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not tho 
least discomfort in any part of life, as to thia world. Now I 
thought indeed that I enjoyed the middle State of life that my 
father bo eamestly recommended to me, and lived a kind of 
heavenly life, eomething like what is described by the poet upon 
tlie Bubject of a country life; 



But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unforeseen 
Providenc« unhinged me at once, and not only made a breach ' 

' Breaking down, scrioua injury. 



His wife's death. 323 

upon me inevitable and incurable, but drove me by its con- 
seqnences into a deep relapse into the wandering disposition; 
which, as I may say, being bom in my very blood, soon recovered 
its hold of me, and, like the retums of a violent distemper, came 
on with an irresistible force upon me, so that nothing could make 
anymore impression upon me. This blow was the loss of my 
wife. 

It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my wife, give 
a chtracter of her particular virtues, and make my court to the 
sex by the flattery of a funeral sermon. She was, in a few words, 
the stay of all my afiairs; the centre of all my enterprises; the 
cngine that by her prudence reduced me to that happy compass I 
▼as in, from the most extravagant and ruinous project that flut- 
tered in my head, as above; and did more to guido my rambling 
genins than a mother's tears, a father's instructions, a friend's 
^»Qnsel, or all my own reasoning powers could do. I was happy 
in listening to her tears and in being moved by her entreaties, and 
to the last degree desolate and dislocated in the world by the loss 
of her. 

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me. 

J »as as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the 

opaaJs when I went first on shore there; and as much alone, 

except as to the assistance of servants, as I was in my Island. I 

*Dew neither what to do or what not to do. I saw the world 

'^Qsy round me; one part labouring for bread, and the other part 

«quandering in vile excesses or empty pleasures; equally miserable, 

^ose the end they proposed still fled from them; for the man 

^f pleasure every day surfeited of his vice, and heaped up work 

■'orsorrow and repentance, and the man of labour spent his strength 

*^ daily strugglings for bread to maintain the vital strength they 

**boared with ; so living in a daily circulation of sorrow, living 

^öt to work, and working but to live, as if daily bread were the 

^J^ly end of wearisome life, and a wearisome lifo the only occasion 

^f dailv bread 

This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the 
^land, where I suffered no more com to grow because I did not 
^ant it, and bred no more goats because I had no more use for 



324 AGAIN ÜNSETTLED. 

them; where the money lay in the drawer tili it grew mouldj, 
and had scarce the favour to be looked upon in twenty years. 

All these things, had I improved them as I oaght to have done, 
and as reason and religion had dictated to me, woold have taught 
me to search farther than human enjoyments for a fuU felidty, 
and that there was something which certainly was the reason and 
end of lifo superior to all these things, and which was either to be 
possessed or at least hoped for on this side the grave. 

Bat my sage counsellor was gone. I was like a ship witbont ft 
pilot, that coold only run afore the wind. My thoughts ran all 
away again into the old afifair; my head was quite tiimed witb 
the whimsies of foreign adventures; and all the pleasant innocent 
amusements of my f arm and my garden, my cattle, and my familj, 
which before entirely possessed me, were nothing to me, had no 
relish, and were like music to on6 that has no ear, or food to one 
that has no taste. In a word, I resolved to leave off house-keep- 
ing, let my farm, and retum to London; and in a few montb 
after, I did so. 

When I came to London I was still as imeasy as I was before. 
I had no relish to the place, no employment in it, nothing to do 
but to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be said 
he is perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one fartbing 
matter to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or aliva This 
also was the life which of all circumstances of life was the most 
my aversion, who had been all my days used to an active life; 
and I would often say to myself, " A State of idleness is the very 
dregs of life:" and indeed I thought I was mach more Buitably 
employed when I was twenty-six days a making me a deal board. 

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephev, 
who, as I have observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and 
had made him Commander of a ship, was come home from a short 
voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made ; and he came to 
me, and told me that some merchants of his acquaintance had 
been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the East Indies 
and China as private traders. "And now, uncle," says he, "if ^ 
you will go to sea with me, VW engage to land you upon your old , 
habitation in the island, for we are to touch at the Brazik" \ 



ms NEPHEW'S PROJECT. 325 

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a f uture state, and of 

the existence of an invisible world, thau the concurrence of second 

causes with the ideas of things which we form in our minds per- 

iecdy reserved, and not communicated to any in the world. My 

nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering was 

retarned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in his 

thoughta to say, when that very moming before he came to me I 

bad, in a great deal of conf usion of thought, and revolving every 

pMt of my circumstances in my mind, come to this resolution — 

Dttiely, that I would go to Lisbon, and consolt with my old sea- 

captain, and so, if it was rational and practicable, I would go and 

^ the Island again, and see what was become of my people there. 

I liad pleased myself with the thoughts of peopling the place, and 

cvrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent for the possession, 

ttd I know not what; when in the middle of all this in comes my 

^hew, aa I have said, with his project of carrying me thither in 

Ms way to the East Indies. 

I paosed a while at his words, and looking steadily at him, 
*'What devil," said I "sent you of this unlucky errand?" My 
Nephew Startled as if he had been frighted at first; but perceiv- 
^ I was not much displeased with the proposal, he recovered 
'iiDwelt " I hope it may not be an unlucky proposal, sir," says 
fce; "I daresay you would be pleased to see your new colony there, 
where you once reigned with more felicity than most of your 
brother monarchs in the world." 

In a Word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper — that is 

^ say, the prepossession I was under, and of which I have said so 

Hiuch — that I told him, in few words, if he agreed with the mer- 

^IttDts I would go with him. But I told him I would not promise 

^ go any farther than my own island. " Why, sir," says he, 

'*y<m don't want to be left there again, I hope ?" " Why," said I, 

**can you not take me up again in your retum?" He told me 

^ ooold not be possible that the merchants would allow him to 

^ome that way with a loaden ship of such value, it being a month's 

%U out of bis way, and might be three or four. "Besides, sir, if 

I ahould miscarry," said he, "and not retum at all, then you would 

he just redueed to the condition you were in befora" 



336 HIS DESIRE TO TRAVEL. 

This was rery rational; but we hoth found out a reraedy for 
it, which was to carry a framod sloop' on board the ship, which, 
being taken in pieceg and ahipped on board the ahip, might, by the 
help o£ Bome carpenters who we agreed to carry with iis, be set 
up again in the island and finished, fit to go to sea in a few days, 

I was DOt long resolving; for indeed the importunities of my 




nephew joined in so efiectuslly with my inclination that oothing 
coold oppoee me. On the other band, my wife being dead, I had 
nobody concemed themselves so much for me aa to persuade me 
one way or other, except my ancient good friend the \ndow, who 
eamestly atruggled with me to conaider my years, my easy circum. 
Btances, and the ueedless hazards of a long voyage ; and, above alt, 
my young children, But it was all to no purpose. I had an 
irresistible deaire to the voyage; and I told her I tbought there 
was Bomething ao uncommon in the impressions I had upon my 
mind for the voyage that it woold be a kind of reaiating Provtdenca 



AGAIN LEAVES ENGLAND. 327 

if I shoold attempt to stay at home : af ter which she ceased her 
expostulations, and joined with me not only in making provision 
for my voyage, but also in settling my family affairs for my 
abeence, and providing for the education of my children. 

In Order to this I made my will, and settled the estate I had in 
such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I 
▼Mperfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done them, 
whateyer might befall me; and for their education, I left it wholly 
to my widow, with a sufficient maintenance to herseif for her care : 
»ü which she richly deserved, for no mother could have taken 
morecare in their education, or understand it better; and as she 
lived tili I came home, I also lived to thank her for it 

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January, 
1694-5; and I with my man Friday went on board in the Downs- 
^e Bth, having, besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a 
^eiy considerable cargo of all kinds of necessaiy things for my 
^lony, which, if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to 
Weso. 

first, I carried with me some servants, who I purposed to place 
^ere as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there upon my 
0^ account while I stayed, and either to leave them there or 
^them forward as they should appear willing: particularly I 
^ed two carpenters, a smith, and a very handy, ingenious fellow, 
^ho was a cooper by trade, but was also a general mechanic, for 
*^ was dexterous at making wheels, and hand-mills to grind com, 
^^ a good tumer and a good pot-maker; he also made anything 
^ was proper to make of earth or of wood; in a word, we called 
«in cur Jack-of-all-trades. 

With these I carried a tailor, who had oifered himself to go 
I^Msenger to the East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards con- 
^Dted to stay on our new plantation, and proved a most necessary 
tiandy fellow as could be desired in many other businesses besides 
ttat of this trade; for, as I observed formerly, necessity arms us 
'or all employments. 

My cargo, as near as I can collect, for I have not kept an 
Account of the particulars, consisted of a suflScient quantity of 
lioen, and some thin English stufis for clothing the Spaniards that 



328 



A GENERAL CARGO. 



I expected to find there, and enough of them as, hj my calcala- 
tion, might comfortably supply them for seven years. If I re- 
member right, the materials I carried for clothing them with, 
gloves, hats, ähoes, stockings, and all such things as they could 
want for wearing, amounted to above £200, including some beds, 
bedding, and household stuff, particularly kitchen Utensils, vith 
pots, kettles, pewter, brass, &c.; and near XI 00 more in iron- 
work, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and eyery 
necessary thing I could think of. 

I carried also an hundred spare arms, muskets, and foxees, 
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all si^es, 
and two pieces of brass cannon; and because I knew not what 
time, and what extremities I was providing for, I carried an 
hundred barreis of powder, besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron 
part of some pikes and halberds; so that, in short, we had a large 
magazine of all sorts of stores. And I made my nephew carry 
two small quarter-deck guns more than he wanted for liis sbip, to 
leave behind, if there was occasion, that, when wo came there, 
we might build a foi*t, and man it against all sorts of enemies; 
and, indeed, I at first thought there was need enough for it aü, 
and much more, if we hoped to maintain our possession of the 
island, as shall be seen in the course of that story. 

I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been uaed to 
meet with, and therefore shall have the less occasion to interropt 
the reader, who, perhaps, may be impatient to hear how nutters 
went with my colony ; yet some odd accidents, cross ^vindi^ ^ 
bad weather happened on this first setting out, which madfi the 
voyage longer than I expected it at first : and I, who had Ip^ 
made but one voyage (namely, my first voyage to Guinea) u^^lich 
I might be said to come back again as the voyage waa 
designed, began to think the same ill fate still attended 
that I was bom to be never contented with being on 
yet to be always unfortunate at sea. 

Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and W8 W* 
obliged to put in at Galway in Ireland, where we lay wind-böun« 
two and twenty days. But we had this satisfaction with the dis- 
aster, that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in the utiuost 



■^ 




J 



FIRE AT SEA. 329 

that while we lay here we never touched the ship's 
rather added to them; here also I took in several live 
wo cows, and calves, which I resolved, if I had a good 
pat on shore in my island; but we found occasion to 
erwise of them. 

ut the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a very 
wind for some days. As I remember, it might be about 
Febraary, in the evening late, when the mate, having 
came into the round-house and told us he saw a flash 
heard a gun fired; and while he was telling us of it, a 
1 and told us the boatswain heard another. This made 
►ut upon the quarter-deck, whero, for a while, we heard 
ut in a few minutes we saw a very great hght, and 
there was some very terrible fire at a distanca Im- 
we had recourse to our reckpnings, in which we all 
b there could be no land that way in which the fire 
»If, no, not for five hundred leagues, for it appeared at 
west Upon this we concluded it must be some ship 
»a; and as, by our hearing the noise of guns just before, 
led it could not be far oflf, we stood directly towards 
re presently satisfied we should discover it, because 
we sailed the greater the light appeared, though the 
ing hazy, we could not perceive anything but the light 
In about half an hour's sailing, the wind being fair 
igh not much of it, and the weather Clearing up a little, 
)lainly discem that it was a great ship on fire in the 
he sea. 

ost sensibly touched with this disaster, though not at 
ted with the persons engaged in it. I presently recol- 
former circumstances, and in what condition I was in 
n up by the Portugal captain; and how much more 
the circumstances of the poor creatures belonging to 
ust be if they had no other ship in Company with them. 
I immediately ordered that five guns should be fired, 
fter another, that, if possible, we might give notice to 
there was help for them at band, and that they might 
to save themselves in their boat; for though we could 



Ittß 



tsOA^ 



g^V«»- 



3»0 



yet 



tVvey! 



it 



beioS 



tu 



jg^^ 



CO 



,vjiA 



YjorniDg 



at 



t\ve 



ftftwe 



OOtW'^o V,« 90tO® 



- v,f vfbetv, oo » etov ^ *. ^ tbe 









a 



ocea»' ^"^ ,^ ditect tue 






tbe^t«^r;ent,M^^^^^, 












bunS 



Ott*' 



w ^«»«^ 









,Totog 






^Är:?2:s^^rvi^-ä^^^*' 









A '«rr^v «i* ,.,„ »... 



tbeöVi'^ ^oox« 



9i»ty 



-iotiT 



tote tVxan \«^ ^^«g t^o , «vany V ^,,n<^^'l ,Yv« 



sh^V' 



y tYve 6^® 






OU^i 



«^^^ vf^^^j <i^r> TÄ <^r v^e 



tlie 



tYvey 



xbeTS» 



CO«*® tbe tütt 



■^* ^';i;bto tt« 



aJiA 



fttr«« 



oaw 



,c\og 



«.isla* • 



A TALE OP DISTRESS. 331 

ed into the hold, and mastered all the skill and all the applica- 
they were able to exert. 

bey had no more to do then but to go into their boats, which, 
beir great comfort, were pretty large, being their long-boat, 
a great shallop,^ besides a small skiff, which was of no great 
ice to them, other than to get some fresh water and provisions 
> her after they had secured their lives from the fire. They 
indeed smaU hope of their lives by getting into these boats at 
tdistance from any land, only, as they said well, that they were 
iped from the fire, and had a possibility that some ship might 
)pen to be at sea, and might take them in. They had sails, 
8, and a compass, and were preparing to make the best of their 
y back to Newfoundland, the wind blowing pretty fair, for it 
w an easy gale at south-east by east. They had as much pro- 
ions and water as, with sparing it so as to be next door to starv- 
, might Support them about twelve days, in which, if they had no 
l weather, and no contrary winds, the captain said he hoped he 
$ht get the Banks of Newfoundland, and might perhaps take 
le fish to sustain them tili they might go on shore. But there 
re so many chances against them in all these cases, such as 
rms to overset and founder them, rains and cold to beniunb and 
iah their limbs, contrary winds to keep them out and starve 
m, that it must have been next to miraculous if they had 
iped. 

n the midst of their consultations, every one being hopeless 
i ready to despair, the captain, with tears in his eyes, told me 
y were on a sudden surprised with the joy of hearing a gun 
i and after that four more. These were the five guns which I 
Bed to be fired at first seeing the light This revived their 
fft«, and gave them the notice which, as above, I desired it 
«dd, namely, that there was a ship at band for their help. 
It was upon the hearing these guns that they took do^vn their 
8t8 and sails; the sound coming from the windward, they 
olved to lie by tili moming. Some time after this, hearing no 
re guns, they fired three muskets, one a considerable while 

Smilar to a sloop or ahaloop, with a small mainsail, and foremast, and lug-sailfl, 
ih can be hauled up or down. 



332 



THE JOY OP DEUVEEANCE. 



after &nother; bat these, the wind being contrary, we never 
heard. 

Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably 
BUrprieed with seeing our lights, and hearing the guns, which, aa 
I have Said, I caused to be Jired all the rest of the night. Thia 




set them to work with their oars, to keep their boate ahead, at 
leaat, that we might the sooner come up with them ; and at last, 
to their inexpresaible joy, they foimd we eaw them. 

It is imposaible for ^e to express the several geBturea, the 
Strange ecstaBies, the variety of poBtures which these poor delivered 
people run into to expresB the joy of their souIb at bo unexpected 
a deliverance. Grief and fear are easily described; aighs, tearsi 
groanB, and a very few motions of tlie head and hands make up 
the Bum of its variety; but an ezcess of joy, a surpriae of joy, 



THE people's frenzy. 333 

bas a thousand eztravagances in it. There were some in tears ; 
some nging and tearing themselves, as if they had been in the 
greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark -raving and downright 
lunadc ; some ran about the ship stamping with their f eet, others 
wringing their hands; some were dancing, some singing, some 
iMghing, more crying, many quite dumb, not able to speak a 
^ord; others sick and vomiting; several swooning, and ready to 
Unt; and a few were crossing themselves, and giving Grod 



I would not wrong them neither; there might be many that 
▼ere thankful afterward, but the passion was too strong for them 
*t first, and they were not able to master it; they were thrown 
into ecstasies and a kind of frenzy, and it was but a very few that 
were composed and serious in their joy. 

Perhaps the case may have some addition to it from the par- 
ticuUr circumstance of that nation they belonged to, I mean the 
f fench, whose temper is allowed to be more volatile, more pas- 
öowte, and more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid than in 
otier nations. I am not philosopher enough to determine the 
<^W8e; but nothing I had ever seen before came up to it. The 
^^stasies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when he found 
^ father in the boat, came the nearest to it; and the surprise of 
«e master and bis two companions, who I delivered from the 
^3^8 that set them on shore in the island, came a little way 
l^^ards it; but nothing was to compare to this, either that I saw 
öiPriday,-or anywhere eise in my Ufa 

It h further observable, that these extravagances did not show 
ftemselves in that different manner I have mentioned in diiferent 
P^rsons only, but all the variety would appear in a short succession 
^^ moments in one and the same person. . A man that we saw 
^ minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid and confounded, should 
^e oext minute be dancing and hallooing like an antic ; ^ and the 
^eit moment be tearing bis hair, or pulling bis clothes to pieces 
^d stamping them under bis feet, like a mad man; a few 
Moments after that we should have him all in tears, then sick, 
tten swooning; and had not immediate help been had, would in 

1 A buffoon ; one who plays ** antics " or makes quaint gestures. 



334 THE TWO PRIESTS. 

a few moments more have been dead. And thus it was, not with 
one or two, or ten or twenty, but with the greatest part of them; 
and if I remember right, our surgeon was obliged to let above 
thirty of them blood. 

There were two priests among them, one an old man, and the 
other a young man; and that which was strängest was that the 
oldest man was the worst As soon as he set his foot on board 
our ship, and saw himsell safe he dropped down stone-dead, not 
the least sign of life could be perceived in him. Our surgeon 
immediately applied proper romedies to recover him, and was the 
only man in the ship that believed he was not dead. At length 
he opcned a vein in his arm, having first chaffed and rubbed the 
part so as to warm it as much as possibla Upon this, the blood, 
which only dropped at first, flowed something freely; in three 
minutes after the man opened his cyes; and about a quarter of an 
hour after thafc, he spoke, grew better, and quite well. After the 
blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was perfectly 
well, took a dram of cordial which the surgeon gave him, and was 
what we called come to himself. About a quarter of an hour 
after, they camo running into the cabin to the surgeon, who 
was bleeding a French woman that had fainted, and told him the 
priest was gone stark man. It seeras he had begun to revolve the 
change of his circumstance, and again this put him into an ecstasy 
of joy; his spirits whirled about faster than the vessels could con- 
vey them, the blood grew hot and feverish, and the man was as 
fit for Bedlam as any creature that ever was in it The surgeon 
would not bleed him again in that condition, but gave him some- 
thing to dose and put him to sleep, which after some time operated 
upon him, and he waked the next morning perfectly composed 
and well. 

The younger priest behaved with great command of his passion, 
and was really an example of a serious, well-govemed mind. At 
his first coming on board the ship, he threw himself flat on his 
face, prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliverance; in 
which I unhappily and unscasonably disturbed him, really thiiik- 
ing he had been in a swoon; but he spake calmly, thanked me, 
told me he was giving God thanks for his deliverance, and begged 



A TIMELY CAUnON. 335 

lave him a few moments, and that next to bis Maker he 
ive me thanks also. 

heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left 
kept others from interrupting him also. He continued 
postore about three minutes, or little more, after I left 
Q came to me, as he had said he would, and with a great 
seriousness and affection, but with tears in his eyes, 
me that had, under God, given him and so many miser- 
ktores their lives. I told him I had no room^ to move 
lank God for it, rather than me ; but I added, that it was 
but what reason and humanity dictated to all men, and 
liad as much reason as he to give thanks to God, who had 
18 so f ar as to make us the Instruments of his mercy to 
of his creatures. 

this, the young priest applied himself to his country-folks^ 
to compose them, persuaded, entreated, argued, reasoned 
n, and did his utmost to keep them within the exercise 
-eason; and with some he had success, though others were 
e out of all govemment of themselves. 
ot help committing this to writing, as pcrhaps it may be 
those into whose hands it may fall, for the guiding them- 
all the extravagances of their passions; for if an excess 
Ol carry men out to such a length beyond the reach of 
son, what will not the extravagances of anger, rage, and 
:ed mind, carry us to ? And, indeed, here I saw reason 
ing an exceeding watch over our passions of every kind, 
those of joy and satisfaction, as those of sorrow and 

3re something disordered by these extravagances among 
guests for the first day ; but when they had been retired, 
provided for them as well as our sliip would allow, and 
l slept heartily, as most of them did, they were quite 
»rt of people the next day. 

lg of good manners or civil acknowledgments for the 
shown them was wanting ; the French, it is known, are 
apt enough to exceed that way. The captain and one 

* No occasion : becaurc he hacl done so already. 



336 THE CAPTAIN'S OFFER, 

of the priest« came to me the nezt ä&y, and desiriog to epeak «itii 
me and mj nephew the Commander, began to consult with m «lut 
ehould be done with them. And first they told ns that, as we btil 
Baved their Uvea, so all tiiey had was Üttle enough for a retani ^ 
US for that kindness received. The captain said, they hid u^eil 
Bome money and some tliings of v&loe in their boat^ catchN 
hastily out of the flames, and if we would accept it, they f^ 




"Tbflaptalnaadi 



ordered to make an offer of it all to us; they only desired U^^ < 
aet on shore somewlieie in our way, where, if possible, they nt^^ji 
get passage to Franca 

My nephew was for accepting their money at firat word,«»-^*' 
consider what to do with them afterwards; bat I overruled Jw 
in that part, for I knew what it was to be aot on shore in a sÄr-aiB» 
country; and if the Portugal captain that took me up at se-^ W 
served me so, and took all I liad for my deliverance, I muit. bi" i 
starved, or have becn as much a alave at the Brazils aa I ha.i<3 bea i 



THE PASSENGERS CX)NSTERNATION. 337 

bary, the raere being sold to a Mohammedan excepted; and 
8 a Portuguese is not much a better master than a Turk, if 
some cases a much worse. 

jrefore told the French captain, that we had taken them up 
r distress, it was true, but that it was our duty to do so as 
e fellow-creatures, and as we would desire to be so delivered 
rere in the like or any other extremity; that we had done 
l for them but what we believed they would- have done for 
re had been in their case and they in ours: but that we 
lem up to save them, not to plunder them; and it would 
ost barbarous thing to take that little from them which 
id saved out of the fire, and then set them on shore and 
[lem; that this would be first to save them from death and 
ill them ourselves, save them from drowning and abandon 
starving; and therefore I would not let the least thing 
« from them. As to setting them on shore, I told them 
that was an exceeding difficulty to us, for that the ship 
und to the East Indies, and though we were driven out of 
irse to the westward a very great way, and perhaps were 
i by Heaven on purpose for their deliverance, yet it was 
ible for us wilfully to change our voyage on this particular 
t, nor could my nephew, the captain, answer it to the 
ers, with whom he was under charter-party to pursue his 
by the way of Brazil ; and all I knew we could do for them 
put ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships, 
ard bound from the West Indies, and get them passage, if 
e, to England or Franca 

first part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they 
not but be very thankful for it; but they were in a very 
constemation, especially the passengers, at the notion of 
carried away to the East Indies; and they then entreated 
lat seeing I was driven so far to the westward before I met 
hem, I would at least keep on the same course to the Banks 
^oundland, where it was probable I might meet with some 
f sloop that they might hire to carry them back to Canada, 
*^hence they cama 

loaght this was but a reasonable request on their part» and 
*48) y 



338 THE PASSENGEBS TRANSHIPPED. 

therefore I inclined to agree to it; for, indeed, I considered that 
to carry this whole Company to the East Indics, would not only 
he an intolerable severity upon the poor people, but would be 
ruining our whole voj'age by devouring all our provisions: so I 
thought it no breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen 
accident made absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one 
could s^ we were to blame; for the laws of God and nature would 
have forbid that we should refuse to take up two boate füll of 
people in such a distressed condition; and the nature of the thing, 
as well respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged uß to set 
them on shore somewhere or other for their deliverance. So I 
consented that we should carry them to Newfoundland, if wind 
and weather would permit, and if not, that I would carry them to 
Martinico in the West Indies. 

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the >veather pretty good; 
and as the winds had continued in the points between north-east 
and south-east a long time, we missed several opportunities of 
sending them to France; for we met several ships bound to Europe, 
whereof two were French, frora St. Christopher's, but they had 
been so long beating up against the wind, that they durst take in 
no passengers for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage, as 
well for themselves as for those they should take in; so we were 
obliged to go on. It was about a week after this that we made 
the Banks of Newfoundland, where, to short«n my story, we put 
all our French people on board a bark, which they hired at se* 
there, to put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, 
if they could get provision to victual themselves wath. When I 
say all the French went on shore, I should remember that the 
young priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies, 
desired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the 
coast of Coromandel, which I readily agreed to, for I wonderfully 
liked the man, and had very good reason, as will appear afterward«; 
also four of the seamen entered themselves on our ship, and pro^ed 
very useful fellows. 

From hence we directed our course for the West Indies, stßenv^ 
away south and south by east for about twenty days togethcr, 
sometimea little or no wind at all, when we met with another 



k 



A SIGNAL OF DISTRESS. 339 

for onr humanitj to work upon, almost as deplorable as 
>re. 

8 in the latitude of 27" 5' north, and the 19th day of 
694-5, when we spied a sail, our course south-east and by 
^Ve soon perceived it was a large vessel, and that ehe bore 
, bat coold not at first know what to make of her, tili 
ling a little nearer we found she had lost her maintop- 
-e-mast, and boltsprit;^ and presently she fired a gun as 
of distress. The weather was pretty good, wind at 
rth-west, a fresh gale; and we soon came to speak with 

and her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes, 
been blown oat of the road at Barbadoes a few days before 
rcady to sail by a terrible hurricane, while the captain 
l mate were both gone on shore; so that, beside the terror 
orm, they were bat in an indifferent case for good artists 

the ship home. They had been already nine weeks at 
had met with another terrible storm after the harricane 
, which had blown them quite oat of their knowledge to 
nrard, and in which they lost their masts, as above. They 
bey expected to have seen the Bahama Islands, bat were 
ren away again to the soath-east by a streng gale of wind 
north-west, the same that blew now; and having no sails 
the ship with bat a main coarse, and a kind of sqaare sail 
ory fore-mast, which they had set ap, they coald not lie 

wind, bat were endeavoaring to stand away for the 

lat which was worst of all was, that they were almost 
'or want of provisions, besides the fatigaes they had ander- 
leir bread and flesh was qaite gone, they had not one 
ft in the ship, and had had none for eleven daysl The 
ef they had was, their water was not all spent, and they 
it half a barrel of floar left; they had sagar enough; some 
, or sweatmeats, they had at first, bat they were devoared; 
^ had seven casks of nun. 
was a yoath and his mother and a maidservant on board, 

iprit, a sort of mast that ib at the head of the ship poiDting forward. 



I 



340 TIMELY RELIEF. 

who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was ready to 
saU, unhappily came on board the evening before the hurricane 
began; and having no provisions of their own left, they were in a 
more deplorable condition than the rest, for the seamen, being 
reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compas- 
sion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers, and they were 
indeed in a condition that their misery is very hard to describe. 

I had, perhaps, not known this part, if my curiosity had not led 
me, the weather being fair and the wind abated, to go on board 
the ship. The second mate, who upon this occasion commanded 
the ship, had been on board our ship, and he told me indeed they 
had three passengers in the great cabin, that they were in a 
deplorable condition: "Nay," says he, "I believe they are dead, 
for I have heard nothing of them for above two days, and I was 
afraid to inquire after them,'' said he, '^for I had nothing to 
relieve them with." 

We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we 
could spare; and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my 
nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we had gone 
away to Virginia, or any part of the coast of America, to have 
supplied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that. 

But now they were in a new danger; for they were afraid of 
eating too much, even of that little we gave them. The mate, or 
Commander, brought six men with him in his boat, but these poor 
wretches looked like skeletons, and were so weak they could hardly 
sit to their oars. The mate himself was very ill and half starved; 
for he declared he had reserved nothing from the men, and went 
share and share alike with them in every bit they eat 

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him im- 
mediately, and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began 
to be sick and out of order. So he stopped a while, and our sur- 
geon mixed him up something with some broth, which he said 
would be to him both food and physic; and after he had taken it, 
he grew better. In the meantime I forgot not the men ; I ordered 
victuals to be given them, and the poor creatures rather devoured 
than eat it They were so exceeding hungry, that they were in a 
kind ravenous, and had no command of themselves; and two of 



A MOVING SIGHT. 341 

Ät with SO much greediness that they were in danger of 
Fes the next moming. 

sight of these people's distress was very moving to me, and 

b to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my first 

on shore in the island, where I had neither the least 

iil of food or any prospect of prociiring any, besides the 

apprehension I had of being made the food of other 

». Bat all the while the mate was thus relating to me the 

le condition of the ship's Company, I could not put out of 

ight the Story he had told me of the three poor creatures 

great cabin, namely, the mother, her son, and the maid- 

who he had heard nothing of for two or three days, and 

seemed to confess they had wholly neglected, their own 

ties being so great; by which I understood that they had 

iven them no food at all, and that therefore they must be 

l, and be all lying dead, perhaps on the floor or deck of the 

therefore kept the mate, who we then called captain, on 
ith his men to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starv- 
7 that were left on board, but ordered my own boat to go 
d the ship, and with my mate and twelve men to carry 
sack of bread and four or üve pieces of beef to boil. Our 
charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they 
and to keep guard in the cook-room to prevent the men 
t to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was well 
md then to give every man but a very little at a time ; and 
caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have 
lemselves with that very food that was given them on pur- 
save their lives. 

le same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin 
what condition the poor passengers were in, and if they 
ive, to comfort them, and give them what refreshment was 
and the surgeon gave him a large pitcher with some of 
pared broth which he had given the mate that was on 
and which he did not question would restore them 

i not satisfied with this, but, as I said above, having a great 



342 THE PANGS OF HUNGER. 

mind to see the scene of misery which I knew the ship itself woiüd 
present me with in a more lively manner than I could have it by 
report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with 
me, and went myself a little after in their boat 

I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult to get the 
victuals out of the boiler before it was ready. But my mate 
observed bis order, and kept a good guard at the cook-room door; 
and the man he placed there, after using all possible persuaaion to 
have patience, kept them off by forca However, he caused some 
biscuit cakes to be dipped in the pot and softened with the liquor 
of the meat, which they called brewes, and gave them every one, 
one to stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their own 
safety that he was obliged to give them but a little at a time. 
But it was all in vain; and had I not come on board, and their 
own Commander and officers with me, and with good words and 
some threats also of giving them no more, I believe they would 
have broke into the cook-room by force and tore the meat out of 
the furnace. For words are indeed of very small force to a hungry 
belly. However, we pacified them, and fed them gradually and 
cautiously for the first time, and the next time gave them more, 
and at last filled their bellies, and the men did well enougL 

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of 
another nature, and far beyond the rest; for as first the ship's 
Company had so little for themselves, it was but too true that they 
had at first kept them very low, and at last totally neglected them; 
so that for six or seven days, it might be said, they had really had 
no food at all, and for several days before very little. The poor 
mother, who, as the men reported, was a woman of good sense 
and good breeding, had spared all she could get so affectionately 
for her son, that at last she entirely sunk under it And when 
the mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with 
her back up against the sides, between two chairs, which were 
lashed fast, and her head sunk in between her Shoulders like a 
corpse, though not quite dead. My mate said all he could to 
revive and encourage her, and with a spoon put some broth into 
her mouth. She opened her lips and lifted up one band, but could 
not speak; yet she understood what he said, and made signs to 



A SCENE OF MISERY. 



343 



, intimating that it was too late for her, but pointed to her 
I, M if she would have said they should take care of him. 
owever, the mate, who was exceedingly moved with the sight, 
aToured to get some of the broth into her raouth; and as he 
got two or three spoonfuls dowo, though I question whether 




* She Mit apon the tioor, between two ch&in." 

ild be sure of it or not But it was too late, and she died 
me night 

I youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affec- 
ö mother's life, was not so far gone, yet he lay in a cabin-bed 
I stretched out, with hardly any life left in him. He had a 
Df an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it 
?er, being young, and having more strength than his mother, 
ate got something down his throat, and he began sensibly to 
; though, by giving him some time after but two or three 
fuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it up 

', the next care was the poor maid. She lay all along upon 



344 ONE LIFE SAVED. 

the deck hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen 
down with an apoplexy, and struggled for life. Her limbs were 
distorted ; one of her hands was clasped round the f rame of a chair, 
and she griped it so hard that we could not easily make her let 
go; her other arm lay over her head; and her feet lay both 
together set fast against the frameof the cabin table; in short^ 
she lay just like one in the last agonies of death, and yet she was 
alive too. 

The poor creature was not only starved with hunger and terrified 
with the thoughts of death, but, as the men told us afterward^ 
was bVoken-hearted for her mistress, who she saw dying for two 
or three days before, and who she loved moet tenderly. 

We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for when our 
surgeon, who was a man of very great knowledge and experience, 
had with great application recovered her as to life, he had her 
upon his band as to her senses, for she was little less than dis- 
tracted for a considerable time after, as shall appear presently. 

Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to con- 
sider that visits at sea are not like a joumey into the country, 
where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place. 
Our business was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not to 
lie by for them; and though they were willing to steer the same 
course with us for some days, yet we could carry no sail to keep 
pace with a ship that had no masts, However, as their captain 
begged of us to help him to set up a maintop-mast, and a kind of 
a top-mast to his jury fore-mast, we did, as it were, lie by him for 
three or four days; and then, having given him five barrels of 
beef, a barrel of pork, two hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion 
of pease, flour, and what other things we could spare; and taking 
three casks of sugar, some rum, and some pieces of eight of them 
for satisfaction, we left them, taking on board with us, at their 
own earnest request, the priest, the youth, and the maid, and aB 
their goods. 

The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a pretty, vdl- 
bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with the loss of 
his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few months 
before at Barbadoes. He begged of the surgeon to speak to me to 



TWO NEW PASSENGERS. 345 

out of the ship, for he said the cruel fellows had mar- 
i mother. And indeed so they had, that is to say, pas- 
>r they might have spared a small sustenance to the poor 
widow that might have preserved her life, though it had 
just to keep her alive. But hunger knows no friend, no 
no justice, no right; and therefore is remorseless, and 
i no compassion. 

rgeon told hhn how far we were going, and how it would 
1 away from all his friends, and put him, perhaps, in as 
mstances almost as those we found him in; that is to say, 
in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went, 
s hut delivered from the terrible crew he was among. 
5 captain (by which he meant me, for he could know 
)f my nephew) had saved his life, and he was sure would 

him; and as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to 
lie would be very thankful for it, let us carry them where 
1. The surgeon represented the case so affectionately to 
[ yielded, and we took them both on board with all their 
ccept eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be* 
or come at; and as the youth had a bill of lading for 
[nade his Commander sign a writing obliging himself to 
m as he came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant 
^hom the youth said he was related, and to deliver a letter 
KTTote to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the 
widow; which, I suppose, was not done, for I could never 
t the ship came to Bristol, but was, as is most probable, 
ia, being in so disabled a condition and so far from any 
!; I am of opinion the first storm she met with afterwards 
t founder in the sea; for she was leaky, and had damage 
Id when we met with her. 

now in the latitude of 19** 32', and had hitherto had a 
voyage as to weather, though at first the winds had been 
I shall trouble nobody with the little incidents of 
»ther, currents, &c, on the rest of our voyage; but 
g my Story for the sake of what is to foUow, shall 
hat I came to my old habitation, the island, on the lOth 
1695. It was with no small difficulty that I found the 



346 REACHES HIS ISLAND. 

place ; for as I carae to it and went f rom it before on the 
and east side of the Island, as Coming from the Brazils, so now 
Coming in between the main and the island, and having no chart 
for the coast nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, 
or know whether I saw it or no. 

We beat about a great while, and went on shore on several 
islands in the mouth of the great river Oronooque, but none for 
my purpose. Only this I learned by my coasting the shore, that 
I was under one great mistake before, namely, that the continent 
which I thought I saw from the island I lived in was really no 
continent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of islands, reaching 
from one to the other side of the extended mouth of that great 
river; and that the savages who came to my island were not 
properly those which we call Caribbees, but islanders, and other 
barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited something nearer to 
our side than the rest 

In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose. Some 
I found were inhabited, and some were not. On one of them 1 
found some Spaniards, and thought they had lived there; bat, 
speaking with them, found they had a sloop lay in a small creel^ 
hard by, and they came thither to make salt, and to catch some 
pearl mussels if they could, but that they belonged to the Isle de 
Trinidad, which lay farther north, in the latitude of 10 and H 
degrees. 

But at last coasting from one island to another, sometimes vitfi 
the ship, sometimes with the Frenchman's shallop, which we hau 
found a convenient boat, and therefore kept her with their veiy 
good will, at length I came fair on the south side of my island, 
and I presently knew the very countenance of the place; so I 
brought the ship safe to an anchor broadside with the httle creek, 
where was my old habitation. 

As soon as 1 saw the place I called for Friday, and asked hun 
if he knew where he was ? He looked about a little, and presen^J \ 
clapping his hands, cried, "0 yes, there! yes, there!" powt- 
ing to our old habitation ; and feil a dancing and capering H^* * 
mad fellow, and I had much ado to keep him from jumping w^^ 
the sea to swim ashore to the place. 







HE "LANDS WITH FRIDAY. 347 

"Well, Friday," says I, "do you think we shall find anybody 
here ornof And what do you think; shall we see your father?" 
The fellow stood mute as a stock a good while, but when I named 
Im father, the poor affectionate creature looked dejected, and I 
could see the tears run down his face very plentifully. "What is 
the matter, Friday?" says I. "Are you troubled because you 
niay see your father 1" " No, no," says he, shaking his head; "no 
aee him more, no evermore see again." "Why sol" said I to 
Friday; how do you know that?" "0 no, no," says Friday; 
"he long ago die, long ago; he much old man." "Well, well," 
Said I, " Friday, you don't know ; but shall we see any one eise 
then?" The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I, and he 
pointe just to the hill above my old house; and though we lay 
half a league ofF, he cries out, "We see! we see! yes, we see much 
men there, and there, and there." I looked, but I could see 
nobody, no, not with a perspective glass; which was, I suppose 
Waose I could not hit the place, for the fellow was right, as I 
found upon inquiry the next day, and there was five or six men 
*Itogether, stood to look at the ship, not knowing what to think 

Of US. 

Ab soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused the English 
incient to be spread and fired three guns, to give them notice we 
^ere friends ; and in about half a quarter of an hour after, we per- 
ceived a sraoke rise from the side of the creek; so I immediately 
ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me, and hanging out a 
^hite flag, or flag of truce, I went directly on shore, taking with 
öle the young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the whole 
*tory of my living there, and the manner of it, and every particu- 
l^r both of myself and those I left there; and who was on that 
Account extremely desirous to go with me. We had besides about 
^teen men very well armed, if we had found any new guests there 
^hich we did not know of ; but we had no need of weapons. 

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, 
^e rowed directly into the creek, and the first man I fixed my eye 
^pon was the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and who I knew 
*y his face perfectly well ; as to his habit, I shall describe it after- 
'^ards. I ordered nobody to go on shore at first but myself, but 



348 FATHER AND SON. 

thcre wae no keeping Friday to the boat; for the affectionate 
creature had spied hia father at a distance, a good way off of the 
Spaniards, where indeed I eaw nothing of him; and if they had 
not let him go on shore, he would have jumped into the Bea. He 
was ao Booner od shore but he flew away to hts father like an 




arrow out of a how. It would have made any man have ehed 
teara in apite of the finnest resolution to have seen the first trans- 
porta of this poor fellow's joy when he caine to his father; how he 
embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face, took him up in hia 
arma, aet him down upon a tree, and lay down by him, then atood 
and looked at hira, as any one would look at a atrango picture, for 
a quarter of an hour together; then lio down on the ground and 
stroke hia lega, and kiss them, and then gct up again and atare at 
him; one would have thoi^ht the fellow bewitched. But it 
would have made a dog laugh to aee how the next day bis paaaion 




crüsoe's reception. 349 

Hin oat another way. In the moming he walked along the shore to 

tod again with his father several hours, always leading him by the 

hani^ as if he had been a lady; and every now and then he would 

come to fetch something or other for him to the boat, either a 

ittmp of sugar, or a dram, a biscuit cake, or something or other 

thsA was good. In the aftemoon his frolics run another way, for 

then he would set the old man down upon the ground, and dance 

^boathim, and make a thousand antic postures and gestures; and 

^U the while he did this he would be talking to him, and telling 

him one story or another of his travels, and of what had happened 

to Lim abroad, to divert him. In short, if the same filial aflFection 

'^^as to be found in Christians to their parents in our part of the 

"^^orld, one would be tempted to say there would hardly have been 

«Lxijr need of the Fifth Commandment. 

But this is a digression. I retum to my landing. It would be 

^xidless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that the 

SpaniÄrds received me with. The first Spaniard, who, as I said, 

I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved. He came 

t^owards the boat, attended by one more carrying a flag of truce 

^^ao; and he did not only not know me at first, but he had no 

^lionghts, no notion of its being me that was come tili I spoke to 

^^im. "Seignior," said I, in Portuguese, "do you not know me?" 

-^t which he spoke not a word, but giving his musket to the man 

7*^t was with him, threw his arms abroad, and saying something 

^ Spanish that I did not perfectly hear, comes forward, and em- 

^^^aced me, telling me he was inexcusable not to know that face 

^SVQ that he had once seen as of an angel from heaven sent to 

^ve his life. He said abundance of very handsome things, as a 

^ell-bred Spaniard always knows how; and then beckoning to the 

Person that attended him, bade him go and call out his comrades. 

Qe then asked me if I would walk to my old habitation, where he 

^ould give me possession of my own house again, and where I 

*boald see there had been but mean improvements; so I walked 

^ng with him : but, alas ! I could no more find the place again 

tlüui if I had never been there; for they had planted so many 

trees, and placed them in such a postiu-e, so thick and close to one 

loother, and in ten years' time they were grown so big that in 



,10«« 



tef- 



SY^' 









bW 



otttVveP^!fXets«^ve. 






:?Ae.ougVv 









^as 









«•«r. u •* s:«i- *t>w»r*.*'? 









a» 



Yie' 






-^^'^^er ^'^«^ 



bö 






iWeA 



tbettO 



.\)ajiat^» 



^•»js "^»^ *'' 






arioBg 



tl 









aity, 









A«ret8. ^ -„♦\viog ^^° -«,« bac^ rf. »v« oü^e 






tVve^*'' f * !, ^ere ^°'^f ^tB*, »«^ Xl Vvad i«*;: 
t\vat tbey y tbing ^^^^^^ u tbey^_^^ ^„4 






red* 



V»»^t*e,i'»';S4«':fÄ'"° 



1 






^\^o^ 






6t 



loT »-^7 



t\Äfti 



'^^VvSel'-'^'^'^^-*^'^ 



\eveTi 



LftUOtl 



"^ -iv, bitß «'" :^ Nfb»* "1 fitst, t 



HIS OOMPANIONS ON THE ISLAND. 



351 



*ki owe theiriJTes to you;" and Üien, turning to them, &nd 
pobting to me, he let them know who I was; upon which they 
*U ame up one by one, not as if they had beeu saüors and ordi- 
ury fellowe and I the like, but really as if they had been am- 
'wudors of Doblemen and I a monarch or a great conqueror. 
lleir behaviour was to the last degree obliging and courteoiia, and 




^ mized with & manly, majestic gravity, which very wel) became 
*^em; and, in ahort, they had so much more mannere than I that 
' Kvce kuew how to receive their civilities, much leea how to 
'*tmn them in kind. 

The hiatory of their Coming to, and conduct in, the Island, after 
*ty going away, is ao very remarkable, and has bo many incidenta 
^hich the former part of my relation will help to imderstand, and 
*liich will in most of the particulare refer to that account I have 
*b«idy given, that I cannot but commit them with great delight 
*^ the rräding of tbose that come after me. 



352 A RETROSPECriVE VIEW. 

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the ürst 
person, which will put me to the expense of ten thousand "said IV 
and "Said he's," and "he told me's" and '*I told him's,'' and the 
like; but I shall collect the facts historically as near as I can 
gather them out of my memory f rom what they related to me, and 
f rom what I met with in my conversing with them and with the 
placa 

In Order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can, 1 
must go back to the circumstanoe in which I left the island, and 
in which the persons were of whom I am to speak. And firet, it 
is necessary to repeat that I had sent away Friday^s father and the 
Spaniard, the two whose lives I had rescued from the savages; I 
say, I had sent them away in a large canoe to the main, as 1 then 
thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions, who he had 
left behind him, in order to save them from the like calamity that 
he had been in; and in order to succour them for the present,and 
that if possible we might together find some way for cur deliver- 
ance afterward. 

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or the 
least room to hope for, my own deliverance, any more than I had 
twenty year before; much less h^ I any f oreknowledge of what 
afterward happened, I mean of an English ship coming on shore 
there to fetch me oflF; and it could not but be a very great surprise 
to them when they came back, not only to find that I was gone, 
but to find three strangers left on the spot, possessed of all that 
I had left behind me, which would otherwise have been theirown. 

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might 
begin where I left oflF, was of their own part; and I desired he 
would give me a particular account of his voyage back to his 
countrymen with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. 
He told me there was little variety in that part, for nothing ^ 
markable happened to them on the way, they having Tery calö 
weather and a smooth sea; for his countrymen it could not be 
doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed to see him. ß^ 
seems he was the principal man among them, the captain of the 
vessel they had been shipwrecked in having been dead some time.) 
They* were, he said, the more surprised to see him, becaose 



THE 8PANIARDS ARRIVE. 353 

i was fallen into the hands of the savages, who, they 
1, would devour him as they did all the rest of the 
at when he told them the story of his deliverance, 
manner he was fumished for carrjdng them away, it 
eam to them ; and their astonishment, they said, was 
ce that of Joseph's brethren, when he told them who 
told them the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's 
irken he showed them the arms, the powder, the ball, 
nsions that he brought them for their joumey or 
were restored to themselves, took a just share of the 
leliverance, and immediately prepared to cöme away 

business was to get canoes; and in this they were 
jO stick so mach upon the honest part of it, but to 
n their friendly savages, and to borrow two large 
^riaguas, on pretence of going out a fishing or for 

hey came away the next moming. It seems they 
me to get themselves ready, for they had no baggage, 
es or provisions, or anything in the world but what 
them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to 
read. 

in all three weeks absent, and in that time, unluckily 
ad the occasion ofifered for my escape, as I mentioned 
Part, and to get off from the island, leaving three of 
pudent, hardened, ungovemed, disagreeable villains 
hat any man could desire to meet with, to the poor 
eat grief and disappointment, you may be sure. 
ist thing the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards 
re they gave my letter to them, and gave them pro- 
)ther relief, as I had ordered them to do; also they 
ö long paper of directions which I had left with them, 
le particular methods which I took for managing 
my life there; the way how I baked my bread, bred 
ts, and planted my com; how I cured my grapes, 
a; and, in a word, everything I did. All this being 
1, they gave to the Spaniards, two of whom under- 



354 A threAtened bottiny. 

stand English well enough ; nor did they refuse to accommodate 
the Spaniards with everything eise, for they agreed very well for 
some time. They gave them an equal admission into the house 
or cave; and they began to live very sociably. And the head 
Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my methods, and Frida/s 
f ather together, managed all their affairs : for as for the English- 
men, they did nothing but ramble about the island, shoot parrots, 
and catch tortoises; and when they came home.at night, the 
Spaniards provided their suppers for thenL 

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, would the 
other but have let them alone; which, however, they could not 
find in their hearts to do long, but, like the dog in the manger, 
they would not eat themselves, and would not let others eat 
neither. The differences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, 
and such as are not worth relating; but at last it broke out into 
open war, and it began with all the rudeness and insolence that 
can be imagined, without reason, without provocation, contrary to 
nature, and indeed to common sense ; and though it is true the 
first relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves, who I 
may call the accusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows, 
they could not deny a word of it 

But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply 
a defect in my former relation; and this was, that I forgot to set 
down among the rest, that just as we were weighing the anchor 
to set aail, there happened a little quarrel on board our ship, which 
I was afraid once would have tumed to a second mutiny; nor was 
it appeased tili the captain, rousing up his courage and taking us 
all to his assistance, parted them by force, and making two of the 
most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons; and as 
they had been active in the former disorders, and let fall some 
ugly dangerous words the second time, he threatened to carry 
them in irons to England, and have them hanged there for mutiny 
and running away with the ship. 

This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to do it, 
frighted some other men in the ship, and some of them had put it 
into the heads of the rest that the captain only gave them good 
words for the present, tili they should come to some English port^ 



THREE DESPERADOES. 355 

and that then they sbould be all put into jail, and tried for their 
lives. 

The mate got inteUigence of this, and acquainted us with it; 
upon which it was desired that I, who still passed for a great man 
among them, should go down with the mate and satisfy the men, 
and teil them that they might be assured, if they behaved well 
the rest of the voyage, all they had done for the time past should 
be pardoned# So I went, and after passing my honour's word to 
them, they appeared easy; and the more so, when I caused the 
two men who were in irons to be released and forgiven. 

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night, 
the wind also falling calm. Next moming, we found that our two 
men who had been laid in irons had stole each of them a musket 
and some other weapons, what powder or shot they had we know 
not, and had taken the ship's pinnance, which was not yet hauled 
up, and ran away with her to their companions in roguery on 
shore. 

As soon %s we found this, I ordered the long-boat on shore, 
with twelve men and the mate, and away they went to seek the 
rogues; but they could neither find them or any of the rest, for 
they all fled into the woods when they saw the boat Coming on 
shore. The mate was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, 
to have destroyed their plantations, bumed all the household stuff 
and fumiture, and left them to shift without it; but having no 
Order, he let it all alone, left everything as they found it, and 
bringing the pinnace away, came on board without them. 

These two men made their number five, but the other three 
villains were so much wickeder than these, that after they had 
been two or three days together, they tumed their two new 
comers out of doors to shift for themselves, and would have 
nothing to do with them, nor could they for a good while be 
persuaded to give them any food; as for the Spaniards, they were 
not yet come. 

When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to 
go forward. The Spaniards would have persuaded the three £ng- 
lish brutes to have taken in their two countrymen again, that, as 
they Said, they might be all one family; but they would not hear 



356 THE SPANIARDS' KIMDNESS. 

of it So the two poor fellows lived by themselves; and finding 
nothing but industry and application would make them live com- 
fortably, they pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, 
but a little more to the west, to be out of the danger of the 
savages, who always landed on the east parts of the Island. 

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other 
to lay up their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards having 
given them some com for seed, and especially some of the peaw 
which I had left them, they dug, and planted, and enclosed, after 
the pattem I had set for them all, and began to live pretty well 
Their first crop of com was on the ground, and though it was but 
a little bit of land which they had dug up at first, having had bat 
a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them, and find them 
with bread and other eatables; and one of the fellows being the 
cook's mate of the ship, was very ready at making soup, puddings. 
and such other preparations, as the rice and the milk« and such 
little flesh as they got, fumished him to do. 

They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the 
three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humour 
and to insult them, came and bullied them, and told them the 
island was theirs; that the govemor (meaning me) had given them 
possession of it, and nobody eise had any right to it; and they 
should build no houses upon their ground, unless they wonld p&J 
them rent for thent 

The two men thought they had jested at first, asked them to 
come in and sit down, and see what fine houses they wer« th»t 
they had built, and teil them what rent they demanded; and one 
of them merrily told them, if they were ground-landlords, he 
hoped, if they built tenements upon their land and made impwve- 
ments, they would, according to the custom of landlords, gr»nt 
them a long lease, and bid them go fetch a scrivener to draw the 
writings. One of the three, cursing and raging, told them they 
should see they were not in jest; and going to a little place at» 
distance, where the honest men had made a fire to dress their 
victuals, he takes a firebrand and claps it to the outside of their 
hut, and very fairly set it on fire; and it would have been all burned 
down in a few minutes, if one of the two had not run to the fellow, 



^ 



A VtLLAlMODS DBBD. 



357 



UiniSt him away, and trod ths fire out with his feet, and that not 
vithaut >ome diSiculty too. 

The fellow was in auch a rage at the honest man'a thruating him 
away, that ha retumed upoo him with a pole he had in hia hand, 
and, had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into 
the hu^ he had ended hia daya at once. His comnde, aeeing the 




danger they wera both in, run in after him; aud inmiediately they 
came both out with their muskets, and the man that was first 
Btruck at with the pole knocked the fellow down that begun the 
quarrel, with the stock of his musket, and that before the other 
two could come to help him; and then, seeing the rest come at 
them, they etood together, and presenting the other enda of their 
piecea to them, bade them stand off. 

The other had firoarms with them too, but one of the two honest 
men, bolder than hia comrade, and made desperate by hia danger, 
toid them if they offered to move hand or foot they were dead 




358 A CHALLENGE TO FICHT. 

men, and boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. Th 
did not indeed lay down their arms, but seeing him so resolute : 
brought them to a parley, and they.consented to take their woundi 
man with them and be gone — and indeed it seems the fellow w^- 
wounded sufficiently with the blow. However, they were muc^ 
in the wrong, since they had the advantage, that they did not dr^ j 
arm them effectually, as they might have done, and hare gor^ 
immediately to the Spaniards and given them an account hc^^ 
the rogues had treated them; for the three vülains studied nothi^g 
but revenge, and every day gave them some intimation that th:^ 
did so. 

But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part 0/ 
their rogueries, such as treading down their com, shooting tkiree 
young kids and a she-goat, which the poor men had got to hreed 
up tame for their störe; and, in a word, plagning them night &nd 
day in this manner, it forced the two inen to such a desperation, 
that they resolved to fight them all three the first time they had 
a fair opportunity. In order to this, they resolved to go to the 
Castle, as they called it, that was my old dwelling, where the 
three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together, at that time 
intending to have a fair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by 
to See fair play. So they got up in the morning before day, ^^ 
came to the place, and called the Englishmen by their names, 
telling a Spaniard that answered that they wanted to speak ffith 
them. 

It happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards having 
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, who, lor 
distinction, I call the honest men, and he had made a sad com- 
plaijit to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met with 
from their three countryraen, and how they had ruined their 
plantation and destroyed their com that they had laboured so hard 
to bring forward, and killed the milch-goat and their three kids, 
which was all they had provided for their sustenance; and that 11 
he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them 
again, they should be starved. When the Spaniards came home 
at night, and they were all at supper, he took the freedom to 
reprove the three Englishmen, though in very gentle aud mannerly 



ENGLISH INSOLENCE. 359 

terms, and asked them, " How they could be so cruel, they beiiig 
harmless inoffensive fellows, and that they were only putting 
themselves in a way to subsist by their labour, and that it had 
cost them a great deal of pains to bring things to such perfection 
as they hadl" 

One of the Englishmen retumed very briskly, " What had they 
to do there? That they came on shore without leave, and they 
should not plant or build upon the island; it was none of their 
ground." " Why," says the Spaniard, very cahnly, " Seignior 
Inglese, they must not starve." The Englishman replied like a 
true rough-hewn Tarpaulin,^ '* They might starve and be damned, 
they should not plant nor build." " But what must they do, then, 
seignior?" said the Spaniard. Another of the brutes returned, 
'*Do! hang them. They should be servants and work for them." 
"But how can you expect that of them?" says the Spaniard, 
"they are not bought with your money; you have no right to 
make them servants." The Englishman answered, "The island 
was theirs, the governor had given it to them, and no man had 
anything to do there but themselves;" and with that swore by 
his Maker " that they would go and bum all their new huts, they 
should build none upon their land." 

" Why, seignior," says the Spaniard, " by the same rule we must 
be your servants too." " Ay," says the bold dog, "and so you 
shall, too, before we have done with you ;" mixing two or three 
oaths in the proper intervals of his speech. The Spaniard only 
smiled at that^ and made him no answer However, this little 
discourse had heated them, and starting up, one says to the 
other (I think it was he they called Will Atkins), "Come, 
Jack, let US go and have t'other brush with them; we'll demolish 
their casüe, I'U Warrant you, they shall plant no colony in our 
dominions." 

Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun, 
a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among 
themselves of what they would do to the Spaniards too, when 
opportunity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so per- 
fectly understand them as to know all the particulars; only that 

^ Common sailor. 




360 WANTON DESTRÜCTION. 

in general they threatened them hard for taking the two English- 
men's part 

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that even- 
ing, the Spaniards said, they did not know; but it seems they 
wandered aboat the country part of the night, and then Ijing 
down in the place which I used to call my bower, they wäre weary, 
and overslept themselvea The case was this: they had reaolved 
to stay tili midnight, and so to take the two poor men when they 
were asleep; and, as they acknowledged afterwards, intended to 
set fire to their huts while they were in them, and either burn 
them in them, or murder them as they came out; and as müHce 
seldom sleeps very sound, it was very stränge they should not have 
been kept waking. 

However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I 
have Said, though a much fairer one than that of buming and 
murdering, it happened, and very luckily for them all, that they 
were up and gone abroad before the bloody-minded roguescameto 
their huts. 

When they came there and f ound the men gone, Atkins, vbo 
it seems was the forwardest man, called out to his comrades, 
"Ha, Jack! here*s the nest, but the birds are flown." They 
mused a while to think what should be the occasion of their being 
gone abroad so soon, and suggested presently that the Spaniards 
had given them notice of it; and with that they shook hands, 
and swore to one another that they would be revenged of the 
Spaniards. As soon as they had made this bloody bargain, they 
feil to work with the poor men^s habitation. They did not set 
fire indeed to anything, but they puUed down both their littl« 
houses, and pulled them so limb from limb that they left not 
the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on the groimd where 
they stood. They tore all their little coUected household stuff i^ 
pieces, and threw everything about in such a manner, that the 
poor men afterwards found some of their things a milo off i^^ 
their habitation. 

WTien they had done this, they pulled up all the young tree« 
the poor men had planted, pulled up an enclosure they had made 
to secure their cattle and their com, and in a word, sacked 



A blackouard's threat. 361 

plundered everything as completely as a horde of Tartars would 
have done. 

The two men were at this juncture gone to find them out, and 
had resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they 
were but two to three. So that had they met, there certainly 
would have been bloodshed among them, for they were all very 
stout resolute fellows, to give them their due. 

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they 
themselves could do to meet; for, as if they had dogged one 
another, when the three were gone thither, the two were here; 
and afterwards when the two went back to find them, the three 
were come to the old habitation again ; — we shall see their differing 
conduct presently. When the three came back, like furious 
creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they had been 
about had put them into, they came up to the Spaniards and told 
them what they had done, by way of scofi' and bravado; and one 
of them, stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been 
a couple of boys at play, takes hold of his hat, as it was upon his 
head, and giving it a twirl about, flfiering in his face, says he to 
him, '^ And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, 
if you do not mend your manners." The Spaniard, who though a 
quiet civil man, was as brave as a man could be desired to be, and 
withal a strong well-made man, looked steadily at him for a good 
while, and then, having no weapon in his band, stepped gravely up 
to him, and with one blow of his fist knocked him down, as an ex 
is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the rogues, insolent at 
the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard immediately. He missed 
his body indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but one of 
them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much. The 
blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he really 
was, and that put him into some heat : for before, he acted all in a 
perfect calm; but now, resolving to go through with his work, he 
stooped to take the fellow's musket who he had knocked down, 
and was just going to shoot the man who had fired at him, when 
the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and calling 
to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the other two, and 
took their arms from them. 



362 THE ROGUiS SUBDUED. 

Wheu they were thus disarmed, and fouod they had mide >li tbt 
Spaniarda their enemieB, aa well as their own countrymen, Üiej 
began to cool, and giving the Spaniards better words, would luve 
bad their arniB agahi. But the Spaniards, considering the fend tbit 
was between them and the other two Englishmen, and that it vonld 
he the best method they could take to keep them from om 




anotrher, told them they would do them no barm, and if they woM 
live peaceably, they would be veiy willing to assist and sociit> 
with them, aa they did before^ but that they could not thinkw 
giving them their arms again while they appeared so resolTtd W 
do mischief with them to their own countrymen, and had evcn 
threatened them all to make them their aervants. 

The rogues were now no more capable to he&r reaaon than toKt 
reason, and being refused their arme they went raving aw»y «w 
raging like madmen, threatening what they would do, though tbey 
had no firearras. But the Spaniards, dcepising their tliTeateniDg, 
told them they sliould take care how they offered any injurj "* 



THE SPANIARDS' ADVICE. 363 

IT plantatioii or cattle; for if they did, they would shoot them 
hey woald do ravenous beasts, wherever they found them; and 
hey feil into their hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. 
irever, this was far from cooling them; but away they went, 
ing and swearing like fories of helL As soon as they were 
e, came back the two men, in passion and rage enough also, 
Qgfa of another kind; for having been at their plantation, and 
ing it all demolished and destroyed as above, it will easily be 
posed they had provocation enougL They could scarce have 
Ol to teil their tale, the Spaniards were so eager to teil them 
irs; and it was stränge enough to find three men thus bully 
eteen, and receive no punishment at alL 
"he Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially, having thus 
inned them, made light of all their threatenings; but the two 
j^üshmen resolved to have their remedy against them, what pain 
^er it cost to find them out. 

^Qt the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them that as 
f had disarmed them they could not consent that they (the 
) should pursue them with firearms, and perhaps kill them. 
at," Said the grave Spaniard, who was their govemor, "we 
endeavour to make them do you justice if you will leave it 
IS ; for as there is no doubt but they will come to us again 
n their passion is over, being not able to subsist without our 
(tance, we promise you to make no peace with them, without 
ng a füll satisfaction for you. lipon this condition we hope 
will promise to use no violence with them, other than in your 
defenca" 

be two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly and with 
t reluctance; but the Spaniards protested they did it only 
:eep them from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last 
r," Said they, " we are not so many of us ; here is room enough 
18 all, and it is great pity we should not be all good friends.' 
ength they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing, 
g for some days with the Spaniards, for their own habitation 
destroyed. 

I about five days time, the three vagrants, tired with wander- 
and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly lived on 




S64 BETTBR TIMES PROBIISE. 

turtles' eggs all that while, came back to the grove, and finding 
my Spaniard, who, as I have said, was the govemor, and two 
more with him Walking by the side of the creek, they came up in 
a very submissive, humble manner, and begged to be receired 
again into the family. The Spaniards used them civilly, bnt toJd 
them they had acted so unnaturally by their conntrymen, and so 
very grossly by them (the Spaniards), that they could not come 
to any conclusion without Consulting the two Englishmen and the 
rest; bat, however, they would go to them and discourse about it^ 
and they should know in half an hour. It may be guessed thii 
they were very hard put to it : f or it seems, as they wer« to wait 
this half hour for an answer, they begged they would send them 
out some bread in the meantime; which he did, and sent them at 
the same time a large piece of goat's flesh and a broiled parrot, 
which they eat very heartily, for they were hungry enough. 

After half an hour's consultation they were called in, and aloog 
debate had among them, their two countrymen chargmg them | 
with the ruin of dl their labour, and a design to murder them— | 
all which they owned before, and therefore could not deny now. 
Upon the whole, the Spaniard acted the moderator betweenthem; 
and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three 
wliile they were naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the 
three to go and build their f ellows two huts, one of the same and 
the other of larger dimensions, than they were before; to fenea 
their ground again where they had puUed up the fences, plant 
trees in the room of those pulled up, dig up the land again for 
planting com, where they had spoiled it; and in a word, to restort 
everything in the same state as they found it, as near as they 
could, for entirely it could not be, the season for the com and the 
growth of the trees and hedges not being possible to be recovered 

Well, they submitted to all this, and as they had plenty of pro- r**" 
visions given them all the while, they grew very orderly, and the 
whole Society began to live pleasantly and agreeably t<^ther, 
only that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work, I 
mean for themselves, except now and then a little, just as thej 
pleased. However, the Spaniards told them plainly, that if the/ 
would but live sociably and friendly together, and study in the 



THE SPANURD*S PREMONITION. 365 

whole the good of the plantation, they would be content to work 
for them, and let them walk about and be as idle as they pleased; 
and thus, having lived pretty well together for a month or two, 
the Spaniards gave them arms again, and gave them liberty to go 
abroad with them as before. 

It was not above a week af ter they had these arms and went 
abroad, bat the ungratefiü creatures began to be insolent and 
troublesome as before; but, however, an accident happening pre- 
sently upon this, which endangered the safety of them all, they 
were obliged to lay by all private resentments, and look to the 
preservation of their lives. 

It happened one night that the Spaniard govemor, as I call 
him, that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was 
now the captain or leader or govemor of the rest, found himself 
very uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any sleep. 
He was perfectly well in body, as he told me the story, only 
found bis thoughts tumultuous, bis mind run upon men fighting 
and killing of one another, but was broad awake, and could not 
by any means get any sleep. In short, he lay a great while, but 
growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to risa As they lay, 
bemg so many of them, upon goat-skins, laid thick upon such 
couches and pads as they made for themselves, not in hammocks 
and ship beds, as I did, who was but one, so they had little to do, 
when they were willing to rise, but to get up upon their feet, and 
perhaps put on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps, and they 
were ready for going any way that their thoughts guided them. 

Being thus gotten up he looked out, but being dark he could 
see little or nothing. And besides, the trees which I had planted, 
as in my former account is described, and which were now grown 
tall, intercepted bis sight, so that he could only look up and see 
that it was a clear starlight night; and hearing no noise, he re- 
tumed and laid him down again. But it was all one, he could 
not sleep, nor could he compose himself to anything like rest; 
but bis thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and yet he knew 
not for what. 

Having made some noise with rising and Walking about, going 
out and coming in, another of them waked, and calling asked, 



366 A STARTLING DISCOVERY. 

Who it was that was upl The governor told him how it had 
been with him. " Say you so," says the other Spaniard. " Such 
things are not to be slighted, I assure you ; there is certainly some 
mischief workiiig," says he, " near us." And presently he asked 
him, " Where are the Englishmenl" " They are all in their huts," 
says he, ^'safe enough.'' It seems the Spaniards had kept posses- 
sion of the main apartment, and had made a place where the three 
Englishmen, since their last mutiny, always quartered by them- 
selves, and could not come at the rest "Well," says the 
Spaniard, "there is something in it, I am persuaded, from my 
own experience. I am satisfied our spirits embodied have a con- 
verse with, and receive intelligence from the spirits unembodied 
and inhabiting the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given 
for our advantage, if we know how to make use of it. Come," 
says he, "let us go out and look abroad; and if we find nothing 
at all in it to justify the trouble, I will teil you a story to the 
purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my proposing it" 

In a Word, they went out to go up to the top of the hill, where 
I used to go. But they being streng and in good Company, not 
alone, as I was, used none of my cautions to go up by the ladder, 
and then pulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to tlie 
top, but were going round through the grove unconcemed and 
unwary, when they were surprised with seeing a light, as of fire, 
a very little way oflF from them, and hearing the voices of men — 
not of one, or two, but of a gi-eat number. 

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing on the 
island, it was my constant care to prevent them making the least 
discovery of there being any inhabitant upon the place. And 
when by any occasion they came to know it, they feit it so effect- 
ually, that they that got away were scarce able to give any account 
of it, for we disappeared as soon as possible. Nor did ever any 
that had seen me escape to teil any one eise, except.it was the 
three savages in our last encoimter, who jumped into the boat, of 
whom I mentioned that I was afraid they should go home and 
bring more help. 

Whether it was the consequence of the escape of those men 
that so great a number came now together, or whether they came 



VISIT OF THE SAVAGES. 367 

', and by accident, on their usual bloody errand, they 
, it seems, understand. £ut whatever it was, it had 
' basiness either to have concealed themselves as not to 
them at all, mach less to have let the savages have seen 
iwere any inhabitants in the place; or to have fallen 
1 80 efiectually as that not a man of them should have 
rhich could only have been by getting in between them 
boats. But this presence of mind was wanting to them, 
j the min of their tranquillity for a great while. 
m1 not doubt but that the governor and the man with 
rised with this sight, run back immediately and raised 
WS, giving them an account of the imminent danger they 
n; and they again as readily took the alarm. But it 
ssible to persuade thetn to stay close within where they 
that they must run all out to see how things stood. 
it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they 
tunity enough for some hours to view them by the light 
res they had made at a distance from one another. What 
doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they 
: for, first, the enemy were too many; and secondly, 
lot keep together, but were divided into several parties, 
on shore in several places. 

)aniard3 were in no small constemation at this sight; 
ley found that the fellows ran straggling all over the 
y made no doubt but, first or last, some of them would 
ipon their habitation, or upon some other place where 
Id see the token of inhabitants. And they were in great 
T dso for fear of their flock of goats, which would have 
e less than starving them if they should have been 
. So the first thing they resolved upon was to despatch 
1 away before it was light, namely, two Spaniards and 
ishman, to drive all the goats away to the great Valley 
3 cave was, and, if need were, to drive them into the very 
f. 

they have seen the savages all together in one body, and 
stance from their canoes, they resolved, if they had been 
'ed of them, to have attacked them; but that could not 




368 THE SPY'S REPORT. 

be obtained, for they were some of them two miles ofif from the 
other, and, as it appeared afterwards, were of two different 
nations. 

And after having mused a great while on the course they should 
take, and beaten their brains in considering their present circum- 
stances, they resolved at last, while. it was dark, to send the old 
savage, Frida/s father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, some- 
thing conceming them, what they came for, and what they in- 
tended to do. The old man readily undertook it; and Stripping 
himself quite naked, as most of the savages were, away he went 
After he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word that he 
had been among them undiscovered ; that he found they were 
two parties, and of two several nations, who had war with one 
another, and had had a great battle in their own country; and 
that both sides having had several prisoners taken in the fight, 
they were by mere chance landed all in the same Island, for the 
devouring their prisoners and making merry. But their Coming 
so by chance to the same place had spoiled all their mirth; that 
they were in a great rage at one another; and that they were so 
near, that he believed they would fight again as soon as daylight 
began to appear. But he did not perceive that they had any notion 
of anybod/s being on the island but themselves. He had hardly 
made an end of telling his story, when they could perceive, by the 
unusual noise they made, that the two little armies were engaged 
in a bloody fight 

Friday's father used all the arguments he could to persuade our 
people to lie close, and not be seen. He told them their safety 
consisted in it; and that they had nothing to do but lie still, and 
the savages would kill one another to their hands, and then the 
rest would go away: and it was so to a tittla But it was im- 
possible to prevail, especially from the Englishmen; their curiosity 
was so importunate upon their prudentials,^ that they must run 
out and see the battle. However, they used some caution too; 
namely, they did not go openly, just by their own dwelling, but 
went farther into the woods, and placed themselves to advantage, 
where they might securely see them manage the fight, and, as they 

^ Bo overcame their prudenco. 



A FIGHT AMONG THE SAVAGES. 369 

thought, not to be seen by them; but it seems the sa vages did see 
them, as we shall find hereafter. 

The battle was very fierce; and if I might believe the English- 
men, one of them said he could pereeive that some of them were 
men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of great policy in 
guiding the fight. The battle, they said, held two hours before 
they could guess which party would be beaten. But then that 
party which was nearest our people's habitation began to appear 
weakest; and after some time more some of them began to fly; 
and this put our men again into a great constemation, lest any 
of those that fled should run into the grove before their dwelling 
for shelter, and thereby involuntarily discover the place; and that 
by consequence the pursuers should do the like in search for them. 
Upon this they resolved that they would stand armed within the 
wall, and whoever came into the grove they should sally out over 
the wall and kill them : so that, if possible, not one should retum 
to give an account of it. They ordered also that it should be 
done with their swords, or by knocking them down with the 
stock of the musket; but not by shooting them, for fear of the 
noise. 

As they expected, it feil out Three of the routed army fled 
for life, and, jcrossing the creek, ran directly into the place, not in 
the least knowing whither they went, but running as into a thick 
wood for shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad gave notice 
of this within, with this addition, to our men's great satisfaction, 
namely, that the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which 
way they were gone. Upon this the Spaniard govemor, a man of 
humanity, would not suffer them to kill the three fugitives; but 
sending three men out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go 
round and come in behind them, surprise, and take them prisoners; 
which was done. The residue of the conquered people fled to 
their canoes, and got oflf to sea. The victors retired, and made no 
pursuit, or very little; but drawing themselves into a body together, 
gave two great screaming shouts, which they supposed was by way 
of triumph; and so the iight ended. And the same day, about 
three o'clock in the aftemoon, they also marched to their canoes; 
and thus the Spaniards had their island £^ain free to themselves, 

(248) 2A 



370 



A PIBUJ OF BATTLB, 



their fright waa over, and they saw no savages in several yeats 
after. 

After they were all gone, the Spaniarda came out of their den; 
and viewing the field of battle, they found about two-and-thirty 
dead man upon the spot. Some were killed with great long 
arrowH, some of which were found sticldng in Üieir bodies; but 
moBt of tbem were killed with their great wooden Bwords, Bixteen 




or Beventeen of which they found in the field of battle, and as 
many bowa, vith a great mauy arrows. These swords were stränge 
great unwieldy things, and they must be very Htrong men tbat 
used them. Most of thosa men that were killed with them had 
their heads mashed to pieces, as we may say, or as we call it in 
English, their brains knocked out; and several their arms and 
legB broken: bo that it Ib evident they £ght with inexpreasible 
rage and fury. AVe found not one wounded man that was not 
Btone dead; for either they stay by their enemy tili they have 
quite killed bim, or they carry all the wonnded men that are not 
quite dead away with them. 
ThJB deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while. 



THREE SAVAGES CAPTURED. 371 

ght had fiUed them with horror; and the consequences 
jd terrible to the last degree, even to them, if ever they 
fall into the hands of those creatures, who would not oniy 
m as enemies, but kill them for food, as we kill our cattle. 
ley professed to me, that the thoughts of being eaten up like 
muttoD, though it was supposed it was not to be tili they 
.'ad, had something in it so horrible, that it nauseated their 
Dmachs, made them sick when they thought of it, and fiUed 
[linds with such unusual terror, that they were not them- 
for some weeks after. 

, as I Said, tamed even the three English brutes I have been 
lg of ; and for a great while after they were very tractable, 
mt about the common business of their whole society well 
i; planted, sowed, reaped, and began to be all naturalized 
country. But some time after this they feil all into such 
"es as brought them into a great deal of trouble. 
j had taken three prisoners, as I had observed ; and these 
)eing lusty stout young fellows, they made them servants, 
Qght them to work for them; and as slaves they did well 
L But they did not take their measures with them as I did 
man Friday, namely, to begin with them upon the prin- 
\ having saved their lives, and then instruct them in the 
1 principles of life, much less of religion, civilizing and 
lg them by kind usage and afiectionate arguings; but as 
»ve them their food every day, so they gave them their 
K), and kept them fully employed in drudgery enough. But 
iled in this by it, that they never had them to assist them 
ht for them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to 
he very flesh upon my bones. 

to come to the family part Being all now good friends, 
omon danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled 
hey began to consider their general circumstances. And 
t thing that came under their consideration was, whether, 
Lhe savages particularly haunted that side of the Island, and 
3re were more remote and retired parts of it equally adapted 
r way of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they 
not rather remove their habitation, and plant in some more 




S73 NEW ARRANOtUSNTS. 

proper place for their Päfety, and especially for the security of 
their cattle and corn? 

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would 
not remove their habitation; because that, some time or other, 
they thought they might hear from their govemor again (meaning 
me); and if I should send any one to seek them, I should be sure 
to direct them to that side; where, if they should find the place 
demolished, they would conclude the savages had killed us all, 
and we were gone, and so our supply would go too. 

But as to their com and cattle, they agreed to remove them into 
the Valley where my cave was, where the land was as proper for 
both, and where, indeed, there was land enough. However, upon 
second thought, they altered one part of that resolution too, and 
resolved only to remove part of their cattle thither, and plant part 
of their com there; and so if one part was destroyed, the other 
might be saved. And one part of prudence they used, which it 
was very well they did; namely, that they never trusted those 
three savages which they had prisoners with knowing anything of 
the plantation they had made in that Valley, or of any cattle they 
had there; much less of the cave there, which they kept, in case 
of necessity, as a safe retreat, and whither they carried also the 
two barrels of powder which I had sent them at my Coming away. 

But, however, they resolved not to change their habitation; 
yet they agreed, that as I had carefully covered it, first with a 
wall or fortification, and then with a grove of trees, so, seeing 
their safety consisted entirely in their being concealed, of which 
they were now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and 
conceal the place yet more effectually than before. To this pur- 
pose, as I had planted trees (or rather thrust in stakes, which in 
time all grew up to be trees) for some good distance before the 
entrance into my apartment, they went on in the same manner, 
and filled up the rest of that whole space of ground, from the 
trees I had set quite down to the side of the creek, where, as I 
Said, I landed my floats, and even into the very ooze where the tide 
flowed, not so much as leaving any place to land, or any sign 
that there had been any landing thereabout. The stakes also 
being of a wood very forward to grow, as I have noted formerly, 



TUE VOICS OF PBOVIDBNCK 378 

thef todlr care to have generally very much larger and t^er than 
thoM which I had planted; and as they grew apace, so they 
plinted them so very thick and close together, that when they had 
becn three or four years grown there was no piercing with the eye 
1&7 considerable way into the plantation. And as for that part 
which I had planted, the trees were grown as thick as a man's 
thigL And among them they placed so many other short ones, 
iDd so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisado^ a quarter of 
a mile thick. And it was next to impossible to penetrate it but 
vith a litUe army to cut it all down; for a little dog could hardly 
get between the trees, they stood so close. 

Bat this was not all, for they did the same by all the ground to 
the right band and to the left, and round even to the top of the 
hill, leaving no way, not so much as for themselves to come out, 
bat by the ladder placed up to the side of the hiU, and then lif ted 
np, and placed again from the first stage up to the top; which 
ladder when it was taken down, nothing but what had wings or 
^tchcraft to ajBsist it could come at them. 

This was excellently well contrived; nor was it less than what 

^7 afterwards found occasion for : which served to convince me 

thatas human prudence has the authority of Providence to justify 

it, 80 it has, doubtless, the direction of Providence to set it to 

'^ork. And would we listen carefully to the voice of it, I am 

^7 persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters which our 

lircs are now, by our own negligence, subjected to. But this by 

the way. 

I retom to the story. They lived two years af ter this in perfect 
^tirement, and had no more visits from the savages. They had, 
indeed, an alarm given them one moming, which put them into a 
great constemation; for some of the Spaniards being out early one 
tnoming on the west side, or rather the end of the island (which, 
by the way, was that end where I never went, for fear of being 
discovered), they were surprised with seeing above twenty canoes 
caf Indians just coming on shore ! 

They made the best of their way home, in hurry enough; and 
Siving the alarm to their comrades, they kept close all that day 

^ Püluade, A oloM lenoe of staket. 




374 ANOTHER BROIU 

and the next, going out only at night to make observatioa Bat 
they had the good luck to be mistaken; for wherever the savages 
went, they did not land at that time on the Island, but pursued 
some other design. 

And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen; 
one of which, a most turbulent f ellow, being in a rage at one of 
the three slaves which I mentioned they had taken, because the 
fellow had not done something right which he bid him do, and 
seemed a little untractable in bis showing him, drew a hatchet oot 
of a frog-belt in which he wore it by bis side, and feil upon the 
poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill him. One of the 
Spaniards who was by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous cut 
with the hatchet, which he aimed at bis head, but Struck into his 
Shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the poor creature's arm 
off, ran to him, and entreating him not to murder the poor man, 
clapped in between him and the savage to prevent the mischiei 

The fellow, being enraged the more at this, Struck at the 
Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would serve him as he 
intended to serve the savage; which the Spaniard percei^ingt 
avoided the blow, and with a shovel which he had in his band (for 
they were all working in the field about their corn-land) knocked 
the brüte down. Another of the Englishmen, running at the same 
time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down; and then 
two Spaniards more came in to help their man, and a third 
Englishman feil in upon them. They had none of them any fire- 
arms, or any other weapons but hatchets and other tools, except 
this third Englishman; he had one of my old rusty cutlasses, with 
which he made at the two last Spaniards, and wounded them both. 
This fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more help Coming 
in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners. The next question 
was what should be done with them. They had been so often 
mutinous, and were so furious, so desperate, and so idle withal, 
that they knew not what course to take with them ; for they were 
mischievous to the highest degree, and valued not what hurt they 
did to any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live with them. | 

The Spaniard who was governor told them in so many wonis, 
that if they had been of his own country he would have hanged 



A WICKEB PROPOSAL. 375 

theo), for all laws and all governors were to preserve society, and 
those who were dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out 
of it; but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generooa 
kindness of an Englishman that they all owed their preservation 
and deliverance, he would ose them with all possible lenity, and 
would leave them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen, 
who were their countrymen. 

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up and said they de- 
sired it might not be left to them, '* for," says he, ^* I am sure we 
ought to sentence them to the gallows;" and with that gives an 
account how Will Atkins, one of the three, had proposed to have 
all the five Englishmen join together and murder all the Spaniards 
when they were in their sleep ! 

When the Spanish govemor heard this, he calls to William 
Atkins, " How, Seignior Atkins," says he, " would you murder us 
all? What have you to say to thati" That hardened villain 
was so far from denying it that he said it was true, and they 
would do it still before they had done with them. "Well, but, 
Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, " what have we done to you, 
that you will kill usl And what would you get by killing usl 
And what must we do to prevent you killing us ? Must we kill 
you, or you will kill us ! Why will you put us to the necessity 
of this, Seignior Atkins 1" says the Spaniard, very calmly and 
smiling. 

Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's making a 
jest of it, that had he not been held by three men, and withal 
had no weapons with him, it was thought he would have attempted 
to have killed the Spaniard in the middle of the Company. 

This hair-brained carriage obliged them to consider seriously 
what was to be done. The two Englishmen and the Spam'ard 
who saved the poor savage was of the opinion they should hang 
one of the three for an example to the rest, and that, particularly, 
it should be he that had twice attempted to commit murder with 
his hatchet; and indeed there was some reason to believe he had 
done it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable condition 
with the wound he had received, that it was thought he could not 
live. 




376 A MfifK^IFUL HAN. 

But the govemor Spaniard still said, '' No; it was an Englüb- 
man that had saved all their lives, and he would never consent tp 
put an Englishman to death, though he had murdered half of 
them ; nay," he said, ** if he had been killed himself by an English- 
man, and had time left to speak, it shoiild be that thej should 
pardon him." 

This was so positively insisted on by the govemor Spaniard 
that there was no gainsaying it; and as merciful coonsels are most 
apt to prevail where they are so eamestly pressed, so they all 
came into it But then it was to be considered what should he 
done to keep them from doing the mischief they designed; for all 
agreed, governor and all, that means were to be used for pre- 
serving the society from danger. After a long debate it was 
agreed, first, that they should be disanned, and not permitted to 
have either gun, or powder, or shot, or sword, or any weapon; 
and should be tumed out of the society, and left to live where 
they would, and how they would, by themselves ; but that none 
of the rest, either Spaniards or English, should converse with 
them, speak with them, or have anything to do with them: that 
they should be f orbid to come within a certain distance of the place 
where the rest dwelt; and that if they offered to commit any dis^ 
Order, so as to spoil, bum, kill, or destroy any of the corn, plantr 
ings, buildings, fences, or cattle belonging to the society, they 
should die without mercy, and they would shoot them wherever 
they could find them. 

The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the sen- 
tence, considered a little upon it, and turning to thie two honest 
Englishmen, said, " Hold, you must reflect that it will be long er« 
they can raise com and cattle of their own, and they must not 
starve. We must therefore allow them provisions." So he caosed 
to be added, that they should have a proportion of com given 
them to last them eight months, and for seed to sow, by which 
time they might be supposed to raise some of their own; that 
they should have six milch-goats, four he-goats, and six kids givea 
them, as well for present subsistence as for a störe; and that they 
should have tools given them for their work in the fields, such as 
six hatchets, an axe, a saw, and the like : but they should have 



THE TBOUBLBBS EXILED. 377 

tools or provisions unless they would Bwear solemnly 
uld not hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with 
leir fellow-Englishmen. 

dismissed them the society, and tumed them out to 
aselves. They went away snllen and refractory, as 
nted to go away or to stay; but as there was no 
went, pretending to go and choose a place where 
)ttle themselves to plant and live by themselves, an4 
ns were given them, but no weapons. 

or five days after, they came again for some victuals, 

govemor an account where they had pitched their 
Lrked themselves out an habitation and plantation; 
very convenient place indeed, on the remotest part 

north-east, much about the place where I landed in 
ge when I was driven out to sea, the Lord knows 
y attempt to Surround the island. 
built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived 
inner like my first habitation, being close imder the 
having some trees growing already on three sides of 
planting others it would be very easily covered fronj 
58S narrowly searched for. They desired some dried 
r beds and covering, which were given them: and 
:heir words that they would not disturb the rest, or 
their plantations, they gave them hatchets and what 
hey could spare; some pease, barley, and rice for 

in a word, anything they wanted, but arms and 

in this separate condition about six months, and 
1 their first harvest, though the quantity was but 
*cel of land they had planted being but little ; for, 
g all their plantation to form, they had a great deal 
their hands. And when they came to make boards, 
[ such things, they were quite out of their element, 
kke nothing of it; and when the rainy reason came 
>f a cave in the earth they could not keep their grain 
as in great danger of spoiling. And this humbled 
lo they came and begged the Spaniards to help then^ 



1 



378 A NEW FROLIC. 

which they very readily did, and in f our days worked a great hole 
in the side of the hill for them, big enough to secure their com 
and other things from the rain. But it was but a poor place at 
best compared to mine, and especially aa mine was then, for the 
Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made sevend new apart- 
ments in it. 

About three quarters of a year after this Separation, a new 
frolic took these rogues, which, together with the former villany 
they had committed, brought mischief enough upon them, and 
had very near been the ruin of the whole colony. The three new 
sociates began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life they 
led, and that without hope of bettering their circumstances; and 
a whim took them, that they would make a voyage to the con- 
tinent from whence the savages came, and would try if they could 
not seize upon some prisoners among the natives there, and bring 
them home, so to make them do the laborious part of their work 
for theuL 

The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone no 
farther; but they did nothing, and proposed nothing, but had 
either mischief in the design or mischief in the event. And if I 
may give my opinion, they seemed to be under a blast from 
Heaven; for if we will not allow a visible curse to pursue visible 
crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of things with the 
Divine justice 1 It was, certainly, an apparent vengeance on their 
crime of mutiny and piracy that brought them to the State they 
were in ; and as they showed not the least remorse for the crime, 
but added new villanies to it, such as, particularly, the piece of 
monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave, because he did not, 
or perhaps could not, understand to do what he was directed; 
and to wound him in such a manner as, no question, made him a 
cripple all his life; and in a place where no surgeon or medicine 
could be had for his eure: and what was still worse, the murderous 
intent, or, to do justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for 
such to be sure it was, as was afterwards the formed design they 
all laid to murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in their sleep. 

But I leave observing, and retum to the story. The three 
fellows came down to the Spaniards one moming, and in very 



THE SPANIARDS' WARNING. 379 

5 terms desired to be admitted to speak with them. The 
rds very readily heard what they had to say, which was 
rhmt they were tired of living in the manner they did; 
ley were not handy enoagh to make the necessaries they 
[; and that, having no help, they foand they should be 
L But if the Spaniards would give them leaire to take one 
canoes which they came over in, and give them arms and 
lition, proportioned for their defence, they would go over to 
in, and seek their fortune, and so deliver them from the 
of snpplpng them with any other provisions. 
Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them, but yet 
onestly represented to them the certain destruction they 
iinning into; told them they had sufered such hardships 
hat very spot; that they could, without any spirit of pro- 
tell them that they would be starved, or be murdered, and 
iiem consider of it 

men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they 
here, for they could not work, and would not work; and 
Duld but be starved abroad; and if they were murdered, 
ras an end of them, they had no wives or children to cry 
them; and in short, insisted importunately upon their 
d, declaring that they would go, whether they would give 
iny arms or no. 

Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they were 
d to go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no 
on to defend themselves; and that though they could ill 
heir firearms, having not enough for themselves, yet they 
let them have two muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each 
hatchet, which they thought was sufficient for them. 
. word, they accepted the offer, and having baked them 
snough to serve them a month, and given them as much 
flesh as they could eat while it was sweet, and a great 
:ul of dried grapes, a potful of fresh water, and a young kid 
) kill, they boldly set out in a canoe for a voyage over the 
lere it was at least forty miles abroad, 
boat was indeed a large one, and would have very well 
fif teen or twenty men ; and, theref ore, was rather too big 



MO 



X VZMTDBOUS VOTAOE. 



for them to msnage. Bnt u Üiej faM & fair breeze and the flood- 
tide with them, they did well enough. Th^y had made a mast of 
a loog pole, and & sail of four large goat skins dried, which they 
hod aewed or laced togetber; and away they went, merrily enougb; 
the Spaniards called after tbem, "Btm Veyajoj" and no mau ever 
tbought of seeing them any mora 
The Spaniarda would ofteo aay to one another, and the two 




honest Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly and com- 
fortably they hved now those three turbulent fellows were gone : 
as for their ever Coming again, that was the remotest thing from 
their tboughta that could be tmagined; when, bebold, after two 
and twenty days' abaence, one of the Englishmen being abroad 
upon bis planting-work, sees three stränge men coming towards 
bim at a diatance, with guns upon their Shoulders I 

Away runs the Englishman, as if be was bewitched, comea 
frighted and amazed to the govemor Spamard, and teils bim they 



THE ENQLISHMEN RETÜRN. 381 

vere all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the Island, 
he could not teil vho. The Spaniard, pausing a while, says to 
him, "How do you mean, you cannot teil who? They are the 
savages, to be eure." "No, no," says the Englishman; "they ate 
men in clothes, with arms." "Nay, then," says the Spaniard, 
"why are you concemedl If they are not savages, they must be 
f riends, for there is no Christian nation upon earth bnt will do us 
good rather than härm." 

While they were debating thus, comes the three Englishmen, 
and Standing without the wood, which was new planted, hallooed 
to them. They presently knew their voices, and so all the wonder 
öt that kind ceased. £ut now the admiration was tumed upon 
another question, namely, What could be the matter, and what 
made them come back againl 

• It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring 
where they had been, and what they had been doing, they gave 
them a füll account of their voyage in a few words, namely, that 
they reached the land in two days or something less, but Unding 
the people alarmed at their Coming, and preparing with bows and 
arrows to fight them, they durst not go on shore, but sailed on to 
the northward six or seven hours, tili they came to a great open- 
ing, by which they perceived that the land they saw from our 
island was not the main, but an island : that entering that opening 
of the sea, they saw another island on the right band north, and 
several more west; and being resolved to land somewhere, they 
put over to one of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on 
shore : that they found the people very courteous and friendly to 
them, and that they gave them several roots and some dried fish, 
and appeared very sociable ; and the women, as well as the men, 
were very forward to supply them with anything they could get 
for them to eat, and brought it to them a great way upon their 
heads. 

They continued here four days, and inquired as well as they 
could of them by signs what nations were this way and that way; 
and were told of several fierce and terrible people that lived almost 
every way, who, as they made signs to them, used to eat men. 
But as for themselves, they said that they never eat men or women, 



382 A DOUBTFUL GIFT. 

except only such as they took in the wars; and then they owned 
that they made a great feast and eat their prisoners. 

The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that 
and they told them about two moons ago — pointing to the moon, 
and then to two fingers; and that their great king had two hun- 
dred prisoners now, which he had taken in his war, and tbej 
were feeding them to make them fat for the next feast The 
Englishmen seemed mighty desiroas to see those prisoners; hat 
the other mistaking them, thought they were desiroas to have 
some of them to carry away for their own eating. So they 
beckoned to them, pointing to the setting of the sun and then to 
the rising, which was to signify that the next moming at snn- 
rising they would bring some for them ; and accordingly the next 
moming they brought down five women and eleven men, and gave 
them to the Englishmen to carry with them on their voyage, just 
as we would bring so many cows and oxen down to a seaport 
town, to victual a ship. 

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their 
stomachs tumed at this sight, and they did not know what to de; 
to ref use the prisoners would have been the highest affront to the 
savage gentry that offered them ; and what to do with them they 
knew not However, upon some debates, they resolved to accept 
of them; and in return they gave the savages that brought them 
one of their hatchets, an old key, a knife, and six or seven of their 
bullets, which, though they did not understand, they seemed ex- 
tremely pleased with. And then tying the poor creatures' hands 
behind them, they (the people) dragged the poor prisoners into the 
boat for our men. 

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they had 
them, or eise they that gave them this noble present would cer- 
tainly have expected that they should have gone to work with 
them, have killed two or three of them the next moming, and 
perhaps have invited the donors to dinner. 

But having taken their leave with all the respects and thank» 
that could well pass between people where on either side they 
understood not one word they could say, they put off with their 
boat, and came back towards the first island, where, when they 




AN UNACXJOUNTABLE HISTORY 383 

jy set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there being too 

em for their occasion. 

Yoyage, they endeavoured to have some communication 

prisoners, but it was impossible to make them under- 
ling; nothing they could say to them, or give them, or 
1, but was looked upon as going about to murder them. 
>f all unbound them; bat the poor creatares screamed 
lecially the women, as if they had just feit the knife at 
bs, for they immediately concluded they were unbound 

to be killed. 

;aye them anything to eat, it was the same thing; then 
ded it was for fear they should sink in flesh, and so not 
gh to kill. If they looked at one of them more parti- 
> party presently concluded it was to see whether he or 
:test and fittest to kill. Nay, after they had brought 

over, and began to use them kindly and treat them 
hey expected every day to make a dinner or a supper 
)w masters. 

le three Wanderers had given this unaccountable history 
»f their voyage, the Spaniard asked them, " Where their 

was?" And being told that they had brought them 
id put them into one of their huts, and were come up 
e victuals for them; they (the Spaniards) and the other 
hmen, that is to say, the whole colony, resolved to go 
» the place and see them, and did so, and Friday's father 

tiey came into the hut, there they sat all bound; for 

had brought them on shore, they bound their hands 

dight not take the boat and make their escape. There, 

sat, all of them stark naked. First, there were three 

comely fellows, well shaped, straight and fair limbs, 

Y to thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof two 

•om thirty to forty ; two more not above four or five and 

id the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or 

The women were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both 

id features, only tawny, and two of them, had they been 

ite, would have passed for very handsome women even 



384 THE SAYAGIES' JOY. 

in London itself, having pleasant agreeable countenances, and of a 
very modest behaviour, especially when they came afterwardstobe 
clothed and dressed, as they called it, though the dress was very 
indifferent, it must be confessed; of which hereafter. 

The ßight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our 
Spaniards, who were (to give them a just character) men of the 
best behaviour, of the most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good- 
humour that ever I met with, and, in particular, of the most 
modesty, as will presently appear: I say, the sight was very un- 
couth, to see three naked men and five naked women, all togetber 
bound, and in the most miserable circumstances that human natore 
could be supposed to be, namely, to be expecting every moment 
to be dragged out and have their brains knocked out, and then to 
be eaten up like a calf that is killed for a dainty. 

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday'« 
father, to go in and see first if he knew any of them, and then if 
he understood any of their speech. As soon as the old man came 
in, he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them; neither 
could any of them understand a word he said or a sign he cooM 
tnake, except one of the women. 

However, this was enough to answer the end, which was to 
satisfy them that the men into whose hands they were fallen were 
Christians; that they abhorred eating of men or women, and that 
they might be sure they would not be killed. As soon as thej 
were assured of this, they discovered such a joy, and by such awk- 
ward and several ways as is hard to describe; for it seems they 
were of several nations. 

The woman, who was their interpreter, was bid in the neit 
place to ask them if they were willing to be servants, and to work 
for the men who had brought them away to save their lives; at 
which they all feil a dancing; and presently one feil to takingnp 
this, and another that, anything that lay next, to carry on their 
Shoulders, to intimate that they were willing to work. 

The governor, who found that the having women among them 
would presently be attended with some inconvenience, and might 
occasion some strife, and perhaps Wood, asked the three men what 
they intended to do with these women, and how they intended to 



MATRQCONIAL ARRANGEBfENTS. 385 

Use them — whether as servants or as women. One of the English- 
men answered very boldly and readily, "That they would use them 
as both." To which the govemor said, ''I am not going to 
restrain yoa from it; you are your own masters as to that. But 
this I think is but just, for avoiding disorders and quarreis among 
you, and I desire it of you for that reason only, namely, that you 
will all engage that if any of you take any of these women as a 
woman or wife, that he shall take but one; and that having taken 
one, none eise should touch her: for though we cannot marry any 
of you, yet 'tis but reasonable that while you stay here, the woman 
any of you takes should be maintained by the man that takes her, 
and ahoold be his wife; I mean,'' says he, "while he continues 
here, and that none eise shail have anything to do with her/' AU 
this appeared so just, that every one agreed to it without any diffi- 
eidty. 

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed to 

Uke any of them. But every one of them answered, "No." 

Some of them said they had wives in Spain, and the others did 

not like women that were not Christians; and all together declared 

^ they would not touch one of them; which was an instance of 

BQ^ virtue as I have not met with in all my travels. On the 

other band, to be short, the five Englishmen took them eveiy one 

t wife; that is to say, a temporary wife : and so they set up a new 

form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived in my 

old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly within. The 

thiee servants which were taken in the late battle of the savages 

Hfed with them; and these carried on the main part of the colony, 

npj^ying all the rest with food, and assisting them in anything 

tt they could, or as they f ound necessity required. 

But the wonder of this story was, how five such refractory, ill- 
matched fellows should agree about these women, and that two 
of them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing 
two or three of them were, without comparison, more agreeable 
than the other. But they took a good way enough to prevent 
futrrelling among themselves; for they set the five women by 
Ifaemselves in one of their huts, and they went all into the other 
int and drew lots among them who should choose first 

(248) 8B 



386 A STRANGS LOTTERY. 

He that drew to choose first, went away by hiroself to the bot 
where the poor naked creatures were, and f etched out her he 
chose; and it was worth observing that he that cbose first took 
her that was reckoned the homeliest and the oldest of the fire, 
which made mirth enough among the rest; and even the Spaniards 
laaghed at it But the fellow considered better than any of them, 
that it was application and business that they were to expect 
assistance in as much as an3rthing eise; and she proved the best 
wife of all the parceL 

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and 
fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition retumed 
upon them again, and they firmly believed that they were now a 
going to be devoured; accordingly when the English sailor came 
in, and fetched out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable 
cry, and hung about her, and took their leave of her with such 
agonies and such afiection as would have grieved the hardest 
heart in the world; nor was it possible for the Englishmen to 
satisfy them that they were not to be immediately murdered, 
until they fetched the old man, Frida/s father, who immediately 
let them know that the five men, who had fetched them out one 
by one, had chosen them for their wives. 

When they had done, and the fright the women were in was a 
little over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came and 
helped them; and in a few hours they had built them everyone 
a new hut or tent, for their lodging apart; for those they had 
already were crowded with their tools, household stufig and Pro- 
vision. The three wicked ones had pitched farthest ofF, and the 
two honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore of the ialand, 
so that they continued separate as before. And thus my island 
was peopied in three places; and, as I might say, three towns 
were begun to be planted. 

And here it is very well worth observing, that as it often h^ 
pens in the world (what the wise ends of God's providence are in 
such a disposition of things I cannot say), the two honest feUovs 
had the two worst wives, and the three reprobates, that were 
scarce worth hanging, that were fit for nothing, and neither seemed 
bom to do themselves good or any one eise, had three clev^, diu- 



THE DILIGENT HAND. 387 

ful, and ingenious wives : not that the two first were ill 
to their temper or humour, for all the five were most 
liet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather like slaves 
3; but my meaning is, they were not alike capable, in- 
r industrious, or alike cleanly and neat. 
r Observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent 
I on one band, and to the disgrace of a slothful, negli- 
temper, on the other, that when I came to the place, 
i the several improvements, plantings, and management 
eral little colonies, the two men had so far out-gone the 
; there was no comparison. They had indeed both of 
luch groond laid out for com as they wanted; and the 
s, because, according to my rule, Nature dictated that it 

purpose to sow more com than they wanted ; but the 
of the cultivation, of the planting, of the fences, and 
everything eise, was easy to be seen at first view. 
) men had innumerable young trees planted about their 
when you came to the place nothing was to be seen but 
emd though they had twice had their plantation de- 
once by their own countrymen, and once by the enemy, 
I shown in its place, yet they had restored all again, and 
; was thriving and flourishing about them. They had 
uted in order, and managed like a vineyard, though 
themselves never seen anything of that kind; and by 
. ordering their vines, their grapes were as good again 

the others. They had also found themselves out a 
the ihickest part of the woods, where, though there was 
iral cave, as I had found, yet they made one with in- 
)our of their hands, and where, when the mischief which 
iapp)ened, they secured their wives and children, so as 
. never be found; they having, by sticking innumerable 
I poles of the wood, which, as I said, grew so easily, 
wood unpassable, except in some places, where they 
p to get over the outside part, and then went on by 
leir owh leaving. 

he three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they 
\i civilized by their new settlement, compared to what 




388 THE sluggard's vinktard. 

they were before, and were not so quarrelsome, having not the 
same opportunity, yet one of the certain companions of a profli- 
gate mind never left them; and that was their idleness. It is 
true, they planted com and made fencea; bat Solomon's words 
were never better verified than in them : " I went by the vine- 
yard of the slothful, and it was all overgrown with thorns." For 
when the Spaniards came to view their crop, they could not see 
it in some places for weeds. The hedge had several gape in it, 
where the wild goats had gotten in, and eaten up the com; perhaps, 
here and there, a dead bush was crammed in, to stop them out 
for the present, but it was only shutting the stable door after Üie 
steed was stolen. Whereas, when they looked on the colony of 
the other two, there was the very face of indastry and suocees 
upon all they did; there was not a weed to be seen in all their 
com, or a gap in any of their hedges. And they, on the other 
band, verified Solomon's words in another place, that " The diligent 
band makes rieh;" for everything grew and thrived, and they had 
plenty within and without; they had more tarne cattle than the 
other, more Utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more 
pleasure and diversion too. 

It is tme, the wives of the three were very bandy and deanly 
within doors, and having leamed the English ways of dreesing 
and cooking from one of the other Englishmen, who, as I said, w^ 
cook's-mate on board the ship, they dressed their husbands' victuais 
very nicely and well; whereas the other could not be brought to 
understand it. But then the husband who, as I say, had been 
cook's-mate, did it himself ; but as for the husbands of the three 
wives, they loitered about, fetched» turtles' eggs, and caught fish 
and birds; in a word, anything but labour, and they fared accor- 
dingly. The diligent lived well and comfortably, and the slothlul 
lived hard and beggarly ; and so, I believe, generally speaking, it 
is all over the world. 

But now I come to a scene dififerent from all that had happened 
before, either to them or to me; and the original of the story wtf 
this : — 

Early one morning there came on shore five or six canoe« of 
Indians, or savages, call them which you please; and there is no 



UNWELCOBfX visrroRS. 389 

room to doubt that they came upon the old errand of feeding upon 
their slaves. £ut that part was now so familiär to the Spaniards, 
and to our men too, that they did not concem themselves about 
it as I did; but having been made sensible by their experience that 
their only business was to lie concealed, and that if they were not 
Seen by any of the savages, they would go off again quietly when 
their basiness was done, having as yet not the least notion of there 
being any inhabitants in the island; I say, having been made 
sensible of this, they had nothing to do but to give notice to all 
the three plantations to keep within doors, and not show them- 
selves, only placing a scout in a proper place, to give notice when 
the boats went to sea again. 

This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all 
these measures, and made it known among the savages that there 
were inhabitants there, which was in the end the desolation of 
almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the savages were 
gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them had 
the curiosity to go to the place where they had been, to see what 
they had been doing. Here, to their great surprise, they found 
three savages left behind, and lying fast asleep upon the ground. 
It was supposed they had either been so gorged with their inhuman 
feast, that, like beasts, they were asleep and would not stir when 
the others went, or they were wandered into the woods, and did 
not come back in time to be taken in. 

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly 
at a loss what to do. The Spaniard govemor, as it happened, 
was with them, and bis advice was asked, but he professed he 
knew not what to do; as for slaves, they had enough already; and 
as to killing them, they were none of them inclined to that The 
Spaniard govemor told me they could not think of shedding inno- 
cent blood, for, as to them, the poor creatures had done them no 
wrong, invaded none of their property, and they thought they had 
no just quarrel against them to take away their lives. 

And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards, observe, that let 
the accounts of Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what they 
will, I never met with seventeen men of any nation whatsoever, in 
any foreign country, who were so universally modest, temperate. 



390 THE SPANISH CHARACTER. 

virtuous, 80 very good-humoured, and so courteous as these 
Spaniards; and as to cruelty, they had nothing of it in their very 
nature, no inhumanity, no barbarity, no outrageous passions, and 
yet all of them men of great courage and spirit. 

Their temper and calmness had appeared in their bearing the 
unsufiferable usage of the three Englishmen ; and their justice and 
humanity appeared now in the case of the savages, as above. After 
some consiütation, they resolved upon this, that they would )ie 
still a while longer, tili, if possible, these three men might be 
gone ; but then the govemor Spaniard recollected that the three 
savages had no boat, and that if they were left to rove about tba 
Island they would certainly discover that there were inhabiUnts 
in it, and so they should be undone that way. 

Upon this, they went back again, and there lay the fellows fast 
asleep still; so they resolved to waken them, and take them 
prisoners; and they did so. The poor fellows were strangelj 
f righted when they were seized upon and bound, and afraid, ülc« 
the women, that they should be murdered and eaten; for it seems 
those people think all the world does as they do, eating d^d'^ 
flesh : but they were soon made easy as to that, and awaj thej 
carried them. 

It was very happy to them that they did not carry them bom« 
to their Castle, I mean to my palace under the hill; but theyc*'"' 
ried them first to the bower, where was the chief of their counö7 
work, such as the keeping the goats, the planting the corD,^<^' 
and afterwards they carried them to the habitation of the two 
Englishmen. 

Here they were set to work, though it was not much they hw 
for them to do; and whether it was by negligence in guarding J 
them, or that they thought the fellows could not mend themselvs, * 
I know not, but one of them run away, and taking into the woods, j 
they could never hear of him more. 

They had good reason to believe he got home again soon fi^i 
in some other boats or canoes of savages, who came on shore thre^ 
or four weeks afterwards, and who, carrying on their revels tf 
usual, went off again in two days' time. This thought terrifieJ 
them exceedingly; for they concluded, and that not withoutgooi 



FEARS OF ATTACK. • 391 

leed, that if this fellow came safe home among bis com- 
) would certainly give them an account that there were 
a the Island, as also how few and weak they were: for 
;ge, as I observed before, bad never been told, and it was 
>py he had not, how many there were, or wbere they 
3r had he ever seen or heard the fire of any of their guns, 
38 had they shown him any of their other retired places, 
the cave in the Valley, or the new retreat which the two 
aen had made, and the like. 

rst testimony they had that this fellow had given intelli- 
them was, that about two months after this, six canoes of 
with about seven, or eight, or ten men in a canoe, came 
dong the north side of the island, where they never used 
before, and landed about an hour after sunrise, at a con- 
place, about a mile from the habitation of the two Eng- 
where this escaped man had been kept As the Spaniard 
* Said, had they been all there, the damage would not 
3n so much, for not a man of them would have escaped; 
case dififered now very much, for two men to fif ty was too 
ds. The two men had the happiness to discover them 
league off, so that it was above an hour before they landed, 
bey landed a mile from their huts, it was some time before 
Id come at them. Now, having great reason to believe 
y were betrayed, the first thing they did was to bind the 
es which were left, and cause two of the three men who 
lUght with the women, who, it seems, proved very faithful 
, to lead them with their two wives, and whatever they 
rry away with them, to their retired place in the woods, 
have spoken of above, and there to bind the two fellows 
d foot tili they heard farther. 

B next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore, 
; they beut their course directly that way, they opened the 
here their milch-goats were kept, and drove them all out, 
bheir goats to straggle into the wood, whither they pleased, 
> savages might think they were all bred wild; but the 
ho came with them was too cunning for that, and gave 
account of it all, for they went directly to the place. 



I 



892 OK TRI WAR-PATB. 

When the two poor frighted men had secured their wive^ ^^ 
goods, they sent the other slave they had of the three, who came 
with the women, and who was at their place by accident, aw^s/ to 
the Spaniards with all speed to give them the alann, and ^esin 
speedy help ; and in the meantime they took their anns and wbüt 
ammunition they had, and retreated towards the place in the wood 
where their wives were eent, keeping at a distance, yet so Hut 
they might see, if possible, which way the savages took. 

They had not gone far but that from a rising groond thejcoM 
eee the little army of their enemies come on directly to their bbi- 
tation, and in a moment more could see all their huts and hoose- 
hold stuff flaming up together, to their great grief and mortifica- 
tion; for they had a very great loss, to them irretrievable, at 
for some time. They kept their Station for a while, dll 
f ound the savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all over the 
place, rummaging every way and every place they could think of 
in search for prey, and in particular for the people, of whom it 
now plainly appeared they had intelligenc& 

The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselyes not secore 
where they stood, because, as it was likely some of the wild peop^^ 
might come that way, so they might come too many togetber, 
thought it proper to make another retreat about half a mile farth^i 
believing, as it afterwards happened, that the farther they stroOed, 
the fewer would be together. 

The next halt was at the entrance into a very thick grovn Jf^ 
of the woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which ^ 
hollow and vastly large; and in this tree they both took their 
Standing, resolving to see there what might offer. 

They had not stood there long but two of the savages appeared 
running directly that way, as if they had already had notic« 
where they stood, and were coming up to attack them; and a little 
way farther they spied three more coming after them, and fi^® 
more beyond them, all coming the same way ; besides which they 
saw seven or eight more at a distance, running another way; 
for, in a word, they ran every way like sportsmen beating for 
their game. 

The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they shooli 



WATCHINO TttE RNEMY. 



393 



stand and keep their posture or Sy; but after a very short debate 
with thenuelTes, they conaidered tbat if the eavagea ranged the 
countiy thus before help came, they might perhaps find out tbeir 
retreat in the woods, then all woiüd be lost; ao they resolved to 
stand them there: and if they were too inany to deal with, then 
they irotild get up to the top of the tree, from whence they 




' *'**p 



doubted Dot to defend themselves, fire excepted, aa long m their 
ammunition lasted, though all the savages that were landed, wbich 
wae near fifty, vere to attack them. 

Having rosolved npon this, they next conaidered whether they 
ahould fire at the firet two, or wait for the three, and so take the 
middle party, by which the two and the five that followed would 
be aeparated ; and they reaolved to let the two firat paaa by, unleas 
they ahould spy tliem in the tree, and come to attack them. The 
two Erat aavagea also confirmed them in thia regulation by tuming 



394 TH£ FIRST SHOT. 

a little from them towards another part of the wood j but the three 
and the five after them came forwards directly to the tree, as if 
they had known the Englishmen were there. 

Seeing them come so straight towards them, they resolved to 
take them in a line as they came; and as they resolved to fire but 
one at a time, perhaps the first shot might hit them all three: 
to which purpose the man who was to fire put three or four 
buUets into his piece, and having a fair loop-hole, as it were, from 
a broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim without being seen> 
waiting tili they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so that 
he could not miss. 

While they were thus waiting and the savages came on, they 
plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that 
had escaped from them, and they both knew him distinctly, and 
resolved that, if possible, he should not escape though they should 
both fire; so the other stood ready with his piece that if he did 
not drop at the first shot, he should be sure to have a second. 

But the first was too good a marksman to miss his aim; for as 
the savages kept near one another, a little behind in a line, in a 
Word, he fired and hit two of them directly. The foremost was 
killed outright, being shot in the head ; the second, which was the 
runaway Indian, was shot through the body, and feil, but was not 
quite dead; and the third had a little Scratch in the Shoulder, 
perhaps by the same ball that went through the body of the 
second, and being dreadfully frighted, though not much hui*t, sat 
down upon the ground, screaming and yelling in a hideous 
manner. 

The five that were behind, more frighted with the noise than 
sensible of the danger, stood still at first ; for the woods made the 
sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes 
rattling from one side to another, and the fowls nsing from all 
parts screaming and making every sort a several kind of noise 
according to their kind, just as it was when I fired the first gun 
that perhaps was ever shot ofif in that place since it was an island. 

However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what 
the matter was, came on unconcemed tili they came to the place 
where their companions lay in a condition miserable enough. And 



A WRONG STEP. 395 

here the poor Ignorant creatures, not sensible that they were 
within reach of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the 
woonded man talking, and, as may be supposed, inquiring of him 
how he came to be hurt; and who, it is very rational to belle ve, told 
them that a flash of fire first, and immediately after that thunder 
from their gods, had killed those two and wounded him. This, I 
say, is rational; for nothing is more certain than that, as they 
saw no man near them, so they had never heard a gun in all their 
liyes, or so much as heard of a gun; neither knew they anything 
of killing or wounding at a distance with fire and bullets ; if they 
had, one might reasonably believe they would not have stood so 
miconcemed in viewing the fate of their fellows without some 
apprehension of their own. 

Our two men, though, as they confessed to me, it grieved them 

to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who at the same 

time had no notion of their danger, yet, having them all thus in 

their power, and the first having loaded his piece again, resolved 

to let fly both together among them; and singling out by agree- 

ment which to aim at, they shot together, and killed or very much 

'Wounded four of them; the fifth, frighted even to death, though 

Tkot hurt, feil with the rest, so that our men, seeing them all fall 

t^ogether, thought they had killed them all. 

The belief that the savages were all killed, made our two men 
come boldly out from the tree before they had charged their guns 
^gain, which was a wrong step; and they were under some sur- 
priae when they came to the place and found no less than four of 
t<he men alive, and of them two very little hurt, and one not at 
^L This obliged them to fall upon them with the Stocks of their 
iDoskets; and first they made sure of the runaway savage that 
had been the cause of all the mischief, and of another that was 
hurt in his knee, and put them out of their pain. Then the man 
that was not hurt at all came and kneeled down to them, with 
his two hands held up, and made piteous moans to them by 
I gestures and signs for his lif e, but could not say one word to them 
that they could understand. 

However, they signed to him to sit down at the foot of a tree 
thereby, and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope-twine. 



896 



THE CAPTIVB SA.VAOE. 



whicb hfl had by great cbance in Üb pocket, tied hia two feet fast 
togethor and hJB tvro handa behind him; and tbere they left him, 
and wilh what apeed they could made after the other two wfaich 
wäre ggne before, fearing they or any more of them should find 
the way to their coverad place in tho wooda, whero their wivea 
and the few gooda they had left lay They came once in eight of 



.'^m, 




the two men, but it waa at a great distance ; however, they hod 
the satiafaction to eee them crosa over a Valley towards the aea, 
the quit« contrary way from that which Icd to their ratreat, which 
they were afraid of ; and being aatisfied with that, they went back 
to the tree where they left their prisoner, who, as they supposed, 
woa delirered by bis comradea, for he was gone, and the two 
piecea of rope-yarn with which they liod bound bim lay just at 
the foot of the tre& 

They were now in aa great a concern as before, not knowing 
what coune to take, or how uear the enemy might be, or in what 



THE PBISONERS A BÜRDEN. 397 

nombers; so they resolved to go away to the place where their 
wiv^ were, to see if all was well there, and to make them easy, 
who wäre in fright enough to be sure; for though the savages 
were their own country-folk, yet they were most terribly afraid 
of them, and perhaps the more for the knowledge they had of 
them. 

When they came there they found the savages had been in the 

wood, and very near that place, but had not found it; for it was 

indeed inaccessible by the trees standing so thick, as before, had 

not the persons seeking it been directed by those that knew it, 

which these did not; they found therefore everything very safe, 

only the women in a terrible fright. While they were here they 

had the comfort to have seven of the Spaniards come to their 

asdstance; the other ten, with their servants and old Friday, I 

iioean Friday's father, were gone in a body to defend their bower, 

.^md the com and cattle that was kept there, in case the savages 

^lould have roved over to that side of the country; but they did 

:x3ot spread so far. With the seven Spaniards came one of the 

^^^Jiree savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners fonnerly: and 

^^^th them also came the savage whom the Englishmen had left 

^:^<Hmd band and foot at the tree; for it seems they came that way, 

iw the slaughter of the seven men, and unbound the eighth and 

»»oaght him along with them, where, however, they were obliged 

bind him again, as they had the two others who were left when 

^e third ran away. 

The pnsoners began now to be a bürden to them; and they 

^ere so afraid of their escaping that they were once resolving to 

^ them all, believing they were under an absolute necessity to 

4o 80 for their own preservation. However, the Spaniard govemor 

^oold not consent to it, but ordered, for the present, that they 

*hoald be sent out of the way to my old cave in the Valley, and 

^ kept there with two Spaniards to guard them, and give them 

'ood for their subsistence; which was done, and they were bound 

there hand and foot for that night 

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so en- 
eouraged that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer 
tbere; bot taking five of the Spaniards, and themselves, with four 



398 * THE SAVAGES DEPART. 

muskets and a pistol among them, and two stout qnarterstayes, 
away they went in quest of the savages. And first they came to 
the tree where the men lay that had been killed; but it was easy 
to see that some more of the savages had been there, for they had 
attempted to carry their dead men away, and had dragged two of 
them a good way, but had given it over. From thence they 
advanced to the first rising ground, where they stood and saw 
their camp destroyed, and where they had the mortification still 
to see some of the smoke; but neither could they see any of the 
savages. They then resolved, though with all possible caution, 
to go f orward towards their ruined plantation. But a little before 
they came thither, Coming in sight of the sea-shore, they saw 
plainly the savages all embarking again in their canoes, in order 
to be gone. 

They seemed sorry at first, and there was no way to come at 
them to give them a parting blow; but, upon the whole, were 
very well satisfied to be rid of them. 

The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their im< 
provement destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help them 
rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies. Their three 
countrymen, who were not yet noted for having the least inclina- 
tion to do any good, yet as soon as they heard of it (for they 
living remote eastward knew nothing of the matter tili all was 
over) came and ofiered their help and assistance, and did very 
friendly work for several days to restore their habitation and make 
necessaries for them: and thus, in a little time, they were set 
upon their legs again. 

About two days after this they had the farther satisfaction of 
seeing three of the savages' canoes come driving on shore, and at 
some distance from them two drowned men; by which they had 
reason to believe that they had met with a storm at sea, and had 
overset some of them; for it had blown very hard the very night 
after they went off. 

However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other band, enough 
of them escaped to inform the rest as well of what they had 
done as of what had happened to them, and to whet them on to 
another enterprise of the same nature ; which they, it seems, resolved 



A NEW INVASION. 399 

to attempt, with sufficient force to carry all before them : for except 
what the first man had told them of inbabitants, they could say 
little to it of their own knowledge; for they never saw one man, 
and the fellow being killed that had afi&rmed it, they had no other 
witness to confirm it to them. 

It was five or six months af ter tliis before they heard any more 
of the savages, in whlch time our men were in hopes they had 
either forgot their former bad luck, or given over the hopes of 
better, when on a sudden they were invaded with a most for- 
midable fleet, of no less than eight and twenty canoes füll of 
saragea, armed with bows and arrows, great clnbs, wooden swords, 
and such like engines of war; and they brought such numbers 
with them, that, in short, it put all our people into the utmost 
eonstemation. 

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the eastermost 
side of the island, our men had that night to consult and consider 
what to do; and, in the first place, knowing that their being 
entirely concealed was their only safety before, and would much 
iDore be so now, while the number of their enemies was so great, 
^ey therefore resolved first of all to take down the huts which 
^ere built for the two Englishmen, and drive away their goats 
^ the old cave; because they supposed the savages would go 
^^tly tliither, as soon as it was day, to play the old game 
D?er again, though they did not now land within two leagues 
«fit 

In the nezt place they drove away all the flock of goats they 

Aad at the old bower, as I called it, which belonged to the Span- 

hids; and, in short, left as little appearance of inbabitants any- 

>here as was possible; and the next moming early they posted 

^emselves with all their force at the plantation of the two men, 

'Vaiting for their Coming. As they guessed, so it happened. These 

^lew invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of the island, 

^une ranging along the shore directly towards the place to the 

^^Bmber of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men could judge. 

^inr army was but smaH indeed; but that which was worse, they 

^MmI not arms for all their number neither. The whole account, 

BeemSj stood thus. First, as to men : — 



400 THE MUSTER ROLL. 

17 SpaniArds. 
5 Englishmen. 

1 Old Friday, or Friday's father. 

3 The three slaves taken with the women, who proved Tery 

faithfuL 
3 Other slaves who lived with the Spaniards. 

To arm these they had: — 

11 Mnskets. 
5 Pistols. 
8 Fowling-pieces. 

5 Muskets or fowling-pieces, which were taken by me from the 
mutinous seamen, who I reduced. 

2 Swords. 

3 Old Halberds. 

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fuzee,^ bot 
they had every one a halberd, or a long staff, like a quarteistafi^ 
with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by bis 
aide a hatchet; also every one of our men had hatchets. Twoof 
the women coiüd not be prevailed upon but they would come ioto 
the fight; and they had bows and arrows, which the Spaniards 
had taken from the savages when the first action happened, wbicb 
I have spoken of, where the Indiana fought with one another; and 
the women had hatchets too. 

The Spaniard govemor, who I have described so oft^n, com* 
manded the whole; and William Atkins, who, though a dreadfol 
fellow for wickedness, was a most daring bold fellow, commanded 
under him. The savages came forward like lions, and our meOt 
which was the worst of their fate, had no advantage in their situir 
tion, only that Will Atkins, who now proved a most useful fellow, 
with six men, was planted just behind a small thicket of boshes 
as an advanced guard, with Orders to let the first of them paas by, 
and then fire into the middle of them; and as soon as he bad 
fired, to make his retreat as nimble as he coiüd roond a pari of 
the wood, and so come in behind the Spaniards where thej atood 
having a thicket of trees all before them. 

When the savages came on they run straggling about eveiyway 
in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let abooi 

^ From the French/Hsü : a light muaket or pistol. 



t 



A FIERCB FIOHT. 401 

fifty of them pass by him; then seeing the rest come in a very 
thick throng, he Orders three of bis men to fire, having loaded their 
muskets with siz or seven bullets a piece about as big as large 
pistol bullets. How many they killed or wounded they knew not, 
bat the consternation and surprise were inexpressible among the 
savages; they were frighted to the last degree to hear such a 
dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and others hurt, but see 
nobody that did it When in the middle of their fright, W. 
Atkins and bis other three let fly again among the thickest of them; 
and in less than a minute the first three, being loaded again, gave 
them a third volley. 

Had W. Atkins and bis men retired immediately as soon as 
they had fired as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of the 
body been at band to have poured in their shot continually, the 
savages had been effectually routed; for the terror that was among 
them came principally from this, namely, that they were killed by 
the gods with thunder and Hghtning, and could see nobody that 
hurt them; but W. Atkins staying to load again, discovered the 
cheat Some of the savages, who were at a distance, spying them, 
came upon them behind, and though Atkins and bis men fired at 
them also, two or three times, and killed about twenty, retiring 
as fast as they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and 
killed one of bis fellow Englishmen with their arrows, as they 
did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the Indian slaves who 
came with the women. This slave was a most gallant fellow, and 
fought most desperately, killing five of them with bis own band, 
having no weapon but one of the armed staves and a hatchet 

Our men being thus faard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two 
other men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wpod ; and 
the Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon them, retreated also; 
for their number was so great, and they were so desperate, that 
though above fifty of them were killed, and more than so many 
wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of 
danger, and shot their arrows like a cloud; and it was observed 
that their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were made 
outrageous by their wounds, and fought like madmen. 

When our men retreated they lef t the Spaniard and the English- 

(218) 2C 



402 WILL ATKINS* GALLANTRY. 

man that were killed behind them ; and the savages, when thej 
came up to them, killed them over again in a wretched manner, 
breaking the arms, legs, and heads with their clubs and wooden 
Bwords like true savages. But finding our men were gone, they 
did not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a kiiid 
of a ring which is, it seems, their custom, and shouted twice in 
token of their victory. After which they had the mortificadon to 
8ee several of their wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss 
of blood, 

The Spaniard govemor having drawn bis little body up together 
upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would 
have had him marched, and charged them again all together atonce. 
But the Spaniards replied, " Seignior Atkins, you see how their 
wounded men fight, let them alone tili moming; all these wounded 
men will be stiff and sore with their wounds, and faint with the 
loss of blood, and so we shall have the fewer to engage." 

The advice was good: but William Atkins replied merrily, 
" That's true, Seignior, and so shall I too; and that's the reason I 
would go on while I am warm." " Well, Seignior Atkins," says 
the Spaniards, "you have behaved gallantly, and done yonrpart; 
we will fight for you if you cannot come on; but I think it best 
to stay tili moming." So they waited. 

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they foond the 
savages in great disorder about their dead and wounded men, and 
a great hurry and noise among them where they lay, they »fter- 
wards resolved to fall upon them in the night, especially if they 
could come to give them but one volley before they were discovered, 
which they had a fair opportunity to do; for one of the two Eng- 
lishmen, in whose quarter it was where the fight begim, led them 
round between the woods and sea-side westward, and then tum* 
ing Short south, they came so near where the thickest of them 
lay, that before they were seen or heard eight of them fired in 
among then, and did dreadful execution upon them. In half < 
minute more eight others fired after them, pouring in their smaö 
shot in such a quantity that abundance were killed and wounded; 
and all this while they were not able to see who hurt thero, or 
which way to fly. 



THE SAVAGES RETREAT. 403 

The Spaniardfl charged agaiu with the utmost expedition, and 
then divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved to fall in 
among them all together. They had in each body eight persons 
— that is to say, twenty-foiir, whereof were twenty-two men, and 
the two women, who, by the way, fought desperately. 

They divided the firearms equally in each party, and so of the 
halberds and staves. They would have had the women keep 
back, bat they said they were resolved to die with their husbands I 
Having thus fonned their little army, they marched out from 
among the trees, and they came up to the teeth of the enemy, 
shoating and haUooing as loud as they could. The savages stood 
all together but were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise 
of our men shouting from three quarters together. They would 
have fought if they had seen us; and as soon as we came near 
enongh to be seen, some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday 
^as wounded, though not dangerously. But our men gave them 
Ho time, but running up to them, fired among them three ways, 
*nd then feil in with the butt-ends of their muskets, their swords, 
sirmed staves and hatchets, and laid about them so well, that in a 
^ord, they set up a dismal screaming and howling, flying to save 
their lives which way soever they could. 

Our men were tired with the execution, and killed, or mortally 
^ounded, in the two fights about one hundred and eighty of them; 
Uie rest, being frighted out of their wits, scoured through the 
^oods and over the hills with all the speed and fear that nimble 
^eet could help them to do; and as we did not trouble ourselves 
inuch to pursue them, they got all together to the sea-side, where 
thej landed, and where their canoes lay. But their disaster was 
Hot at an end yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that even- 
iiig from the seaward, so that it was impossible for them to go 
off — nay, the storm continuing all night, when the tide came up 
their canoes were most of them driven by the surge of the sea so 
higfa upon the shore, that it required infinite toil to get them off, 
'^^ some of them were even dashed to pieces against the beach 
er against one another. 

Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little rest that 
^^^t; but having refreshed themselves as well as they could, 



k.. 



404 THE GOVERNOR's STRATAGEM. 

they resolved to march to that pari of the Island where the savages 
were fled, and see what posture they were in. This necessarilj 
led them over the place where the fight had been, and where ihey 
found several of the poor creatures not quite dead, and yet p«st 
recovering life: a sight disagreeable enough to generous miiids; 
for a truly great man, though obliged by the law of battle to 
destroy his enemy, takes no delight in his misery. 

However, there was no need to give any Orders in this case; for 
their own savages, who were their servants, despatched those poor 
creatures with their hatchets. 

At length they came in view of the place where the more 
miserable remains of the savages' army lay, where there appeared 
about an hundred still. Their posture was generally sitÜDg 
upon the ground, with their knees up towards their moath, 
the head put between the two hands, leaning down upon 
knees. 

When our men came within two musket shot of them^ the 
Spaniard govemor ordered two muskets to be fired without baH 
to alarm them. This he did that by their countenance he migh^ 
know what to expect, namely, whether they were still in hcart to 
fight, or were so heartily beaten as to be dispirited and discouraged, 
and so he might manage accordingly. 

This stratagem took; for, as soon as the savages heard the first 
gun and saw the flash of the second, they started up upon their 
feet in the greatest consternation imaginable; and as cur men 
advanced swiftly towards them, they all ran screaming ^d 
yawling away, with a kind of a howling noise, which our men did 
not imderstand and had never heard before, and thus they ran up 
the hills into the country. 

At first our men had much rather the weather had been calin^ 
and they had all gone away to sea; but they did not then consider 
that this might probably have been the occasion of their coming 
again in such multitudes as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come 
so many and so of ten as would quite desolate the island and starre 
them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstanding his woiM 
kept always with them, proved the best counsellor in this case. 
His ad vice was. to take the advantage that offered, and dap '^ 



WILL ATKINS ADVICE. 



405 



between them and their bo&tB, &nd so deprive them of the capacity 
of ever retuming any more to plague the Island. 

Tbey consulted long about this; and some were against it, for 
fear of m&king the wretches fiy to the woods and live there des- 
perate,. and Bo they should have them to hunt like wild beasts, he 
afraid to stir out about their businesa, and have their plautations 
continually rifled, all their tarne goata deatroyed, and, io short, he 
reduced to a Ufe of continual distreaa 

Will Atkins told them they bad better have to do with a 







btmdred man tban with a hundred natione; that as they must 
destroy their boata, so they must destroy the men, or ba all of 
them deatroyed themaetves. In a word, he showed them the 
necessity of it so plamly, that tUey all came into it So they 
went to work immediately with the boate, and getting Eome dry 
wood togetber from a dead tree, they tried to set some of them on 
fire, but they were ao wet that they would not bum ; however, the 
fire so humed the Upper part, that it Boon made them uufit for 
swimming in the sea os boats. ^Vhen the Indians eaw what they 
were about, some of them came ninning out of the woods, and 



406 ' THE CANOES DESTROYED. 

Coming as near as they could to our men, kneeied down and cried, 
" Oa, oa, waramokoa!" and some other words of their language, 
which none of the others understood anything of; but as they 
made pitiful gestures and stränge noises, it was easy to understand 
they begged to have their boats spared, and that they would be 
gone, and never come there again. 

Bat our men were now satisfied that they had no way to pre- 
serve themselves or to save their colony but effectually to prevent 
any of these people from ever going home again, depending npon 
this, that if ever so much as one of them got back into their 
country to teil the story, the colony was undone; so that, letting 
them know that they should not have any mercy, they feil to 
work with their canoes, and destroyed them, every one that the 
storm had not destroyed before; at the sight of which the sa vages 
raised a hideous cry in the woods, which our people heard piain 
enough, af ter which they ran about the island like distracted men, 
so that, in a word, our men did not really know at first what to 
do with them. 

Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider that 
while they made those people thus desperate, they ought to have 
kept good guard at the same time upon their plantations; for 
though, it is true, they had driven away their cattle, and the 
Indians did not find out their main retreat, I mean my old castle 
at the hill, nor the cave in the Valley, yet they found out my 
plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the 
fences and planting about it, trod all the com under foot, tore up 
the vines and grapes, being just then almost ripe, and did to our 
men an inestimable damage, though to themselves not one farthing- 
worth of Service. 

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet 
they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and 
down; for as they were too nimble of foot for our men when they 
found them single, so our men durst not go about Single, for fear 
of being surrounded with their numbers. The best was, they had 
no weapons; for though they had bows, they had no arrows left, 
nor any materials to make any, nor had they any edged tool or 
weapon among them. 



THE INDIAN DIFFICÜLTY. 4*07 

The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great, and 

indeed deplorable; but at the same time our man were also 

kroaght to very bad circumstances by them; for though their 

retreats were preserved, yet their provision was destroyed, and 

their harrest spoiled, and what to do, or which way to tum them- 

fielres they knew not. The only refuge they had now was the 

stock of cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some little 

com which grew there, and the plantation of the three English- 

men, William Atkins and his comrades, who were now reduced to 

two, one of them being killed by an arrow, which Struck him on 

the side of his head, just under the temple, so that he never spoke 

more; and it was very remarkable that this was the same barbar> 

ons fellow who cut the poor savage slave with his hatchet, and 

wbo af terwards intended to have murdered all the Spaniards. 

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than 

mine was at any time, after I first discovered the grains of barley 

and rice, and got into the manner of planting and raising my corn 

and my tame cattle ; for now they had, as I may say, a hundred 

wolves upon the island, which would devour everything they could 

come at, yet could very hardly be come at themselves. 

The first thing they concluded, when they saw what their cir- 
CQinstances were, was, that they would, if possible, drive them 
^p to the farther part of the island, south-west^ that if any more 
savages came on shore they might not find one another. Then, 
that they would daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many of 
them as they could come at^ tili they had reduced their number; 
^d if they could at last tame them and bring them to anything, 
^ey would give them com, and teach them how to plant and live 
^pon their daily labour. 

In Order to this, they so followed them, and so terrified them 

^th their guns, that in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at 

«n Indian, if he did not hit him yet he would fall down for fear; 

«Dd 80 dreadfully frighted they were, that they kept out of sight 

farther and farther, tili at last our men following them, and every 

day almost killing and wounding some of them, they kept up in 

the woods and hollow places so much, that it reduced them to the 

Dtmost misery for want of food, and many were afterwards found 




408 MERCIFÜL PROPOSALS. 

dead in the woods, without any hurt, but merelj stanred to 
death. 

When our men foimd this, it made their hearts relent^ and pitf 
moved them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was the mosi 
gentlemanly generous-minded man that ever I met with in my 
life; and he proposed, if posaible, to take one of them alive, aod 
bring him to undentand what they meant^ so f ar as to be able to 
act as interpreter, and to go among them and see if they rxüght 
be brought to some conditions that might be depended npon, U> 
save their lives^nd to do us no spoiL 

It was some while before any of them could be taken; but beiog 
weak and half starved, one of them was at last sorprised, and made 
a prisoner. He was sollen at first^ and would neither e&t or 
drink; but finding himself kindly used, and victuals given him* 
and no violence offered him, he at last grew tractable, and came 
to himself. 

They brought old Friday to him, who talked often with him. 
and told him how kind the other would be to them all; that they 
would not only save their lives, but would give them a partof the 
island to live in, provided they woidd give satisfaction that they 
would keep in theii* own bounds, and not come beyond it to injire 
or prejudice others; and that they shoidd have com given them to 
plant and make it grow for their bread, and some bread gi^^^ 
them for their present subsistence: and old Friday bade thefellov 
go and talk with the rest of bis countrymen, and see what they 
Said to it, assuring them that^ if they did not agree immedi&tdy' 
they should be all destroyed. 

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced w 
number to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the 
first oflfer, and begged to have some food given them; upon vhich 
twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed, with thie« 
Indian slaves, and old Friday, marched to the place where thev 
were. The three Indian slaves carried them a large quanütj oi 
bread, some rice boiled up to cakes and dried in the sun, &^ 
three live goats; and they were ordered to go to the side of ahfll 
where they sat down, eat the provisions very thankfuUy, and ^cw 
the most faithful fellows to their words that could be thooghtof; 



TEACHING THE SAVA6ES. 409 

for exoept when they came to heg victuals and directions, they 
neirer came out of their bounds, and there they lived when I came 
to the island, and I went to see them. 

They had taught them both to plant com, make bread, breed 
tame goats^ and milk them; they wanted nothing but wives, and 
they toon would have been a nation. They were confined to a 
nedE of land, sorroanded with high rocks behind them, and lying 
piain towards the sea before them, on the south-east comer of the 
Island. They had land enough, and it was very good and fruitful; 
they had a piece of land about a mile and a half broad, and three 
orfonrmüeinlengtL 

Oor men tanght them to make wooden spades, such as I made 
formyself ; and gave them among them twelve hatchets, and three 
or fonr knives; and there they lived, the most subjected, innocent 
creatures that ever were heard of . 

After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with respect 
to the aavages tili I came to revisit them, which was above two 
yetrsw Not but that now and then some canoes of savages came 
on shore for their triumphal unnatural feasts; but as they were of 
(«veral nations, and perhaps had never heard of those that came 
Wore, or the reason of it, they did not make any search or 
inquiry after their countrymen; and if they had« it would have 
fceen very hard to have found them out 

Thos, I think, I have given a füll account of all that happened 
to them to my retum, at least that was worth notice. The Indians 
or savages were wonderfully civilized by them, and they frequently 
^ent among them, but forbid, on pain of death, any one of the 
Indiana coming to them, because they would not have their settle> 
inent betrayed again. 

One thing was very remarkable, namely, that they taught the 
savages to make wicker-work or baskets; but they soon outdid 
their masters, for they made abundance of most ingenious things 
in wicker-work; particularly, all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, 
capboards, &c., as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and 
ibondance of other things, being very ingenious at> such work 
when they were once put in the way of it. 
My Coming was a particular relief to these people, because we 



410 A WONDERFUL TENT. 

furnished them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pickaxes, 
and all things of that kind which they could want. 

With the help of these tools they were so very handy, that they 
came at last to build up their huts, or our houses, very handsomely, 
raddling or working it up like basket-work all the way round; 
which was a very extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked veiy 
odd, but was an exceeding good fence, as well against heat as 
against all sorts of vermin : and our men were so taken with it^ 
that they got the wild savages to come and do the like for tiiem; 
so that when I came to see the two Englishmen's colonies, the/ 
looked at a distance as if they lived all like bees in a hive. Äsd 
as for Will Atkins, who was now become a very industrious, neces- 
sary, and sober fellow, he had made himself such a tent of basket- 
work as I believe was never seen. It was an hundred and twent/ 
paces round in the outside, as I measured by my steps; the walls 
were as close worked as a basket, in panels or Squares of thirtj- 
two in number, and very strong, standing about seven foot high. 
In the middle was another not above twenty-two paces round, but 
built stronger, being eight-square in its form ; and in the eigbt 
comers stood eight very strong posts, round the top of which he 
laid strong pieces pinned together with wooden pins, from which 
he raised a pyramid for the roof of eight rafters, very handaome. 
I assure you, and joined together very well, though he had no 
nails, and only a few iron spikes, which he made himself, too, oot 
of the old iron that I had left there; and indeed this fellow showed 
abundance of ingenuity in several things, which he had no kno^* 
ledge of. He made him a f orge, with a pair of wooden bellows to 
blow the fire; he made himself charcoal for his work; and he 
formed out of one of the iron crows a middling good anvil to 
hammer upon; in this manner he made many things, but espccJ- 
ally hooks, staples and spikes, bolts and hinge& But to return to 
the house : af ter he had pitched the roof of his innermost tent, he 
worked it up between the rafters with basket-work, so firm, »d*^ 
thatched that over again so ingeniously with rice-straw, and over 
that a large leaf of a tree, which covered the top, that his house 
was as dry as if it had been tiled or slated. Indeed he ownea 
that the savages made the basket-work for him. 



ITS INTERNAL ARRANGEMENTS. 411 

The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all round this inner 
apartment, and long rafters lay from the two and thirty angles to 
the top posts of the inner house, being about twenty foot distant; 
so that there was a space like a walk within the outer wicker- wall 
and without the inner, near twenty foot wida 

The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-work, 
bat much fairer, and divided it into six apartments, so that he had 
six rooms on a floor; and out of every one of these there was a 
door, first into the entry or Coming into the main tent, and another 
door into the space or walk that was round it; so that walk was 
also divided into six equal parts, which served not only for retreat, 
bat to Store up any necessaries which the family had occasion for. 
These six Spaces not taking up the whole circumference, what 
other apartments the outer circle had were thus ordered : — as soon 
as you were in at the door of the outer circle, you had a short 
passage straight before you to the door of the inner house, but on 
either side was a wicker partition, and a door in it, by which you 
^ent, first, into a large room or store-house, twenty foot wide, and 
about thirty foot long, and through that into another not quite so 
long; so that in the outer circle was ten handsome rooms, six of 
'which were only to be come at through the apartments of the inner 
tent, and served as closets or retiring rooms to the respective 
Chambers of the inner circle; and four large warehouses or bams, 
or what you please to call them, which went in through one an- 
other, two on either band of the passage that led through the outer 
door to the inner tent 

Sach a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never seen in the 
^orld, nor a house or tent so neatly contrived, much less so built 
Iii this great bee-hive lived the three families, that is to say. Will 
Atkins and bis companion. The third was Idlled, but bis wife 
'^mained with three children; for she was, it seems, big with 
^^d when he died. And the other two were not at all backward 
^ give the widow her fall share of everything — I mean, as to their 
^m, milk, grapes, &c., and when they Idlled a kid, or found a 
^^^^e on the shore; so that they all lived well enough, though it 
^as true they were not so industrious as the other two, as has 
^en observed already. 




412 GENERAL IMPROVEBfENT. 

One thing, however, cannot be omitted, namely, that as 
religion, I don't know that there was anything of that 
among them. They pretty of ten, indeed, put one another in 
that there was a God, by the very common method of seair^}^ 
namely, swearing by his name. Nor were their poor igno^^ 
savage wives much the better for having been married to Christ^S^ij« 
as we must call them; for as they knew very little of Grod tJienh 
■elves, so they were utterly uncapable of entering into any djs- 
course with their wives about a God, or to talk an3rthing to tbem 
conceming religion. 

The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the wiVes 
had made from them was, that they had taught them to speak 
English pretty well; and all the children they had, which was 
near twenty in all, were taught to speak English too, from their first 
leaming to speak, though they at first spoke it in a very broken 
manner like their mothers. There were none of these children 
above six years old when I came thither, for it was not mach 
above seven years that they had fetched these five savage bdies 
over : but they had all been pretty fruitful, for they had all children 
more or less; I think the cook's mate's wife was big of hersixtb 
child. And the mothers were all a good sort of well-govemedf qoi^^ 
laborious women, modest and decent, helpful to one another; 
mighty observant and subject to their masters — I cannot call them 
husbands; and wanted nothing but to be well instructed iB the 
Christian religion, and to be legally married; both which ^^ i 
happily brought about afterwards by my means, or, at le«8t> m 
consequence of my coming among them. | 

Having thus given an account of the colony in general, tjA 
pretty much of my five runagato Englishmen, I must say some- | 
thing of the Spaniards, who were the main body of the family» 
and in whose story there are some incidents also remariable j 
enough. 

I had a great many discourses with them about their circom* 
stances when they were among the savages. They told m^ 
readily, that they had no instances to give of their applicttion 
or ingenuity in that country; that they were a poor, miseraU«» 
dejected handful of people; that if means had been put into their 



X OONTESSION. 



419 



umU, fchef bad yet so abandoned themaelvea to despair, and so 
ink ander the wcight of their misforttmeB, that they thooght of 
>thiDg but starring. Ods of them, a grave and veiy sensible 
*n, to!d me be was convinced they were in the wrong; that it 
as not tbe part of wise men to give up themselTes to tbeir 




lUKiy, but always to take hold of the helps which reaaon offered, 
*• «eil for present snpport as for f uture deliveranca He told ine 
^grief was the most senseless, insignificant paasion in the world; 
)ot that it regarded only thiogs past, wbich was generally impo»- 
*'Ue to be recaUed or to be remedied, but had no view to thinga 
toeome, and had no share in anything that looked like deliverance, 
W rather added to tbe affliction than proposed a remedy. And 
^nn thia he repeated a Spanish proverb, wbich though I cannot 



414 A SPANISH PROVERB. 

repeat in jiist the same words that he spoke in, yet I remember I 
made it into an English proverb of my own, thus : — 

** In trouble to be troubled, 
Is to have your trouble doubled." 

He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improyements I 
bad made in my solitude; my unwearied application, as he calied 
it, and how I had made a condition which, in its circomstaDces, 
was at first much worse than theirs, a thousand times more happj 
than theirs was, even now, when they were all together. He told 
me it was remarkable that Englishmen had a greater presence of 
mind in their distress than any people that ever he met with; that 
their unhappy nation and the Portuguese were the worst men in 
the World to struggle with misfortunes, for that their first step in 
dangers, after the common eflforts are over, was always to despair, 
lie down under it, and die without rousing their thoughts up to 
proper remedies for escape. 

I told him their case and mine diflFered exceedingly : that they 
were cast upon the shore without necessaries, without supply of 
f ood or of present sustenance tili they could provide : that it w 
true I had this disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone; 
but then the supplies I had providentially thrown into my hands 
by the unexpected driving of the ship on shore, was such a help 
as would have encouraged any creature in the world to have 
applied himself as I had dona " Seignior," says the Spaniani, 
" had we poor Spaniards been in your case, we should never have 
gotten half those things out of ihe ship, as you did ; nay," sars 
he, " we should never have found means to have gotten a ^ 
to carry them, or to have gotten the raft on shore without boat 
or sail; and how much less should we have done," said he,*^jf 
any of us had been alone?" Well, I desired him to abate bis 
compliment, and go on with the history of their coming on shore, 
where they landed He told me they unhappily landed at s pl«<* 
where there were people without provisions; whereas, had they 
had the common sense to have put off to sea again, and gone to 
another island a little farther, they had found provisions, thougb 
without people; there being an island that way, as they have been 



THE SPANIARDS' STORY. 416 

re there was provisions, though no people; that is to say, 
^paniards of Trinidad had frequently been there, and had 
island with goats and hogs at several times ; where they 
l in such moltitudes, and where turtle and sea-fowls were 
)lenty, that they could have been in no want of fiesh, 
ley had found no bread; whereas here they were only 
with a few roots and herbs which they understood not, 
h had no substance in them, and which the inhabitants 
a sparingly enough, and who could treat them no better, 
3y would tum cannibals, and eat men^s fiesh, which was 
dainty of their country. 

ave me an account how many ways they strove to civilize 
;es they were with, and to teach them rational customs 
linary way of living, but in vain ; and how they retorted 
hem as unjust, that they who came there for assistance 
)rt should attempt to set up for instructors of those that 
n bread; intimating, it seems, that none should set up 
3structors of others but those who could live without 

^ve me dismal accounts of the extremities they were 
; how, sometimes, they were many days without any food 
le island they were upon being inhabited by a sort of 
hat lived more indolent, and for that reason were less 
^th the necessaries of life, than they had reason to believe 
)re in the same part of the world; and yet they found 
ß savages were less ravenous and voracious than those 
better supplies of food 

ley added, that they could not but see with what demon- 
of wisdom and goodness the governing providence of 
;ts the events of things in the world; which, they said, 
in their circumstances : for if, pressed by the hardships 
) under, and the barrenness of the country where they 
y had searched after a better place to live in, they had 
L out of the way of the relief that happened to them by 

3. 

bey gave me an account how the savages who they lived 
pected them to go out with them into their wars. And 



I 



416 AN AWKWARD POSITION. 

it was true that, bb they had firearms with them, had they not had 
the disaster to lose their ammunition, they shoold not have been 
serviceable only to their friends, but have made themselves terrible 
both to friends and enemies; but being without powder and shot, 
and yet in a condition that they could not in reason deny to go 
out ¥äth their landlords to their wars, when they came into the 
field of battle they were in a worse condition than the savages 
themselves, for they neither had bows or arrows, nor could they 
use those the savages gave them: so that they could do nothing 
but stand still and be wounded with arrows tili they came up 
to the teeth of their enemy ; and then, indeed, the three halberds 
they had were of use to them; and they would often drive a whole 
little army before them with those halberds and sharpened sticke 
put into the muzzles of their muskets. But that for all this, they 
were sometimes surrounded with multitudes, and in great danger 
from their arrows, tili at last they found the way to make them- 
selves large targets of wood, which they covered with skins of 
wild beasts, whose names they knew not; and these covered them 
from the arrows of the savages: that, notwithstanding these, 
they were sometimes in great dauger, and were once five of them 
knocked down together with the clubs of the savages; which 
was the time when one of them was taken prisoner — that is to 
say, the Spaniard whom I had relieved, that at first they thought 
had been killed. But when afterwards they heard he was taken 
prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable, and 
would willingly have all ventured their lives to have rescued 
him. 

They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest 
of their Company rescued them, and stood over them, fighting tili 
they were come to themselves, all but him who they thought had 
been dead; and then they made their way with their halberds and 
pieces, standing close together in a line, through a body of above 
a thousand savages, beating down all that came in their way, got 
the victory over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, because 
it was with the loss of their friend; who the other party, finding 
him alive, carried o£f with some others, as I gave an account in 
my former. 



THE JOY OF DELIVERANCE. 417 

They described most affectionately how they were surprised 
with joy at the retum of their inend and companion in misery, 
who they thought had been devoured by wild beasts of the worst 
kind, namely, by wild men; and yet how more and more they 
were surprised with the account he gave them of his errand, and 
that there was a Christian in any place near, much more one 
that was able, and had humanity enough to contribute to their 
deliverance. 

They described how they were astonished at the sight of the 
relief I sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread — things 
they had not seen since their Coming to that miserable place ; how 
often they crossed it and blessed it, as bread sent from Heaven; 
and what a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it; as 
also of the other things I had sent for their supply. And, after 
all, they would have told me something of the joy they were in at 
the sight of a boat and pilots to carry them away to the person 
and place from whence all these new comforts came; biit they told 
me it was impossible to express it by words, for their excessive 
joy naturally driving them to unbecoming extravagances, they 
had no way to describe them but by telling me that they bordered 
upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their passion suitable 
to the sense that was upon them : that in some it worked one way, 
and in some another; and that some of them, through a surprise 
of joy, would hurst out into tears, others be stark mad, and others 
immediately faint. This discourse extremely affected me, and 
called to my mind Friday's ecstasy when he met his father; and 
the poor people's ecstasy when I took them up at sea, after their 
ship was on fire; the mate of the ship's joy when he found himself 
delivered in the place where he expected to perish ; and my own 
joy when, after twenty-eight years' captivity, I found a good ship 
ready to carry me to my own country. All these things made me 
more sensible of the relation of those poor men, and more affected 
with it. 

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them, 
I must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the 
condition in which I left them. It was their opinion, and mine 
too, that they would be troubled no more with the sa vages; or 

(248) 2D 



418 A GOOD CONFESSION. 

that if they were, they would be able to cut them off, if they were 
twice as many as before; so they had no concem about that 
Then I entered into a serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom 
I call governor, about their stay in the Island; for as I was not 
come to carry any of them off, so it would not be just to carry off 
some and leave others, who perhaps would be unwilling to stay if 
their strength was diminished. 

On the other band, I told them I came to establish them there, 
not to remove them; and then I let them know that I had 
brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had been 
at a great charge to supply them with all things necessary, as well 
for their convenience as their defence; and that I had such and 
such particular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit 
their number, as by the particular necessary employments which 
they were bred to, being artificers, to assist them in those things 
in which, at present, they were to seek. 

They were all together when I talked thus to them ; and before 
I delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them one 
by one if they had entirely forgot and buried the first animosities 
that had been among them, and would shake hands with one 
another, and engage in a strict friendship and union of interest, 
that so there might be no more misunderstandiugs or jealousies. 

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour, 
Said they had met with afflictions enough to make them all sober, 
and enemies enough to make them all friends; that, for his part 
he would live and die with them; and was so far from designing 
anything against the Spaniards, that he owned they had done 
nothing to him but what his own mad humour made necessary, 
and what he would have done, and perhaps much worse, in their 
case; and that he would ask them pardon, if I desired it, for the 
foolish and brutish things he had done to them; and was very 
willing and desirous of living in terms of entire friendship and 
union with them; and would do anything that lay in his power 
to convince them of it : and as for going to England, he cared not 
if he did not go thither these twenty years. 

The Spaniards said they had indeed at first disarmed and ex- 
cluded Will Atkins and his two coontrymen for their ill conduct^ 



A STATE DINNER, 419 

as they had let me know; and they appealed to me for the neces- 
sity they were under to do so; but that Will Atkins had behaved 
himself so bravely in the great fight they had with the savages, 
and on several occasions since, and had showed himself so faithful 
to, and concerned for, the general interest of them all, that they 
had forgotten all that was past, and thought he merited as much 
to be tnisted with arms and supplied with necessaries as any of 
them; and that they had testified their satisfaction in him by 
committing the command to him, next to the govemor himself. 
And as they had an entire confidence in him and all his country- 
men, so they acknowledged they had merited that confidence by 
all the methods that honest men could merit to be valued and 
trusted; and they most heartily embraced the occasion of giving 
me this assurance, that they would never have any interest 
separate from one another. 

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we ap- 
pointed the next day to dine all together: and indeed we made a 
splendid feast. I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on 
shore and dress our dinner, and the old cook's mate we had on 
shore assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beef, and 
four pieces of pork out of the ship's provision, with our punch- 
bowl and materials to fiU it; and, in particular, I gave them ten 
bottles of French claret, and ten bottles of English beer — things 
that neither the Spaniards or the Englishmen had tasted for many 
years; and which, it may be supposed, they were exceeding 
glad of. 

The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids, which the 
cooks roasted; and three of them were sent covered up close on 
board the ship to the seamen, that they might feast on fresh meat 
from on shore, as we did with their salt meat from on board. 

After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, I 
brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that their might be no 
dispute about dividing, I showed them that there was sufficient 
for them all ; and desired that they might all take an equal quan- 
tity of the goods that were for wearing — that is to say, equal 
when made up; as first, I distributed linen sufficient to make 
every one of them four shirts, and at the Spaniard's request after- 



420 PRESENTS TO THE SETTLERa 

wards made them up six. These wäre exceeding comfortable to 
them, .having been what, as I may say, they had long since forgot 
the use of, or what it was to wear them. 

I allotted the thin English stuffs which I mentioned before to 
make every one a light coat, like a frock, which I judged fittest 
f or the heat of the season, cool and loose ; and ordered that when- 
ever they decayed they should make more as they thought fit 
The like for pumps, shoes, stockings, and hats, &c. 

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the 
countenances of all these poor men when they saw the care I had 
taken of them, and how well I had fumished thenL They told 
me I was a father to them, and that having such a correspondent 
as I was in so remote a part of the world, it would make them 
forget that they were left in a desolate place; and they all volun- 
tarily engaged to me not to leave the place without my consent 

Then I presented to them the people I had brought with me, 
particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters — all of 
them most necessary people; but above all, my general artificer, 
than whom they could not name anything that was more useful 
to thenL And the tailor, to show his concem for them, went to 
work immediately, and, with my leave, made them every one a 
shirt the first thing he did; and which was still more, he taught 
the women, not only how to sew and stitch, and use the needle, 
but made them assist to make the shirts for their husbands and 
for all the rest 

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they 
were, for they took in pieces all my clumsy unhandy things, and 
made them clever, convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, 
lockers, shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind. 

But to let them see how Nature made artificers at first, I 
carried the carpenters to see Will Atkins^s basket house, as I 
called it; and they both owned they never saw an instance of such 
natural ingenuity before, nor anything so regulär and so handily 
built, at least of its kind. And one of them, when he saw it, 
after musing a good while, tumed about to me, " I am sure," says 
he, 'Hhat man has no need of us; you need do nothing but give 
him toola" 



A WELL-STORED MAGAZINE. 421 

Then I brought them out all my störe of tools, and gave eveiy 
man a digging-spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no harrows 
or ploughs; and to every separate place a pick axe, a crow, a 
broad axe, and a saw — always appointing that as often as any 
were broken or wom out, they should be supplied without grudg- 
ing out of the general stores that I left behind. 

Nails, Staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors, and 
all sorts of tools and iron work, they had without tale as they 
required; for no man would care to take more than they wanted, 
»od he must be a fool that would waste or spoil them on any 
acconnt whatever. And for the use of the smith, I left two ton 
of onwrought iron for a supply. 

My magazine of powder and arms, which I brought them, was 
euch, even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice at them; 
for now they could march as I used to do, with a musket upon 
eich Shoulder, if there was occasion; and were able to fight a 
ÜioQsand savages if they had but some little advantages of situa- 
tkm, which also they could not miss of if they had occasion. 

1 carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was 

starved to death, and the maid also. She was a sober, well 

^ttcated, religious young woman, and behaved so inoffensively 

that every one gave her a good word. She had, indeed, an un- 

tappy life with us, there being no woman in the ship but herseif; 

but she bore it with patience. After a while, seeing things so 

^ell ordered, and in so fine a way of thriving upon my island, and 

^nsidering that they had neither business or acquaintance in the 

^t Indies, or reason for taking so long a voyage — I say, con- 

^'dering all this, both of them came to me and desired I would 

^Ve them leave to remain on the island, and be entered among 

*^y family, as they called it. 

I agreed to it readily, and they had a little plat of ground 
^otted to them, where they had three tents or houses set up, 
^^irrounded with a basket-work, palisadoed like Atkins's, adjoining 
^ his plantation. Their tents were contrived so that they had 
^ich of them a room apart to lodge in, and a middle tent like a 
S^eat storehouse to lay all their goods in, and to eat and drink in. 
^jid now the other two Englishmen removed their habitation to 



422 THE THREE COLONIES. 

the Barne place, and so the Island was divided into three colonies, 
and no more, namely, the Spaniards, with old Friday and the 
first servants, at my old habitation under the hill, which was, in 
a Word, the capital city; and where they had so enlarged and ex- 
tended their works, as well under as on the outside of the hill, 
that they lived, though perfectly concealed, yet füll at larga 
Never was there such a little city in a wood, and so hid, I believe, 
in any part of the world; for I verily believe a thousand men 
might have ranged the Island a month, and if they had not known 
there was such a thing, and looked on purpose for it, they would 
not have found it; for the trees stood so thick and so close, and 
grew so fast matted into one another, that nothing but cutting 
them down first could discover the place — except the only two 
narrow entrances, where they went in and out, could be found, 
which was not very easy. One of them was just down at the 
water edge of the creek, and it was afterwards above two hundred 
yards to the place; and the other was up the ladder at twice, as 
I have already formerly described it; and they had a large wood, 
thick planted also, on the top of the hill, which contained above 
an acre, which grew apace and covered the place from all discovery 
there, with only one narrow place between two trees, not easy to 
be discovered, to enter on that side. 

The other colony was that of W. Atkins's, where there were 
four families of Englishmen, I mean those I had left there, with 
their wives and children; three savages that were slaves; the 
widow and children of the Englishman that was killed; the young 
man and the maid; and by the way, we made a wife of her also 
before we went away. There were also the two carpenters and 
the tailor, who I brought with me for them ; also the smith, who 
was a very necessary man to them, especially as a gunsmith to 
take care of their arms; and my other man, who I caJled Jack of 
all trades, who was in himself as good almost as twenty men, for 
he was not only a very ingenious fellow, but a very merry fellow; 
and before I went away we married him to the honest maid that 
came with the youth in the ship I mentioned before. 

And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say 
something of the French ecclesiastic that I had brought with me 



A NEW PERSONAGB. 423 

>ut of the ship's crew whom I took up at sea. It is true this man 
tns a Roman,^ and perhaps it may give offence to some hereafter 
f I leave anything extraordinary upon record of a man who before 
'. begin, I must (to set him out in just colours) represent in terms 
rery mach to bis disadvantage in the account of Protestants; as, 
mi, that he was a Papist; secondly, a Popish priest; and thircUy, 
i French Popish priest 

But justice demands of me to give him a due character; and I 

mnst say he was a grave, sober, pious, and most religious person; 

exact in bis life, extensive in bis charity, and exemplary in almost 

everything he did What, tben, can any one say against my 

being very sensible of the value of such a man notwitbstanding 

bis profession] — thougb it may be my opinion, perhaps, as well 

&s the opinion of others who shall read this, that he was mistaken. 

The first hour that I began to converse with him after he had 

agreed to go with me to the East Indies, I found reason to delight 

exceedingly in bis conversation. And he first began with me 

aboat religion in the most obliging manner imaginable. 

"Sir," says he, "you have not only, under God (and at that he 
crossed bis breast), saved my life, but you have admitted me to 
go this voyage in your ship, and by your obliging civility have 
taken me into your family, giving me an opportunity of free con- 
vereation. Now, sir," says he, "you see by my habit what my 
profession is, and I guess by your nation what yours is. I may 
think it is my duty, and doubtless it is so, to use my utmost 
^de&vours on all occasions to bring all the souls I can to the 
bowledge of the truth, and to embrace the Catholic doctrine; 
Jwt as I am here under your permission, and in your family, I 
un boond in justice to your kindness, as well as in decency and 
good manners, to be under your govemment; and therefore I 
«hall not, without your leave, enter into any debates on the point 
of religion in which we may not agree, farther than you shall give 
me leave." 

I told him bis carriage was so modest that I could not but 
icknowledge it; that it was true we were such people as they 
ealied heretics, but that he was not the first Catholic that I had 

^ A Roman Catholic. 




424 A TRUE PRIEST. 

convereed with without falling into any inconveniences, or carTyrng 
the questions to any heigbt in debate; that he should not find 
himself the worse used for being of a different opinion f rom us, and 
if we did not converse without any dislike on either side upon that 
score, it should be bis fault, not ours. 

He replied that he thought all our conversation might be easily 
separated from disputes; that it was not bis business to cap prin- 
ciples with every man he discoursed with; and that he rather 
desired me to converse with bim as a gentleman tban as a religkux.^ 
that if I would give bim leave at any time to discourse apon 
religious subjects, be would readily comply with it; and that then 
be did not doubt but I would allow bim also to defend bis own 
opinions as well as be could; but that, without my leave, he wodd 
not break in upon me with any such thing. 

He told me, farther, that be would not cease to do all that be- 
came bim in bis office as a priest, as well as a private Christian, 
to procure the good of the ship and the safety of all that was in 
her; and thougb, perbaps, we would not join with bim, and he 
could not pray with us, be hoped he might pray/(?r us, whichliß 
would do upon all occasions. In this manner we conversed; and 
as be was of a most obliging, gentleman-like behaviour, so he was, 
if I may be allowed to say so, a man of good sense, and, as I be- 
lieve, of great learning. 

He gave me a most diverting aecount of bis life, and of the 
many extraordinary events of it; of many adventures whicb hio 
befallen bim in the few years that ho had been abroad in the world; 
and particularly, this was vcry remarkable, namely, that in Öie 
voyage he was now engaged be had had the misfortune to be fi^ß 
times shipped and unsbipped, and never to go to the place whither 
any of the sbips be was in were at first designed ! That his &^ 
intent was to have gone to Martinico,^ and that be went on board 
a ship bound tbitber at St Malo, but being forced into Lisbon by 
bad weatber, the sbip reeeived some damage by running agroond 
in the mouth of the river Tagus, and was obliged to unload her 
cargo there: that finding a Portuguese ship there bound tothe 

' A religious person, a priest. 

' Martinique, one of tbe Frencb West India Trffvndf. 



SERIOUS BÜSINESa 425 

Madeiras, and ready to sail, and supposing he shoold easily meet 
with a vessel there bound to Martinico, he went on board in order 
to sail to the Madeiras; but the master of the Portuguese ship 
being but an indifferent mariner, had been out in his reckoning, 
and they drove to Fial, where, however, he happened to find a very 
good market for his cargo, which was corn, and therefore resolved • 
not to go to the Madeiras, but to load salt at the Isle of May, to 
go away to Newfoundland He had no remedy in this exigence 
but to go with the ship, and had a pretty good voyage as far as 
the Banks (so they call the place where they catch the fish), 
where, meeting with a French ship bound from France to Quebec 
in the river of Canada and from thence to Martinico, to carry pro- 
visions, he thought he should have an opportunity to complete his 
first design; but when he came to Quebec the master of the ship 
died, and the ship proceeded no farther: so the next voyage he 
shipped himself for France in the ship that was bumed when we 
took them up at sea, and then shipped with us for the Fast Indies, 
as I have already said. Thus he had been disappointed in five 
voyages, all, as I may call it, in one voyage, besides what I shall 
have occasion to mention farther of the same person. 

But I shall not make digressions into other men's stories which 
have no relation to my own. I retum to what concems our affair 
in the island. He came to me one moming, for he lodged among 
US all the while we were upon the island, and it happened to be 
just when I was going to visit the Englishmen's colony at the far- 
thest part of the island; I say, he came to me, and told me, with 
a very grave countenance, that he had for two or three days desired 
an opportunity of some discourse with me, which he hoped should 
not be displeasing to me, because he thought it might in some 
measure correspond with my general design, which was the pros- 
perity of my new colony, and perhaps might put it, at least more 
than he yet thought it was, in the way of God's blessing. 

I looked a little surprised at the last part of his discourse, and 
tuming a little short, " How, sir," said I, " can it be said that we 
are not in the way of God's blessing, after such visible assistancea 
and wonderful deliverances as we have seen here, and of which I 
have given you a large account?** 



42« 



THE PRIKST'S DISCOURSE. 



"If yoQ had pleaaed, dr," aaid he, with a world of modeaty, and 
yet witb gn»t readiness, "to hare heard me, you woold have found 
no room to have beeo displeaaed, much leas to think so hard of me 
that I should BUggeet that you have not had wonderfui assistances 
and deliverances; and I hope, ou your behalf, that you are in the 




way of Ood's blesaing, and your design Ib exceediug good, and will 
prosper. But, sir, though it were more so than ie even possible 
to you, yet there may be some among you that are not equally 
right in their actiona. And you know that in the Btory of the 
chitdren of Israel, one Achan in the camp removed God's blessing 
from them, and tumed his hand bo against them, that biz aud thirty 
of them, though not concemed in the crime, were the ohject of 
divine vengeance, and boie the weight of that punishment" 

I was sensihly touched with his diecourse, and toid him hia 
inference was so just, and the whole design aeemed so sincere, and 



A FEW PROPOSITIONS. 427 

was really so religious in its own nature, that I was very sorry I 
had intemipted him, and begged him to go on; and in the mean- 
time, because it seemed that what we had both to say might take 
up some time, I told him I was going to the Englishmen's plan- 
tations, and asked bim to go with me, and we might discourse of 
it by the way. He told me he would more willingly wait on me 
thither, because there partly the thing was acted which he desired 
to speak to me about; so we walked on, and I pressed him to be 
free and piain with me in what he had to say. 

" Why then, sir," says he, " be pleased to give me leave to lay 
down a few propositions as the foundation of what I have to say, 
that we may not differ in the general principles, though we may 
be of some differing opinions in the practice of particulars. First, 
sir, though we differ in some of the doctrinal articles of religion — 
and it is very unhappy that it is so, especially in the case before 
US, as I shall show afterwards — ^yet there are some general prin- 
ciples in which we both agree, namely, first, that there is a 6od, 
and that this God having given us some stated general rules for 
our Service and obedience, wc ought not willingly and knowingly 
to offend him, either by neglecting to do what he has commanded, 
or by doing what he has expressly forbidden. And let our different 
religions be what they will, this general principle is readily owned 
by US all, that the blessing of God does not ordinarily foUow a 
presumptuous sinning against bis command, and every good 
Christian will be affectionately concemed to prevent any that are 
under bis care living in a total neglect of God and bis commands. 
It is not your men being Protestants, whatever my opinion may 
be of such, that discharges me from being concemed for their souls, 
and from endeavouring, if it lies before me, that they should live 
in as little distance from and enmity with their Maker as possible, 
especially if you give me leave to meddle so far in your circuit" 

I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him I 
granted all he had said, and thanked him that he would so far 
concem himself for us; and begged he would explain the par- 
ticulars of what he had observed, that, like Joshua, to take bis 
own parable, I might put away the accursed thing from us. 

"Why then, sir," says he, "I will take the liberty you give me; 




428 THE SACRAMENT OF BIATRIMONT. 

and there are three things which, if I am right, most stand in the 
way of God's blessing upon your endeavoors here, and which I 
should rejoice for your sake and their own to see removed. And, 
sir," says he, " I promise myself that you will f ully agree vith me 
in them all as soon as I name them; especially becaose I &^^ 
convince you that every one of them may with great ease,and 
very much to your satisfaction, be remedied." 

He gave me no leave to put in any more civilities, but went on. 
" First, sir," says he, " you have here four Englishmen, who have 
fetched women f rom among the savages, and have taken tJiem as 
their wive«, and have had many children by them all, and yet are 
not married to them after any stated legal mantier, as the laws of 
Grod and man require; and therefore are yet, in the sense of both, 
no less than adulterers, and living in adultery. To this, sir," says 
he, " I know you will object, that there was no clergyman or priest 
of any kind or of any profession to perform the ceremony; nor 
any pen and ink or paper to write down a contract of marriage, 
and have it signed between them. And I know also, sir, what 
the Spaniard govemor has told you; I mean of the agreement that 
he obliged them to make when they took these women — namely* 
that they should choose them out by consent, and keep separately 
to them ; which, by the way, is nothing of a marriage, no agree- 
ment with the women as wives, but only an agreement among 
themselves, to keep them from quarrelling. 

" But, sir, the essence of the sacrament of matrimony " ^ (so be 
called it, being a Eoman) " consists not only in the mutual consent 
of the parties to take one another as man and wife, but in tbe 
formal and legal Obligation that there is in the contract to compd 
the man and woman at all times to own and acknowledge each 
other; obliging the men to abstain from all other women, to 
engage in no other contract while these subsist, and on all occasioos, 
as ability allows, to provide honestly for them and their children; 
and to oblige the women to the same, or like conditions, wt^ö/tf 
mtUandis, on their side. 

" Now, sir," says he, " these men may, when they please, or 

^ In the Roman Catholio Church the ceremony of marriage is placed is od> <>' 
the Baoramentfl. 



A GREAT NEGLECr. 429 

ksion presents, abandon these women, disown their chil- 
e them to perish, and take other women and marry them 
«e are living." And here he added, with some warmth, 
r, is God honoured in this unlawful libertyl and how 
lessing succeed your endeavours in this place, however 
hemselves, and however sincere in your design, while 
i, who at present are your subjects, under your absolute 
nt and dominion, are allowed by you to live in open 



n 



SS I was Struck at the thing itself, but much more with 
icing arguments he supported it with ; for it was certainly 

though they had no clergjrman upon the spot, yet a 
itract on both sides, made before witnesses, and confirmed 
ken which they had all agreed to be bound by, though 
tn but breaking a stick between them, engaging the men 
ese women for their wives upon all occasions, and never 
m them or their children, and the women to the same 
- husbands, had been an eifectual lawful marriage in the 
od; and it was a great neglect that it was not done. 
hought to have gotten off with my young priest by teil- 
:hat all that part was done when I was not here; and 
lived so many years with them now, that if it was an 
it was past remedy, they could do nothing in it now. 
says he, ^'asking your pardon for such freedom, you 
in this, that it being done in your absence, you could 
sirged with that part of the crime. But, I beseech you, 

yourself that you are not therefore under an Obligation 
r utmost now to put an end to it. How can you think 
let the time past lie on who it will, all the guilt for the 
l lie entirely upon you ? Because it is certainly in your 
r to put an end to it, and in nobody's power but yours." 
) duU still that I did not take hiip right; but I imagined 
atting an end to it he meant that I should part them, 
uffer them to live together any longer. And I said to 
)uld not do that by any means, for that it would put the 
nd into confusion." He seemed surprised that I should 
bake Imn. " No, sir," says he, " I do not mean that you 



430 A GRAVE COMPLAINT. 

should now separate them, but legally and effectually marry them 
now. And as, sir, my way of marryiug them may not be so easy 
to reconcile them to, though it will be as effectual, even by your 
own laws, so your way may be as well before God, and as valid 
among men; I mean by a written contract, signed by both man 
and woman, and by all the witnesses present, which all the laws 
of Europe would decree to be valid." 

I was amazed to see so much true piety and so much sincerity 
of zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse as to his 
own party or church, and such true warmth for the preserving 
people that he had no knowledge of, or relation to; I say, for 
preserving them from transgressing the laws of God — the like of 
which I had indeed not met with anywhere. But recoUecting 
what he had said of marrying them by a written contract, which I 
knew would stand too, I retumed it back upon him, and told him 
I granted all that he had said to be just, and on his part very 
kind; that I would discourse with the men upon the point now, 
when I came to them. And I knew no reason why they should 
scruple to let him marry them all, which I knew well enough 
would be granted to be as authentic and valid in England as if 
they were married by one of our own clergymen. What was 
afterwards done in this matter I shall speak of by itself. 

I then pressed him to teil me what was the second complaint 
which he had to make, acknowledging that I was very much his 
debtor for the first, and thanked him heartily for it. He told me 
he would use the same freedom and plainness in the second, and 
hoped I would take it as well. And this was, that notwithstand- 
ing these English subjects of mine, as he called them, had lived 
with those women for almost seven years, had taught them to 
speak English, and even to read it; and that they were, as he per- 
ceived, women of tolerable understanding and capable of instruc- 
tion; yet they had not to this hour taught them anything of the 
Christian religion, no not so much as to know that there was a 
God or a worship, or in what manner God was to be served, or that 
their own idolatry, and worshipping they knew not who, was 
false and absurd. 

This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect^ and what God 



TRÜE CHRISTIAN ZEAL. 431 

woold certainly call them to account for, and perhaps at last take 
the work out of their hands. He spoke this very affectionately 
and warmly. '* I am persuaded," says he, '^ had those men lived 
in the sayage country whence their wives came, the savages woold 
have taken more pains to have brought them to be idolaters, and 
to worship the devil, than any of these men," so far as he could 
see, "had taken with them to teach them the knowledge of the 
true God. " Now, sir," said he, " though I do not acknowledge 
your religion, or you mine, yet we should be glad to see the devil's 
Bervants, and the subjects of bis kingdom, taught to know the 
general principles of the Christian religion; that they might, at 
Least, hear of God, and of a Eedeemer, and of the resurrection, 
And of a future State — things which we all believe; they had at 
Least been so much nearer coming into the bosom of the true 
Church than they are now in the public profession of idolatry and 
devil-worship." 

I could hold no longer; I took him in my arms, and embraced 

lum with an excess of passion. " How far," said I to him, " have 

I been from understanding the most essential part of a Christian, 

luunely to love the interest of the Christian Church, and the good 

of other men's souls ! I scarce have known what belongs to being 

a Christian." "Oh, sir, do not say so," replied he; "this thing 

i« not your fault" "No," says I; "but why did I never lay it 

to heart as well as you]" "'Tis not too late yet," said he; "be 

^ot too forward to condemn yourself." "But what can be done 

Qow?" said I; "you see I am going away." "Will you give me 

We," said he, "to talk with those poor men about it?" " Yes, 

^ith all my heart," said I; "and will oblige them to give heed 

^ what you say too." " As to that," said he, " we must leave 

Aem to the mercy of Christ; but it is our business to assist them, 

encoorage them, and instruct them; and if you will give me leave, 

*nd God his blessing, I do not doubt but the poor ignorant souls 

*Wl be brought home into the great circle of Christianity, if not 

öito the particular faith that we all embrace,^ and that ^ven while 

'This eridently meaos, if not into the particular faith that any of us may 
ADhraoe — that is the doctrines belonging especially to any particular church or 
bodyol Christiani. 




432 A GREAT OPPORTÜNITY. 

you stay hera" Upon this, I said, "I shall not only give you 
leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it." What foUowed on 
tbis account I shall mention also again in its place. 

I now pressed bim for the tbird article in whicb we were to 
blame. " Wby, really," says be, "it is of tbe same nature; and I 
will proceed, asking your leave, witb tbe same plainness as before. 
It is about your poor savages, wbo are, as I may say, your con- 
quered subjects. It is a maxim, sir, tbat is, or ougbt to be, r&- 
ceived among all Cbristians, of wbat cburcb or pretended cburcb 
soever — namely, *Tbe Cbristian knowledge ougbt to be propa- 
gated by all possible means, and on all possible occasions.' Tis 
on tbis principle tbat our Cburcb sends missionaries into Persia^ 
India, and Cbina; and tbat our clergy, even of tbe superior sort, 
willingly engage in tbe most bazardous voyages and tbe most 
dangerous residence among murderers and barbarians, to teacb 
tbem tbe knowledge of tbe true God, and to bring tbem over 
to embrace tbe Cbristian faitb. Now, sir, you bave sucb an 
opportimity bere to bave six or seven and tbirty poor savages 
brougbt over from idolatry to tbe knowledge of God tbeir Maker 
and Redeemer, tbat I wonder bow you can pass sucb an occasion 
of doing good, wbicb is really wortb tbe expense of a man's wbole 
lifa" 

I was now Struck dumb indeed, and bad not one word to say. 
I bad bere a spirit of true Cbristian zeal for God and religion be- 
fore me, let bis particular principles be of wbat kind soever. As 
for me, I bad not so mucb as entertained a tbougbt of tbis in my 
beart before, and I believe sbould not bave tbougbt of it; for I 
looked upon tbese savages as slaves, and people wbo, bad we bad 
any work for tbem to do, we would bave used as sucb,' or would 
bave been glad to bave transported tbem to any otber part of tbe 
World, for our business was to get rid of tbem, and we would all 
bave been satisfied if tbey bad been sent to any country, so tbey 
bad never seen tbeir own. But to tbe case. I say I was con- 
founded at bis discourse, and knew not wbat answer to make bim. 
He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some disorder. " Sir," 
says be, " I shall be very «orry if what I bave said gives you any 
offence." "No, no," says I, "I am offended witb nobody but 



CRÜSOE^S DIFHCULTY. 433 

myself; but I am perfectly confounded, not only to think that I 
should never take any notice of this before, but with reflecting 
what notice I am able to take of it now. You know, sir," said I, 
" what circumstances I am in. I am bound to the East Indies, in 
a ship freighted by merchants, and to whom it would be an im- 
sufferable piece of injustice to detain their ship here, the men lying 
all this while at victuals and wages upon the owners' accomit 
It is true I agreed to be allowed twelve days here, and if I stay 
more I must pay £3 Sterling per diem demurrage, nor can I stay 
upon demurrage above eight days more, and I have been here 
thirteen days already; so that I am perfectly unable to engage in 
this work, unless I would suffer myself to be left behind here again; 
in which case, if this Single ship should miscarry, in any part of 
her voyage, I should be just in the same condition that I was left 
in here at first, and from which I have been so wonderfully de- 
livered." 

He owned the case was very hard upon me as to my voyage, but 
laid it home upon my conscience whether the blessing of saving 
seven and thirty souls was not worth my venturing all I had in the 
World fori I was not so sensible of that as he was. I retumed 
upon him thus : " Why, sir, it is a valuable thing, indeed, to be an 
instniment in God's band to convert seven and thirty heathens to 
the knowledge of Christ, but as you are an ecclesiastic, and are 
given over to the work, so that it seems so naturally to fall into 
the way of your profession, how is it that you do not rather offer 
yourself to undertake it than press me to itl" 

Upon this he faced about, just before me, as we walked along, 
and putting me to a füll stop, made me a very low bow. " I most 
heartily thank God and you, sir," says he, "for giving me so 
evident a call to so blessed a work; and if you think yourself dis- 
charged from it, and desire me to undertake it, I will most readily 
do it, and think it a happy reward for all the hazards and dif- 
ficulties of such a broken, disappointed voyage as I have met with, 
that I may be dropped at last into so glorious a worL" 

I discovered a kind of rapture in bis face while he spoke this 
to me; bis eyes sparkled like fire, bis face glowed, and his colour 
came and went, as if he had been falling into fits. In a word, 

(248) S£ 



134 RSAL HISSION WORK. 

he was fired with the joy of being embarked in auch a work. I 
pauBod a. considerable while before I could teU what to say to him, 
for I was really Buiprised to find a man of such sincerity and zeal, 
and carried out in his zeal beyond the ordinory rate of men, not of 
bis professioa only, but even of any professJon whataoever. But, 
after I bad considered it awhile, I asked him seriously if he was 
in eameet, and that he would venture, on the Single consideration 




" UpDii thii ha beti ■ 



Qod bd4 toq, rir," 



of an attempt on those poor people, to be locked up in an unplanted 
island for, perhaps, bis life, and at last might not know whether 
he sbould be able to do them any good or notl 

He tumed short upon me, and asked me what I called a 
venture^ "Pray, sir," said he, "what do you think I consented 
to go in your ahip to the East ludies forJ" " Nay," aaid I, " that 
I know not, unless it was to preacb to the Indiana." " Doubtless 
it was," said be; "and do you think, if I can convert these seven 
and tbirty men to the faitb of Christ, it is not worth my time, 
though I ebould never be fetched off the island again; nay, is it 
not infinitely of more wortb to save so many souls tban my life is, 
or the life of twenty more of the same professionl Yes, sir," says 



ANOTHER DIFFICULTY. 435 

he, " I would give Christ and the Blessed Virgin thanks all my 
days if I could be made the least happy instrument of saving the 
souls of these poor men, though I was never to set my foot off of 
bhis island, or see my native country any more. But since yon 
srill honour me," says he, " with putting me into this work (for 
wrhich I will pray for you all the days of my life), I have one 
liumble Petition to you," said he, "besides." "What is that?" 
Said L "WTiy," says he, "it is that you will leave your man 
Friday with me, to be my interpreter to them, and to assist me; 
for without some help I cannot speak to them, or they to ma" 

I was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday, because I 
50uld not think of parting with him, and that for many reasons. 
He had been the companion of my travels; he was not only 
fjuthlul to me, but sincerely affectionate to the last degree, and I 
aad resolved to do something considerable for him if he outlived 
aae, as it was probable he would. Then I knew that, as I had 
t>re(l Friday up to be a Protestant, it would quite confound him 
to bring him to embrace another profession ; and he would never, 
w-hile his eyes were open, believe that his old master was a heretic, 
*nd would be damned; and this might in the end ruin the poor 
fellow's principles, and so tum him to his first idolatry. 

However, a sudden thought relieved me in this strait, and it 
^'as this : I told him I could not say that I was willing to part 
^th Friday on any account whatever, though a work that to him 
^as of more value than his life ought to be to me of much more 
^^ae than the keeping or parting with a servant. But, on the 
^ther band, I was persuaded that Friday would by no means con- 
^ut to part with me, and I could not force him to it without his 
Consent, without manifest injustice, because I had promised I 
^ould never put him — and he had promised and engaged to me 
^t he would never leave me unless I put him — away. 

He seemed very much concemed at it, for he had no rational 
^ess to these poor people, seeing he did not imderstand one 
^ord of their language, nor they one word of bis. To remove 
tids difficulty, I told him Friday's father had learned Spanish, 
^hich I found he also understood, and he should serve him for an 
interpreter. So he was much better satisfied, and nothing could 



436 THE LAW OF MARRIAGE. 

persuade him but he would stay to endeavour to convert them; 
but Providence gave another, and very happy tum to all this. 

I come back now to the first part of bis objections. When we 
eame to the Englishmen, I sent for them all together, and after 
Bome account given them of what I had done for them — namely, 
what necessary things I had provided for them, and how they 
were distributed, which they were very sensible of, and very 
thankful for, I began to talk to them of the scandalous life they 
led, and gave them a füll account of the notice the clergyman had 
already taken of it, and arguing how unchristian and irreligious 
a life it was. I first asked them if they were married men or 
bachelors? They soon explained their condition to me, and 
showed me that two of them were widowers, and the other three 
were single men or bachelors. I asked them with what consciences 
they could take these women and lie with them, as they had done, 
call them their wives, and have so many children by them, and 
not be married lawfully to theml 

They all gave me the answer that I expected, namely, that 
there was nobody to marry them; that they agreed before the 
govemor to keep them as their wives; and to keep them and own 
them as their wives ; and they thought, as things stood with them, 
they were as legally married as if they had been married by a 
parson, and with all the formalities in the world. 

I told them that no doubt they were married in the sight of 
6od, and were bound in conscience to keep them as theii* wives- 
but that the laws of men being otherwise, they might pretend 
they were not married, and so desert the poor women and children 
hereafter; and that their wives being poor desolate women, friend- 
less and moneyless, would have no way to help themselves. I 
therefore told them that, unless I was assured of their honest in- 
tent, I could do nothing for them, but would take care that what 
I did should be for the women and their children without them; 
and that unless they would give some assurances that they would 
marry the women, I could not think it was convenient they should 
continue together as man and wif e, for that it was both scandalous 
to men and offensive to 6od, who they could not think would 
bloss them if they went on thus. 



WILL ATKINS' DECLARATION. 437 

All this went on as I expected, and. they told me, especially 
Wni Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the rest, that they 
loved their wives as well as if they had been bom in their own 
nativ^e coiintry, and woold not leave them upon any account what- 
eTcr; and they did verily believe their wives were as virtuous and 
as modest, and did, to the utmost of their skill, as much for them 
and for their children, as any women could possibly do, and they 
woold not part with them on any accomit. And Will Atkins, for 
bis own particular, added, if any man would take him away, and 
offer to carry him home to England, and make him captain of the 
best man-of-war in the navy, he would not go with him if he 
might not carry his wife and children with him; and if there was 
a clergyman in the ship, he would be married to her now with all 
bis heart 

This was just as I would have it The priest was not with me 
at that moment, but was not far off; so to try him farther, I told 
him I had a clergyman with me, and if he was sincere I would 
have him married the next moming, and bid him consider of it, 
and talk with the rest He said, as for himself, he need not con- 
^der of it at all, for he was very ready to do it, and was glad I 
had a minister with me; and he believed they would be all willing 
*l8o. I then told him that my friend the minister was a French- 
iiiaD, and could not speak English, but that I would act the clerk 
hetween them. He never so much as asked me whether he was 
I^apist or Protestant, which was indeed what I was afraid of. 
"But, I say, they never inquired about it So we parted ; I went 
Wk to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his 
<^mpanion& I desired the French gentleman not to say anything 
to them tili the business was thorough ripe, and I told him what 
^Uswer the men had given me. 

Before I went from their quarter, they all came to me and told 
^6 they had been considering what I had said : that they were 
^ery glad to hear I had a clergyman in my Company, and they were 
^ery willing to give me the satisfaction I desired, and to be formally 
Oiarried as soon as I pleased; for they were far from desiring to 
part with their wives, and that they meant nothing but what was 
^eiy honest when they chose them. So I appointed them to meet 



438 THE PRIESrS SCRÜPLES. 

me the next moming, and that in the meantime they should let 
their wives know the meaning of the marriage-law; and that it 
was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to oblige them that 
they should not forsake them, whatever might happen. 

The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the 
thing, and were very well satisfied with it, as indeed they had 
reason to be. So they failed not to attend all together at my apart- 
ment the next moming, where I brought out my clergyman; and 
though he had not on a minister's gown, after the manner of Eng- 
land, or the habit of a priest, after the manner of France, yet 
haying a black vest something like a cassock, with a sash round it, 
he did not look very unlike a minister; and as for his language, I 
was his interpreter. 

But the seriousness of his behaviour to them, and the scruples 
he made of marrying the women because they were not baptized 
and professed Christians, gave them an exceeding reverence for his 
person; and there was no need after that to enquire whether he 
was a clergyman or no. 

Indeed I was afraid his scniple would have been carried so far 
as that he would not have married them at all; nay, notwithstand- 
ing all I was able to say to him, he resisted me, though modestly, 
yet very steadily, and at last refused absolutely to marry them, 
unless he had first talked with the men and the women too; and 
though at first I was a little backward to it, yet at last I agreed 
to it with a good will, perceiving the sincerity of his design. 

Whcn he came to them, he let them know that I had acquainted 
him with their circumstances, and with the present design: that 
he was very willing to perform that part of his function, and 
marry them as I had desired; but that before he could do it, he 
must take the liberty to talk with them. He told them, that in 
the sight of all indifferent men, and in the sense of the laws of 
Society, they had lived all this while in an open adultery; and that 
it was true that nothing but the consenting to marry, or effectually 
separating them from one another now, could put an end to it; but 
there was a difficulty in it, too, with respect to the laws of Chris- 
tian matrimony, which he was not fuUy satisfied about, namely, 
that of marrying one that is a professed Christian to a savage, an 



HIS EARNEST DISCOURSE. 439 

idolater, and a heathen, one that is not baptized ; and yet that he 
<iid not see that there was time lef t f or it to endeavour to persuade 
the women to be baptized, or to prof ess the name of Christ, whom 
they had, he doubted, heard nothing of, and without which they 
coald not be baptized. 

He told them he doubted they were but indifferent Christians 
themselves; that they had but little knowledge of God or of his 
ways; and therefore he could not expect that they had said much 
lo their wives on that head yet ; but that unless they would pro- 
mise him to use their endeavour with their wives to persuade them 
to become Christians, and would, as well as they could, instruct them 
b the knowledge and belief of God that made them, and to wor- 
ahip Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could not marry them ; 
for he would have no band in joining Christians with savages; nor 
was it consistent with the principles of the Christian religion; and 
vras, indeed, expressly forbidden in God's law. 

They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very 
faithfully to them from his mouth, as near his own words as I 
could; only sometimes adding something of my own to convince 
them how just it was, and how I was pf his mind; and I always 
very faithfully distinguished between what I said from toyself and 
what were the clergyman*s words. They told me it was very true 
'^hat the gentleman had said, that they were but very indifferent 
Christians themselves, and that they had never talked to their 
^ves about religion. " Lord, sir," says Will Atkins, "how should 
^eteach them religion 1 Why, we know nothing ourselves; and 
^ie&j sir," said he, " should we go to talk to them of God and 
^m& Christ, and heaven and hell, 'twould be to make them laugh 
^ US, and ask us what we believe ourselves ? And if we should 
^U them we believe all the things that we speak of to them — such 
^ of good people going to heaven, and wicked people to the devil — 
tiiey would ask us where we intend to go ourselves, that believe 
*Ü this and are such ^vicked fellows, as we indeed arel Why, sir, 
tis enough to give them a surfeit of religion at first hearing. 
«olks must have some religion themselves, before they pretend to 
^h other people." "Will Atkins," said I to him, "though I 
*^ afraid what you say has too much truth in it, yet can you not 



440 TRUE REPENTANCE. 

teil your wife that she's in the wrong; — that there is a God and 
a religion better than her own; that her gods are idols, that they 
can neither hear nor speak; that there is a great Being that made 
all things, and that can destroy all that he has made; that he 
rewards the good and punishes the bad; and that we are to be 
judged by him at last for all we do here. You are not so ignorant 
but even Nature itself will teach you that all this is true ; and I 
am satisfied you know it all to be true, and believe it yourself/' 

"That's true, sir," said Atkins; "but with what face can I say 
anything to my wife of all this, when she will teil me immediately 
it cannot be true?" 

"Not true!" said I; "what do you mean by thati" " Why, 
sir," said he, " she will teil me it cannot be true that this God I 
shall teil her of can be just, or can punish or reward, since I am 
not punished and sent to the devil, that have been such a wicked 
creature as she knows I have been, even to her and to everybody eise; 
and that I should be suffered to live that have been always acting 
so contrary to what I must teil her is good, and to what I ought 
to have done." 

" Why, truly, Atkins," said I, " I am afraid thou speakest too 
much trutL" And with that I let the clergyman know what 
Atkins had said, for he was impatient to know. " Oh," said the 
priest, " teil him there is one thing will make him the best minister 
in the world to bis wife, &nd that is repeutance; for none teach 
repentance like true penitents. He wants nothing but to repent, 
and then he will be so much the better qualified to instruct bis 
wife. He will be then able to teil her that there is not only a 
God, and that he is the just Rewarder of good and evil, but that 
he is a merciful Being, and with infinite goodness and longsufering 
forbears to punish those that offend, waiting to be gracious, and 
willing not the death of a sinner, but rather that he should return 
and live : that he oftentimes suffers wicked men to go on a long 
time, and even reserves damnation to the genend day of retribu- 
tion : that it is a clear evidence of God, and of a f uture State, that 
righteous men receive not their reward, or wicked men their pun- 
ishment, tili they come into another world; — and this will lead 
him to teach bis wife the doctrine of the resurrection and of the 



ATKINS OONVINCED. 441 

list jadgment. Let him but repent for himself, he will be an 
ezcellent preacher of repentance to his wife." 

I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the 

while, and who, we could easily perceive, was more than ordinarily 

affected with it; — when being eager, and hardly sufifering me to 

make an end, '' I know all this, master," says he, " and a great deal 

more; bat I han't the impudence to talk thus to my wife, when 

God and my own conscience knows, and my wife will be an un- 

deniable evidence against me, that I have lived as if I had never 

heard of a God or future State, or anything about it And to talk 

of my repenting — alas!" (and with that he fetched a deep sigh, 

and I could see that tears stood in his eyes) ** 'tis past all that 

^th me." "Past it, Atkins!" said I; "what dost thou mean 

l)y thati" "I know well enough what I mean," says he; "I 

snean 'tis too late, and that is too true." 

I told my clergyman word for word what he said. The poor 

.aealoos priest (I must call him so; for, be his opinion what it will, 

lie had certainly a most singular affection for the good of other 

neos sools; and it woold be hard to think he had not the like for 

^ own) — I say, this zealous affectionate man could not refrain 

tetre also. But recovering himself, he said to me, " Ask him but 

One qaestion — Is he easy that it is too late, or is he troubled and 

^hes it were not so?" I put the question fairly to Atkins, and 

^ answered with a great deal of passion, " How could any man be 

^asy in a condition that certainly must end in eternal destruction? 

— that he was far from being easy, but that, on the contrary, he 

believed it would one time or other ruin him." 

"What do you mean by thati" said L Why, he said, he 
believed he should, one time or other, cut his throat to put an end 
^ the terror of it 

The clergyman shook his head with a great concem in his face 
^hen I told him all this. But turning quick to me upon it, says 
*ie, "If that be his case, you may assure him it is not too late; 
Christ will give him repentance. But pray," says he, "explain 
Ulis to him, that as no man is saved but by Christ and the merit 
of liig passion procuring divine mercy for him, how can it be too 
^^te for any man to receive mercy? Does he think he is able to 



442 A TRUE PENITENT. 

sin beyond the power or reach of divine mercy ? Pray teil him 
there may be a time when provoked mercy will no longer strive, 
and when Grod may refuse to hear, bat that 'tis never too late 
for men to ask mercy : and we that are Christ's servants are com- 
manded to preach mercy at all times, in the name of Jesus Christ, 
to all those that sincerely repent; so that 'tis never too late to 
repent." 

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great eamestness; 
but it seemed as if he tumed off the discourse to the rest, for he 
Said to me he would go and have some talk with bis wife; so he 
went out a while, and we talked to the rest I perceived thej 
were all stupidly Ignorant as to matters of religion, much as I was 
when I went rambling away from my father, and yet that there 
were none of them backward to hear what had been said; and all 
of them seriously promised that they would talk with their vnves 
about it, and do their endeavour to persuade them to tarn 
Christians. 

The clergyman smiled upon me when I reported what answer 
they gave, but said nothing a good while; but at last, shakingiu^ 
head, " We that are Christ's servants," says he, " can go no further 
than to exhort and instruct; and when men comply, submit tothe 
reproof, and promise what we ask, 'tis all we can do : we are 
bound to accept their good words. But believe me, sir," said he, 
" whatever you may have known of the lifo of that man you call 
Will Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere convert among them. i 
I take that man to be a true penitent I won't despair of the rest; 
but that man is apparently Struck with the sense of his past life; 
and I doubt not but when he comes to talk religion to his wife, 
he will talk himself eflFectually into it; for attempting to teach 
others is sometimes the best way of teaching ourselves. I to«^ 
a man, who having nothing but a summary notion of religwi^ 
himself, and being wicked and profligate to the last degree in his 
life, made a thorough ref ormation in himself by labouring to con- 
vert a Jew. If that poor Atkins begins but once to talk serionsly 
of Jesus Christ to his wife, my life for it, he talks himself into a 
thorough convert — makes himself a penitent And who kno'^ 
what may follow? 



A HOPEFÜL SIGHT. 443 

Upon this discourse, however, and their promising, as above, to 
endeavour to persuade their wives to embrace Christianity, he 
married the other three couple; but Will Atkins and his wife were 
not yet come in. After this, my clergyman, waiting a while, was 
curious to know where Atkins was gone; and turning to me, says 
he, " I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of yoiir labyrinth here and 
look. I daresay we shall find this poor man somewhere or other 
talking seriously to his wife, and teaching her already something 
of religion." I began to be of the same mind; so we went out 
together, and I carried him a way which none knew but myself, 
and where the trees were so thick set, as that it was not easy to 
see through the thicket of leaves, and far harder to see in than to 
see out, when, coming to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins and 
his tawny savage wife sitting under the shade of a bush, very eager 
in discourse. I stopped short tili my clergyman came irp to me, 
and then, having showed him where they were, we stood and 
looked very steadily at them a good while. 

We observed him very eamest with her, pointing up to the sun, 
and to every quarter of the heavens, then down to the earth, then 
out to the sea, then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the 
treea " Now," says my clergyman, " you see my words are made 
good; the man preaches to her. Mark him now; he is telling 
her that our God has made him, and her, and the heavens, the 
earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, &c." " I believe he is," said 
I. Immediately we perceived Will Atkins start up upon his feet, 
fall down on his knees, and lift up both his hands. We suppose 
he said something; but we could not hear him, it was too far for 
that He did not continue kneeling half a minute, but comes and 
sits down again by his wife, and talks to her again. We perceived 
then the woman very attentive; but whether she said anything or 
no, we could not teil. While the poor fellow was upon his knees, 
I could see the tears run plentifully down my clergyman's cheeks, 
and I could hardly forbear myself; but it was a great afiliction to 
US both that we were not near enough to hear anything that 
passed between them. 

Well, however, we could come no nearer for fear of disturbing 
them, so we resolved to see an end of this piece of still conversa- 



444 TEARS OF JOT. 

tion, and it spoke loud enough to us without the help of voice. 
He 8at down again, a« I have said, close by her, and talked again 
eamestly to her; and two or three times we could see him embrace 
her most passionately. Another time we saw him take out his 
handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again with a 
kind of transport very unusual; and after several of these things 
we see him on a sudden jump up again, and lend her his band to 
help her up, when immediately, leading her by the band a step or 
two, they both kneeled down together, and continued so about 
two minutes. 

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, "St 
Paul, St Paul! * behold, he prayeth!'" I was afraid Atkins would 
hear him, therefore I entreated him to withhold himself awhile, 
that we might see an end of the scene, which to me, I must con- 
fess, was the most afifecting, and yet the most agreeable, that ever 
I saw in my life. Well, he strove with himself, and contained 
himself for awhile, but was in such raptures of joy to think that 
the poor heathen woman was become a Christian, that he was not 
able to contain himself. He wept several times, then throwing 
up his hands and crossing his breast, said over several things ejacu- 
latory, and by way of giving God thanks for so miraculous a testi- 
mony of the success of our endeavours. Some he spoke softly, 
and I could not well hear, others audibly; some in Latin, some in 
French; then two or three times the tears of joy would intemipt 
him that he could not speak at all. But I begged that he would 
compose himself, and let us more narrowly and fully observe what 
was before us, which he did for a time, and the scene was not 
ended there yet; for after the poor man and his wife were risen 
again from their knees, we observed he stood talking still eagerly 
to her; and we observed by her motion that she was greatly 
affected with what he said, by her frequent lifting up her hands, 
laying her band to her breast, and such other postures as usually 
express the greatest seriousness and attention. This continued 
about half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked away too, 
so that we could see no more of them in that Situation. 

I took this interval to talk with my clergyman; and first I told 
him I was glad to see the particulars we had both been witnesses 



A DIFFICULTY STAKTED. 445 

^o; tjiat thongh I was hard enough of belief in such cases, yet 

't^at I began to think it was all very sincere here, both in the man 

.fluid bis wife, however ignorant they might both be; and I hoped 

such a beginning woold have a yet more happy end. " And who 

Iedows," Said I, " but these two may in time, by instruction and 

^xample, work upon some of the othersi" "Some of them!" 

said he, tuming quick upon me, '* ay, upon all of theuL Depend 

rLXx>n it^ if those two savages, for he has been but little better, 

ms you relate it, should embrace Jesus Christ, they will never 

leave tili they work upon all the rest; for true religion is naturally 

communicative, and he that is once made a Christian will never 

leave a pagan behind him, if he can help it." I owned it was a 

most Christian principle to think so, and a testimony of a true 

zeal, as well as a generous heart in him. " But, my friend," said 

1, " will you give me leave to Start one difficulty here ? I cannot 

teil how to object the least thing against that affectionate concem 

which you show for the tuming the poor people from their pagan- 

ism to the Christian religion; but how does this comfort you, 

^hile these people are in your account out of the pale of the 

Catholic Church, without which you believe there is no salvation; 

so that you esteem these but heretics, and for other reasons, as 

effectually lost as the pagans themselves," 

To this he answered with abundance of candour and Christian 
^harity thus: "Sir, I am a Catholic of the Roman Church, and 

* priest of the order of St. Benedict, and I embrace all the 
Prindples of the Roman faith; but yet, if you will believe me, and 
^at I do not speak in compliment to you, or in respect to my 
^^umstances and your civilities; I say, nevertheless, I do not 
*<>ok upon you who call yourselves Reformed without some charity. 
^ dare not say, though I know it is our opinion in general; I say, 

* dare not say that you cannot be saved. I will by no means limit 
^e mercy of Christ so far as to think that he cannot receive you 
^to the bosom of his Church in a manner to us unperceivable, and 
^hich it is impossible for us to know ; and I hope you have the 
^me charity for us. I pray daily for your being all restored to 
^^hrist's Church, by whatsoever methods he, who is all-wise, is 
Pleased to direct. In the meantime, sure you will allow it to 



L 



446 A TRÜE CATHOLia 

consist with me, as a Roman, to distinguish far between a Pro- 
testant and a pagan; between one that calls on Jesus Christ, 
though in a way which I do not think is according to the trae 
faith, and a savage, a barbarian, that knows no God, no Christ, no 
Eedeemer; and if you are not within the pale of the Cathoh'c 
Church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it than those 
that know nothing of God or bis Church. And I rejoice, there- 
fore, when I see this poor man, whom you say has been a profligate 
and almost a murderer, kneel down and pray to Jesus Christ, as 
we suppose he did, though not fuUy enlightened, believing that 
God, from whom every such work proceeds, will sensibly touch 
his heart, and bring him to the further knowledge of that tnith in 
bis own time ; and if God shall influence this poor man to convert 
and instruct the ignorant savage his wife, I can never believe that 
he shall be cast away himself. And have I not reason theo to 
rejoice the nearer any are brought to the knowledge of Christ, 
though they may not be brought quite home into the bosom of the 
Catholic Church just at the time when I may desire it, leaving it 
to the goodness of Christ to perfect his work in his own time and 
his own way 1 Certainly I would rejoice if all the savages in 
America were brought like this poor woman to pray to God, 
though they were to be all Protestants at first, rather than they 
should continue pagans and heathens, firmly believing that He 
that had bestowed the first light to them would further iUumiM*^ 
them with a beam of his heavenly grace, and bring them into the 
pale of his Church when he should see good." 

I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this truly p^'^ 
Papist, as much as I was oppressed by the power of his reasoning) 
and it presently occurred to my thoughts, that if such a temper 
was universal, we might be all Catholic Christians, whatever church 
or particular profession we joined to, or joined in; that a spintö' 
charity would soon work us all up into right principles. And m 
a Word, as he thought that the like charity would make us ^ 
Catholics, so I told him I believed had all the members of his 
church the like moderation, they would soon be all ProtestÄnt& 
And there we left that part, for we never disputed at alL 

However, I talked to him another way, and taking him b/ the 



ATKINS EXAMINED. 447 

luuid, " My friend," says I, " I wish all the clergy of the Romish 
Church were blessed with such moderation, and had an equal 
share of your charity. I am entirely of your opinion ; but I must 
teil you that if you should preach such doctrine in Spain or Italy, 
they would put you into the Inquisition." 

"It may be so," said he; "I know not what they might do 
in Spain or Italy; but I will not say they woidd be the better 
Christians for that severity, for I am sure there is no heresy in 
too much charity." 

WeU, as Will Atldns and bis wife were gone, our business there 
Was over, so we went back our own way; and when we came 
back, we found them waiting to be called in. Observing this, I 
asked my clergyman if we should discover to him that we had 
Seen him under the bush, or no; and it was bis opinion we should 
not, but that we should talk to him first, and hear what he would 
say to US. So we called him in alone, nobody being in the place 
bat ourselves, and I began with him thus: — 

Will Atkins, said I, prithee, what education had youl What 
^asyour fatherl 

IF, A. A better man than ever I shall be. Sir, my father was 
* clergyman. 

Ä C. What education did he give youl 

fF. A. He would have taught me well, sir; but I despised all 
education, Instruction, or correction, like a beast as I was. 

-ß. C, It's true, Solomon says, "He that despises reproof is 
l>rutish." 

W, A, Ay, sir, I was brutish indeed — I murdered my father. 
^or God's sake, sir, talk no more about that, sir — I murdered my 
Poor father. 
Pr. Hai amurdererl 

[Here the priest started (for I interpreted every word as he spoke it) 
aod looked pale. It seems he believed that WUl had really kUled 
hia own father.] 

Ä. C No, no, sir; I do not understand him so. — Will Atkins, 
^^lain yourselt You did not kill your father, did you, with 
^otir own hands? 



448 



A PAINFOL CONPiSSION. 



W. A. No, air; I did not cut his throat, but I cut the thread 
of all bis comforts, and shortened his days. I broke bis heart 
by the moat tingrat«ful, nnnatural retum for the most tender, 
affectionate treatment that ever father gave or child could receive. 

U. C. Well, I did not ask you about your fatber to extort this 




confession; I pray God give you repentance for it, and forgive 
you that and all your other sins. But I asked you because I see 
that thougii you bave not much learning, yet you are not so igno- 
rantas some are in things that are good; that you bave known 
more of religion a great deal than you have practiaed. 

fr. A. Though you, air, did not extort the confeasion that I 
made about my father, conscience does; and whenerer we come 
to look back upon onr bvea, the sins against onr indnlgent parents 
are certainly tbe firat that touch ua. The wounds they make lie 



WILL ATKINS' EXPLANATION. 449 

deepest, and the weight they leave will lie heaviest upon the 
mind, of all the sins we can commit. 

B. C, You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me, Atkins. I 
cannot bear it 

W. A. You bear it, master? I daresay you know nothing of it. 

R, C. Yes, Atkins; every shore, every hill, nay, I may say 
every tree, in this island is witness to the anguish of my soul, for 
lay ingratitude and base usage of a good, tender father; a father 
much like yours, by your description. And I murdered my father 
as well as you, Will Atkins; but I think, for all that, my repen- 
tance is short of yours, too, by a great deal. 

[I would have said more if I could have restrained my passiona : bat 
I thought thiB poor man's repentance was so much sincerer than 
mine, that I was going to leave off the discoune and retire ; for I 
was Burprised with what he said, and thought that, instead of my 
going about to teach and instruct him, the man was made a teacher 
and instructor to me in a most surprising and unexpected manner.] 

I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly 
affected with it, and said to me, *' Did I not say, sir, that when 
this man was converted he would preach to us all? I teil you, 
sir, if this one man be made a true penitent, here will be no need 
of me; he will make Christians of all on the island.'' But having 
a little composed myself, I renewed my discourse with Will 
Atkins. 

But, Will, said I, how comes the sense of this matter to touch 
you just nowl 

W, A, Sir, you have set me about a work that has Struck a 
dart through my very souL I have been talking about God and 
religion to my wife, in order, as you directed me, to make a 
Christian of her; and she has preached such a sermon to me as I 
shall never forget while I live. 

B. C, No, no, it is not your wife has preached to you; but 
when you were moving religious arguments to her, conscience has 
flung them back upon you. 

}F. A, Ay, sir, with such a force as is not to be resisted. 

B, C. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between you and 
your wife, for I know something of it already. 

(248) SF 



450 HÜSBAND AND WIFE. 

W. A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a f uU account of it I 
am too füll to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express. But 
let her have said what she will, and though I cannot give you an 
account of it, this I can teil you of it, that I resolve to amend and 
reform my life. 

K C, But teil U8 8ome of it How did you begin, Willi For 
this has been an extraordinary case, that's certain. She has 
preached a sermon indeed, if she has wrought this upon you. 

/F. j4, Why, I first told her the nature of our laws about mar- 
riage, and what the reasons were that men and women were obliged 
to enter into such compacts as it was neither in the power of one 
or other to break; that otherwise order and justice could not be 
maintained, and men would run from their wives and abandon 
their children, mix conf usedly with one another, and neither famihes 
be kept entire or inheritances be settled by legal descent 

B. C. You talk like a civilian, Will. Could you make her 
understand what you meant by inheritance and families] They 
know no such thing among the savages, but marry anyhow, with- 
out regard to relation, consanguinity, or family: brother and 
sister — nay, as I have been told, even the father and daughter, and 
son and the mother. 

JV, A,l believe, sir, you are misinformed; and my wife assares 
me of the contrary, and that they abhor it Perhaps, for anj'^ 
farther relations they may not be so exact as we are; but sh^ 
teils me they never touch one another in the near relationa yo*;^ 
speak of. 

R. C Well, what did she say to what you told her? 

W, A, She said she liked it very well, and it was much better 
than in her country. 

K C. But did you teil her what marriage was) 

W, A. Ay, ay ; there began all our dialogue. I asked her if 
she would be married to me our way. She asked me what vav 
that was. I told her marriage was appointed by God. And here 
we had a stränge talk together, indeed, as ever man and wife W 
I believe. 

[iV;^.— This dialogue between W. Atkins aud hb wife, as I took H dofs 
in writing just after he told it me, was as follows: — ] 



»^rf 



V 



THE BENAMUCKEB GOD. 451 

Wxfe, Appointed by your God ! Why, have you a God in your 
€^untryl 

W. A. Yes, my dear; God is in every country. 
Wife. No you God in my country. My country have the great 
Id Benamuckee god. 
W, A. Child, I am very unfit to show you who God is. God 
in heaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and all 

in them is. 
Wife, No makee de eartL No you God make all earth; no 
e my country. 

[W. A. Uiighed a little at her expression, of God not inaking her 
ooantry.] 

Wife, No laugL Why laugh mel This no thing to laugh. 

[He WM justly reproved by bU wife, for ehe was more serioiu tban be at 
fint.] 

W. A, That's true indeed. I will not laugh any more, my 



JVife, Why you say you God make all ? 

iF. A. Yes, child; our God made the whole world, and you, 
me, and all things. For he is the only true God; there is no 
^^•"^^W but him. He lives for ever in heaven. 
M^ife. WTiy you no teil me long agol 

W, A. That*s true indeed. But I have been a wicked wretch, 
*^^^ have not only forgotten to acquaint thee with anythiug before, 
^^^t; have lived without God in the world myself. 

Wife, What! have you de great God in you country, you no 
"^ow himt No say "0" to himi No do good thing for himi 
j* ^bat no possible ! 

W, A, It is too true ; though, for all that, we live as if there 
^ no God in heaven, or that he had no power on earth. 
\ Wife. But why God let you do sol Why he no makee you 

8<>od livel 

W, A, It is all our own fault. 

Wife, But you say me he is great, much great, have much great 
^^er; can makee kill when he will Why he no makee kill 
^hen you no serve him 1 No say "0 '' to him f No be good mansf 



452 THE LIGHT OF REASON. 

?F, A, That is. tnie. He might strike me dead; and I ought 
to expect it, for I have been a wicked wretch, that is true. But 
God i8 merciful, and does not deal with us as we deserve. 

Wife. But then do not you teil God tankee for that tool 

W, A, No, indeed; I have not thanked God for his mercy any 
more than I have feared God for his power. 

Wife. Than you God no God. Me no think, believe, he be 
such one, great much power, strong. No makee kill you though 
you makee him much angry. 

JV. A. What ! will my wicked life hinder you from believing in 
God ? What a dreadful creature am I, and what a sad truth is 
it that the horrid lives of Christians hinders the conversion of 
heathens I 

Wife. How me tink you have great much God up there — \skt 
points up to heaven] — and yet no do well, do no good thingl Can 
he teil 1 Sure he no teil what you do ? 

W, A. Yes, yes; he knows and sees all things. He hears us 
speak; sees what we do; knows what we think, though we do not 
speak. 

Wife, WhatI he no hear you swear, curse, speak the great 
damnl 

W, A, Yes, yes : he hears it all. 

Wife. Where be, then, the muchee great power strong 1 

W, A. He is merciful; that's all we can say for it. And this 
proves him to be the true God. He is God, and not man; and 
therefore we are not consumed. 

[Here Will Atkins told ua lie was Struck with horror to think how he 
could teil his wife so clearly that God sees, and hears, and know^s the 
secret thotights of the heart, and all that we do; and yet that he had 
dared to do all the vile things he had done.] 

Wife. Merciful! What you call that? 

W. A. He is our Father and Maker, and he pities and spares us. 

Wife. So then he uever makee kill, never angry when you do 
wicked? Then he no good himself, or no great able. 

W. A. Yes, yes, my dear; he is infinitely good, and infinitely 
great, and able to punish too. And sometimes, to show his justice 



DESIRE FOR THE TRUTH. 453 

and Tengeance, he lets fly his anger to destroy sinners and make 
examples. Many are cut off in their sins. 

Wife, But no make kill you yeti Than he teil you, maybe, 
that he no make you kill, so you make de bargain with him, you 
do bad thing he no be angry at you when he be angry at other 
XAians. 

W. A, No, indeed. My sins are all presumptions upon his 
S^oodness, and he would be infinitely just if he destroyed me as he 
h aw done other men. 

/Fi/Jf. Well! and yet nokill, no makee you dead? What you 
=^.^y to him for thati You no teil him tankee for all that too? 
W. A. I am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that's true. 
IVife. Why he no makee you much good better] You say he 
2 :r ^kee you 1 

W, A, He made me, as he made all the world. It is I have 
fonned myself and abused his goodness, and made myself an 
^^^ominable wretch. 

Wife. I wish you makee God know me. . I no makee him 
^y; I no do bad wicked thing. 

[Here WUl Atkins said his heart sunk within him to hear a poor 
untaaght creature desire to be taught to know God, and he such a 
wicked wretch that he conld not eay one word to her about God bat 
what the reproach of his own carriage would make most irrational to 
her to believe; nay, that already she had told him that she could not 
beliebe in God, because he that was so wicked was not destroyed.] 

P^ ^. A. My dear, you mean you wish I could teach you to know 
^^^, not God to know you; for he knows you already, and every 
*^^aght in your heart. 

iVife, Why, then, he know what I say to you now. He know 
^^ wish to know him; how shall me know who makee me? 

IV, A. Poor creature! he must teach thee; I cannot teach thee. 
^^I pray to him to teach thee to know him, and to forgive me that 
*^ am unworthy to teach thee. 

[The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring him to make her 
know Gk)d, and her wishing to know him, that, he said, he feU down 
on his knees before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind 



464 WILL ATKINS PRAYS. 

with ihe saving knowledge of Jeans Christ, and to pardon bis sins, 
and acoept of bis being the unwortby instniment of instnicting ber 
in the principles of religion ; after which he sat down by ber again, 
and their dialogue went on. N.B, — Tbis was the time wben we saw 
bim kneel down and lift np bis bands.] 

Wife, What you put down the knee fori What you hold up 
the hand fori What you sayl Who you speak toi What is 
all thati 

W, A. My dear, I bow my knees in token of my Submission to 
him that made me. I said '^ '' to hira, as you call it, and as you 
say your old men do to their idol Benamuckee; that is, I prayed 
to him. 

Wife. What you say " " to him for? 

W. A, I prayed to him to open your eyes and your under- 
Standing, that you may know him and be accepted by him. 

fVife. Can he do that too ? 

fF, A, Yes, he can; he can do all thinga 

Wife, But he no hear what you say? 

W. A. Yes; he has bid us pray to him, and promised to hear 

US. 

Wife. Bid you pray? When he bid you? How he bid you? 
WhatI you hear him speak? 

W. A. No, we do not hear him speak; but he has revealed 
himself many ways to us. 

[Here he was at a great loss to make ber understand that Grod has 
revealed himself to us by bis Word, and what bis Word was. But 
at last he told it ber thns: — ] 

W. A. God has spoken to some good men in former days, even 
from heaven, by piain words; and God has inspired good men by 
his Spirit and they have written all his laws down in a book. 

Wife. Me no understand that WTiere is Book? 

W. A. Alas, my poor creature, I have not this book! but I 
hope I shall one time or other get it for you, and help you to 
read it 

[Here he embraoed her with great affection, but with inexpreesible grief 
that he had not a Bible.] 



THE WORD OF QOD. 455 

Wife, But how you makee me know that God teachee them 
to write that book ? 

W. A, By the same mle that we know him to be God. 
Wift, What rule, what way you know himi 
W, A. Because he teaches and commands nothing but what is 
good, righteouB, and holy, and tends to make us perfectly good, as 
well as perfectly happy; and because he forbids, and commands 
OS to aToid, all that is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its 
coDsequences. 

Wife, That me would understand, that me fain sea I£ he 
teachee all good thing, forbid all wicked thing; he reward all good 
thing, punish all wicked thing; he make all thing, he give all 
Üiing; he hear me when I say to him, as you go do just now; 
he makee me good, if I wish be good, he spare me, no makee kill 
nie when I no be good ; all this you say he do, yet he be great 
&>d: me take, think, belle ve him be great God; me say to him 
too with you, my dear. 

Hcre the poor man could forbear no longer; but raising her 

^P made her kneel by him, and he prayed to God aloud, to in- 

*^ct her in the knowledge o£ himself by bis Spirit, and that by 

*oine good providence, i£ possible, she might some time or other 

^^e to have a Bible, that she might read the Word of God, and 

^ taught by it to know him. 

This was the time that we saw him Uft her up by the band, and 

him kneel down by her, as above. 
They had several other discourses, it seems, after this, too long 
set down here; and particularly she made him promise, that 
ice he confessed bis own life had been a wicked, abominable 
^^^^orae of proYocation against God, that he should reform it, and 
^^t make God angry any more, lest he shoidd make him dead, as 
lie called it, and then she should be left alone, and never be 
^^ught to know this God better; and lest he should be miserable, 
^^ he had told her wicked men should be after death. 

This was a stränge account, and very affecting to us both, but 
X^rticularly to the young clergyman. He was indeed wonderfidly 
^^irprised with it, but under the greatest affliction imaginable that 
^ could not talk to her, that he could not speak English to make 



456 A GOOD SERMON. 

her understand him; and as ehe spoke but very broken English, 
he could not understand her. However, he tumed himself to me 
and told me that he believed there must be more to do with this 
woman than to marry her. I did not understand him at first, 
but at length he explained himself, namely, that she ought to be 
baptized. 

I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for going about 
it presently. "No, no; hold, sir/' said he. "Though I would 
have her be baptized by all means, yet I must observe, that Will 
Atkins, her husband, has indeed brought her in a wonderful 
manner to be willing to embrace a religious life, and has given 
her just ideas of the being of a God, of his power, justice, mercy, 
yet I desire to know of him if he has said any thing to her of 
Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of sinners, of the nature of faith 
in him, and redemption by him, of the Holy Spirit, the resurrec- 
tion, the last judgment, and a future state.'' 

I calied Will Atkins again, and asked him; but the poor fellöw 
feil immediately into tears, and told us he had said something to 
her of all those things, but that he was himself so wicked a 
creature, and his own conscience so reproached him with his 
horrid ungodly lifo, that he trembled at the apprehensions that 
her knowledge of him should lessen the attention she should give 
to those things, and make her rather contemn religion than 
receive it But he was assured, he said, that her mind was so 
disposed to receive due impressions of all those things, that if I 
would but discourse with her she would make it appear to my 
satisfaction that my labour would not be lost upon her. 

Accordingly I calied her in, and placing myself as Interpreter 
between my religious priest and the woman, I entreated him to 
begin with her. But sure such a sermon was never preached by 
a Popish priest in these latter ages of the world; and, as I told 
him, I thought he had all the zeal, all the knowledge, all the 
sincerity of a Christian, without the error of a Roman Catholic; 
and that I took him to be such a clergymaa as the Roman bishops 
were before the.Church of Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty 
over the consciences of men. 

In a Word, he brought the poor woman to embrace the know- 



AN INDIAN BAPTIZED. 457 

ledge of Christ, and o£ redemption by him, not with wonder and 
astonishment only, as she did the first notions of a God, but with 
joy and faith, with an affection and a surprising degree of under- 
standing scarce to be imagined, much less to be expressed; and 
at her own request she "was baptized. 

When he was preparing to baptize her, I entreated hira that he 
wonld perform that office with some caution, that the man might 
not perceive he was of the Eoman Church, if possible, because of 
other ill consequences which raight attend a difference among us 
in that very religion which we were instructing the other in. He 
told me that, as he had no consecrated chapel, no proper things 
for the Office, I should see he would do it in a manner that I 
shoiild not know by it that he was a Roman Catholic myself, if I 
had not known it before. And so he did; for saying only some 
words over to hiraself in Latin, which I could not understand, hc 
poured a whole dishful of water upon the woman's head, pro- 
nouncing in French, very loud, " Mary (which was the name her 
husband desired me to give her, for I was her godfather), I baptize 
thee in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy 
Ghost;" so that none could know anytliing by it what religion he 
was of. He gave the benediction afterwards in Latin ; but either 
Will Atkins did not know but it was in French, or eise did not 
take notice of it at that time. 

As soon as this was over, we married them; and after the 
marriage was over, he turned himself to Will Atkins, and in a 
very affectionate manner exhorted him not only to persevere in 
that good disposition he was in, but to support the convictions 
that were upon him by a resolution to reform his life; told him 
it was in vain to say he repented if he did not forsake his crimes; 
represented to him how God had honoured him with being the 
instrument of bringing his wife to the knowledge of the Christian 
religion, and that he should be careful he did not dishonour the 
grace of God, and that if he did, he would see the heathen a better 
Christian than himself — the savage converted and the instrument 
cast away. 

He Said a great niany good things to them both, and then 
recommending them, in a few words, to God's goodness, gave 



458 



MARRtAGE OP WILL ATKINB. 



them tho bcncdiction again, I ropeatJng everything to thein in 

EnglUh; and thus ended the ceremony. I think it was thc moet 

pleaaant, agreeable day to me that ever I passed in my whole life. 

But loy clei^man had not done yet Hia thonghta hoDg con- 




tinually upon the converaion of the seven-and-thirty savagea, *ad 
fain he woold have stayed upon the island to have nndertiken 
it But I convinced him, firet, that hia andertaking was impn^ 
ticable in itself; and gecondly, that perhapB I would put it ito 
a way of being done in hia abeence to hia satisf actiou : of *^ 
by-and-by. 

Having thus brought the affair of the ialand to a narrow w*" 
pasB, I was preparing to go on board the ahip, when the J«"« 



ANOTHER MATCH. 459 

man who I had taken out of the famished ship's Company came 

to me, and told me he understood I had a clerg}'man with me, 

and that I had caused the Englishmen to be married to the savages 

whom they called wives; that he had a match too, which he de- 

sired nught be finished before I went, between two Christians, 

which he hoped would not be disagreeable to me. 

I knew this must be the young woman who was his mother's 

seirant, for there was no other Christian woman on the island. 

So I began to persuade him not to do anything of that kind 

r^uhly, or becaose he found himself in this solitary circumstance. 

X represented to him that he had some considerable substance in 

t^he worid, and good iriends, as I understood by himself and by 

\xis maid also; that the maid was not only poor and a servant, but 

^^^as onequal to him, she being six or seven and twenty years old, 

^«d he not above seventeen or eighteen; that he might very pro- 

l>ably, with my assistance, make a remove from this wildemess, 

^«d come into his own country again; and that then it would be 

^^ thonsand to one but he would repent his choice; and the dis- 

like of Uiat circumstance might be disadvantageous to both. I 

as going to say more, but he interrupted me, smiling, and told 

with a great deal of modesty, that I mistook in my guesses; 

t.hat he had nothing of that kind in bis thoughts, his present cir- 

<^nmstance being melancholy and disconsolate enough; and he was 

^ery glad to hear that I had thoughts of putting them in a way 

^o see their country again; and nothing should have put him upon 

^taying there but that the voyage I was going was so exceeding 

long and hazardous, and would carry him quite out of the reach 

of all his friends : that he had nothing to desire of me but that I 

'^oold settle him in some little property in the island where he 

^as, give him a servant or two, and some few necessaries, and he 

^oold settle himself here like a planter, waiting the good time 

^hen, if ever I retumed to England, I would redeem him, and 

koped I would not be unmindful of him when I came to England : 

^liat he would give me some letters to his friends in London to let 

^em know how good I had been to him, and in what part of the 

^orld and what circumstance I had left him in: that he promised 

^« that, whenever I redeemed him, the plantation, and all the 



460 SUSAN IS MARRIED. 

improvements he had made upon it, let the value be what it 
would, shoiild be whoUy mina 

His discourse was rery prettily delivered, considering bis youth, 
and was the more agreeable to me because he told me positively 
the match was not for himself. I gave him all possible assorances 
that, if I lived to come safe to England, I would deliver his letters, 
and do his business cffectually, and that he might depend I wouJd 
never forget the circumstance I had left him in. But still I was 
impatient to know who was the person to be married, upon which 
he told me it was my Jack of all trades and his maid Susan. 

I was most agreeably surprised when he named the match, foi^ 
indeed I thought it very suitable. The character of that man " 
have given alreadyj and as for the maid, she was a very hones^ 
modest, sober, and religious young woman ; had a very good sha:^ 
of sense, was agreeable enough in her person, spoke very Lai^^^ 
somely and to the purpose, always with decency and good ma^- 
ners, and not back ward to speak when anything required it, or 
impertinently forward to speak when it was not her business; reij 
handy and housewifely in anything that was before her; an ei- 
cellent manager, and üt indeed to have been govemess to Üie 
whole island; she knew very well how to behave to all kind of 
folks she had about her, and to better, if she had found any there. 

The match being proposed in this manner, we married them the 
same day ; and as I was father at the altar, as I may say, and ga^^ 
her away, so I gave her a portion ; for I appointed her and her 
husband a handsome large Space of ground for their plantation. 
And indeed this match, and the proposal the young gentlemÄn j 
made to give him a small property in the island, put me upoo | 
parcelling it out amongst them, that they might not quarrel after- 
wards about their Situation. 

This sharing out the land to them I left to Will Atkins, who, 
indeed, was now grown a most sober, grave, managing fello*- 
perf ectly reformed, exceeding pious and religious, and, as far »s 1 
may be allowed to speak positively in such a case, I verily beli«^' 
was a true sincere penitent. 

He divided things so justly, and so much to everyone's satis- 
faction, that they only desired one general writing under my ^^ 



GOVERNMENT OF THE ISLAND. 461 

le, which I eaused to be drawn up and signed and 
em, setting out the bounds and Situation of every 
tion, and testifying that I gave them thereby severally 
le whole possession and inheritance of the respective 
»r farms, with their improvements, to them and their 
ng all the rest of the Island as my own property, and 
t for every particular plantation after eleven years, if 
6 from me or in my name, came to demand it, pro- 
tested copy of the same writing. 
govemment and laws among them, I told them I was 
i giving them better rules than they were able to give 
only made them promise me to live in love and good 
3d with one another. And so I prepared to leave 

I must not omit, and this is, that being now settled 
Commonwealth among themselves, and having much 
and, it was but odd to have seven and thirty Indians 
k of the island independent, and indeed unemployed; 
j the providing themselves food, which they had dif- 
;h in too, sometimes, they had no manner of business 
to manage. I proposed, therefore, to the governor 
it he should go to them, with Friday's father, and 
em to remove, and either plant for themselves or take 
leir several families as servants, to be maintained for 

but without being absolute slaves ; for I would not 
to make them slaves by force by any means, because 
ir liberty given them by capitulation, and, as it were, 
rrender, which they ought not to break. 
t, willingly embraeed the proposal, and came all very 
3ng with him; so we allotted them land and planta- 
three or four accepted of, but all the rest chose to be 
servants in the several families we had settled. And 
lony was, in a manner, settled as foUows: — The 
•ssessed my original habitation, which was the capital 
:tended their plantations all along the side of the 

made the creek that I have so often described, as far 
; and as they increased their culture, it went always 



462 FINAL ARRANGEMENTS. 

eastward. The English lived in the north-east part, where Will 
Atkins and his comrades began, and came on southward and 
south-west, towards the back part of the Spaniards; and every 
plantation had a great addition of land to take in, i£ they found 
occasion, so that they need not jostle one another for want of 
room. 

All the west end of the island was left uninhabited, that if any 
of the savages should come on shore there, only for their nsual 
customary barbarities, they might come and go. If they disturbed 
nobody, nobody would disturb them ; and no doubt but they were 
often ashore and went away again, for I never heard that the 
planters were ever attacked or disturbed any more. 

It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my friend 
the clergyman that the work of Converting the savages might 
perhaps be set on foot in his absence to his satisfaction. And I told 
him that now I thought it was put in a fair way; for the savages 
being thus divided among the Christians, if they would but every 
one of them do their part with those which came under their hands, 
I hoped it might have a very good effect. 

He agreed preseutly in that, if, said he, they will do their part 
"But how," says he, "shall we obtain that of them?" I told 
him we would call them all together, and leave it in charge with 
them, or go to them one by one, which he thought best. So we 
divided it, he to speak to the Spaniards, who were all Papists, 
and I to the English, who were all Protestants; and we recom- 
mended it earnestly to them, and made them promise that they 
never would make any distinction of Papist or Protestant in their 
exhorting the savages to tum Christians; but teach them the 
general knowledge of the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus 
Christ And they likewise promised us, that they would never 
have any differences or disputes one with another about religion. 

When I came to W. Atkins's house — I may call it so, for such 
a house, or such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was not standing 
in the world again; I say, when I came there, I found the young 
woman I have mentioned above and W. Atkins*s wife were be- 
come intimates; and this prudent religious young woman had 
perfected the work Will Atkins had begun. And though it was 



THE WELCOME BIBLE. 463 

not above four days after what I have related, yet the new b&p- 
tiaed savage woman was made auch a Christian as I have seldom 
heard of any like her in all my Observation or conversation in the 
World, 

It came next into my mind, in the morning before I went to 
them, that amongst all the noedful things I had to leave with 
them I had not left them a Bible; in wbich I ahowed rayself less 
consjdering für them than my good friend the widow was for me 
when she sent me the cargo of an hundred pounds from Lisbon, 
where she packed up three Biblea and a Prayer-book, However, 
the good woman'a charity had a greater exteiit than ever she 
imagined; for they were reserved for the comfort and instructioa 
of those that made niuch better use of them than I had done. 

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to 
Will Atkins's tent or house, and found tbe young woman and 
Atkins's baptized wife had been discoursing of religion together; 
for W. Atkina told it me with a great deal of j'oyr I asked if they 
were together now, and he Said, " Yes," so I went into the house, 
and he with me, and we found them together very eamest in dis- 
course. " Oh, sir," says Will Atkins, " when God has sinners to 
reconcile to himself and aliena to bring home, he. never wants a 
messenger; my wife haa got a new instructor. I knew I was un- 
worthy as I was uncapable of that work. That yonng woman 
has been sent hither from heaven; she is enough to convert a 
wbole isknd of savages!" The young woman blushed, and rose 
up to go away, but I desired her to sit sülI. I told her she had 
a good work upon her faands, and I hoped God would blesa her 
in it 

We talked a little, and I did not pereeive they had any book 
among them, though T did not ask; but I put my band in my 
pocket, and pulled out my Bible. "Here," says I to Atkins, "I 
have brought you an assistant that perhaps you had not before." 
The man was so confounded that he was not able to speak for 
some time; but recovering himself, he takes it with both bis 
hands, and tuming to his wife, "Here, my dear," says he; "did 
not I teil you our God, though he livcs above, conld hear what 
we saidl Here's the book I prayed for when you and I kneeled 



464 EARLY TRAINING. 

down under the bush: now God has heard us, and sent it" 
When he had said so, the man feil into such transports o£ a 
passionate joy, that between the joy of having it, and giving God 
thanks for it, the tears run down bis face like a child that was 
crying. 

The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a 
mistake that none of us were aware of ; for she firmly believed 
God had sent the book upon her husband's petition. It is true 
that providentially it was so, and might be taken so in a conse- 
quent sense; but I believed it would have been no difficult matter 
at that time to have persuaded the poor woman to have believed 
that an express messenger came from heaven on purpose to bring 
that individual book. But it was too serious a matter to suffer 
any delusion to take place, so I tumed to the young woman, and 
told her we did not desire to impose upon the new convert in her 
first and more ignorant understanding of things, and begged her 
to explain to her that God may be very properly said to answer 
our petitions, when in the course of bis providence such things 
are in a particular manner brought to pass as we petitioned for; 
l)ut we do not expect retums from heaven in a miraculous and 
particular manner, and that it is our mercy that it is not so. 

This the young woman did afterwards effectually, so that there 
was, I assure you, no priestcraft used here; and I should have 
thought it one of the most unjustifiable frauds in the world to 
liave had it so. But the surprise of joy upon Will Atkins is 
really not to be expressed ; and there we may be sure there was 
no delusion. Sure no man was ever more thankful in the world 
for anything of its kind than he was for bis Bible; nor, I believe, 
never any man was glad of a Bible from a better principle. And 
though he had been a most profligate creature, desperate, head- 
strong, outrageous, furious, and wicked to a great degree, yet this 
man is a standing rule to us all for the well instructing children, 
namely, that parents should never give over to teach and instruct, 
or ever despair of the success of their endeavours, let the children 
be ever so obstinate, refractory, or to appearance insensible of 
instruction. For if ever God in. bis providence touches the con- 
Bciences of such, the force of their education retums upon them, 



\ 



SÜSAN'S STORY. 465 

wd the early Instruction of parents is not lost, though it may 

me been many years laid asleep, but some time or other they 

nuj find the benefit of it 
Thas it was with this poor man. However ignorant he was, or 

divested of religion and Christian knowledge, he found he had 

some to do with now more ignorant than himself, and that the 
least part of the Instruction of his good father that could now 
<^nie to his mind was of use to him. 

AmoDg the rest it occurred to him, he saidy how his father used 
toinsistonuch upon the inexpressible yalue of the Bible, the privi- 
Icge and blessing of it to nations, f amilies, and persons ; but he 
öever entertained the least notion of the worth of it tili now, 
when, being to talk to heathens, savages, and bärbarians, he 
wanted the help of the written oracle for his assistance. 

The young woman was very glad of it also for the present 
occasion, though she had one, and so had the youth, on board our 
ship among their goods, which were not yet brought on shore. 
And now having said so many things of this young woman, I 
cannot omit telling one story more of her and myself, which has 
«omething in it very informing and remarkable. 

I have related to what extremity the poor young woman was 
i^uced ; how her mistress was starved to death, and did die on 
Wrd that unhappy ship we met at sea; and how the whole ship's 
Company being reduced to the last extremity, the gentlewoman 
^d her son and this maid were first hardly used as to provisions, 
and at last totally neglected and starved ; that is to say, brought 
^ the last extremity of hunger. 

One day being discoursing with her upon the extremities they 
^uffered, I asked her if she could describe by what she had feit 
^hat it was to starve, and how it appeared. She told me she 
kelieved she could, and she told her tale very distinctly thus : — 

"First, sir," said she, " we had for some days fared exceeding 

"ard, and suffered very great hunger; but now at last we were 

^hoUy without food of any kind, except sugar and a little wine 

**id a little water. The first day after I had received no food at 

*U, I found myself towards evening first empty and sickish at my 

*^mach, and nearer night, mightily inclined to yawning and 
(248) so 



466 THE PANOS OF HUNGER. 

aleepy. I lay down on a couch in the great cabin to sleep, and. 
slept about three hours, and awaked a little refreshed, having: 
taken a glass of wine when I lay down. After being about three 
hours awake, it being about five o'clock in the moming, I found 
myself empty, and my stomach sickish, and lay down again, but. 
could not sleep at all, being very f aint and ill ; and thus I con- 
tinued all the second day with a stränge variety, first hungry, theiu 
sick again, with retchings to vomit The second night, bein^ 
obliged to go to bed again without any food more than a draughv 
of fair water, and being asleep, I dreamed I was at Bi^rbadoes« 
and that the market was mightily stocked with provisions; thsus 
I bought some for my mistress, and went and dined ver;: 
heartily. 

*'I thought my stomach was as füll after this as any wouH 
haye been after, or at a good dinner; but when I waked, I w^ 
exceedingly sunk in my spirits to find myself in the extremity - 
famine. The last glass of wine we had I drank, and put sugar : 
it, because of its having some spirit to supply nourishment; l^^ 
there being no substance in the stomach for the digesting ofl^o 
to work upon, I found the only efifect of the wine was to rais« 
disagreeable f umes from the stomach into the hoad ; and I lay, ms 
they told me, stupid and senseless, as one drunk for some time. 

" The third day, in the morning, after a night of stränge anrf 
confused inconsistent dreams, and rather dozing than sleeping; / 
waked ravenous and furious with hunger; and I question, had not 
my understanding retumed and conquered it — I say I question 
whether, if I had been a mother, and had had a little cbild vith 
me, its life would have been safe or not 

" This lasted about three hours, during which time I was twice 
raging mad as any creature in Bedlam, as my young master toW | 
me, and as he can now inform you. 

" In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction, whether by 
motion of the ship or some slip of my foot, I know not, I ^^ 
down and Struck my face against the comer of a pallet bed, ^ 
which my mistress lay, and with the blow the blood gusbed out 
of my nose; and the cabin-boy bringing me a little basin, I ^ 
down and bled into it a great deal, and as the blood run from dJ^ 



SUSANNS STORY. 467 

;ame to myself, and the violence of the flame or the fever I was 
abated, and so did the ravenous part of the hunger. 
" Then I grew sick, and retched to vomit, but could not, for I 
d nothing in my stomach to bring up. After I had bled some 
le I swooned, and they all believed I was dead; but I came to 
"Belf soon after, and then had a most dreadfol pain in my 
»mach, not to be described — not like the colic, but a gnawing 
rer pain for food; and towards night it went oflf with a kind of 
-Dest wishing or longing for food. I took another draught of 
.ter with sugar in it, but my stomach loathed the sugar, and 
>iight it all up again; then I took a draught of water without 
^ar, and that stayed with me; and I laid me down upon the 
d, praying most heartily that it would please God to take me 
ray ; and composing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered awhile, 
d then waking, thought myself dying, being light with vapours 
om an empty stomach. I recommended my soul then to God, 
id eamestly wished that somebody would throw me into the 
sa. 

"All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, 
xpiring, but bore it with much more patience than I; and gave 
he last bit of bread she had left to her child, my young master, 
'ho would not haye taken it, but she obliged him to eat it; and 

believe it saved his life. 

"Towards the moming I slept again, and first when I awaked 

feil into a violent passion of crying, and after that had a second 
it of violent hunger. I got up ravenous, and in a most dreadful 
^lulition. Had my mistress been dead, as much as I loved her, 

am certain I should have eaten a piece of her flesh with as much 
'elish and as unconcemed as ever I did the flesh of any creature 
^Ppointed for food; and once or twice I was going to bite my own 
^^ At last I saw the basin in which was the blood I had bled 
* my nose the day before. I ran to it, and swallowed it with 
'^ch haste and such a greedy appetite as if I had wondered 
tobody had taken it before, and afraid it should be taken from 
*»e now. 

"Though, after it was down, the thoughts of it filled me with 
^onor, yet it checked the fit of hunger; and I drank a draught 



i 



468 A DREADFUL CONDITION. 

of fair water, and was composed and refreshed for some hours after 
it. This was the fourth day, and thus I held it, tili towards nigbt^ 
when, within the compass of three hours, I had all these several 
circumstances over again, one after another — namely, sick, sleepy, 
eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous again, then 
sick again, then lunatic, then crying, then ravenous again; and so 
every quarter of an hour, and my strength wasted exceedingly. 
At night I laid me down, having no comfort but in the hope that 
I should die before morning. 

'^ All this night I had no sleep ; but the hunger was now tumed 
into a disease, and I had a terrible colic and griping by wind, 
instead of food, having found its way into the beweis. And in this 
condition I lay tili morning, when I was surprised a little with 
the cries and lamentations of my young master, who called out to 
me that bis mother was dead. I lifted myself up a little, for I 
had not strength to rise; but found she was not dead, though she 
was able to give very little signs of life. 

'* I had then such convulsions in my stomach, for want of some 
sustenance, that I cannot describe, with such frequent throes and 
pangs of appetite that nothing but the tortures of death can imi- 
tate. And in this condition I was when I heard the seamen above 
cry out, 'A sail! a sail!' and baloo and jiimp about as if they 
were distracted. 

'* I was not able to get off from the bed, and my ntiistress much 
less; and my young master was so sick that I thought he had been 
expiring; so we could not open the cabin door, or get any account 
what it was that occasioned such a combustion, nor had we had 
any conversation with the ship*s Company for two days, they having 
told US that they had not a mouthful of anything to eat in the ship ; 
and they told us afterwards they thought we had been dead. 

" It was this dreadful condition we were in when you were sent 
to save our lives; and how you found us, sir, you know as well as 
I, and better too." 

This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account of 
starving to death as I confess I never met with, and was exceed- 
ing entertaining to me. I am the rather apt to believe it to be 
a tnie account, because the youth gave me an account of a good 



PRUDENT PRBCAUnONS. 469 

pari of it^ though, I must own, not so distinct and bo f eelingly as 
his maid; and Üie rather, because it seems bis mother fed him at 
the price of her own life. But the poor maid, though her Consti- 
tution being stronger than that of her mistress, who was in years, 
and a weakly woman too, she might struggle harder with it; I say, 
the poor maid might be supposed to feel the extremity something 
sooner than her mistress, who might be allowed to keep the last 
bit something longer than she parted with any to lelieve the maid. 
No question, as the case is here related, if our ship, or some other, 
had not so providentiaUy met them, a few days more would have 
ended all their lives, unless they had prevented it by eating one 
another; and eyen that, as their case stood, would have served 
tbem but a little while, they being five hundred leagues from any 
Und or any possibility of relief other than in the miraculous 
Baanner it happened; but this is by the way. I retum to my 
disposition of things among the people. 

And, first, it is to be observed here, that for many reasons I 
<^d not think fit to let them know anything of the sloop I had 
fr»med, and which I thought of setting up among them; for I 
loond, at least at my first Coming, such seeds of divisions among 
^em, that I saw it plainly, had I set up the sloop and left it 
Äinong them, they would upon every light disgust have separated, 
^nd gone away from one another; or perhaps have tumed pirates, 
^d so made the island a den of thieves, instead of a plantation of 
»ober and religious people, so as I intended it Nor did I leave 
^e two pieces of brass cannon that I had on board, or the two 
^Uirter-deck guns that my nephew took extraordinarily, for the 
^^e reason. I thought it was enough to qualify them for a de- 
fensive war agidnst any that should invade them; but not to set 
^bem up for an offensive war, or to encourage them to go abroad 
^ attack others, which in the end would only bring ruin and de- 
^truction upon themselves and all their undertaking. I reserved 
^e sloop, therefore, and the guns for their Service another way, 
^ I shall observe in its place. 

I have now done with the island. I left them all in good cir- 
^^^unstances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my 
^p again, having been five and twenty days among them; and 



470 LEAVES THE ISLAND. 

as they were all resolved to stay upon the Island tili I came to 
remove them, I promised to send some further relief from the 
Brazils, if I could possibly find an opportunity; and particularly, 
I promised to send them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and 
cows; for as to the two cows and calves which I brought from 
England, we had been obliged by the length of our voyage to kill 
them at sea, for want of hay to feed them. 

The n«xt day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting, we 
set sail, and arrived at the Bay of All Saints in the Brazüs in 
about twenty-two days, meeting nothing remarkable in our passage 
but this, — that about three days after we sailed, being becalmed, 
and the current setting strong to the east-north-east, running, as 
it were, into a bay or gulf on the land side, we were driven some- 
thing out of our course, and once or twice our men cried, " Land 
to the eastward;'' but whether it was the continent or islands we 
could not teil by any means. 

But the third day towards evening, the sea smooth, and the 
weather calm, we saw the sea as it were covered towards the land 
with something very black. Not being able to discover what it 
was tili after some time, our chief mate going up the main 
shrouds a little way and looking at them with a perspective, cried 
out it was an anny. I could not imagine what he meant by an 
army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a fool, or some 
such Word. "Nay, sir," says he, "don't be angry, for 'tis an 
army and a fleet too, for I believe there are a thousand canoes ; 
and you may see them paddle along, and they are coming towards 
US, too, apaca" 

I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my nephew 
the captain; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the 
island, and having never been in those seas before, that he could 
not teil what to think of it, but said two or three times we 
should all he devoured. I must confess, considering we were be- 
calmed, and the current set strong towards the shore, I liked it 
the worse. However, I bade him not be afraid, but bring the ship 
to an anchor as soon as we came so near to know that we must 
engage them. 

The weather continued calm, and they came on apace towards 



PURSUED BY SAVAGEfiL 471 

US; 80 I gave order to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails. 
As for the savages, I told them tliey had nothing to fear but fire; 
and therefore they should get their boats out and fasten them, one 
close by the head, and the other by the stern, and man them both 
well, and wait the issue in that posture. This I did, that the men 
in the boats might be ready with skeets and buckets to put out 
any fire these savages might endeavour to fix to the outside of the 
ship. 

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they 
came up with us; but never was such a horrid sight seen by 
Christians. My mate was much mistaken in his calculation of 
their number, I mean of a thousand canoes; the most we could 
make of them, when they came up, being about a hundred and 
six and twenty : and a great many of them too; for some of them 
had sixteen or seventeen men in them, and some more, and the 
least six or seven. 

When they came nearer to us they-seemed to be Struck with 
wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which they had doubtless 
never seen before; nor could they at first, as we afterwards 
understood, know what to make of us. They came boldly up, 
however, very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round 
us; but we called to our men in the boats not to let them come 
too near them. 

This very order brought us to an engagement with them with- 
out our designing it; for five or six of their large canoes came so 
near our longboat, that our men beckoned with their hands to 
them to keep back, which they understood very well, and went 
back; but at their retreat about fifty arrows came on board us 
from those boats, and one of our men in the longboat was very 
much wounded. 

However, I called to them not to fire by any means; but we 
handed down some deal böards into the boat, and the carpenter 
presently set up a kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover them 
from the arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again. 

About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a body astern 
of US and pretty near us, so near that we could easily discem 
what they were, though we could not teil their design. And I 



472 DEATH OF FRIDA Y. 

easily found they were some of my old friends, the same sort of 
savages that I had been used to engage with; and in a little time 
more they rowed a little farther out to sea, tili they came directly 
broadside with us, and then rowed down straight upon us, tili 
they came so near that they could hear us speak. Upon this I 
ordered all my men to keep close, lest they should shoot any more 
arrows, and made all our guns ready; but being so near as to be 
within hearing, I made Friday go out upon the deck, and call out 
aloud to them in his language to know what they meant; which 
accordingly he did. Whether they understood him or not, that 
I knew not; but as soon as he had called to them, six of them, 
who were in the foremost or nighest boat to us, turas their canoes 
from US, and stooping down, showed us their naked backsidea 
Whether this was a defiance or challenge we know not, or whether 
it was done in mere contempt, or as a signal to the rest; but im- 
mediately Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and un- 
happily for him, poor fellow, they let fly about three hundred of 
their arrows, and to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Friday, 
no other man being in their sight. 

The poor fellow was shot with no less than three arrows, and 
about three more feil very near him; such unlucky marksmen 
they were. 

I was so enraged with the loss of my old servant, the companion 
of all my sorrows and solitudes, that I immediately ordered five 
guns to be loaded with smaJl shot, and four with great, and gave 
them such a broadside as they had never heard in their lives 
before, to be sure. 

They were not above half a cable length off when we fired, and 
our gunners took their aim so well that three or four of their 
canoes were overset, as we had reason to believe, by one shot 
only. 

The ill manners of tuming up their bare backsides to us gaye 
US no great offence, neither did I know for certain whether that 
which would pass for the greatest contempt among us might be 
understood so by them or not; therefore, in retum, I had only 
resolved to have fired four or five guns at them with powder only, 
which I knew would fright them sufficiently. But when they 



THE SATAGGS BE.VTEN. 



473 



at ns directly with all tbe fuiy tbey were capable of, and 
ially aa thoy had killed my poor Friday, who I so entirely 
and Talued, and who iudeed bo well deaerved it, I not ooly 
)een joBtified before God and man, but would have been very 




if I could, to have overset every oanoe there, and drowned 
f one of them. 

an Deitber teil how many we killed or how many we wounded 
lia broadside; but anre sucb a fright and buiry never was 

among such a multitude. There were thirteen or fourteen 
beir canoes aplit and overset in all, and the men all set 



474 AN INDIAN PRISONER 

a-swimming; the rest, frighted out of their wits, scoured away as 
fast as they could, taking but little care to save those whose boats 
were split or spoiled with our shot So I suppose that they were 
many of them lost. And our men took up one poor fellow 
swimming for bis life, above an hour after they were all gone. 

Our Bmall shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound a 
great many; but in short, we never knew anything how it weut 
with them, for they fied so fast, that in three hours or thereabouts 
we could not see above three or four straggling canoes; nor did 
we ever see the rest any more, for a breeze of wind springing up 
the same evening, we weighed and set sail for the Brazils. 

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that 
he would neither eat nor speak, and we all fancied he would 
starve himself to death. But I took a way to eure bim, for I 
made them take bim and tum him into the longboat, and made 
him believe they would toss him into the sea again, and so leave 
him where they found him, if he would not speak. Nor would 
that do; but they really did throw him into the sea, and came 
away from him; and then he foUowed them, for he swam like a 
cork, and called to them in bis tongue, though they knew not one 
Word of what he said. However, at last they took him in again, 
and then he began to be more tractable, nor did I ever design 
they should drown him. 

We were now under sail again; but I was the most disconsolate 
creature alive for want of my man Friday, and would have been 
very glad to have gone back to the island, to have taken one of 
the rest from thence for my occasion, but it could not be; so we 
went on. We had one prisoner, as I have said, and 'twas a long 
while before we could make him understand anything; but, in 
time, our men taught him some English, and he began to be a 
little tractable. Afterwards we inquired what country he came 
from, but could make nothing of what he said; for bis speech was 
so odd, all gutturals, and spoke in the throat in such a hoUow, 
odd manner, that we could never form a word from him; and we 
were all of opinion that they might speak that language as well 
if they were gagged, as otherwise. Nor could we perceive that 
they had any occasion either for teeth, tongue, ups, or palate, but 



BÜRIAL OF FRIDAY. 476 

formed their words just as a hunting hörn forms a tune with an 
open throat. He told us, however, some time after, when we had 
taught him to speak a little English, that they were going with 
their kings to fight a great battle. When he said kings, we asked 
him how many kings? He said they were five Nation, — we 
could not make him understand the plural s, — and that they all 
joined to go against TWO NATION. We asked him what made 
them come up to us? He said, " To makee te great wonder look;" 
where it is to be observed that all those natives, as also those of 
Africa, when they leam English, they always add two ^s at the 
end of the words where we use one, and make the accent upon 
them, as mak^, tdkkh, and the like; and we could not break them 
of it; nay, I could hardly make Friday leave it off, though at last 
he did. 

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my 
last leave of him; poor, honest Friday! We buried him with all 
the decency and solemnity possible, by putting him into a coffin, 
and throwing him into the sea. And I caused them to fire eleven 
guns for him; and so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, 
honest, and most affectionate servant that ever man had. 

We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil, and in about 
twelve days' time we made land in the latitude of five degrees 
south of the line, being the north-eastemmost land of all that part 
of America. We kept on south by east in sight of the shore four 
days, when we made Cape St Augustine, and in three days came 
to an anchor off of the Bay of All Saints, the old place of my de- 
liverance, from whence came both my good and evil fate. 

Never ship came to this part that had less business than I had ; 
and yet it was with great difficulty that we were admitted to hold 
the least correspondence on shore. Not my partner himself, who 
was alive, and made a great figure among them ; not my two mer- 
chants' trustees; not the fame of my wonderful preservation in that 
island, could obtain me that favour. But my partner, remember- 
ing that I had given five hundred moidores to the prior of the 
monastery of the Augustines, and two hundred and seventy-two to 
the poor, went to the monastery, and obliged the prior that then 
was to go to the governor and get leave for me personally, with 



476 TRADE RESTRICnONa 

the captain and one more, besides eight Beamen, to come on shore, 
and no more; and this upon condition, absolately capitulated for, 
that we should not ofifer to land any goods out of the ship, or to 
carry any person away without license. 

They were so strict with us as to landing any goods, that it was 
with extreme difficulty that I got on shore three bales of English 
goods, such as fine broadcloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I had 
brought for a present to my partner. 

He was a very generous, broad-hearted man, though like me, he 
came from little at first; and though he knew not that I had the 
least design of giving him anything, he sent me on board a present 
of fresh provisions, wine, and sweetmeats, worth above thirty 
moidores, including some tobacco, and three or four fine medals in 
gold. But I was even with him in my present, which, as I have 
said, consisted of fine broadcloth, English stuffs, lace, and fine 
Hollands. Also I delivered him about the value of one hundred 
pounds Sterling in the same goods, for other uses; and I obliged 
him to set up the sloop which I had brought with me from Eng- 
land, as I have said, for the use of my colony, in order to send the 
refreshments I intended to my plantation. 

Accordingly he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few 
days, for she was ready framed; and I gave the master of her such 
instructions as he could not miss the place, nor did he miss them, 
as I had an account from my partuer afterwards. I got him soon 
loaded with the small cargo I sent them; and one of our seamen 
that had been on shore with me there offered to go with the sloop 
and settle there, upon my letter to the govemor Spaniard to allot 
him a sufficient quantity of land for a plantation, and gliving him 
some clothes, and tools for his planting work, which he said he 
understood, having been an old planter at Maryland, and a bucca- 
neer into the bargain. 

I encouraged the fellow, by granting all he desired; and as an 
addition, I gave him the savage which we had taken prisoner of 
war to be his slave, and ordered the govemor Spaniard to give him 
his share of everything he wanted with the rest. 

When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me 
there was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his ac- 



SÜPPLIES FOR THE ISLAND. 477 

:e, who had fallen into the displeasare of the ChurcL '^ I 
. what the matter is with him," says he, "but on my con- 
think he is a heretie in his heart, and he has been obliged 
l himself for fear of the Inquisition; that he would be 
of such an opportunity to make his escape with his wife 
iaughters; and if I would let thera go to my island, and 
n a plantation, he would give them a small stock to begin 
the officers of the Inquisition had seized all his effects and 
d he had nothing left but a little household stuff, and 
s. And," adds he, " though I hate his principles, yet I 
t have him fall into their hands; for he would assuredly 
alive, if he does." 

;^ this presently, and joined my Englishman with them, 
oncealed the man and his wife and daughters on board 
tili the sloop put out to go to sea, and then, having put 
joods on board the sloop some time before, we put them 
the sloop after he was got out of the bay. 
amen were mightily pleased with this new partner; and 
k, indeed, was much alike, rieh in tools, in preparations, 
m, but nothing to begin with, but as above. However, 
ied over with them, which was worth all the rest, some 
for planting sugar-canes, with some plants of canes, 
, I mean the Portugal man, understood very welL 
; the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in the Island, I 
Q by their sloop three milch cows and five calves, about 
ro hogs among them, three sows big with pig, two mares, 
ne-horse.^ 

Y Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged three 
women to go; and recommended it to them to marry 
1 use them kindly. I could have procured more women, 
lembered that the poor persecuted man had two daugh- 
there was but five of the Spaniards that wanted; the 
pnves of their own, though in another country. 
s cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, very 
to my old inhabitants, who were now, with this addition, 
jixty and seventy people, besides little children ; of which 

^ A stallioD, or hone for breeding. 



478 THE LAST OF THE ISLAND. 

there was a great many. I f ound letters at London f rem them all 
by the way of Lisbon, when I canie back to England; of whichl 
shall also take some notice immediately. 

I have now done with my Island, and all manner of discourse 
about it; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums would 
do well to tum his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read 
of the follies of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much 
less by those of other men, to beware of the like; not cooled by 
almost forty years' misery and disappointments, not satisfied with 
prosperity beyond expectation, not made cautious by affiction and 
distress beyond imitation. 

I had no more business to go to the East Indies, than a man at 
füll liberty, and having committed no crime, has to go to the 
tumkey at Newgate, and desire him to lock him up among the 
prisoners there and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel from 
England, and went directly to the island; had I loaded her, as I 
did the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the plantation 
and for my people, took a patent from the govemor here to have 
secured my property, in subjection only to that of England; had 
I carried over cannon and ammunition, servants and people, to 
plant, and, taking possession of the place, fortified and strengtb- 
ened it in the name of England, and increased it with people, as 
I raight easily have done; had I then settled myself Üiere, and 
sent the ship back loaded with good rice, as I might also have 
done in six months* time, and ordered my friends to have fitted 
her out again for our supply; had I done this, and stayed there 
myself, I had, at least acted like a man of common sensa Bot 
I was possessed with a wandering spirit, scomed all advantage& 
I pleased myself with being the patron of those people I plac«^ 
there, and doing for them in a kind of haughty, majestic waVi 
like an old patriarchal monarch; providing for them as if I had 
been father of the whole family, as well as of the plantation. Bot 
I never so much as pretended to plant in the name of any govern- 
ment or nation, or to acknowledge any prince, or to call my peop^* 
subjects to any one nation more than another; nay, I never so 
much as gave the place a name, but left it as I found it, belongu>f 
to no man, and the people under no discipliue or govemment bot 



AN IMPETUOUS DESIRE. 479 

my own; who, tbough I had influence over them as father and 
benefactor, had no authority or power to act or commaDd one 
way or other, farther than voluntary consent moved them to 
comply. Yet even this, had I stayed there, would have done well 
enough. But as I rambied from them, and came there no more, 
the last letters I had from any of them was by my partner's means, 
who afterwards sent another sloop to the place, and who sent me 
Word (though I had not the letter tili five years after it was 
written), that they went on but poorly, were malcontent with their 
long stay there; that Will Atkins was dead; that five of.the 
Spaniards were come away; and that though they had not been 
much molested by the savages, yet they had had some skirmishes 
with them; that they begged of him to write to me, to think of 
the promise I had made, to fetch them away that they might see 
their own country again before they died. 

But I was gone a wild-goose chase indeed ; and they who will 
have any more of me must be content to follow me through a new 
variety of foUies, hardships, and wild adventures, wherein the 
justice of Providence may be duly observed, and we may see how 
easily Heaven can gorge us with our own desires, make the 
strongest of our wishes be our affiiction, and pimish us most 
severely with those very things which we think it would be our 
utmost happiness to be allowed in. 

Let no wise man flatter himself with the strength of bis own 
judgment, as if he was able to choose any particular Station of 
life for himself. Man is a short-sighted creature, sees but a 
very little way before him; and as his passions are none of bis 
best friends, so his particular affections are generally his worst 
counsellors. 

I say this with respect to the impetuous desire I had from a 
youth to wander into the world, and how evident it now was that 
this principle was preserved in me for my punishment How it 
came on, the manner, the circumstance, and the conclusion of it, 
it is easy to give you historically, and with its utmost variety of 
particulars. But the secret ends of divine power, in thus per- 
mitting us to be hurried down the ßtream of our own desires, is 
only to be understood of those who can listen to the voice of Pro- 



480 AGAIN AT SBA. 

vidence, and draw religious consequences from God's justice and 
their own mistakes. 

Be it I had business, or no bosiness, away I went 'Tis no 
time now to enlarge any farther upon the reason or absurdity of 
my own conduct; but to come to the history, I was embarked for 
the voyage, and the voyage I went 

I should only add here, that my honest and tnily pious cleig}- 
man lef t me here. A ship being ready to go to Lisbon, he asked 
me leave to go thither, being still, as he observed, boiind never to 
tinish any voyage he began. How happy had it been for ne if I 
liad gone with him ! 

But it was too late now. All things Heaven appoints are 
best. Had I gone with him I had never had had so many thiogs 
to be thankful for, and you had never heard of the Second P&rt 
of the Travels and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe. So I must 
leave here the fruitless exclaiming at myself , and go on with my 
voyage. 

From the Brazils, we made directly away over the Atlantic Se», 
to the Cape de Bon Esperance, or, as we call it, the Cape of GW 
Hope, and had a tolerable good voyage, our course generally 
south-east ; now and then a storm, and some contrary winds. Bat 
my disasters at sea were at an end. My future rubs and cross 
events were to befall me on shore, that it might appear the Iwd 
was as well prepared to be our scourge as the sea, when Heaven, 
who directs the circumstances of things, pleases to appoint it to 
be so. 

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo od 
board, who was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the 
Cape, only being limited to certain numbers of days for stay, hy 
cliarter-party, at the several ports she was to go to. This was 
none of my business, neither did I meddle with it at dl, WJ 
nephew, the captain, and the supercargo adjusting all those things 
between them as they thought fit 

We made no stay at the Cape longer than was needful to take 
in fresh water, but made the best of our way for the coast of Cor- 
omandeL We were indeed informed that a French man-of-^*^ 
of fifty guns, and two large merchant-ships, were gone for the 



TOÜCH AT MADAGASCAR. 481 

Indies; and as I knew we were at war with France, I had some 
apprehensions o£ them. But they went their own way, and we 
heard no more of them. 

I shall not pester my account, or the reader, with descriptions 
of places, Journals of our voyages, variations of compass, latitudes, 
meridian distances, trade winds, Situation of ports, and the like, 
such as almost all the histories of long navigation are füll of, and 
makes the reading tiresome enough, and are perfectly unprofitable 
to all that read it, except only to those who are to go to those 
places themselves. 

It is enough to name the ports and places which we touched at, 
and what occurred to us upon our passing from one to another. 
We touched first at the Island of Madagascar, where, though the 
people are fierce and treacherous, and, in particular, very well 
armed with lances and bows, which they use with inconceivable 
dexterity, yet we fared very well with them a while: they treated 
US very civilly, and for some trifles which we gave them, such as 
knives, scissors, &c., they brought us eleven good fat bullocks, 
middling in size, but very good in flesh; which we took in partly 
for fresh provisions for our present spending, and the rest to salt 
for the ship's usa 

We were obliged to stay here some time after we had fumished 
ourselves with provisions; and I, that was always too curious to 
look into every nook of the world wherever I came, was for going 
on shore as often as I could. It was on the east side of the island 
that we went on shore, one evening; and the people, who, by the 
way, are very numerous, came thronging about us, and stood 
gazing at us at a distance. But as we had traded freely with 
them, and had been kindly used, we thought ourselves in no 
danger. But when we saw the people, we cut three boughs out 
of a tree, and stuck them up at a distance from us; which, it 
seems, is a mark in the country, not only of truce and friendship, 
but^ when it is accepted, the other side set up three poles or 
boughs, which is a signal that they accept the truce too. But 
then, this a known condition of the truce, that you are not to 
pass beyond their three poles towards them, nor they to come 
past your three poles or boughs towards you; so that you are 

(248) 2H 



482 AN ADVENTURE ASHORE. 

perfectly secure within the three poles, and all the space between 
yolir poles and theirs is allowed, like a market^ for free conyerse, 
traffic, and commerce. When you go there, you must not carry 
your weapons with you ; and if they come into that space, they 
stick up their javelins and lances all at the first poles, and come on 
unarmed; but if any violence is offered them, and the truce there- 
by broken, away they run to the poles and lay hold of their 
weapons, and then the truce is at an end. 

It happened one evening when we went on shore, that a greater 
number of their people came down than usual; but all was very 
friendly and civil, and they brought in several kinds of provisions, 
for which we satisfied them with such toys as we had. Their 
women also brought us milk and roots, and several things very 
acceptable to us; and all waa quiet And we made us a little 
tent, or hut, of some boughs of trees, and lay on shore all night 

I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so well satis- 
fied to lie on shore as the rest; and the boat lying at an anchor, 
about a stone-cast from the land, with two men in her to take care 
of her, I made one of them come on shore, and getting some 
boughs of trees to cover us also in the boat^ I spread the sail on 
the bottom of the boat, and lay under the cover of the branches of 
trees all night in the boat 

About two o'clock in the moming, we heard one of our men 
make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out for God's sake to 
bring the boat in, and come and help them, for they were all like 
to be murdered. At the same time I heard the firing of five 
muskets, which was the number of the guns they had, and that 
three times over; for it seems the natives here were not so easily 
frighted with guns as the savages were in America, where I had 
to do with them. 

All this while I knew not what was the matter; but rousing 
immediately from sleep with the noise, I caused the boat to be 
thrust in, and resolved, with three fusils,^ we had on board, to land 
and assist our men. 

We got the boat soon to the shore. But our men were in too 
much haste; for being come to the shore, they plunged into the 

^ FiuU, the French name fpr a gun or musket 



ATTACKE!) BY THE NATIVES. 



463 



water to get to the boat with all tho expedition they could, being 
puraaed by between three and four hundred men. Our man were 
but nine in all, and ouly tive o( them bad fusils with them; tbe 
rest had indeed piatols and swords, but they wcre of small nae to 
them. 

We took up seven of our men, and with difficiüty enongh too, 
three of them being very ill wounded. And that which was still 
worae was, that white we Btood in the boat to take our men in, wo 




were in as much daoger as they were in on shore ; for they potired 
their arrows in upon üb so thick, that we were fain to barricade 
the aide of the boat up with the benches, and two or three loose 
boards, which, to cur great satisfaction, we had by mere accident 
or providence in the boat 

And yet, had it been daylight, they are, it aeems, such exact 
marksmen, that if they could have seen but the leaat part of any 
of UB, they would have been eure of ua. We had, by the hght of 
the moon, a little aight of them, as they atood pelting us from the 
ahore with darts and arrows: and having got ready our firearms, 
we gave them a volley, that we could hear by the cries of some of 
them that we had wounded aeveraL However, they atood thua in 



484 SAFE ON BOARD. 

battle array on the shore tili break of day; which, we suppose, was 
that they might see the better to take their aim at u& 

In this condition we lay, and could not teil how to weigh our 
anchor or set up our sail, because we must needs stand up in the 
boat, and they were as sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a 
tree with small shot We made Signals of distress to the ship, 
which, though we rode a league off, yet my nephew, the captain, 
hearing our Bring, and by glasses perceiving the posture we lay 
in, and that we fired towards the shore, pretty well understood us; 
and weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore as 
he durst with the ship, and then sent another boat with ten hands 
in her to assist us. But we called to them not to come too near, 
telling them what condition we were in. However, they stood in 
nearer to us; and one of the men taking the end of a tow-line in 
his band, and keeping our boat between him and the enemy, so 
that they could not perfectly see him, swam on board us, and 
made fast the line to the boat; upon which we slipped our little 
cable, and leaving our anchor behind, they towed us out of reach 
of the arrows, we all the while lying close behind the barricado we 
had made. 

As soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore, 
that she could lay her side to the shore, she run along just by 
them, and we poured in a broadside among them, loaden with 
pieces of iron and lead, small bullets, and such stuff, besides the 
great shot; which made a terrible havoc amongst them. 

When we were got on board and out of danger, we had time to 
examine into the occasion of this fray. And, indeed, our super- 
cargo, who had been often in those parts, put me upon it; for, he 
Said, he was sure the inhabitants would not have touched us after 
we had made a truce, if we had not done something to provoke 
them to it At length it came out; namely, that an old woman, 
who had come to seil us some milk, had brought it within our 
poles, with a young woman with her, who also brought some 
roots or herbs; and while the old woman, (whether she was mother 
to the young woman or no, they could not teil,) was selling us 
the milk, one of our men offered some rüden ess to the wench that 
was with her, at which the old woman made a great noise. How- 



CAUSE OF THE FRAY. 486 

ever, the Seaman would not quit his prize, but carried her out of 
tiie old woman's sight among the trees, it being ahnost dark. 
He old woman went away without her, and, as we suppose, made 
VI outcry among the people she came from, who, upon notice, 
^^iied this great army upon us in three or four hours; and it was 
great odds but we had been all destroyed. 

One of our men was IdUed with a lance thrown at him just at 
the beguming of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent they had 
nude. The rest came off free, all but the fellow who was the 
oocadon of all the mischief, who paid dear enough for his black 
distress; for we could not hear what became of him a great while. 
We lay upon the shore two days after, though the wind presented, 
uid made Signals for him ; made our boat sail up shore and down 
«höre several leagues, but in vain. So we were obliged to give 
Um over; and if he alone had suffered for it, the loss had been 
theless. 

I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on shore 
once more, to try if I could learn anything of him or them. It 
^as the third night after the action, that I had a great mind to 
leim, if I could by any means, what mischief we had done, and 
W the game stood on the Indians' side. I was careful to do it 
^ the dark, lest we should be attacked again ; but I ought indeed 
^ have been sure that the men I went with had been under my 
command before I engaged in a thing so hazardous and mis- 
chievous as I was brought into by it without my knowledge or 
Design. 

We took twenty stout fellows with us as any in the ship, besides 
tke supercargo and myself, and we landed two hours before mid- 
night, at the same place where the Indians stöod drawn up the 
cvening before. I landed here because my design, as I have said, 
^as chiefly to see if they had quitted the field, and if they had 
left any marks behind them of the mischief we had done them. 
And I thought if we could surprise one or two of them, perhaps, 
We might get our man again by way of exchange. 

We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two 
bodies, whereof the boatswain commanded one and I the other. 
VTe neither saw nor heard anybody stir when we landed, and wo 



486 A LANDING BY NIGHT. 

marched up one body at a distance from the other to the place; 
but at first could see nothing, it boing very dark, tili by-and-by, 
our boatswain, that led the first party, stumbled, and feil over a 
dead body. This made them halt a while, for knowing by the 
circumstances that they were at the place where the Indiana had 
stood, they waited for my coming up. Here we concluded to halt 
tili the moon began to rise, which we knew would be in less than 
an hour, when we could easily discem the havoc we had made 
among them. We told two and thirty bodies upon the ground, 
whereof two were not quite dead. Some had an ann, and some 
a leg shot off, and one his head; those that were woanded,we 
supposed, they had carried away. 

When we had made, as I thought, a füll discovery of all we 
could come at the knowledge of, I was resolved for going on 
board ; but the boatswain and his party sent me word that they 
were resolved to make a visit to the Indian town, where 
dogs, as they called them, dwelt, and asked me to go aloDg 
them ; and if they could find them, as still they fancied they 
should, they did not doubt getting a good booty, and it might be 
they might find Thomas Jeffrys there : that was the man's name 
we had lost 

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough what 
answer to have given them ; for I would have commandcd them 
instantly on board, knowing it waa not a hazard fit for us to roOi 
who had a ship and ship-loading in our charge, and a voyage to 
make, which depended very much upon the lives of the men; bot 
as they sent me word they were resolved to go, "and only asked 
me and my Company to go along with them, I positively refua«^ 
it^ and rose up, for I was sitting on the ground, in oider to go to 
the boat One or two of the men began to importune me to go» 
and when I refused positively, began to grumble, and say they were 
not under my command, and they would go. "Come, Jack, 
says one of the men, " will you go with me ? 111 go for one, 
Jack Said he would, and another followed, and then another; and 
in a word, they all left me but one, who I persuaded to stay, aßd 
a boy left in the boat So the supercargo and I, with the thirf 
man, went back to the boat, where we told them we would atay 



VAIN REHONSTRANCE. 487 

hem, uid take care to t&ke in aa many of them as should be 
for I told them it was a mad thing they were going about, 
<Dpposed moBt of them vould run the fate of Thomas Jeffrys. 
ey told me, like aeamen, they'd Warrant it they would come 
,'ain, and they woald take care, &c. So away they went. I 




ated them to consider the ship and voyage; that their livee 
not their own, and that they were intnuted with the yoyage 
me measure; that if they miBcarried, the ship might be lost 
ant of their help, and that they couid not answer it to God 
an, I Said a great deal more to them on that head, but I 
t as well have talked to the mainmast of tho ship; they were 
upon their jouraey, only they gave me good worda, and 
id I would not be angry; that they would be very cautions, 



488 A DESPERATE ADVENTURE. 

and they did not doubt bnt they would be back again in about an 
hour at f arthest ; f or the Indian town, they sald, was not aboYe 
half a mile off, though they found it above two miles before they 
got to it 

Well, they all went away as above; and though the attempt 
waa desperate, and such as none but mad men would have gone 
about, yet, to give them their due, they went about it warily « 
boldly. They were gallantly anned, that*s true; for they h^d 
every man a fuzee or musket, a bayonet, every man a pistol; some 
of them had broad cutlasses, some of them hangers,^ and the 
boatswain and two more had pole-axes ; besides all which, they 
had among them thirteen hand-grenadoea* Bolder fellows, and 
better provided, never went about any wicked work in the world. 

When they went out their chief design was plunder, and they 
were in mighty hopes of finding gold there; but a circumstance 
which none of them were aware of set them on fire with revenge, 
and made devils of them all. When they came to the few Indian 
houses which they thought had been the town, which was not 
above half a mile off, they were under a great disappointment; 
for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses, and where the 
town was, or how big, they knew not They consulted, therefore, 
what to do, and were some time before they could resolvej forif 
they feil upon these, they must cut all their throats, and it was 
ten to one but some of them might escape, it being in the night, 
though the moon was up; and if one escaped, he would run away, 
and raise all the town, so they should have a whole army upon 
them. Again, on the other band, if they went away and le^ 
those untouched (for the people were all asleep) they could not teil 
which way to look for the town. 

However, the last was the best advice; so they resolved to 
leave them, and look for the town as well as they coulcL They 
went on a little way, and found a cow tied to a tree. This they 

^ Short swords to hang f rom straps or loops. 

' From the Latin granatum, a pomegranate or apple containing grains. '^ 
hand-grenadea were hollow balls of metal filled with powder lighted by * fo**" 
slow match and thrown amongst the enemy or into their camp or boildingn "^ 
Word should be either grenade^ which is the French, or granado^ whioh i» Sf»o»*^ 



A comrade's fate. 489 

tly concluded woiild be a good guide to them, for they said 
w certainly belonged to the town before them, or the town 

them ; and if they untied her they should see which way 
nt: if she went back, they had nothing to say to her, but 
wrent forward, they had nothing to do but to follow her. 
f cut the cord, which was made of twisted flags, and the 
tnt on before them. In a word, the cow led them directly 
own, which, as they report, consisted of above two hundred 
or huts, and in some of these they found several families 
ogether. 

they found all in eilence as profoundly secure as sleep and 
ry that had never seen an enemy of that kind could make 
and, first^ they called another Council, to consider what 
äd to do; and, in a word, they resolved to divide them- 
into three bodies, and to set three houses on fire in three 
f the town, and as the men came out, to seize them and 
lem (if any resisted, they need not be asked what to do 
uid so to search the rest of the houses for plunder; but 
solved to march silently first through the town, and see 
[imensions it was of, and if they might venture upon 

' did so, and desperately resolved that they would venture 
bem; but while they were animating one another to the 
hree of them that were a little before the rest called out 
o them, and told them they had found Thomas Jeffrys. 
[1 run up to the place, and so it was indeed; for there they 
bhe poor fellow hanged up naked by one arm, and bis 
cut There was an Indian house just by the tree, where 
»und sixteen or seventeen of the principal Indians who 
en concemed in the fray with us before, and two or three 
d wounded with our shot; and our men found they were 
and talking one to another in that house, but knew not 
iimber. 

sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, as 
that they swore to one another they would be revenged, 
Sit not an Indian who came into their hands should have 
; and to work they went immediately, and yet not so 



■ 



490 SAVAOE REVENOE. 

madly as by the rage and fuiy they were in might be ezpecteci. 
Their first care was to get something that would soon take fire, 
but after a little search they found that would be to no purpose; 
but most of the houses were low, and thatched with flags or 
rushes, of which the country is fullj so they presently made some 
wildfire, as we call it, by wetting & little powder in the pakns of 
their hands, and in a quarter of an hour they set the town on 
fire in four or üve places, and particularly that house where the 
Indians were not gone to bed. As soon as the fire began to 
blaze, the poor frighted creatures began to rush out to save their 
lives, but met with their fate in the attempt, and especially at the 
door where they drove them back, the boatswain himself killing 
one or two with his pole-axe. The house being large and many 
in it, he did not care to go in, but called for a hand-grenado, and 
threw it among them, which at first frightened them, but when 
it burst, made such havoc among them, that they cried out in a 
hideous manner. 

In Short, most of the Indians who were in the open part of the 
house were killed or hurt with the grenado, except two or three 
more who pressed to the door, which the boatswain and two more 
kept with their bayonets in the muzzles of their pieces, and de- 
spatched all who came that way. But there was another apart- 
ment in the house, where the prince or king, or whatever he was, 
and several others were; and these they kept in tili the house, 
which wajs by this time all of a light fiame, feil in upon them, and 
they were smothered or burned together. 

All this while they fired not a gun, because they would not 
waken the people faster than they could master them; but the 
fire began to waken them fast enough, and our fellows were glad 
to keep a little together in bodies, for the fire grew so raging, all 
the houses being made of light combustible sttüßf, that they could 
hardly bear the street between them, and their business was to 
foUow the fire for the surer execution. As fast as the fire either 
forced the people out of those houses which were burning, or 
frightened them out of others, our people were ready at their 
doors to knock them on the head, still calling and hallooing to 
one another to remember Thomas Jefirys. 



FTRE AND SWOED. 491 

Whilfl this was doing I muat confeas I was very nneasy, and 
speciallf when I saw the öames-of the town, which, it beJng night, 
Hemed to be just by me. 

Mj nephew, the captain, who was ronsed by bis men too, 
K^g such a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing what the matter 
■is, or what danger I was in ; especially hearing the guns too, 
for by thjs time they began to nse their firearms. Ä thousand 
thoQghts oppressed bis mind concerning me and the supercaigo, 



1— - -^ ;-.-,,:''fea^^ 



'hat Bhonld become of us; and at last, though he could ill spare 
uy more men, yet not knowing what exigence we might be in, 
be takea anotfaer boat and with thirteen men and htmself comes 
)Q ahore to ma 

He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat with 
10 more than two men; and though he was glad that we were 
vell, yet he was in the aame impatience with us to know what was 
loing, for the noise continued and the flame increased. In short, 
t was next to an impossibility for any men in the world to restrain 
heir cnriosity to know what had happened, or the concem for 
he safety of the men. In a word, the captain toM me he wonld 
IP and help his men, let what would come. I argued with bim, 



492 SIGHTS OF HORROR. 

as I did before with the men, the safety of the ship, the danger of 
the voyage, the interest of the owners and merchants, &c., and 
told him I would go and the two men, and onlj see if we could 
at a distance leam what was L'ke to be the event^ and come back 
and teil him. 

It was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the 
rest before; he would go, he said, and he only wished he had left 
but ten men in the ship, for he could not think of having bis men 
lost for want of help; he had rather lose the ship, the voyage, and 
bis life and all; and away went he. 

In a Word, I was no more able to stay behind now than I was 
to persuade them not to go; so, in short^ the captain ordered two 
men to row back the pinnace, and fetch twelve men more, leaving 
the long-boat at an anchor, and that, when they came back, six 
men should keep the two boats, and six more come after us, so 
that he left only sixteen men in the ship; for the whole ship's 
Company consisted of sixty-five men, whereof two were lost in the 
last quarrel, which brought this mischief on. 

Being now on the march, you may be sure we feit litüe of the 
groimd we trode on; and being guided by the fire, we kept no 
path, but went directly to the place of the flame. If the noise of 
the guns was surprising to us before, the cries of the poor people 
were now of quite another nature, and filled us with horror. I 
must confess I never was at the sacking a city, or at the taking a 
town by storm. I had heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Drogheda 
in Ireland, and killing man, woman, and child; and I had read of 
Count Tilly sacking of the city of Magdeburgh, and cutting the 
throats of twenty-two thousand of both sexes. But I never had 
an idea of the thing itself before, nor is it possible to describe it, 
or the horror which was upon our minds at hearing it. 

However, we went on, and at length came to the town, though 
there was no entering the streets of it for the fire. The first 
object we met with was the ruins of a hut or house, or rather the 
ashes of it^ for the house was consumed; and just before it, piain 
now to be seen by the light of the fire, lay four men and three 
women killed, and, as we thought, one or two more lay in the 
heap among the fire. In sbort, there were such instances of a rage 



SAVAGE BUTCHERY. 493 

altogether barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what was 

human, that we thought it impossible our men could be guilty of 

it, or if they were the authors of it, we thought they ought to be 

eyery one of them put to the worst of deatha But this waa not 

all : we saw the fire increase forward, and the cry went on just as 

the fire went on; so that we were in the utmost confusion. We 

advanced a little way farther, and behold, to our astonishment, three 

women, naked, and crying in a most dreadful manner, come flying, 

as if they had indeed had wings, and after them sixteen or seven- 

t^een men, natives, in the same terror and consternation, with 

^hree of our English butchers, for I can call them no better, in 

tiheir rear; who, when they could not overtake them, fired in among 

tJiem, and one that was killed by their shot feil down in our sight 

AVTien the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and that 

^^e would murder them as well as those that pursued them, they 

Set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women ; and two of 

t;hem feil down as if already dead with the fright. 

My very soul shrank within me, and my blood ran chill in my 

Veins, when I saw this; and I believe, had the three English 

sailors that pursued them come on, I had made our men kill them 

alL However, we took some ways to let the poor flying creatures 

teiow that we would not hurt them, and immediately they came 

Up to US, and kneeling down, with their hands lifted up, made 

piteous lamentation to us to save them, which we let them know 

we would; whereupon they crept all together in a huddle close 

behind us, as for protection. I lef t my men drawn up together, 

and charged them to hurt nobody, but if possible to get at some 

of our people, and see what devil it was possessed them, and what 

they intended to do; and, in^a word, to command them off, as- 

ßuring them that if they stayed tili daylight, they would have an 

hondred thousand men about their ears. I say I left them and 

went among those flying people, taking only two of our men with 

me; and there was indeed a piteous spectacle among them. Some 

of them had their feet terribly bumed with trampling and running 

through the fire, others their hands burned. One of the women 

had fallen down in the fire, and was very much bumed before she 

could get out again; and two or three of the men had cuts in their 



494 THE boatswain's revengs. 

backs and thighs from our men pursuing; and another was ehot 
through the body, and died while I was there. 

I would fain have leamed what the occasion of all this was; 
but I could not understand one word they said, though by signs 
I perceived that some of them knew not what was the occasion 
themselves. I was so terrified in my thoughts at this outrageous 
attempt, that I could not stay there, but went back to my own 
men, and resolved to go into the middle of the town through the 
fire, or whatever might be in the way, and put an end to it^ cost 
what it would. Accordingly, as soon as I came back to my men 
I told them my resolution, and commanded them to follow me; 
when in the very moment came four of our men, with the boat- 
swain at their head, roving over the heaps of bodies they had 
killed, all covered with blood and dust, as if they wanted more 
people to massacre, when our men hallooed to them as loud as 
they could halloo; and with much ado one of them made them 
hear, so that they knew who we were, and came up to us. 

As soon as the boatswain saw us he set up a halloo like a shout 
of triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come; and with- 
out bearing to hear me, " Captain," says he, " noble captain, I am 
glad you are come. We have not half done yet^ villainous hell- 
hound dogs I I'll kill as many of them as poor Tom has hairs 
upon his head. We have sworn to spare none of them; we'U root 
out the very nation of them from the earth.'' And thus he run on« 
out of breath too with action, and would not give us leave to speak 
a word. 

At last, raising my voice that I might silence him a litüe, 
"Barbarous dog," said I, "what are you doing? I won't have 
one creature touched more, upon pain of death. I chatte yoU| 
upon your life, to stop your hands, and stand still here, or you 
are a dead man this minute." 

" Why, sir," says he, " do you know what you do, or what they 
have donel If you want a reason for what we have done, come 
hither." And with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging 
with his throat cut. 

I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time should 
have been forward enough; but I thought they had carried their 



ON BOARD A6AIN. 



495 



rage too far, and thought of JacoVs words to his sons Simeon and 
Levi, " Cursed be their anger, f or it was fierce ; and their wrath, 
for it was crueL'' But I had now a new task upon mj hands; 
for when the men I carried with me saw the sight, as I had 
done, I had as much to do to restrain them as I should have 
had with the other. Nay, my nephew himself feil in with them, 
and told me in their hearing that he was only concemed for fear 
of the men being overpowered; for as to the people, he thought 
not one of them ought to live, for they had all glutted themselves 
with the murder of the poor man, and that they ought to be used 
]ike murderers. Upon these words, away ran eight of my men, 
irith the boatswain and his crew, to complete their bloody work; 
and I, seeing it quite out of my power to restrain them, came 
away pensive and sad, for I could not bear the sight, much less 
the horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches that feil into their 
liands. 

I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and two 

tnen; and with these I walked back to the boats. It was a very 

^reat piece of folly in me, I confess, to venture back, as it were, 

vlone; for as it began now to be almost day, and the alarm had 

over the country, there stood about forty men, armed with 

ices and bows, at the little place where the twelve or thirteen 

stood mentioned before. But by accident I missed the 

s, and came directly to the sea-side; and by the time I got to 

Isea-side it was broad day. Immediately I took the pinnace 

went aboard, and sent her back to assist the men in what 

it happen. 

^bserved about the time that I came to the boat-side that the 

ras pretty well out and the noise abated; but in about half 

for after I got on board I heard a volley of our men's fire- 

and saw a great smoke. This, as I understood afterwards, 

men falling upon the men who, as I said, stood at the few 

on the way; of whom they killed sixteen or seventeen, and 

those houses on fire, but did not meddle with the women 

in. 

kt time the men got to the shore again with the pinnace^ 
began to appear. They came dropping in, some and 



496 THE captain's defencr 

8ome; not in two bodies, and in form, as they went^ but all in 
heaps, straggling here and there in such a manner that a small 
force of resolute men might have cut them all off. 

But the dread of them was upon the whole countiy; and the 
men were amazed and surprised, and so frighted, that I believe 
a hundred of them would have fled at the sight of but five of 
our men. Nor in all this terrible action was there a man wbo 
made any considerable defence. They were so surprised between 
the terror of the fire and the sudden attack of our men in the 
dark, that they knew not which way to tum themselves: for if 
they fled one way, they were met by one party; if back again, 
by another; so that they were everywhere knocked down. Nor 
did any of our men receive the least hurt» except one, who 
strained bis foot; and another had one of bis hands very much 
bumed. 

I was very angry with my nephew the captain, and indeed 
with all the men, in my mind; but with him in particular, as 
well for bis acting so out of bis duty as Commander of the ship, 
and having the charge of the voyage upon him, as in bis prompting 
rather than cooling the rage of bis men in so bloody and cruel an 
enterprise. My nephew answered me very respectfully; but told 
me that when he saw the body of the poor Seaman, whom they 
had murdered in such a cruel and barbarous manner, he was not 
master of himself, neither could he govem bis passion. He 
owned he should not have done so, as he was Commander of the 
ship; but as he was a man, and nature moved him, he could not 
bear it As for the rest of the men, they were not subject to me 
at all; and they knew it well enough, so they took no notice of 
my dislike. 

The next day we set sail, so we never heard any more of it 
Our men difTered in the account of the number they killed : some 
Said one thing, some another; but according to the best of their 
accounts put together, they killed or destroyed about one hundred 
and fifty people, men, women, and children, and left not a house 
Standing in the town. As for the poor fellow, Thomas Jeffrys, 
as he was quite dead, for bis tluroat was so cut that bis head was 
half off, it would do him no Service to bring him away. So they 



A SAD DISASTER. 497 

left him where they found him; only took him down from the 
tree where he was hanged hy one hand. 

However just our men thought this action, I was against them 
in it; and I always after that time told them God would blast the 
voyage, for I looked upon all the blood they shed that night to 
be murder in them. For though it is true that they had killed 
Thomas Jeffrys, yet it was as true that Jeffrys was the aggressor, 
had broken the truce, and had violated or debauched a young 
woman of theirs who came down to them innocently, and on the 
faitli of their public capitulation. 

The boatswain defended this quarrel when we were afterwards 
on board. He said, it is true that we seemed to break the truce, 
but really had not, and that the war was begun the night before 
by the natives themselves, who had shot us and killed one of 
our men without any just provocation; so that as we were in a 
capacity to fight them now, we might also be in a capacity to do 
ourselves justice upon them in an extraordinary manner: that 
though the poor man had taken a little liberty with a wench, he 
ought not to have been murdered, and that in such a villainous 
manner; and that they did nothing but what was just, and what 
the laws of God allowed to be done to murderers. 

One would think this should have been enough to have wamed 
US against going on shore among heathens and barbarians; but it 
is impossible to make mankind wise but at their own expense, and 
their experience seems to be always of most use to them when it 
is dearest bought. 

We are now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from thence to 
the coast of Goromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the chief of 
the supercargo's design lay at the Bay of Bengal, where if he 
missed of his business outward bound, he was to go up to China, 
and return to the coast as he came home. 

The first disaster that befeil us was in the Gulf of Persia, where 
five of our men, ventunng on shore on the Arabian side of the 
gulf, were surrounded by the 'A.rabians, and either all killed or 
carried away into slavery. The rest of the boat's crew were not 
able to rescue them, and had but just time to get off their boat 
I began to upbraid them with the just retribution of Heaven in 

(24S) 81 



498 THE BOATSWAIN'S REMONSTRANCE. 

this case; but the boatswain very warmly told me he thought I 
went farther in my censures than I conld show any Warrant for in 
Scripture, and referred to the thirteenth of St Luke, verse fourth, 
where our Saviour intimates that those men on whom the tower 
of Siloam feil were not sinners above all the Galileans. But that 
which indeed put me to silence in the case was, that not one of 
these five men who were now lost were of the number of those 
who went on shore to the massacre of Madagascar (so I always 
called it, though our men could not bear the word '^ massacre " 
with any patience). And, indeed, this last circumstance, as I have 
Said, put me to silence for the present. 

But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had worse 
consequences than I ezpected; and the boatswain, who had been 
the head of the attempt, came up boldly to me one time, and told 
me he found that I continually brought that affair upon the stage; 
that I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the men very 
ill on that account, and himself in particular; that as I was but a 
passenger, and had no command in the ship or concern in the 
voyage, they were not obliged to bear it; that they did not know 
but I might have some ill design in my head, and perhaps to call 
them to account for it when they came to England; and that 
therefore, unless I would resolve to have done with it, and also 
not to concern myself any farther with him or any of his affairs, 
he would leave the ship, for he did not think it was safe to sail 
with me among them. 

I heard him patiently enough tili he had done, and then told 
him that I did confess I had all along opposed the massacre of 
Madagascar, for such I would always call it : and that I had on 
all occasions spoken my mind freely about it, though not more 
upon him than any of the rest : that as to my having no conunand 
in the ship, that was true, nor did I exercise any authority, only 
took my liberty of speaking my mind in things which publicly 
concerned us all; and what concern I had in the voyage was none 
of his business : that I was a considerable owner of the ship, and 
in that claim I conceived I had a right to speak even farther than 
I had yet done, and would not be accountable to him or any one 
eise, and begun to be a little warm with him. He made but 



AN INSOLENT MBSSAQE. 499 

litde reply to me at that time, and I thought that affair had been 

over. We were at this time in the road at Bengal; and being 

willing to See the place, I went on shore with the supercargo in 

the ship's boat to divert myself, and towards evening was pre- 

paring to go on board, when one of the men came to me, and told 

me he would not have me trouble myself to come down to the 

boat^ for they had Orders not to carry me on board any morel 

Any one may guess what a surprise I was in at so insolent a mes- 

sage; and I asked the man who bade him deliver that errand to 

me. He told me, the cockswain. I said no more to the fellow, 

lut bade him let them know he had delivered his message, and 

that I had given him no answer to it 

I immediately went and found out the supercargo, and told him 
the Story; adding what I presently foresaw, namely, that there 
^ould certainly be a mutiny in the ship, and entreated him to go 
immediately on board the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint 
the captain of it But I might have spared this intelligence, for 
before I had spoken to him on shore the matter was effected on 
board. The boatswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and, in a word, 
^ the inferior officers, as soon as I was gone off in the boat, came 
Up to the quarter-deck and desired to speak with the captain; and 
there the boatswain, making a long harangue, for the fellow 
balked very well, and repeating all he had said to me, told the 
captain, in few words, that as I was now gone peaceably on shore, 
they were loath to use any yiolence with me; which, if I had not 
gone on shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to 
have gone: they therefore thought fit to teil him, that as they 
^bipped themselves to serve in the ship under his command, they 
would perform it well and faithfully; but if I would not quit the 
ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it, they would all leave the 
ship, and sail no f arther with him. And at that word " all " he 
tumed his face about towards the mainmast, which was, it seems, 
the aignal agreed on between them; at which, all the seamen 
being got together, they cried out, *'One and all! one and alll" 

My nephew the captain was a man of spirit, and of great 
presence of mind; and though he was surprised, you may be sure, 
at the thing, yet he told them calmly that he would consider of 



500 OPPOSITION TO CRUSOE. 

the thing, but that he could do nothing in it tili he had spoken 
to me about it He used some arguments with them to ahow 
them the unreasonableness and injustice of the thing: but it was 
all in vain; they swore and shook hands round before his face 
that thej would go all on shore, unless he would engage to them 
not to suffer me to come any more on board the ship. 

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his Obligation to 
me, and did not know how I might take it. So he began to talk 
cavalierly to them; told them that I was a very considerable 
owner of the ship, and that in justice he could not put me out of 
my own house; that this was next door to serving me as the 
famous pirate Ead had done, who made the mutiny in a ship, set 
the captain on shore in an uninhabited island, and run away with 
the ship; that let them go into what ship they would, if ever they 
came to England again, it would cost them dear; that the ship 
was mine, and that he could not put me out of it; and that he 
would rather lose the ship, and the voyage too, than disoblige me 
so much; so they might do as they pleased: however, he would 
go on shore and talk with me on shore; and invited the boatswain 
to go with him, and perhaps they might accommodate the matter 
with me. 

But they all rejected the proposal, and said they would have 
nothing to do with me any more, neither on board nor on shore, 
and if I came on board they would all go on shore. " Well," said 
the captain, *^ if you are all of this mind, let me go on shore, and 
talk with him." So away he came to me with this account^ a 
little after the message had been brought to me from the cock- 
swain. 

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess; for I was 
not without apprehensions that they would confine him by violence, 
set sail, and run away with the ship, and then I had been stripped 
naked in a remote country, and nothing to help myself ; in short, 
I had been in a worse case than when I was all alone in the 
Island. 

But they had not come that length, it seems, to my great satis- 
faction; and when my nephew told me what they had said to him, 
and how they had swom, and shook hands, that they would one 



THB CREW PREVAIK 501 

^i all leave the ship if I was suffered to come on board, I told 

i^ he shoold not be concemed at it at all, for I would stay on 

^Tt I only desired he would take care and send me all my 

^ecessaiy things on shore, and leave me a sufficient sum of money, 

*öd I would find my way to England as well as I coulA 

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew; but there was 
^o way to help it, but to comply with it; so, in short, he went on 
^^Mid the ship again, and satisfied the men that his uncle had 
.^ielded to their importunity, and had sent for his goods from on 
*>oard the ship; so that matter was over in a very few hours, the 
**ien retumed to their duty, and I began to consider what course 
I should steer. 

I was now alone in the remotest part of the world, as I think I 
'iuy call it; for I was near three thousand leagues by sea farther 
^fiT from England than I was at my island. Only, it is true, I 
^»Ught travel here by land over the Great MoguFs country to Surat; 
'ÄUght go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the Gulf of Persia; 
^Hd from thence might take the way of the caravans over the 
^esert of Arabia to Aleppo and Scanderoon; from thence by sea 
^gain to Italy, and so over land into France : and this put together 
^^xigfat be at least a füll diameter of the globe, but if it were to be 
^easured, I suppose it would appear to be a great deal more. 

I had another way before me, which was to wait for some 

Elnglish ships, which were Coming to Bengal from Achin, on the 

Irland of Sumatra, and get passage on board them for England; 

t>iit as I came hither without any concern with the EDglish East 

tndia Company, so it would be difficult to go from hence without 

their licence, unless with great favour of the captains of the ships, 

or of the Company's factors, and to both I was an utter stranger. 

Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by contraries, to 

See the ship sail without me; a treatment, I think, a man in my 

circomstances scarce ever met with, except from pirates running 

away with a ship, and setting those that would not agree with 

their villainy on shore. Indeed this was next door to it both ways. 

However, my nephew left me two servants, or rather, one com- 

panion and one servant; the first was clerk to the purser, who 

he engaged to go with me, and the other was his own servant I 



502 A NEW VENTURE. 

took me also a good lodgiDg in the house of an Englishwoman, 
where several merchants lodged, Bome French, two Itaiians, or 
rather Jews, and one Engli&hman. Here I was handsomely enough 
entertained; and that I might not be said to run raahly upon any- 
thing, I stayed here above nine months, considering what course 
to take, and how to manage myself. I had some English goods 
with me of value, and a considerable 8um of money, my nephew 
fumishing me with a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of 
credit for more, if I had occasion, that I might not be straitened, 
whatever might happea 

I quickly disposed of my goods, and to advantage too; and, as 
I originally intended, I bought here some very good diamonds; 
which, of all other things, was the most proper for me in my 
present circomstances, because I might always carry my whole 
estate about me. 

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my retum 
to England, but none falling out to my mind, the English 
merchant who lodged with me, and with whom I had contracted 
an intimate acquaintance, came to me one moming. " Country- 
man," says he, " I have a project to communicate to you, which, 
as it suits with my thoughts, may, for aught I know, suit with 
yours also, when you shall have thoroughly considered it. 

" Here we are posted," says he, " you by accident^ and I by my 
own choice, in a part of the world very remote from our own 
country; but it is in a country where, by us who understand trade 
and business, a great deal of money is to be got. If you will put 
a thousand pound to my thousand pound, we will hire a ship here, 
the first we can get to our minds; you shall be captain, 111 be 
merchant, and we will go a trading voyage to China; for what 
should we stand still for? The whole world is in motion, rolling 
round and round; all the creatures of 6od, heavenly bodies and 
earthly, are busy and diligent; why should we be idle? There 
are no drones in the world but men ; why should we be of that 
numberl" 

I liked his proposal very well, and the more because it seemed 
to be expressed with so much goodwill and in so friendly a manner. 
I will not say but that I might by my loose and unhinged cir* 



ANOTHER VOYAGE. 503 

^^mstances be the fitter to embrace a proposal for trade, or, indeed, 
m anything eise; whereas, otherwise, trade was none of my 
dement However, I might perhaps say with some truth, that if 
^e was not my element, rambüng was, and no proposal for 
*eeing any part of the world which I had never seen before could 
possibly come amiss to me. 

It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our 
minds; and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get 
Xnglish sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary to 
^vem the voyage and manage the sailors which we should pick 
np there. After some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a 
^unner, English, a Dutch carpenter, and three Portuguese fore- 
mastmen. With these we found we could do well enough, having 
Indian seamen, such as they are, to make up. 

There are so many travellers who have wrote the history of their 
'voyages snd travels this way, that it would be very little diversion 
%o anybody to give. a long account of the places we went to, and 
the people who inhabit there. Those things I leave to others, and 
i^fer the reader to those Journals and travels of Englishmen, of 
HFhich many I find are published, and more promised every day. 
Tis enough to me to teil you that I made this voyage to Achin, 
in the Island of Sumatra, and from thence to Siam, where we ex- 
cbanged some of our wares for opium, and some arrack; the first 
a commodity which bears a great price among the Chinese, and 
which at that time was very much wanted there. In a word, we 
'went up to Suskan, made a very great voyage, was eight months 
out, and retumed to Bengal; and I was very well satisfied with my 
adventure. I observed that our people in England often admire 
how the officers which the Company send into India, and the 
merchants which generally stay there, get such very great estates 
as they do, and sometimes come home worth sixty, seventy, to 
one hundred thousand pound at a time. 

But it is no wonder, or at least we shall see so much farther 
into it, when we consider the innumerable ports and places where 
they have a free commerce, that it will then be no wonder; and 
tauch less will it be so, when we consider that at all those places 
and ports where the English ships come, there is so much, and such 



504 INDIFFERENCE TO WEALTH. 

constant demand for the growth of all other coantries, that there 
is a certain vent for the returns, as well as a market abroad, for 
the goods carried out 

In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so mach 
monej by the first adventure, and such an insight into the method 
of getting more, that had I been twenty year younger, I should 
have been tempted to have stayed here, and sought no farther for 
making my fortune. But what was all this to a man on the 
wrong side of threescore, that was rieh enough, and came abroad 
more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world, than a 
covetous desire of getting in it; and indeed I think 'tis with great 
justice that I now call it a restless desire, for it was so. When 
I was at home, I was restless to go abroad; and now I was abroad, 
I was restless to be at home. I say, what was this gain to mel 
I was rieh enough, nor had I any uneasy desires about getting 
more money, and therefore the profits of the voyage to me were 
things of no great force for the prompting me forward to farther 
undertakings; and I thought that by this voyage I had made no 
progress at all, because I was come back, as I might call it, to the 
place from whence I came, as to a home; whereas my eye, which, 
like that which Solomon speaks of, was never satisfied with seeing, 
was still more desirous of wandering and seeing. I was come into 
a part of the world which I was never in before, and that part in 
particular which I had heard mach of, and was resolved to see as 
much of as I could, and then I thought I might say I had seen all 
the World that was worth seeing. 

But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions. I do not 
name this to insist upon my own; for I acknowledge bis were the 
most just, and the most suited to the end of a merchant's life, 
who, when he is abroad upon adventures, 'tis bis wisdom to stick 
to that as the best thing for him which he is like to get the most 
money by. My new friend kept himself to the nature of the 
thing, and would have been content to have gone like a carrier's 
horse always to the same inn, backward and forward, provided he 
could, as he called it, find bis account in it On the other band, 
mine was the notion of a mad rambling boy, that never cares to 
see a thing twice over. 



A SUCCESSFUL VOYAGE. 505 

But this was not all : I had a kind of impatience upon me to 
be nearer home, and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable 
which way to ga In the interval of these consultations my friend, 
who was always upon the search for business, proposed another 
voyage to me among the Spiee Islands, and to bring home a load- 
ing of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts; places where 
indeed the Dutch do trade, but islands belonging partly to the 
Spaniards; though we went not so far, but to some other, where 
they have not the whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, 
&c We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief 
difficulty was in bringing me to come into it However, at last, 
Dothing eise offering, and finding that really stirring about and 
trading, the profit being so great, and, as I may say, certain, had 
more pleasure in it, and more satisfaction to the mind than sitting 
still, which, to me especially, was the unhappiest part of life; I 
resolved on this voyage too, which we made very successfully, 
touching at Borneo and several islands, whose names I do not 
remember, and came home in about five montha We sold our 
spiee, which was chiefly cloves, and some nutmegs to the Persian 
merchantSy who carried them away for the Gulf ; and making near 
five of one, we really got a great deal of money. 

My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me, 
"Well now," Said he, with a sort of agreeable insulting my indolent 
temper, '4s not this better than Walking about here, like a man 
of nothing to do, and spending our time in staring at the nonsense 
and ignorance of the pagans ?" " Why, truly," says I, " my friend, 
I think it is, and I begin to be a convert to the principles of 
merchandizing; but I must teil you," said I, " by the way, you do 
not know what I am a-doing; for if onee I conquer my baek- 
wardness, and embark heartily, as old as I am, I shall harass you 
up and down the world tili I tire you; for I shall pursue it so 
eagerly, I shall never let you lie stilL" 

But to be Short with my speculations, a little while after this 
there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a coaster, not 
an European trader, and of about two hundred ton bürden; the 
men, as they pretended, having been so siekly that the captain had 
not men enough to go to sea witL He lay by at Bengal, and 



506 A 8HIP BOUGHT. 

having, it seems, got money enough, or belog willing, for other 
reasons, to go for Europe, he gave public notice that he woold sellf 
his ship. This came to my ears before my new partner heard o% 
it, and I had a great mind to buy it; so I goes home to him, an^ 
told him of it He considered a while; for he was no rash nu^ 
neither; but musing some time, he replied, ^'She is a Utüe t^^ 
big; but, however, we will have her." Accordingly we bou^ft/ 
the ship, and agreeing with the master, we paid for her and tooJt 
possessio^ When we had done so, we resolved to entertain the 
roen, if we could, to join them with those we had, for the pursuing 
our business; but on a sudden, they having receiyed not their 
wages, but their share of the money, not one of them was to be 
found. We inquired much about them, and at length were told 
that they were all gone together by land to Agra, the great cityof 
the Mogul's residence, and from thence were to travel to Sunt, 
and so by sea'to the Gulf of Persia. 

Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good while, as that I 
missed the opportunity of going with them; for such a ramble, I 
thought, and in such Company as would both have guarded me 
and diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great design; 
and I should both have seen the world and gone homewarda toa 
But I was much better satisfied a few days after, when I came to 
know what sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their history 
was, that this man they called captain was the gunner only, not 
the Commander; that they had been a trading voyage, in whicb 
they were attacked on shore by some of the Malayans, who hid 
killed the captain and three of his men; and that after the captain 
was killed, these men, eleven in number, had resolved to nin awaj 
with the ship, which they did, and brought her in at the Baj of 
Bengal, leaving the mate and five men more on shore, of whom 
we shall hear farther. 

Well, let them come by the ship how they would, we came 
honestly by her, as we thought; though we did not, I confess, 
examine into things so exactly as we ought, for we never inquiied 
anything of the seamen; who, if we had ezamined, would certainij 
have faltered in their account, contradicted one another, and pe^ 
haps contradicted themselves; or, one how or other we should have 



OONTRARY WINDS. Ö07 

Seen reason to haye suspected them. But the man showed us a 
bill of sale for the ship, to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or some 
mch. name (for I suppose it was all a forgery), and called himself 
bj that name, and we could not coütradict him; and being withal 
a little too unwary, or, at least, having no suspicion of the thing, 
we went through with our bargain. 

We picked up spme more English seamen here after this, and 
some Dutch; and now we resolved for a second voyage to the 
soQth-east, for doves, &c,; that is to say, among the Philippine 
and Molucca Islea And, in short, not to fill this part of my story 
with trifles, when what is yet to come is so remarkable, I spent 
from first to last six years in this country, trading from port to 
port, backward and forward, and with very good success, and was 
now the last year with my new partner, going in the ship above- 
mentioned on a voyage to China, but designing first to Siam to 
buy rice. 

In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up and 
down a great while in the Straits of Malacca and among the 
islands, we were no sooner got clear of those difficult seas but we 
found our ship had sprung a leak, and we were not able by all our 
industry to find it out where it was. This forced us to make for 
some port, and my partner, who knew the country better than I 
did, directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia; for I 
had made the £nglish mate, one Mr. Thomson, captain, not being 
willing to take the charge of the ship upon myself. This river 
lies on the north side of the great bay or gulf which goes up to 
SiaoL 

While we were here, and going often on shore for refreshment, 
there comes to me one day an Englishman, and he was, it seems, 
a gunner's mate on board an English East India ship which rode 
in the same river, up at, or near the city of Cambodia. What 
brought him hither we know not, but he comes up to me, and 
speaking English, ^' Sir,'' says he, " you are a stranger to me, and 
I to you, but I have something to teil you that very nearly con- 
cems you." 

I looked steadily at him a good while, and thought at first I 
had known him, but I did not. " If it very nearly concems me,'' 



508 A TIMELY WARNING. 

Said I, "and not yourself, what moves you to teil it mel" "I am 
moved/' says he, " by the iniminent danger you are in, and, for 
aught I See, you have no knowledge of it" "I know no danger 
I am in," said I, " but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it 
out; but I purpose to lay her a-ground to-morrow to see if I can 
find it." " But, sir," says he, " leaky or not leaky, find it or not 
find it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on shore to-morrow, 
when you hear what I have to say to you. Do, you know, sir," 
Said he, " the town of Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this 
river, and there are two large English ships about five leagues on 
this side, and three Dutchl " " Well," said I, " and what is that 
to me?" " Why, sir," sidd he, '* is it for a man that is upon such 
adventures as you are upon, to come into a port and not examine 
first what ships there are there, and whether he is able to deal 
with them? I suppose you don't think you are a match for theml" 
I was amused very much at his discourse, but not amazed at it^ 
for I could not conceive what he meant, and I turned short upon 
him, and said, " Sir, I wish you would explain yourself. I cannot 
imagine what reason I have to be afraid of any Company of ships 
or Dutch ships. I am no interloper; what can they have to say 
tomel" 

He looked like a man half angry, half pleased, and pausing a 
while, but smiling, " Well, sir," says he, " if you think yourself 
secure, you must take your chance. I am sorry your fate should 
blind you against good advice. But assure yourself, if you do not 
put to sea immediately, you will the very next tide be attacked 
by five longboats füll of men; and perhaps, if you are taken, 
you'U be hanged for a pirate, and the particulars be examined 
afterwards. I thought, sir," added he, " I should have met with 
a better reception than this for doing you a piece of Service 
of such importance." "I can never be ungrateful," said I, 
" for any service, or to any man that offers me any kindness; 
but it is past my comprehension," said I, "what they should 
have such a design upon me for. However, since you say there 
is no time to be lost, and that there is some villainous design 
in hand against me, 111 go on board this minute and put to sea 
immediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can swim 



AN AWKWARD POSITION. 509 

without stopping it But, sir/' said I, " shall I go away Ignorant 
of the reason of all thid? Gan you give me no farther light 
intoit]" 

" I can teil you but part of the story, sir," says he, " but I have 
a Dutch Seaman here with me, and I believe I could persuade him 
to teil you the rest; but there is scarce time for it But the short 
of the story is this, the first part of which, I suppose, you know 
well enough; namely, that you was with this ship at Sumatra, 
that there your captain was murdered by the Malayans with three 
of his men, and that you, or some of those who were on board 
with you, ran away with the ship, and are since tumed pirates. 
This is the sum of the story; and you will be all seized as pirates, 
I can assure you, and ezecuted with very little ceremony; for 
you know, merchant ships show but little law to pirates if they 
get them into their power." 

"Now you speak piain English," said I, "and I thank you; 
and though I know nothing that we have done like what you talk 
of, but am sure we came honestly and fairly by the ship, yet, see- 
ing such work is a-doing as you say, and that you seem to mean 
honestly, 111 be upon my guard." " Nay, sir," says he, " do not 
talk of being upon your guard; the best defence is to be out of 
the danger. If you have any regard to your life, and the life of 
all your men, put out to sea without fail at high-water; and as 
you havo a whole tide before you, you will be gone too far out 
before they can come down; for they come away at high-water, 
and as they have twenty miles to come, you get near two hours 
of them by the difference of the tide, not reckoning the length of 
tlie way. Besides, as they are only boats, and not ships, they 
will not venture to follow you far out to sea, especially if it 
blows." 

" Well," says I, " you have been very kind in this; what shall 
I do for you to make you amendsl" "Sir," says he, "you may 
not be so willing to make me any amends, because you may not 
be convinced of the truth of it TU make an offer to you. I have 

nineteen months' pay due to me on board the ship , which I 

came out of England in, and the Dutchman that is with me has 
seven months* pay due to him; if you will make good our pay to 



510 THE ANCHOR WEIGHKIX 

ua we will go along with you; if you find no more in it, we will 
desire no more; bat if we do convince you that we have saved 
your lives, and the ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we 
will leave the rest to you." 

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and 
the two men with me. Aa soon as I came to the ship's side^ my 
partner, who was on board, came out on the quarter-deck, and 
called to me with a great deal of joy, "0 ho! O hol we have 
stopped the leak! we have stopped the leak!" "Say you so," 
Said I; "thank Godl but weigh the anchor then immediately." 
"Weigh!" says he, "what do you mean by that? What is the 
matter?" says he. " Ask no questions," says I, *'bat all hands 
to work, and weigh without losing a ini;ute." He wa« surpmed; 
but, however, he called the captain, and he immediately ordered 
the anchor to be got up. And though the tide was not quite 
done, yet a little land breeze blowing, we stood out to sea. Then 
I called him into the cabin and told him the story at large, and 
we called in the men and they told us the rest of it But as it 
took US up a great deal of time, so before we had done, a Seaman 
comes to the cabin door, and caUs out to us that the captain bade 
him teil us we were chased. " Chased," says I, " by whom, and 
by what?" "By five sloops or boats," says the fellow, "fuU of 
men." " Very well," said I, "then it ia apparent there is some- 
thing in it" In the nezt place I ordered all our men to be called 
up, and told them that there was a design to seize the ship, and 
to take US for pirates; and asked them if they would stand by us 
and by one another? The men answered cheerfully, that one 
and all they would live and die with us. Then I asked the 
captain what way he thought best for us to manage a fight with 
them, for resist them I was resolved we would, and that to the 
last drop. He said readily that the way was to keep them off 
with our great shot as long as we could, and then to fire at them 
with our small arms as long as we could; but when neither of 
these would do any longer, we should retire to our close quarters; 
perhaps they had not materiak to break open our bulkheads, or 
get in upon us. 

The gunner had, in the meantime, Order to bring two guns to 



CHASED AT 8EA. 



bau fora uid tft out of tfae steerage, to clear the deck, and loaded 
tliem with miuket-bulleta, and emall pieces of old iron, and whai 
Bezt nme to band, and thna we tnade ready for fight; but all this 




Tb«7 ktpt CTDvdiDf all 



irhile we kept out to aea with wind euough, and could see the 
boats at a diatance, being five large longboat«, following us with 
«jl the sail they cotild make. 

Two of those boata, which by our glaaaes we could seo were 
English, out-sailed tlie rest, were near two leagues abead of tbem. 



512 ATTACKSD 6Y BOATS. 

and gained upon us considerably, so that we found thej woold 
come up with us. Upon which we fired gun without ball, to 
intimate that they should bring-to, and we put out a flag of tnice 
as a Signal for parley. But they kept crowding af ter us tili they 
came within shot, when we took in our white flag, they having 
made no answer to it, hung out a red flag, and fired at them with 
a shot Notwithstanding this, they came on tili they were near 
enough to call to them with a speaking-trumpet which we had 
on board; so we called to them, and bid them keep off at their 
periL 

It was all one; they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come 
under our stem, so to board us on our quarter; upon which, 
seeing they were resolute for mischief, and depended upon the 
strength that followed them, I ordered to bring the sbip to, so that 
they lay upon our broadside, when immediately we fired five guns 
at them; one of which had been levelled so true as to carry away 
the stem of the hindermost boat, and bring them to the necessity 
of taking down their sail, and running all to the head of the boat 
to keep her from sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of it; 
but seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made ready to 
fire at her in particular. 

While this was doing, one of the three boats that was behind, 
being forwarder than the other two, made up to the boat which 
we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could afterwards see her 
take out the men. We called again to the foremost boat, and 
offered a truce to parley again, and to know what was her business 
with us; but had no answer, only she crowded close under our 
stem. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dexterous fellow, 
run out his two chase-gims, and fired again at her; but the shot 
missing, the men in the boat shouted, waved their caps, and came 
on. But the gunner, getting quickly ready again, fired among 
them the second time; one shot of which, though it missed the 
boat itself, yet feil in among the men, and, we could easily see, 
had done a great deal of mischief among them; but we, taking no 
notice of that, wared^ the ship again, and brought our quarter to 

^ Or weared. To wear a ship is to sail or stecr her on another " tack : " that is, 
in a different direction. 



THE CHASE ABANDONED. 513 

on them, and firing three guns more, we found the boat 
t almost to pieces; in particular, her rudder and a piece of 
n was shot qnite away; so they handed their sail immedi- 
id were in great disorder. But, to complete their misfor- 
ur gunner let fly two guns at them again. Where he hit 
d coold not teil, bat we found the boat was sinking, and 

the men already in the water. Upon this I immediately 

out our pinnace, which we had kept close by our side, with 
x> pick up some of the men if they could, and save them 
owning, and immediately to come on board with them, be- 
e saw the rest of the boats began to come up. Our men 
dnnace foUowed their Orders, and took up three men, one 
li was just drowning, and it was a good while before we 
MX)ver him. As soon as they were on board we crowded 
sail we could make and stood farther out to sea, and we 
hat when the other three boats came up to the first two 
v^e over their chase. 

; thus delivered from a danger which, though I knew not 
on of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I apprehended, 
are that we would change our course, and not let any one 

whither we were going; so we stood out to sea eastward, 
Lt of the course of all European ships, whether they were 
tx> China or anywhere eise within the commerce of the 
m nations. 
1 we were now at sea we began to consult with the two 

and inquire, first, what the meaning of all this should be; 
) Dutchman let us into the secret of it at once, telling us 
9 fellow that sold us the ship, as we said, was no more 
thief, that had run away with her. Then he told us how 
;ain, whose name too he told us, though I do not remember, 
icherously murdered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, 
iree of his men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four 
;ot into the woods, where they wandered about a great 
tili at length he, in particular, in a miraculous manner 
Is escape, and swam o£f to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near 
re, in its way from China, had sent their boat on shore for 
ater; that he durst not come to that part of the shore 

48) 2K 



I 



514 A 6REAT HAZARD. 

where the boat was, but made shift in the night, to take the water^ 
farther off, and the ship's boat took him up. 

He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the sea- 
men belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest in their 
travels, and gave an account that the fellow who had run awaj 
with the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were 
gone a-cruising in her, and that they had already taken an £ngh8h 
ship and two Dutch ships very richly laden. 

This later part we found to concem us directly, and though we 
knew it to be false, yet, as my partner said very well, if we had 
fallen into their hands, and they had had such a prepossession 
against us beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have defended 
ourselves, or to hope for any good quarter at their hands; and 
especially considering that our accusers had been our judges, and 
that we could have expected nothing from them bat what rage 
would have dictated and an ungovemed passion have ezecuted. 
And, therefore, it was his opinion we should go directly back to 
Bengal, from whence we came, without putting in at any port 
whatever; because there we could give a good account of ourselves, 
could prove where we were when the ship put in, who we bought 
her of, and the like; and, which was more than all the rest, if we 
were put to the necessity of bringing it before the proper judges, 
we should be sure to have some justice, and not be hanged firBt 
and judged afterwards. 

I was some time of my partner's opinion, but, after a little more 
serious thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great hazard 
for US to attempt retuming to Bengal, for that we were on the 
wrong side of the Straits of Malacca; and that, if the alarm was 
given, we should be sure to be waylaid on every side, as well by 
the Dutch of Batavia as the English elsewhere: that if we should 
be taken, as it were running away, we should even condemn our- 
selves, and there would want no more evidence to destroy ua I 
also asked the £nglish sailor's opinion, who said he was of my 
mind, and that we should certainly be taken. 

This danger a little startled my partner and all the ship's co:^. 

^ That 18, to enter the water to swiin, just as in Walking we may say we will leal 
the path and tote the road. 



UNEASY THOUGHTS. 61 ö 

pany, and we immediately resolved to go away to the coast of 
Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China, and pursuing the first 
design as to trade, find some way or other to dispose of the ship, 
and come back in some of the vessels of the country, such as we 
could get This was approved of as the best method for our 
Becurity; and accordingly we steered away north-north-east, keep- 
ing above fifty leagues off from the usual course to the eastward. 

This, however, put us to some inconveniences ; for first the 
winds, when we oame to the distance from the shore, seemed to be 
more steadily against us, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from 
the east and east-north-east, so that we were a long while upon 
cur voyage, and we were but ill provided with victuals for so long 
a voyage; and, which was still worse, there was some danger that 
those English and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued us, whereof 
some were bound that way, might be got in before us; and if not, 
some other ship bound to China might have inf ormation of us from 
them, and pursue us with the same vigour. 

I must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, in- 
cluding the late escape from the longboats, to have been in the 
most dangerous condition that ever I was in through all my past 
life;. for whatever ill circumstances I had been in, I was never 
pursued for a thief before, nor had I ever done anything that 
merited the name of dishonest or fraudulent, much less thievish. 
I had chiefly been my own enemy; or, as I may rightly say, I 
had been nobod/s enemy but my own. But now I was embar- 
nissed in the worst condition imaginable; for though I was per- 
fectly innocent, I was in no condition to make that innocence 
appear. And if I had been taken, it had been under a supposed 
goilt of the worst kind; at least, a crime esteemed so among the 
people I had to do with. 

This made me very anxious to make an escape, though which 
way to do it I knew not, or what port or place we should go to. 
My partner seeing me thus dejected, though he was the most con- 
cemed at first, began to encourage me; and describing to me the 
several ports of that coast, told me he would put in on the coast 
of Cochin China or the Bay of Tonquin, intending to go afterwards 
to Macao, a town once in the possession of the Portuguese, and 



516 A HAPPY STEP. 

where still a great many European families resided, and particalarly 
the missionary priests usually went thither, in order to their going 
forward to China. 

Hither, then, we resolved to go; and accordingly, though after 
a tedious and irregulär course, and very much straitened for pro- 
visions, we came within sight of the coast very early in the mor- 
ning. And upon reflection upon the past circumstances we were in 
and the danger if we had not escaped, we resolved to put into a 
small river, which, however, had a depth enough of water for us, 
and to See if we could, either over land or by the ship's pinnace, 
come to know what ships were in any port thereabouts. This 
happy Step was indeed our deliverance; for though we did not 
immediately see any European ships in the Bay of Tonquin, yet 
the next moming there came into the bay two Dutch ships, and 
a third without any colours spread out, but which we believed to 
be a Dutchman, passed by at about two leagues' distance, steeriog 
for the coast of China; and in the aftemoon went by two English 
ships steering the same course; and thus we thought we saw 
ourselves beset with enemies both one way or other. The place 
we were in was wild and barbarous, the people thieves, even by 
occupation or profession; and though it is true we had not much 
to seek of them, and, except getting a few provisions, cared not 
how little we had to do with them, yet it was with much diffi- 
culty that we kept ourselves from being insulted by them several 
ways. 

We were in a small river of this country, within a few leagues 
of its utmost limits northward, and by our boat we coasted north- 
east to the point of land which opens the great Bay of Tonquin; 
and it was in this beating up along the shore that we discovered, 
as above, that, in a word, we were surrounded with enemies. The 
people we were among were the most barbarous of all the inhabi- 
tants of the coast; having no correspondence with any other 
nation, and dealing only in fish, and oil, and such gross commo- 
dities. And it may be particularly seen that they are, as I said, 
the most barbarous of any of the inhabitants, namely, that, among 
other customs they have this as one, namely, that if any vessel 
have the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their coast, they pre- 



A MISTAKEN SÜPPOSITION. 517 

sentlj make the men all prisoners or slaves; and it was not long 
before we fonnd a spiee of their kindness this way, on the occasion 
foUowing. 

I have observed above that our ship sprang a leak at sea, and 
that we could not find it out; and, however it happened, that, as 
I have Said, it was stopped unezpectedly in the happy niinute of 
our being to be seized by the Dutch and English ships in the Bay 
of Siam; yet as we did not find the ship so perfectly fit and sound 
as we desired, we resolved, while we were in this place, to lay her 
on sbore, take out what heavy things we had on board, which 
were not many, and to wash and clean her bottom, and, if pos- 
sible, to find out where the leaks were. 

Accordingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all our 
gans and other movable things to one side, we tried to bring her 
down, that we might come at her bottom; but, on second thoughts, 
we did not care to lay her dry on ground, neither could we find 
out a proper place for it 

The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a 
sight, came wondering down to the shore to look at us; and seeing 
the ship lie down on one side in such a manner, and heeling in 
towards the shore, and not seeing our men, who were at work on 
her bottom with stages, and with their boats on the off side, they 
presently concluded that the ship was cast away, and lay so fast 
on the ground. 

On this supposition they came all about us in two or three 
hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats, having some of them 
eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have come 
on board and plundered the ship, and if they had found us there, 
to have carried us away for slaves to their king, or whatever they 
call him, for we knew nothing who was their govemor. 

When they came up to the ship, and began to row round her, 
they discovered us all hard at work on the outside of the ship's 
bottom and side; washing, and graving,^ and stopping, as every 
sea-faring man knows how. 

They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who were a little 

^ Scraping off the shells, weeds, and dirt from the hiül of the ship, coatmg it 
with pitch or tar. 




518 ATTACKED BY NATIVES. 

Burprised, could not imagine what their dedgn was; but» being 
willing to be eure, we took this opportunity to get some of us into 
the ship, and others to band down arms and ammunition to tboee 
that were at work, to defend themselvea witb if there should be 
occasion. And it was no more than need; for in less tban a 
quarter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, that the 
ship was really a wreck, that we were all at work endeavouring to 
save her, or to save our Uves by the help of our boats; and when 
we handed our arms into the boats, they concluded, by that 
motion, that we were endeavouring to save some of our goods. 
lipon this they took it for granted we all belonged to them, and 
away they came down upon our men, as if it had been in a line 
of battle. 

Our men seeing so many of them, began to be frighted, for we 
lay but in an ill posture to fight, and oried out to us to know what 
they should do. I immediately called to the men who worked 
upon the stages to slip them down and get up the aide into the 
ship, and bade those in the boat to row round and come on board; 
and those few of us who were on board worked with all the 
strength and hands we had to bring the ship to rights. But^ how- 
ever, neither the men upon the stages nor those in the boats could 
do as they were ordered, before the Cochinchinese were upon 
them; and two of their boats boarded our longboat, and began to 
lay hold of the men as their prisoners. 

The first man they laid hold of was an English Seaman; a stout, 
strong fellow, who, having a musket in bis band, never offered to 
fire it, but laid it down in the boat, like a fool as I thought But 
he understood bis business better than I could teach him; for he 
grappled the pägan, and dragged him by main force out of their 
own boat into ours, where, taking him by the two ears, he beat 
bis head so against the boat's gunwale, that the fellow died in- 
stantly in bis hands. And in the meantime, a Dutchman who 
stood next took up the musket, and with the butt end of it so 
laid about him, that he knocked down five of them who attempted 
to enter the boat But this was doing little towards resisting 
thirty or forty men, who, fearless, because ignorant of their danger, 
began to throw themselves into the longboat^ where we had but 




A HUT RECEPTION. 



Bfe men in &1I to defend it. But one acddeat gave our men a 
o>0]plete victory, which deserved our laagliter rather than any- 
*^ütg eise. And that was thia 
Our carpenter being prepariug to gntre tlie oittüde of the ship, 




u weU aa to pay the seams wbere he bad caulked' her to stop the 
leaks, had got two kettles just let down into the boat, one filled 
with boiling pitch, and the other with roÜD, tallow, and oil, and 
luch stnff as the shipwrighta use for that work ; and the man that 

'Caulking ii filling the ««011111 or ipacei betwMn pluiks or tjmben with "oakum," 
m- idd rope pulled into loo« sbrndi. Tbe oakum is Ümd " payed" over with 
maltcd ptch, &c. 



520 AN EASY VICrORY. 

attended the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his band, mth 
which he supplied the men that were at work with that hot stuff 
Two of the enemy's men entered the boat just where this fellov 
stood, being in the fore-sheets; he immediately saluted them with 
a ladlefol of the stuff, boiling hot, which so bumed and scalded 
them; being half naked, that they roared out like two bulls, and 
enraged with the fire, leaped both into the sea. The carpenter 
saw it, and cried out, "Well done, Jack! give them some more of 
it;" and stepping forward himself, takes one of their mops, and dip- 
ping it in the pitch-pot, he and his man threw it among them so 
plentifully, that, in short, of all the men in three boats, there was 
not one that was not scalded and bumed with it in a most fright- 
flu, pitiful manner, and made such a howling and crying that I 
never heard a worse noise, and indeed nothing like it : f or it is 
worth observing that though pain naturally makes all people cry 
out, yet every nation has a particular way of ezclamation, and 
make noises as different from one another as their speecL I 
cannot give the noise these creatures made a better name than 
howling, nor a name more proper to the tone of it; for I nerer 
heard anything more like the noise of the wolves, which, as I have 
said, I heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of Languedoc 

I was never pleased with a victory better in my life; not only 
as it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was imminent 
before, but as we got this victory without any bloodshed, except of 
that man the fellow killed with his naked hands, and which I was 
very much concemed at; for I was sick of killing such poor savage 
wretches, even though it was in my own defence, knowing they 
came on errands which they thought just, and knew no better. 
And that though it may be a just thing, because necessary, for 
there is no necessary wickedness in nature, yet I thought it was 
a sad life, in which we must be always obliged to be killing our 
fellow-creatures to preserve our own; and indeed I think so still, 
and I would even now suflTer a great deal, rather than I would 
take away the life even of that persbn injuring me. And I 
believe all considering people, who know the value of life, would 
be of my opinion; at least they would, if they entered seriously 
into the consideration of it. 



AT SEA AGAIN. 521 

Bat to retum to my story. All the while this was doing, my 

partner and I, who managed the rest of the men on board, had with 

great dexterity brought the ship almost to rights ; and having gotten 

the guns into their places again, the gunner called to me to bid 

our boat get out of the way, for he would let fly araong them. I 

called back again to himj and bid him not offer to fire, for the 

carpenter would do the work without him, but bade him heat 

another pitch-kettle ; whlch our cook, who was on board, took care 

ot But the enemy were so terrified with what they had met with 

in their first attack, that they would not come on again. And 

some of them that were f arthest off, seeing the ship swim as it were 

upright, began, as we supposed, to see their mistake, and give over 

the enterprise, finding it was not as they expected. Thus we got 

clear of this merry fight; and having gotten sorae rice, and some 

roots, and bread, with about sixteen good big hogs, on board two 

days before, we resolved to stay here no longer, but go forward, 

whatever came of it; for we made no doubt but we should be 

surrounded the next day with rogues enough, perhaps more than 

our pitch-kettle would dispose of for us. 

We therefore got all our things on board the same evening, and 

the next moming were ready to saiL In the meantime, lying at 

an anchor at some distance, we were not so much concemed, 

being now in a fighting posture as well as in a sailing posture, if 

any enemy had presented. The next day, having finished our work 

within board, and finding our ship was perfectly healed of all her 

leaks, we set sail. We would have gone into the Bay of Tonquin, 

for we wanted to inform ourselves of what was to be known con- 

ceming the Dutch ships that had been there; but we durst not 

stand in there, because we had seen several ships go in, as we sup- 

posed, but a little before; so we kept on north-east, towards the 

Isle of Formosa, as much afraid of being seen by a Dutch or 

English merchant ship, as a Dutch or English merchant ship in 

the Mediterranean is of an Algerine man-of-war. 

When we were thus got to sea, we kept out north-east, as if 
we would go to the Manillas or the Philippine Islands; and this 
we did that we might not fall into the way of any of our European 
ships; and then we steered north tili we came to the latitude 



622 THE PORTÜGUESE PILOT. 

of 22 degrees, 30 minutes, by whlch means we made the island 
Formosa directly, where we came to an anchor, in order to get water 
and fresh provisions; which the people there, who are very cour- 
teous and civil in their manners, supplied us with wilUngly, and 
dealt very fairly and punctuaUy with us in all their agreements and 
bargains; which is what we did not find among other people, and 
may be owing to the remains of Ghristianity, which was once 
planted here by a Dutch missionary of Protestants, and is a testi- 
mony of what I have often observed, namely, that the Christian 
religion always civilizes the people, and reforms their manners, 
where it is received, whether it works saving efifects upon them 
or no. 

From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at 
an equal distance, tili we knew we were beyond all the ports of 
China where our European ships usually come, being resolved if 
possible not to fall into any of their hands, especially in this 
country, where, as our circumstances were, we could not fail of 
being entirely ruined; nay, so great was niy fear in particular as 
to my being taken by them, that I believe firmly I would much 
rather have chosen to fall into the hands of the Spanish Inquisi- 
tion. 

Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we resolved to 
put into the first trading port we should come at; and standing 
in for the shore, a boat came off two leagues to us, with au old 
Portuguese pilot on board, who, knowing us to be a European 
ship, came to offer his Service, which indeed we were very glad 
of, and took him on board; upon which, without asking us 
whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he came in, and sent 
them back. 

I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old 
man carry us whither we would, that I began to talk with him 
about carrying us to the Gulf of Nanquin,^ which is the most 
northem part of the coast of China The old man said he knew 
the Gulf of Nanquin very well; but smiling, asked us what we 
would do there. 

I told him we would seil our cargo and purchase China wares, 

^ Nankia. 



A TROUBLED CONSCIENCE. 523 

calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c, and so would retum by 
the Barne course we cama He told us oar best port had been to 
have put in at Macao, where we coold not have failed of a market 
for our opium to our satisfaction, and might for our money have 
puTchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as we coold at 
Nanquin. 

Not being able to pnt the old man out of his talk, of which he 
was very opinionated or conceited^ I told him we were gentlemen 
as well as merchants, and that we had a mind to go and see the 
great city of Pecking,^ and the famous court of the monarch of 
China. "Why, then," says the old man, "you should go to 
Ningpo, where, by the river which ruus into the sea there, you 
may go up within five leagues of the Great CanaL'' This canal is 
a navigable river, which goes through the heart of that vast empire 
of China, crosses all the rivers, passes some considerable hills by 
the help of sluices and gates, and goes up to the city of Pecking; 
being in length near two hundred and seventy leaguea 

" Well," Said I, " Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our busi- 
ness now. The great question is, if you can carry us up to the 
city of Nanquin, from whence we can travel to Pecking afterwards." 
" Yes," he said, " he could do so very well, and that there was a 
great Dutch ship gone up that way just before." This gave me 
a little shock; and a Dutch ship was now our terror, and we had 
much rather have met the devil, at least if he had not come in too 
frightful a figure; and we depended upon it that a Dutch ship 
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition to fight 
them; all the ships they trade with into those parts being of great 
bürden and of much greater force than we were. 

The old man found me a little confused, and under some con- 
cem when he named a Dutch ship, and said to me, '^ Sir, you 
need be under no apprehensions of the Dutch, I suppose they are 
not now at war with your nation." " No," says I, " that's true; 
but I know not what liberties men may take when they are out 
of the reach of the law." " Why," says he, " you are no pirates, 
what need you fearf They will not meddle with peaceable 
merchants, sure." 

iPekin. 




524 THE PILOT'S STORY. 

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my immi 
at that Word, it was hindered by some stop in the vessels appoint— - 
by Nature to prevent it; for it put me into the greatest dison^l 
and confusion imaginable. Nor was it possible for me to conc^^ 
it so, but that the old man easily perceived it 

" Sir," says he, " I find you are in some disorder in y(^^ 
thoughts at my talk; pray be pleased to go which way you thl:^ 
fit, and depend upon it 111 do you all the Service I can." " ^^^k:ij 
seignior," said I, " it is true I am a little unsettled in my resoj^ 
tion at this time whither to go in particular; and I am somethXn^ 
more so for what you said about pirates. I hope there are tio 
pirates in these seas; we are but in an ill condition to meot wf^J^ 
them, for you see we have but a small f orce, and but very weakl/ 
manned." 

**0 sir," says he, "do not be concemed; I do not know thut 
there has been any pirates in these seas these fifteen years, except 
one which was seen, as I hear, in the Bay of Siam about a month 
since; but you may be assured she is gone to the southward Nor 
was she a ship of any great force, or fit for the work She wss 
not built for a piivateer, but was run away with by a reprobate 
crew that were on board, after the captain and some of bis men 
had been murdered by the Malayans at or near the island of 
Sumatra.^' 

" "What!" said I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, "did 
they murder the captain 1" " No," said he; "I do not underetand 
that they murdered him; but as they afterwards run away^ith 
the ship, it is generally believed they betrayed him into the hands 
of the Malayans, who did murder him, and perhaps they procured 
them to do it." " Why then," said I, " they des^rve death as 
much as if they had done it themselves." " Yea," says the old 
man, " they do deserve it, and they will certainly have it, if they 
light upon any English or Dutch ship; for they have all agreed 
together that if they meet that rogue they will give him no 
quarter." 

" But," said I to him, " you say the pirate is gone out of Üiosc 
seas. How can they meet with himi" "Why, that is trae," 
says he. " They do say so; but he was, as I teil you, in the Bay 



A REVELATION. 525 

of Slam, in the river Cambodia, and was discovered there by some 
Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and who were left on shore 
Krhen they run away with her; and some English and Dutch 
*Tuders being in the river, they were within a little of taking him. 
^^ay," said he, "if the foremost boats had been well seconded 
>j the rest, they had certainly taken him, but he finding only 
iMTo boats within reach of him, tacked about, and fired at these 
wo, and disabled them before the others came up; and then 
tanding off to sea, the other were not able to follow him, and so 
le got away. But they have all so exact a description of the 
liip that they will be sure to know him; and wherever they find 
lim they have vowed to give no quarter, to either the captain or 
he seamen, but to hang them all up at the yard-arm/' 

"What!" says I; "will they execute them right or wrong; 
lang them first, and judge them afterwards?" "0 sir!" says 
the old pilot, " there's no need to make a formal business of it 
with such rogues as those; let them tie them back to back and 
sei them a diving. Tis no more than they richly deserva" 

I knew I had my old man fast aboard, and that he could do me 
HO härm, so that I turned short upon him. " Well now, seignior," 
Bald I, " and this is the very reason why I would have you carry 
US up to Nanquin, and not to put back to Macao, or to any other 
part of the country where the English or Dutch ships coma For 
be it known to you, seignior, those captains of the English and 
Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, proud, insolent fellows, that 
neither knows what belongs to justice, nor how to behave them- 
selves as the laws of God and nature direct But being proud of 
their offices, and not understanding their power, they would act 
the murderers to punish robbers; would take upon them to insult 
men falsely accused, and determine them guilty without due in- 
quiry. And perhaps I may live to call some of them to an account 
for it, where they may be taught how justice is to be executed, 
and that no man ought to be treated as a criminal tili some 
evidence may be had of the crime, and that he is the man." 

With this I told him that this was the very ship they attacked; 
and gave him a füll account of the skirmish we had with their 
boats, and how foolishly and coward-like they behaved. I told 



I 



526 THE PILOT'S ADVICE. 

him all the story of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen 
served us. I told him the reasons I had to believe that this stoiy 
of killing the master by the Malayans was not true; as also the 
ninning away with the ship : but that it was all a fiction of their 
own, to suggest that the meu were tumed pirates; and they 
ought to have been sure it was so before they had ventared to 
attack US by surprise, and oblige us to resist them; adding, that 
they would have the blood of those men who we kiUed there in 
our just defence to answer for. 

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we were 
very much in the right to go away to the north; and that if he 
might advise us, it should be to seil the ship in China, which we 
might very well do, and buy or build another in the country. 
" And," Said he, " though you will not get so good a ship, yet you 
may get one able enough to carry you and all your goods back 
again to Bengal, or anywhere eise." 

I told him I would take his advice when I came to any port 
where I could find a ship for my tum, or get any customer to bnj 
this. He replied I should meet with customers enough for the 
ship at Nanquin, and that a Chinese junk would serve me very 
well to go back again; and that he would procure me people both 
to buy the one and seil the other. 

" Well but, seignior," says I, " as you say they know the ship 
so well, I may perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instrumental 
to bring some honest innocent men into a terrible broil, and per- 
haps to be murdered in cold blood; for wherever they find the 
ship they will prove the guilt upon the men by proving this was 
the ship, and so innocent men may probably be overpowered and 
murdered" " Why," says the old man, " I'U find out a way to 
prevent that also ; f or as I know all those Commanders you speak 
of very well, and shall see them all as they pass by, I will be sure 
to set them to rights in the thing, and let them know that they 
had been so much in the wrong: that though the people who were 
on board at first might run away with the ship, yet it was not 
true that they had tumed pirates; and that in particular these 
were not the men that first went off with the ship, but innocently 
bought her for their trade : and I am persuaded they will so far 



AN EXPLANATION. 527 

believe me as, at least, to act more cautiously for the time to 

come." "Well," says I; "and will you deliver one message to 

them from me?" "Yes, I will," says he, "if you will give it 

tmder your band in writing, that I may be able to prove that it 

came from you, and not out of my own head." I answered, 

"That I would readily give it him under my band." So I took 

A pen, and ink, and paper, and wrote at large the story of assault- 

ing me with the longboats, &c.; the pretended reason of it, and 

the unjust cruel design of it; and concluded to the Commanders, 

that they had done what they not only sbould have been ashamed 

of, but also, that if ever they came to England, and I lived to see 

them there, they should all pay dearly for it, if the laws of my 

country were not grown out of use before I arrived there. 

My old pilot read this over and over again, and asked me 

several times if I would stand to itl I answered, " I would stand 

to it as long as I had anything left in the world;" being sensible 

that I should one time or other find an opportunity to put it home 

to them. But we had no occasion ever to let the pilot carry this 

letter; for he never went back again. While those things were 

paasing between us, by way of discourse, we went forward directly 

for Nanquin ; and in about thirteen days' sail came to an anchor 

at the south-west point of the great Gulf of Nanquin, where, by 

the way, I came by accident to understand that two Dutch ships 

were gone the length before me, and that I should certainly fall 

into their hands. I consulted my partner again in this exigency; 

and he was as much at a loss as I was, and would very gladly 

have been safe on shore almost anywhere. However, I was not 

in such perplexity neither; but I asked the old pilot if there was 

no creek or harbour which I might put into, and pursue my 

business with the Chinese privately, and be in no danger of the 

enemyl He told me if I would sail to the southward about two 

and forty leagues, there was a little port called Quinchang, where 

the fathers of the mission usually landed from Macao, on their 

progress to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and where 

no European ships ever put in; and if I thought to put in there, 

I might consider what farther course to take when I was on 

shore. He confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, 



528 SAFE ON SHORE. 

except that at some certain times they had a kind of a fair there, 
when the merchants from Japan came over thither to buy the 
Chinese merchandise. 

We all agreed to go back to this place. The name of the port 
as he called it I may perhaps spell wrong, for I de not particu- 
larly remember it, having lost this, together with the names of 
many other places set down in a little pocket-book which was 
spoiled by the water, on an accident which I shall relate in its 
Order; bat this I remember, that the Chinese or Japonese mer 
chants we corresponded with called it by a differing name from 
that which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it^ as 
above, Quinchang. 

As we were unanimous in our resolutions to go to this place, 
we weighed the next day, having only gone twice on shore, where 
we were to get fresh water; on both which occasions the people 
of the country were very civil to us, and brought us abundance of 
things to seil to us, I mean, of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice, 
and some fowls; but nothing without money. 

We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not tili 
five days, but it was very much to our satisfaction. And I was 
joyful, and I may say thankful, when I set my foot safe on shore, 
resolving, and my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of 
ourselves and effects any other way, though not every way to our 
satisfaction, we would never set one foot on board that unhappy 
vessel more; and, indeed, I must acknowledge, that of all Üie 
circumstances of lif e that ever I had any experience of, nothing 
makes mankind so completely nuserable as that of being in constant 
fear. Well does the Scripture say, "The fear of man brings a 
snare:" it is a life of death, and the mind is so entirely suppressed 
by it, that it is capable of no relief ; the animal spirits sink, and 
all the vigour of nature, which usually supports men under other 
afilictions, and is present to them in the greatest exigencies, falls 
them here. 

Nor did it fail of its usual Operations upon the fancy by height- 
ening every danger, representing the English and Dutch captains 
to be men uncapable of hearing reason, or of distinguishing be- 
tween honest men and rogues; or between a story calculated for 



TORBIENTED BY FEAR. 529 

OUT own turn, made out of nothing, on purpose to deceive, and a 

true genoine account of our whole voyage, progress, and design. 

for we might many ways have convinced any reasonable creature 

^ we were not pirates : the goods we had on board, the course 

^^ steered, our frankly showing ourselves, and entering into such 

*nd such ports; and even our very manner, the force we had, the 

öQmber of men, the few arms, little ammunition, short provisions; 

*U these would have served to convince any men that we were no 

Piratea The opium, and other goods we had on board, would 

^ake it appear the ship had been at BengaL The Dutchmen, 

^ho, it was said, had the names of all the men that were in the 

^tip, might easily see that we were a mixture of English, Portu- 

^ese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen on board. These, 

^d many other paEticular circumstances, might have made it 

Evident to the understanding of any Commander, whose hands we 

^ght fall into, that we were no pirates. 

Bat fear, that blind, useless passion, worked another way, and 

'Öirew US into the vapours; it bewildered our understandings, and set 

'^he imagination at work to form a thousand terrible things that 

perhaps might never happen. We first supposed, as indeed every- 

Wy had related to us, that the seamen on board the English and 

Ihitch ships, but especially the Dutch, were so enraged at the 

^name of a pirate, and especially at our beating of their boats and 

escaping, that they would not give themselves leave to inquire 

whether we were pirates or no, but would execute us off-hand, as 

we call it, without giving us any room f or a defence. We reflected 

that there was really so much apparent evidence before them, that 

they would scarce inquire af ter any more ; as, first, that the ship 

was certainly the same, and that some of the seamen among them 

knew her, and had been on board her; and secondly, that when 

we had intelligence at the river of Cambodia that they were Coming 

down to examine us, we fought their boats and fled : so that we 

made no doubt that they were fully satisfied of our being pirates, 

as we were satisfied of the contrary; and, as I often said, I know 

not but I should have been apt to have taken those circumstances 

ior evidence, if the tables were tumed, and my case was theirs, 

and have made no scruple of cutting all the crew to pieces, without 

(S48) 2L 



530 DISQUIETING APPRBH£NBIONS. 

believing, or perhaps coiuidering, what they might haye to offer in 
tkeir defence. 

But let that be how it will, those were our apprehensions; and 
both my partner and I too scarce slept a night without dreaming 
of halters and yard-arms — that is to say, gibbets; of fighting^ and 
being taken; of killing, and being killed; and one night I was in 
such a f ury in my dream, f ancying the Dutchmen had boarded ua^ 
and I was knocking one of their seainen down, that I strack my 
double fist against the side of the cabin I lay in, with such a 
f orce as wounded my band most grievously, broke my knuckles 
and cut and bruised the flesh; so that it not only waked me out 
of my sleep, but I was once afraid I should have lost two of mj 
fingers. 

Another apprehension I had, was of the cruel usage wo mighl 
meet with f rom them if we feil into their hands. Then the stoiy 
of Ambojma^ came into my head, and how the Dutch might per- 
haps torture us, as they did our countrymen there, and make some 
of our men, by extremity of torture, confess those crimes they 
never were guüty of , own themselves and all of us to be pirates, 
and so they woiüd put us to death, with a formal appearance ol 
justice; and that they might be tempted to do this for the gain 
of our ship and cargo, which was worth four or five thonsand 
pound, put all together. 

These things tormented me, and my partner too, night and day; 
nor did we consider that the captains of ships have no authority to 
act thus; and if we had suirendered prisoners to them, they could 
not answer the destroying us, or torturing us» but would be 

1 Amboyna, the moat important but not the lai^g;est of the Moluccas or Spioe 
Islands in the Eostem seas. Taken in 1521 by the Portuguese, who were tyrannical 
and cniel to the natiTes. Early in the leTenteenth oentury the Dutch took Uie kbni 
from the Portuguese, but were just as cruel, so that the people of Amboyna wen 
always at strife with them. In 1604 the East India Company tried to make i 
settlement in the island, and in 1619 a treaty was made between them and the Dutch, 
but there were constant quarreis and disputes. At a later date the jealousy of tlM 
Dutch led them to accuse a Gaptain Towerson, with niaa ^^^g'iihnwn, nint 
Japanese, and one Portuguese sailor, of conspiring to surprise the ganiBon, ssd 
these persons were seized, tortured, tried, found guilty, and ezecuted. lliii, 
which was called the " massacre of Amboyna," made a great Sensation in BbgUa^t 
and it is this that ia ref erred to here. 



A DISPOSITION OF PROVIDENCE. 531 

Accountable for it when they came into their own country : this, I 
^y» g&ve me no satisf action ; for if they will act thus with us, 
what advantage woald it be to us that they would be called to an 
accoant for itf or if we were first to be murdered, what satisf ac- 
tion would it be to US to have them punished when they came 
homel 

I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections I now had 
upon the past variety of my particular circumstances; how hard 
I thought it was that I, who had spent forty years in a life of 
continued difficulties, and was at last come, as it were, to the port 
or haven which all men drive at, namely, to have rest and plenty, 
ahould be a volunteer in new sorrows by my 0¥m unhappy choice ; 
and that I, who had esc£^>ed so many dangers in my youth, should 
DOW come to be hanged in my old age, and in so remote a place, 
for a crime I was not in the least inclined to, much less really 
gailty of, and in a place and circumstance where innocence was 
not like to be any protection at all to me. 

After these thoughts, something of religion would come in; and 
I should be considering that this seemed to me to be a disposition 
of immediate Providence, and I ought to look upon it, and submit 
to it as such; that although I was innocent as to men, I was far 
from being innocent as to my Maker; and I ought to look in and 
examine what other crimes in my life were most obvious to me, 
and for which Providence might justly inflict this punishment as 
a retribution; and that I ought to submit to this, just as I would 
to a shipwreck, if it had pleased God to have brought such a dis- 
aster upon me. 

In its tum, natural courage would sometimes take its place, 
and then I would be talking myself up to vigorous resolutions, 
that I would not be taken, to be barbarously used, by a parcel of 
merciless wretches, in cold blood: that it were much better to have 
fallen into the hands of the savages, who were man-eaters, and 
who, I was sure, would feast upon me when they had taken me, 
than by those, who would perhaps glut their rage upon me by 
inhuman tortures and barbarities : that in the case of the savages, 
I always resolved to die fighting to the last gasp; and why should 
I not do flOy seeing it was much more dreadful to me, at leiust, to 



632 Ä HAPPY DREAK. 

think of foUing into these men's hands, th&n ever it was to tlutik 
of being eaten by men; for the savages, give them their due, would 
not eat k man tili he w&s dead, and killed bim first, aswedot 
bullocki bat that these men had many arta beyond the cnielty of 
death. Wbenever these thoughts prevailed I was eure to pnt my- 
seif in a kind of fever with the agitations of a suppoaed fight; 
my blood would boil and my eyes eparkle as if I was engaged; 
and I always reaolved tbat I would take so quarter at their hands, 
but even at last, if I could resiat no longer, I would blow up the 
sbip, and all that was in her, and leave them but little booty to 
boast of. 

By how much the greater weight the anxieties and perplexitiea 
of these things were to our thoughte while we wäre at sea, by so 
much the greater was our satisfaction when we saw ourselves on 
fihore; and my partner told me he dreamed that he had a. very 
heavy load npon hie back, which he was to carry up a hill, and 
found that he was not able to stand long under it; bat that the 
Portuguese pilot came and took it off bis back, and the bül dis- 
appeared, the ground before him abowing all smootb and plain; 
and truly it was so, we were all like men who had a load taken off 
their backe. 

For my part, I had a weight taken off from my heart that I 
was not able any longer to bear; and, as I eaid above, ve resolved 
to go no more to sea in that ship. When we came on sbore, the 
old pilot, who was now our friend, got üb a lodging and a wäre- 
houBe for our goode; which, by the way, was much the same. It 
was a little bouse or hut, with a lai^e house joining to it, all built 
with canes, and palisadoed round with lai^e canes to keep oul 
pilferiog thieves, of which, it seeros, there were not a few in that 
country. However, the magistrates allowed us also a little guaid, 
and we had a sentinel with a kind of halberd, or half-pike, who 
stood sentinel at our door; to whom we allowed a pint of rice, 
and a little pioce of money, afaout the value of threepence per day; 
so that our goods were kept very safe. 

The fair or mart usually kept in this place had been over some 
time; howerer, we found that there were tbree or four junks in 
the river, and two Japanners, I mean ships from Japan, with goods 



NEW ACQÜAINTANCES. 533 

^luch they had bought in China^ and were not-gone away, having 
Japonesa merchants on shore. 

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us, was to bring 

Us acqaainted with three missionary Komish priests who were in 

the town^ and who had been there some time, Converting the 

people to Christianity; but we thought they made but poor work 

of ity and made them but sorry Christians when they had done. 

Bowever, that was none of our business. One of these was a 

Prenchman, whom they called Father Simon. He was a jelly, 

well-conditioned man, very free in his conversation ; not seeming 

so serious and grave as the other two did, one of whom was a 

Portuguese, and the other a Genoese: but Father Simon was 

courteous, easy in his manner, and very agreeable Company. The 

other two were more reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and 

applied seriously to the work they came about, namely, to talk 

with and insinuate themselves among the inhabitants wherever 

they had opportunity. We often eat and drank with those men; 

and though I must confess the conversion, as they call it, of the 

Chinese to Christianity is so far from the true conversion required 

to bring heathen people to the faith of Christ, that it seems to 

unount to little more than letting them know the name of Christ, 

and say some prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son in a tongue 

which they understand not, and to. cross themselves, and the like, 

yet it must be confessed that these religious, who we call mission* 

aries, have a firm belief that these people shall be saved, and that 

they are the instruments of it And on this account they undergo, 

not only the fatigue of the voyage, and hazards of living in such 

places, but oftentimes death itself, with the most violent tortures, 

for the sake of this work; and it would be a great want of charity 

in US, whatever opinion we have of the work itself, and the manner 

of their doing it, if we should not have a good opinion of their 

zeal, who undertook it with so many hazards, and who have no 

prospect of the least temporal advantage to themselves. 

But to retum to my story. This French priest, Father Simon, 
was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of the mission, to 
go up to Peking, the royal seat of the Chinese Emperor, and waited 
only for another priest who was ordered to come to hira from 




534 FATHBR SIMON. 

Macao to go along with him; and we scarce ever met together bot 
he was inviting me to go that joumey, telling xne how he wocdd 
6how me all the glorious things of that mighty empire; and, 
among the rest, the greatest city in the world — " A city," said he, 
" that your London and our Paris put together cannot be equal 
to." This was the city of Peking: which, I oonfess, is veiy 
great, and infinitely füll of people; but as I looked on those thinga 
with düferent eyes from other men, so I shall give my opinion of 
them in few words, when I come in the course of my travels to 
speak more particularly of them. 

Bat first, I come to my friar or missionary. Dining wiih him 
one day, and being very merry together, I showed some little in- 
clination to go with him, and he pressed me and my partner very 
hard, and with a great many persuasions, to consent ''Why, 
Father Simon," says my partner, "why should you desire our 
Company so much? You know we are heretics, and yoa do not 
love US, nor can keep us Company with any pleasura" "Ob," 
says he, " you may, perhaps, be good Catholics in time; my busi- 
ness here is to convert heathens, and who knows bat I may con- 
vert you too." " Very well, father,* said I; "so you will preach 
to US all the way" " I won't be troublesome to you," says he; 
"our religion does not divest us of good manners; besides," sap 
he, " we are here like countrymen, and so we are, compared to 
the place we are in ; and if you are Huguenots ^ and I a CathoUc, 
we may be all Christians at last; at least," said he, " we are a]l 
gentlemen, and we may converse so without being uneasy to one 
another." I liked that part of his discourse very well, and it 
began to put me in mind of my priest that I had left in the 
Brazils; but this Father Simon did not come up to his character, 
by a great deal; for though Father Simon had no appearance of a 
criminal levity in him neither, yet he had not that f und of Christian 
zeal, strict piety, and sincere affection to religion that my othtf 
good ecclesiastic had, of whom I have said so much. 

But to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor aoliciting 
US to go with him; but we had something eise before us at first: 

* The Protestants in France were called Huguenots or Hiigonots, it is suppoted 
from the name of Hugon, one of their early leaders. 




A JAPAV HERCHANT. 



536 



/or V« lud kU this vhile onr ahip and our roerchuidise to di^oae 
oS, ud we b^an to be very doubtfui what we should do, for we 
"wen now in a place of very Uttle buamesa; and once I was about 
-%o ventore to sali for tbfl river of Kilam and the city of If anquin. 
Sot proTid«iiM Beemed now mora visibly, an I tbought, than ever 
fto caaetm itaelf in our afiairj and I vm encouraged from tbis very 




time to think I should one vay or other get out of thia tangled 
e ireuui atance and be brought home to my own coimtry again, 
thoog^ I had not the leaat Tiew of the manner; and when I b^n 
Bometimea to think of it, could not imagine by what roethod it 
Was to be done. Providence, I say, b^an bere to clear up onr 
way a little; and the first thing that ofiered was that our old 
Portognese pilot bronght a Japan merchant to us, who began to 
inqnire what gooda we had; and in the firat place, be bon^t all 
oar opirnn, and gave u» a very good price for it, paying us in gold 



536 BUSINESS NEGOTIATIONS. 

by weight; 'some in small pieces of their own coin, and some in 
small wedges of about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were 
dealing with him for our opiiini, it came into my head that he 
might perhaps deal with us for the ship too, and I ordered the 
Interpreter to propose it to him. He shrunk up his Shoulders at 
it when it was first proposed to him, but in a few days after he 
came to me, with one of the missionary priests for his interpreter, 
and told me he had a proposal to make to me, and that was this: 
He had bought a great quantity of goods of us, when he had no 
thoughts (or proposals made to him) of buying the ship, and that, 
therefore he had not money enough to pay for the ship; but if I 
would let the same men who were in the ship navigate her, he 
would hire the ship to go to Japan, and would send them from 
thence to the Philippine Islands with another loading, which he 
would pay the f reight of before they went from Japan ; and that 
at their retum he would buy the ship. I began to listen to his 
proposal, and so eager did my head still run upon rambling, that 
I could not but begin to entertain a notion of going myself with 
him, and so to sail from the Philippine Islands away to the South 
Seas; and accordingly I a^ed the Japanese merchant if he would 
not hire us to the Philippine Islands and dischaige us there. He 
Said, No, he could not do that, for then he could not have the 
retum of his cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan, he said, 
at the ship's return. Well, still I was for taking him at that pro- 
posal, and going myself; but my partner, wiser than myself, per- 
suaded me from it, representing the dangers as well of the seas as 
of the Japanese, who are a false, cruel, and treacherous people; 
and then of the Spaniards at the Philippines, more false, mor& 
cruel, and more treacherous than they. 

But to bring this long tum of our affairs to a conclusion, the 
first thing we had to do was to consult with the captain of the 
ship, and with his men, and know if they were willing to go to 
Japan. And while I was doing this, the young man who, as I 
said, my nephew had left with me as my companion for my travels, 
came to me and told me that he thought that voyage promised 
very fair, and that there was a great prospect of advantage, and 
ho would be very glad if I undertook it; but that if I would not 



A GENEROUS OFFER. 537 

and woald give him leave, he would go as a merchant, or how I 
pleased to order him; that if ever hecame to England, and I was 
there and alive, he would render me a faithful account of his 
success, and it should be as much mine as I pleased. 

I was really loath to part with him, but considering the prospect 

«f advantage, which was really considerable, and that he was a 

jroung fellow as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I inclined 

to let him go; but first I told him I would consult my partner, 

^md give him an answer the next day. My partner and I dis- 

^oursed about it, and my partner made a most generous offer. He 

^told me, " You know it has been an unlucky ship, and we both 

^»esolve not to go to sea in it again; if your steward," so he called 

xay man, " will venture the voyage, 1*11 leave my share of the vessel 

t;o him, and let him make his best of it; and if we live to meet in 

^England, and he meets with success abroad, he shall account for 

one half of the profits of the ship's freight to us, the other shall be 

iis own." 

If my partner, who was no way concemed with my young man, 
xnade him such an offer, I could do no less than offer him the same; 
«nd all the ship's Company being willing to go with him, we made 
over half the ship to him in property, and took a writing from 
Iiim, obliging him to account for the other; and away he went to 
Japan. The Japan merchant proved a very punctual, honest man 
to him, protected him at Japan, and got him a license to come on 
shore, which the Europeans in general have not lately obtained; 
paid him his freight very punctually, sent him to the Philippines 
loaded with Japan and China wares, and a supercargo of their 
own, who, trafficking with the Spaniards, brought back European 
^oods again, and a great quantity of cloves and other spiee. And 
there he was not only paid his freight very well and at a very 
good price, but being not willing to seil the ship then, the mer- 
chant fumished him with goods on his own account; that for 
sonie money and some spices of his own, which he brought with 
him, he went back to the Manillas to the Spaniards, where he 
8old his cargo very well. Here, having gotten a good acquaintance 
at Manilla, he got his ship made a free ship; and the Govemor of 
Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco in America, on the coast of 



538 SKRVICEd REWARBED. 

Mexico, and gave him a license to land there, and trarel to Mexico^ 
and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe, with all his men. 

He made the voyage to Acapulco very happily, and there he 
sold his ship; and having there also obtained allowance to travel 
by land to Portobello, he found means, somehow or other, to 
get to Jamaica with all his treasure; and about eight years 
af ter, came to England exceeding rieh : of the which I shall take 
notice in its place; in the meantime, I retum to oar partlcular 
affairs. 

Being now to part with the ship and ship's Company, it came 
before ns, of course, to consider what recompense we should giye 
to the two men that gave us such timely notice of the deaign 
against us in the river of Cambodia. The truth was, they had 
done US a considerable Service, and deserved well at cur hands; 
though, by the way, they were a couple of rogues too ; for as they 
believed the story of our being pirates, and that we had really run 
away with the ship, they came down to us, not only to betray the 
design that was formed against us, but to go to sea with us as 
pirates; and one of them confessed afterwards, that nothing eise 
but the hopes of going a-roguing brought him to do it Howeyer, 
the Service they did us was not the less; and therefore, as I had 
promised to be gratef ul to them, I first ordered the money to be 
paid to them which they said was due to them on board iheir 
respective ships; that is to say, the Englishman nineteen months' 
pay, and to the Dutchman seven; and over and above that, I gave 
them, each of them, a small sum of money in gold, and which 
contented them very welL Then I made the Englishman gunner 
in the ship, the gunner being now made second mate and puraer; 
the Dutchman I made boatswain: so they were both very well 
pleased, and proved very serviceable, being both able seamen, and 
very stout fellows. 

We were now on sliore in China. If I thought myself baniahed 
and remote from my own countiy at Bengal, where I had many 
ways to get home for my money, what could I think of myself 
now, when I was gotten about a thousand leagues farther off from 
home, and perfectiy destitute of all manner of prospect of retum t 

All we had for it was this, that in about four months* time there 



AT NANQÜIN. 639 

was to be another fair at the place where we were; and then we 

might be able to purchase all sorts of the manufactures of the 

coimtiy, and withal might possibly find some Chinese junks or 

Tessels from Tonquin that would be to be seid, and would carry us 

and our goods whither we pleased. This I liked very well, and 

vesolved to wait; besides, as our particular persons were not 

obnoxiooB, so if any English or Dutch ships came thither, perhaps 

^we might have an opportimity to load our goods and get passage 

te 8ome other place in India, nearer home. 

Upon these hopes we resolved to continue here; but to divert 
oorselves, we took two or three joumeys into the country. First 
^we went ten days' joumey to see the city of Nanquin : a city well 
^worth seeing indeed. They say it has a million of people in it; 
'wbichy however, I do not beUeve. It is regularly built, the streets 
all exactly straight, and cross one another in direct lines, which gives 
the figore of it great advantage. 

But when I come to compare the miserable people of these 
countries with ours, their fabrics, their manner of living, their 
^ovemment, their religion, their wealth, and their glory (as some 
call it), I must confess I do not so much as think it is worth 
tiaming, or worth my while to write of, or any that shall come 
after me to read. 

It is very observable, that we wonder at the grandeur, the 
liches, the pomp, the ceremonies, the govemment, the manu- 
factures, the commerce, and the conduct of these people ; not that 
it is to be wondered at, or, indeed, in the least to be regarded, but 
because, having first a true notion of the barbarity of those coun- 
tries, the rudeness and the ignorance that prevails there, we do not 
ezpect to find any such things so far off. 

Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces and royal 
buildings of Europel What their trade to the universal com- 
merce of England, Holland, France, and Spain? What are their 
eitles to ours, for wealth, strength, gaiety of apparel, rieh fumiture, 
and an infinite varietyl What are their ports, supplied with a 
few junks and barks, to our navigation, our merchant fleets, our 
large and powerful naviesi Our city of London has more trade 
than all their mighty empire. One English, or Dutch, or French 



540 CONCERNING THE CHINESE. 

man-of-war of eighty guns would fight and destroy all the shipping 
of China. But the greatness of their wealth, their trade, the 
power of their govemment, and strength of their annies, is sur- 
prising to us, because, as I have said, considering them as a bar- 
barous nation of pagans, little better than savages, we did not 
expect such things among them; and this, indeed, is the advantage 
with which all their greatness and power is represented to n& 
Otherwise, it is in itself nothing at all; f or as I have said of their 
ships, so may be said of their armies and troops. All the forces 
of their empire, though they were to bring two nüllions of men into 
the field together, would be able to do nothing but min the coontrj 
and starve themselyes. If they were to besiege a strong town in 
Flanders, or to fight a disciplined army, one line of German 
cuirassiers or of French cavalry would overthrow all the horse of 
China. A million of their foot could not stand before one em- 
battled body of our infantry, posted so as not to be surrounded, 
though they were to be not one to twenty in number; nay, I do 
not boast if I say that 30,000 German or English foot, and 10,000 
French horse, would fairly beat all the forces of China. And so 
of our fortified towns, and of the art of our engineers in assaultmg 
and defending towns. There is not a fortified town in China conld 
hold out one month against the batteries and attacks of an 
European army; and, at the same time, all the armies of China 
could never take such a town as Dunkirk, provided it was not 
starved, no, not in a ten years' siege. They have fireanns, it is 
true, but they are awkward, clumsy, and uncertain in going o£ 
They have powder, but it is of no strength. They have neither 
discipline in the field, exercise to their arms, skill to attack, or 
temper to retreat And therefore I must confess it seemed stränge 
to me, when I came home and heard our people say such fine things 
of the power, riches, glory, magnificence, and trade of the Chinese; 
because I saw and knew that they were a contemptible herd, or 
crowd of ignorant, sordid slaves, subjected to a govemment qualified 
only to rule such a people. And in a word (for I am now launched 
quite beside my design) — I say, in a word, were not its distance 
inconceivably great from Muscovy,^ and was not the Muscovite 

^ Rusaia, anciently calied Muscovy : the capitol being Moscow or MuskoT. 



THEIR WEAKNESS AND IGNORANCE. 541 

empire almost as rüde, impotent, and ill-govemed a crowd of slaves 
as they, the Czar of Muscovy might with mucb ease drive them all 
out of their country, and conquer them in one campaign. And 
had the Czar, who I since hear is a growing prince, and begins to 
appear formidable in the world, fallen this way, instead of attack- 
ing the warlike Swedes (in which attempt none of the powere of 
Eorope would have envied or intemipted him), he might by this 
time have been Emperor of China, instead of being beaten by the 
King of Sweden at Narva^ when the latter was not one to six in 
nomber. As their strength and their grandeur, so their naviga- 
tion, commerce, and husbandry is imperfect and impotent, com- 
pared to the same things in Europe ; also in their knowledge, their 
leaming, their skill in the sciences. They have globes and spheres, 
and a smatch^ of the knowledge of the mathematics; but when you 
come to inquire into their knowledge, how short-sighted are the 
wisest of their students ! They know nothing of the motion of 
the heavenly bodies; and so grossly, absurdly ignorant, that when 
the sun is echpsed, they think it is a great dragon has assaulted 
and nm away with it, and they fall a-clattering with all the drums 
and kettles in the country, to fright the monster away, just as 
we do to hive a swarm of bees ! 

As this is the only excureion of this kind which I have made 
in all the account I have given of my travels, so I shall make no 
more descriptions of countries and people ; it is none of my busi- 
ness, or any part of my design, but giving an account of my own 
adventures, through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a long 
variety of changes, which perhaps few that come after me will 
have heard the Uke of. I shall therefore say very little of all the 
mighty places, desert countries, and numerous people I have yet 
to pass through more than relates to my own story, and which 
my concem among them will make necessary. I was now, as 
near as I can compute, in the heart of China, about the latitude 
of 30 degrees north of the line, f or we were retumed from Nanquin. 
I had indeed a mind to see the city of Peking, which I had heard 
8o much of, and Father Simon importuned me daily to do it At 
length bis time of going away being set, and the other missionary 

1 Or as we say, smatteriDg, a eonall or superficial knowledge. 



1 



542 START FOR PEKING. 

who was to go with him being arrived from Macao, in was neoes- 
sary that we ehould resolve either to go or not to go; so I referred 
him to my partner, and left it whoUy to bis cboice, who at length 
resolved it in tbe affirmative, and we prepared for cur joomey. 
We set out with very good advantage as to finding the way; for 
we got leave to travel in the retinae of one of their mandarins — 
a kind of viceroy, or principal magistrate in the province where 
they reside, and who take great State upon them, travelling with 
great attendance, and with great homage from the i)eople, who 
are sometimes greatly impoverished by them, because all the 
countries they pass through are obliged to fumish provisions for 
them and all their attendance. That which I particularly observed, 
as to our travelling with bis baggage, was tbis, that though we 
received sufficient provisions, both for ourselves and our borses, 
from tbe country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet were obliged 
to pay for every thing we bad af ter the market price of the countiy, 
and the mandarin's steward, or commissary of tbe provisions, col- 
lected it duly from us; so that our travelling in the retinue of 
the mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to us, was not 
such a mighty favour in bim, but was indeed a great advantage 
to bim, considering there were above thirty other people travelled 
in the same manner besides us, under tbe protection of bis retinue, 
or, as we may call it, under bis convoy. This, I say, was a great 
advantage to him, for tbe country f umished all the provisions for 
'nothing, and he took all our money for them. 

We were five and twenty days travelling to Peking, through a 
country infinitely populous, but miserably cultivated; the hus- 
bandry, the economy, and the way of living miserable, though 
they boast so much of the industry of the people. I say miser- 
able, and so it is, if we who understand how to live were to 
endure it, or to compare it with our own; but not so to thesa 
poor wretches who know no other. The pride of these people is 
infinitely great, and exceeded by nothing but their poverty, which 
adds to that which I call their misery. And I must needs think 
the naked savages of America live much more happy, because, as 
they have notbing, so they desire nothing; wbereas these an 
proud and insolent^ and in tbe main are mere beggars and drudges. 



A CHINESE GRANDEE. 543 

Their ostentation is inexpressible, and is chiefly shewed in their 
clothes and buildings, and in the keeping multitudes of servants 
or slaves; and, which is to the last degree ridiculous, their con- 
tempt of all the world but themselves. 

I must ponfess I travelled more pleasantly afterwards in the 
^lesertB and vast wildemesses of Grand Tartary than here; and 
j-et the roads here are well paved, and well kept, and very con- 
>'enient for travellers; but nothing was more awkward to me than 
to see such a haughty, imperions, insolent people, in the midst of 
the grossest simplicity and ignorance; for all their famed ingenuity 
is no more. And my friend Father Simon and I used to be very 
merry upon these occasions, to see the beggarly pride of those 
people. For example, Coming by the house of a country gentle- 
man, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues off of the dty 
of Nanquin, we had first of all the honour to ride with the master 
of the house about two miles. The State he rode in was a perfect 
I>on Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty. 

The habit of this greasy don was very proper for a scaramouch 
or merry Andrew, being a dirty calico, with all the tawdry and 
trapping of a fooFs coat, such as hanging sleeves, tasseis, and cuts 
and slashes almost on every side. It covered a taffeta vest, as 
^easy as a butcher, and which testified that his honour must 
needs be a most exquisite sloven. 

His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling creature, such as 
in England might seil for about thirty or forty Shillings; and he 
had two slaves followed him on foot to drive the poor creature 
along. He had a whip in his band, and he belaboured the beast 
US fast about the head as his slaves did about the tail; and thus 
lie rode by us with about ten or twelve servants, and we were told 
lie was going from the city to his country seat, about half a league 
before us. We travelled on gently, but this figure of a genüeman 
ttxle away before us, and as we stopped at a vülage about an hour 
to refresh us, when we came by the country-seat of this great 
man, we saw him in a little place before his door eating his repast. 
It was a kind of a garden, but he was easy to be seen; and we 
were given to understand that the more we looked on him the 
better he would be pleased. 



544 A CHINESE DINNER. 

He sat UDder a tree something like the palmetto tree, which 
effectually shaded him over the head; and on the soath side, but 
rnider the tree also, was placed a Lirge umbrella, which made that 
part look well enongh. He sat lolling back in a great elbow-chair, 
being a heayy corpulent man, and his meat being brought him bj 
two women slaves. He had two more, whose office, I think, few 
gentlemen in Europe would accept of their service in — namelj, 
one fed the sqnire with a spoon, and the other held the dish with 
one band, and scraped off what he let fall upon his worship's beard 
and taffeta vest; while the great fat brüte thought it below him 
to employ his own hands in any of those familiär Offices, which 
kings and monarchs would rather do than be troubled with the 
clumsy fingers of their servants. 

I took this time to think what pain men's pride puts them to, 
and how troublesome a haughty temper, thus ill managed, must 
be to a man of common sense. And leaving the poor wretch to 
please himself with our looking at him, as if we admired his 
pomp, whereas we really pitied and contemned him, we pursued 
our joumey. Only Father Simon had the curiosity to stay to 
inform himself what dainties the country justice had to feed on, 
in all his state, which, he said, he had the honour to taste of, and 
which was, I think, a dose that an English honnd would scarce 
have eaten if it had been offered him, namely, a mess of boiled 
rice, with a great piece of garlic in it, and a little bag filled with 
green pepper, and another plant which they have there, something 
like our ginger, but smelling like musk, and tasting like mnstard. 
All this was put together, and a small lump or piece of lean 
mutton boiled in it; and this was his worship's repast^ fonr or 
five servants more attending at a distance. If he fed them meaner 
than he was fed himself, the spiee excepted, they must fare yery 
coarsely indeed. 

As for our mandarin, with whom we travelled, he was respected 
like a king; surrounded always with his gentlemen, and attended 
in all his appearances with such pomp that I saw little of him but 
at a distance. But this I observed, that there was not a horse in 
his retinue, but that our carriers' pack-horses in England seem to 
me to look much better; but they were so covered with equipage, 



ARRIVE AT PEKING. 545 

mantles, trappings, and such like tnimpery, that you cannot see 
whether they are fat or lean. In a word, we could eee scarce any- 
thing but their feet and their heads. 

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perplexity 
that I have given an accoont of being over, I had no auxious 
thoughts about me, which made this joumey the pleasanter to 
me; nor had I any ill accident attended me, only in the passing 
or fording a small river, my horse feil, and made me free of the 
country, as they call it, that is to say, threw me in. The place 
was not deep, bat it wetted me all over. I mention it because it 
spoiled my pocket-book, wherein I had set down the names of 
several people and places, which I had occasion to remember; and 
which, not taking due care of, the leaves rotted, and the words 
were never after to be read, to my great loss as to the names. of 
some places I touched at in this voyage. 

At length we arrived at Peking. I had nobody with me but 
the youth who my nephew, the captain, had given me to attend 
me as a servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent; and 
my partner had nobody with him but one servant, who was a 
kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see 
the court, we gave him his passage — that is to say, bore his charges 
for his Company, and to use him as an interpreter; for he under- 
stood the language of the country, and spoke good French, and 
a little English. And, indeed, this old man was a most useful 
implement to us everywhere; for we had not been above a week 
at Peking when he came laughing. *' Ah, Seignior Inglese," says 
he, " I have something to teil you will make your heart glad.** 
"My heart glad," says I. " What can that be? I don't know 
anything in this country can either give me joy or grief to any 
great degree." " Yes, yes," said the old man, in broken English; 
"make you glad, me sorrow." "Sorry" he would have said. 
This made me more inquisitiva " Why," said I, " will it make 
you sorry?" "Because," said he, "you have brought me here 
twenty-five days' joumey, and will leave me to go back alone. 
And which way shall I get to my port afterwards, without a ship, 
without a horse, without pecunef" So he called money, being his 
broken Latin, of which he had abundance to make us merry with. 

(248) 2M 



546 THE PILOT'S NEWS. 

In short, he told us there was a great caravan of Muscovite and 
Polish merchants in the city, and thej were preparing to set out 
on their journey by land to Muscovy, within four or five weeks; 
and he was sure we would take the opportunity to go with them, 
and leave him behind to go back all alone. I coDfess I was sur- 
prised with his news; a secret joy spread itself over mj whole 
Boul, which I cannot describe, and never feit before or since, and 
I had no power for a good while to speak a word to the cid man. 
But at last I turned to him. *' How do you know thisl^' said I 
"Are you sure it is truel" " Yes," says he: "I met this moming 
in the street an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, or one 
you call a Grecian, who is among them. He came last from 
Astracan, and was designing to go to Tonquin, where I formerlj 
knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now^ resolved to go 
with the caravan to Muscow, and so down the river Wolga to 
Astracan." "Well, seignior," says I, "do not be uneasj about 
being left to go back alone. If this be a method for mj retum 
to England, it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao at all'' 
We then went to Consulting together what was to be done, and I 
asked my partner what he thought of the pilot s news, and 
whether it would suit with his affairs) He told me he would do 
just as I would; for he had settled all his affairs so well at Bengal, 
and left his effects in such good hands, that as we had made a 
good voyage here, if he could vest it in China silks, wrought and 
raw, such as might be worth the carriage, he would be content to 
go to England, and then make his voyage back to Bengal by the 
Company's ships. 

Having resolved upon this, we agreed that, if our Portugal 
pilot would go with us, we would bear his charges to Muscow, or 
to England if he pleased. Nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed 
over-generous in that part neither, if we had not rewarded him 
farther, for the service he had done us was really worth all that, 
and more : for he had not only been a pilot to us at sea, but he 
had been like a broker for us on shore; and his procuring for us 
the Japan merchant was some hundred of pounds in our pocket 
So we consulted together about it, and being willing to gratify 
him, which was indeed but doing him justice, and very willing 



WE LEAVE PEKING. 547 

also to have him with us besides, for he was a most necessary man 
on all occasions, we agreed to give him a quantity of coined gold, 
which, as I compute it, came to about £175 Sterling between us, 
and to bear all his charges, both for himself and horse, except 
only a horse to carry his goods. 

Having settled this among ourselves, we called him to let him 

know what we had resolved. I told him he had complained of 

oor being to let him go back alone, and I was now to teil him we 

was resolved he should not go back at all; that as we had resolved 

to go to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he should go 

with us; and that we called him to know his mind. He shook 

his head, and said it was a long journey, and he had no pecune to 

carry him thither, or to subsist himself when he came there. 

We told him we believed it was so, and therefore we had resolved 

to do something for him that should let him see how sensible we 

were of the service he had done us, and also how agreeable he 

was to US. And then I told him what we had resolved to give 

him here, which he might lay out as we would do our own; and 

that as for lüs charges, if he would go with us, we would set him 

safe ashore, life and casualties excepted, either in Muscovy or 

England, which he would, at our own charge, except only the 

carriage of his goods. 

He received the proposal like a man transported, and told us 
he would go with us over the whole world; and so, in short, 
we all prepared ourselves for the joumey. However, as it was 
with US, so it was with the other merchants: they had many 
things to do, and instead of being ready in five weeks, it was 
four months and some odd days before all things were got 
together. 

It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set out 
from Peking. My partner and the old pilot had gone express back 
to the port where we had first put in, to dispose of some goods 
which we had left there; and I, with a Chinese merchant, who I 
had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Peking on 
his own affairs, went to Nanquin, where I bought ninety pieces of 
£ne damasks, with about two hundred pieces of other very fine 
silks, of several sorts, some mixed with gold, and had all these 



548 A LARGE CARAVAN. 

brought to Peking against my partner's retum. Besides this, we 
bought a very large quantity of raw eilk, and some other goods; 
OUT cargo amounting in these goods only to about three thousand 
five hundred pounds Sterling; which, together with tea and some 
fine calicoes, and three camel-loads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded 
in all eighteen cameis for our share, besides those we ride upoD, 
which, with two or three spare horses, and two horses loaded with 
provisions, made us, in short, twenty-six cameis and horses in our 
retinae. 

The Company was very great, and, as near as I can remember, 
made between three and four hundred horse, and upwards of a 
hundred and twenty men, very well armed, and provided for all 
events. For as the Eastem caravans are subject to be attacked 
by the Arabs, so are these by the Tartars. But they are not al- 
together so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous when thej 
prevaiL 

The Company consisted of people of several nations, such as 
Muscovites chiefly; for there were above sixty of them who were 
merchants or inhabitants of Muscow, though of them some were 
Livonians, and, to our particular satisfaction, five of them were 
Scots, who appeared also to be men of great experience in bosi- 
ness, and men of very good substance. 

When we had travelled one day's joumey, the goides, who were 
five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, that is 
to say, all the passengers, except the servants, to a great coundl, 
as they called it At this great Council every one deposited a 
certain quaütity of money to a common stock, for the necessaiy 
expense of buying forage on the way, where it was not otherwise 
to be had, and for satisfying the guides, getting horses and the 
like. And here they constituted the journey, as they call it; 
namely, they named captains and officers to draw us all up, and 
give the command in case of an attack, and gave every one their 
tum of command Nor was this forming us into order any more 
than what we found needful upon the way, as shall be observed 
in its place. 

The road all on this side of the country is very populous, and 
is füll of potters and earthmakers; that is to say, people that 



A CURIOUS HOUSE. 549 

tempered the earth for the China wäre. And as I was coming 
along, OUT Portugal pilot, who had always something or other to 
say to make us merry, came sneering to me, and told me he would 
show me the greatest rarity in all the country, and that I should 
have this to say of China, after all the ill-humoured things I had 
Said of it, that I had seen one thing which was not to he seen in 
dl the World heside. I was very importunate to know what it was. 
A.t last he told me it was a gentleman's house built all with China 
nrare " Well," says I, " are not the materials of their building 
^he product of their own country; and so it is all China wäre, is it 
lotl" "No, no," says he; "I mean it is a house all made of 
!)hiiia wäre, such as you call it in England ; or, as it is called in 
mr country, porcelain." " Well," says I, " such a thing may be. 
3ow big is itl Can we carry it in a box upon a camell If we 
lan, we will buy it." " Upon a camel !" says the old pilot, holding 
ip both his hands; "why, there is a family of thirty people lives 
n it" 

I was then curious indeed to see it; and when I came to it, it 
fraa nothing but this : it was a timber house, or a house built, as 
we call it in England, with lath and plaster, but all the plastering 
(ras really China wäre; that is to say,. it was plastered with the 
earth that makes China wäre. 

The outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was glazed, and 
looked very well, perfect white, and painted with blue figures, as 
the large China wäre in England is painted, and hard, as if it had 
been bumed. As to the inside, all the walls, instead of wainscot, 
were lined up with hardened and painted tiles, like the little Square 
tiles we call galley-tiles in England, all made of the finest China; 
and the figures exceeding fine indeed, with extraordinary variety 
of colours mixed with gold, many tiles making but one figure, 
but joined so artificially, the mortar being made of the same eai-th, 
that it was very hard to see where the tiles met. The floors of 
the rooms were of the same composition, and as hard as the 
earthen floors we have in use in several parts of England, 
especially Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire, Leicestershire, &c., as 
hard as stone, and smooth, but not bumed and painted, except 
some smaller rooms, like closets, which were all, as it were, paved 



550 AN EARTHENWARE SHIP. 

with tbe same tile. The ceilings and, in a word, all the plastering 
work in the whole honse were of the same earth ; and after all, the 
roof was covered with tiles of the same, but of a deep shining 
black. 

This was a China warehouse indeed, tnily and literallj to be 
calied so; and had I not been upon the joumej, I could bare 
stayed some days to see and examine the particulars of it They 
told me there were fountains and fish-ponds in the garden, all pared 
at the bottom and sides with the same, and fine statues set up in 
rows on the walks, entirelj formed of the porcelain earth, and 
bumed whole. 

As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may be 
allowed to excel in it; but I am very sure they excel in their 
accounts of it; for they told me such incredible things of their 
Performance in crockery wäre, for such it is, that I care not to 
relate, as knowing it could not be true. They told me, in par- 
ticular, of one workman that made a ship with all its tackle, and 
masts, and sails, in earthenware, big enough to carry fifty men. If 
he had told me he launched it, and made a voyage to Japan in iX 
I might have said something to it indeed ; but as it was, I knew 
the whole of the story, which was, in short, asking pardon for the 
Word, that the fellow lied. So I smiled, and said nothing to it. 

This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for whicb 
the leader of it for the day fined me about the value of three 
Shillings, and told me, if it had been three days' joumey withont 
the wall, as it was three days within, he must have fined me fonr 
times as much, and made me ask pardon the next Council day. So 
I promised to be more orderly; for, indeed, I found afterwards the 
Orders made for keeping all together were absolutely necessary for 
our common safety. 

In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a 
fortification against the Tartars; and a very great work it is, 
going over hüls and mountains in a needless track, where tiie 
rocks are impassable, and the precipices such as no enemy could 
possibly enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no wall 
could hinder them. They teil us, its length is near a thousand 
English miles, but that the country is five hundred in a str&ight 



THE GREAT WALL. 551 

measured line, which the wall bounds, without measuiing the 
windings and tamings it takes. Tis about four fathom high, and 
as many thick in some places. 

I stood still an hour or thereabout, without trespassing our 

Orders, f or so long the caravan was in passing the gate ; I say, I 

stood still an hour to look at it on every side, near and far off; I 

mean, that was within my view. And the guide of our caravan, 

who had been extoUing it for the wonder of the world, was 

mighty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told him it was a most 

excellent thing to keep off the Tartars; which he happened not 

to anderstand as I meant it, and so took it for a compliment 

Bot the old pilot laughed. " O Seignior Inglese," says he, " you 

speak in colours." " In colours," said I; " what do you mean by 

that?" " Why, you speak what looks white this way, and black 

that way ; gay one way, and dull another way. You teil him it 

is a good wall to keep out Tartars. You teil me by that, it is 

good for nothing but to keep out Tartars, or it will keep out none 

but Tartars. I understand you, Seignior Inglese, I understand 

you," says he ; " but Seignior Chinese understood you bis own 

way." 

" Well," says I, " seignior, do you think it would stand out an 
army of our country people, with a good train of artillery; or our 
engineers, with two companies of miners ; would not they batter 
it down in ten days, that an army might enter in battalia, or blow 
it up in the air, foundation and all, that there should be no sign 
of it leftl" "Ay, ay," says he, "I know that." The Chinese 
wanted mightily to know what I said, and I gave him leave to 
teil him a few days after, for we were then dmost out of thoir 
country, and he was to leave us in a little time afterward; but 
when he knew what I had said, he was dumb all the rest of the 
way, and we heard no more of bis fine story of the Chinese power 
and greatness, while he stayed. 

After we had passed this mighty nothing called a wall, some- 
thing like the Picts' wall, and so famous in Northumberland, and 
built by the Romans, we began to find the country thinly in- 
habited, and the people rather confined to live in fortified towns 
and dties, as being subject to the inroads and depredations of the 



552 THREATENED BY TARTARS. 

Tartars, who rob in great armies, and therefore are not to be 
resisted by the naked inhabitants of an open country. 

And here I began to find the necessity of keeping together in 
a Caravan as we travelled, for we saw several troops of Tartan 
roving about; but when I came to see them distinctly, I wondered 
more that the Chinese empire could be conquered bj such con- 
temptible f ellows ; for they are a mere horde er crowd of wild 
fellows, keeping no order, and understanding no discipb'ne or 
manner of fight. 

Their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures, taught nothing, 
and fit for nothing; and this we said the first day we saw them, 
which was after we entered the wilder part of the country. Our 
leader for the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a-hnntr 
ing, as they call it; and what was this, but hunting of sheejx 
However, it may be called hunting too; for the creatures are the 
wildest and swiftest of foot that ever I saw of their kind. Onlj 
they will not run a great way, and you are sure of sport when yoü 
begin the chase; for they appear generally thirty or forty in a 
flock, and, like true sheep, always keep together when they fly. 

In pursuit of this odd sort of game it was our hap to meet with 
about forty Tartars. Whether they were hunting mutton as ve 
were, or whether they looked for another kind of prey, I know 
not; but as soon as they saw us, one of them blew a kind of a 
hörn very loud, but with a barbarous sound, that I had nerer 
heard before, and, by the way, never care to hear again. We all 
supposed this was to call their friends about them, and so it was; 
for in less than half a quarter of an hour a troop of forty or fifty 
more appeared at about a mile distance ; but our work was over 
first, as it happened. 

One of the Scots merchants of Muscow happened to be aroongst 
US, and as soon as he heard the hom he told us, in short, that we 
had nothing to do but to charge them immediately without loss 
of time; and drawing us up in a line, he asked if we were re- 
solved ? We told him we were ready to f oUow him ; so he rode 
directly up to them. They stood gazing at us like a mere crowd, 
drawn up in no order, nor showing the face of any order at aD; 
but as soon as they saw us advance, they let fly their arrows, 



THEV ARE DISPERSED. 953 

which bowever missed ns very happily. It seetoB they mJBtook 
not tbeir um, but tbeir distaace ; for their airows all feil a litUe 
Short of US, bat with so tme an aim, that had we beea about 
twentf yards nearer, we must hftve had several men wounded, if 
notkÜled. 
Immediately we halted; and though it was at a great distance, 




•b'* tuU ^lai>'' 



we fired, and eent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows, follow- 
ing our shot fall gallop, to fall in among tbem Bword in band, for 
so our bold Scot that led ns directed. He was indeed but a 
mercbant, but he behaved with that vigour and braveiy on tbia 
occaston, and yet with such a cool courage too, that I never saw 
any man in action fitter for command. Äs soon as we came up 
to them we fired our pistols in tbeir faces, and then drew, but 
tbey fled in the greatest confusion imaginable. The only stand 
any of tbem made was od our right, where tbree of them stood, 
and by signs called the rest to come back to tbem, faaving a kind 
of acimitar in tbeir hands, and tbeir bows hanging at tbeir backa. 
Our brave Commander, without asking anybody to foUow bim. 



554 IN THE DESERT. 

gallops up close to them, and with bis fuzee knocks one of them 
off bis horse, killed the second with bis pistol, and tbe third nn 
away; and tbus ended our figbt. But we had this misfortnne 
attending it, namely, that all our matton that we had in chase 
got away. We bad not a man killed or hurt; but as for the 
Tartars, tbere was about five of tbem killed "Who were wounded, 
we knew not; but tbis we knew, tbat tbe other partj was so 
frigbted witb tbe noise of our guns tbat tbey made off, and never 
made any attempt upon us. 

We were all tbis while in tbe Cbinese dominion, and therefore 
tbe Tartars were not so bold as afterwards; but in about five days 
we entered a vast great wild desert, wbicb held us three days" 
and nights' marcb; and we were obliged to carry our water with 
US in great leatber bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I bare 
beard tbey do in the desert of Arabia 

I asked wbose dominion tbis was in, and tbey told me tbis was 
a kind of border, tbat migbt be called No Man's Land; being a 
part of the Great Karakatbie, or Grand Tartary, but that^ boweyer, 
it was all reckoned to China; but tbat tbere was no care taken 
bere to preserve it from tbe inroads of thieves, and therefore it 
was reckoned tbe worst desert in tbe whole world — though we 
were to go over some much larger. 

In passing tbis wildemess, wbicb I confess was at the first very 
frightful to me, we saw two or three times little parties of the 
Tartars, but tbey seemed to be upon their own affairs, and to havc 
no design upon us; and so, like the man wbo met the devil, if 
tbey had notbing to say to us, we bad nothing to say to them; we 
let tbem go. 

Once, however, a party of them came so near as to stand and 
gaze at us; wbetber it was to consider what they should do, 
wbether attack us, or not attack us, that we knew not but when 
we were passed at some distance by them, we made a rear-guard 
of forty men, and stood ready for tbem, letting the caravan pass 
half a mile, or thereabouts, before us. But after a while thcv 
marched off, only we found tbey saluted us witb five arrows at 
their parting, one of wbicb wounded a horse so that it disabled 
bim; and we left bim tbe next day, poor creature, in great need 



TARTAR RUFFIANS. 555 

of a good farrier. We suppose they might shoot more arrows, 
which might fall short of us; but we saw no more arrows or 
Tartars that tima 

We travelled near a month after this, the ways being not so 
good as at first, though still in the dominions of the Emperor of 
China, but lay for the most part in villages, some of which were 
fordfied, because of the incursions of the Tartars. When we 
came to one of these towns (it was about two days and a half 
joumey before we were to come to the city Naum), I wanted 
to buy a camel, of which there are plenty to be sold all the way 
upon that road, and of horses also, such as they are, because, so 
many caravans coming that way, they are often wanted The 
person that I spoke to to get me a camel would have gone and 
fetched it for me, but I, like a fool, must be officious, and go 
myself along with him. The place was about two miles out of 
the village, where, it seems, they kept the cameis and horses feed- 
ing under a guard. 

I walked it on foot with my old pilot, being very desirous, for- 
sooth, of a little variety. When we came to the place, it was a 
low marshy ground walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry, 
without mortar or earth among it, like a park, with a little guard 
of Chinese soldiers at the door. Having bought a camel, and 
agreed for the price, I came away, and the Chinese man that went 
with me led the camel; when on a sudden came up üve Tartars 
on horseback : two of them seized the f ellow, and took the camel 
from him, while other three stepped up to me and my old pilot, 
seeing us, as it were, unarmed; for I had no weapon about me 
bat my sword, which could but ill defend me against three horse- 
men. The first that came up stopped short upon my drawing 
my sword (for they are arrant cowards); but a second, coming 
upon my left, gave me a blow on the head, which I never feit tili 
afterward, and wondered, when I came to myself, what was the 
matter with me and where I was, for he laid me flat on the ground. 
But my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese (so Providence, 
unlooked-for, directs deliverances from dangers, which to us are 
unforeseen), had a pistol in bis pocket, which I knew nothing of, 
nor the Tartars neither: if they had, I suppose they would not 



556 



THE PILOT'S BRAVERY. 



have attacked us*^ bat cowards are always boldest when there is 
no danger. 

The old man, seeing me down, with a bold heart stepped np to 
the fellow that had Struck me, and laying hold of his arm mik 
one band, and puUing bim down bj main force a little towards 
bim witb tbe otber, sbot bim into tbe bead, and laid him dead 
upon tbe spot; be then immediately stepped up to him wbo had 
stopped US, as I said, and before be could come forward again (for 
it was all done, as it were in a moment), made a blow at bim with 
a scimitar which be always wore, but, missing the man, cut his 
borse into tbe side of bis bead, cut one of bis ears off by tbe loot, 
and a great slice down tbe side of bis face. The poor beast, en- 
raged witb tbe wound, was no more to be govemed by hia rider, 
thougb tbe fellow sat well enougb too, but away be flew, and 
carried him quite out of tbe pilot's reach; and, at some distance, 
rising up upon bis bind-legs, threw down the Tartar, and feil upon 
bim. 

In tbis interval tbe poor Chinese came in wbo had lost the 
camel, but be had no weapon; bowever, seeing the Tartar down, 
and bis borse fallen upon bim, away be runs to bim, and seiimg 
upon an ugly, ill-favoured weapon be had by bis side, something 
like a pole-axe, but not a pole-axe neitber, be wrenched it from 
bim, and made sbift to knock bis Tartarian brains out with ii 
But my old man had tbe tbird Tartar to deal with still; and, 
seeing be did not fly as he expected, nor come on to figbt him as 
be apprebended, but stand stock still, tbe old man stood still too, 
and falls to work witb bis tackle to charge bis pistol again; bat 
aa soon as tbe Tartar saw tbe pistol, wbetber be su^^posed it to 
be tbe same or another I know not, but away be scoured, and 
left my pilot, my champion I called bim afterward, a complete 
victory. 

By tbis time I was a little awake; for I thought^ wben first I 
began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as I said 
above, I wondered wbere I was, bow I came upon the ground, aod 
wbat was tbe matter : in a word, a f ew moments af ter, as sense 
retumed, I feit paln, thougb I did not know wbere; I clapped mj 
band to my bead, and took it away bloody; then I feit my head 



A CHINESE JUDGE. 557 

ache, and theo, in another moment, memory retumed, and every- 
thing was present to me again. 

I jumped up upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my sword, 
but no enemies in view. I fonnd a Tartar lie dead, and his horse 
Standing very quietly by him; and, looking farther, I saw my 
Champion and deliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had 
done, Coming back with his banger in his band The old man, 
seeing me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced me with 
a great deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been killed, and, 
seeing me bloody, would see how I was hurt; but it was not much, 
only what we call a broken head; neither did I afterwards find 
any great inconvenience from the blow, other than the place which 
was hurt^ and which was well again in two or three days. 

We made no great gain, however, by this victory; for we lost 
a camel, and gained a horse : but that which was remarkable, when 
we came back to the village, the man demanded to be paid for the 
camel. I disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing before the 
Chinese judge of the place; that is to say, in English, we went 
before a justice of the peace. Give him his due, he acted with a 
great deal of prudence and impartiaüty; and having heard both 
sides, he gravely asked the Chinese man that went with me to buy 
the camel, whose servant he was ? "I am no servant,'' says he, 
"but went with the stranger." "At whose requesti" says the 
justice. "At the stranger's request," says he. "Why, then," 
says the justice, "you were the stranger's servant for the time; 
and the camel being delivered to his servant, it was delivered to 
him, and he must pay for it'' 

I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to say ; 
bat admiring to see such just reasoning upon the consequence, 
and 80 accurate stating the cause, I paid willingly for the camel, 
and sent for another. But you may observe, I sent for it; I did 
not go to fetch it myself any more; I had enough of that. 

The city of Naum is a f r<Tntier of the Chinese empire : they call 
it fortified, and so it is, as fortifications go there; for this I will 
venture to affirm, that all the Tartars in Karakathie, which, I 
believe, are some millions, could not batter down the walls with 
their bows and arrows; but to call it strong, if it were attacked 



558 BAD NEWS POR TRAVELLERS. 

with cannon, would be to make those who understand it laugh 
at you. 

We wanted, as I have said, above two days' joumey of this city, 
when messengers were sent express to every part of the road, to 
teil all travellers and caravans to halt, tili they had a guard sent 
for them; for that an nnusual body of Tartars, making ten thou- 
sand in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miles beyond 
the city. 

This was very bad news to travellers : however, it was carefollj 
done of the govemor, and we were very glad to hear we should 
have a guard. Accordingly, two days after, we had two hundred 
soldiers sent us from a garrison of the Chinese on oar left^ and 
three hundred more from the city of Naum, and with those we 
advanced boldly; the three hundred soldiers from Naum marched 
in our front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men on eacli 
side of our cameis with our baggage, and the whole caravan in the 
centre. In this order, and well prepared for battle, we thought 
ourselves a match for the whole ten thousand Mongul Tartars, if 
they had appeared; but the next day, when they did appear, it 
was quite another thing. 

It was early in the moming, when, marching from a little well- 
situated town, called Changu, we had a river to pass, where we 
were obliged to f erry : and had the Tartars had any intelligence, 
then had been the time to have attacked us, when, the caravan 
being over, the rear-guard was behind : but they did not appear. 

About three hours after, when we were entered upon a deseit 
of about fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust 
they raised, we saw an enemy was at hand; and they were at 
band indeed, for they came on upon the spur. 

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big tiie 
day before, began to stagger, and the soldiers frequently looked 
behind them, which is a certain sign in a soldier that he is just 
ready to run away. My old pilot was of my mind; and bemg 
near me, he called out: " Seignior Inglese,'' says he, ''those fellows 
must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tartan 
come on, they will never stand it" " I am of your mind," said I; 
"but what course must be donel" "Donel" says he; "let fifty 



A TARTAR HOST. 559 

oi our men advance, and flank them on each wing, and encourage 
them, and they will fight like brave fellows in brave Company; but 
without, they will every man turn bis back." Immediately I rode 
up to our leader, and told bim, wbo was exactly of our mind; and 
accordingly, fifty of us marched to the right wing, and fiifty to the 
left, and the rest made a line of reserve; and so we marched, 
leaving the last two hundred men to make another body by them- 
selves, and to guard the cameis; only that, if need were, they 
shoiUd send a hundred men to assist the last fifty. 

In a Word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable Company 

they were; how many we could not teil, but ten thousand, we 

thought, was the least. A party of them came on first, and viewed 

our posture, traversing the ground in the front of our line; and 

as we found them within gun-shot, our leader ordered the two 

wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing 

with their shot, which was done; but they went ofi", and, I sup- 

pose, back to give an account of the reception they were like to 

meet with: and, indeed, that salute clogged their stomach, for 

they immediately halted, stood a while to consider of it, and, 

wheeling off to the left, they gave over the design, and said no 

more to us for that time; which was very agreeable to our cir- 

cumstances, which were but very indifferent for a battle with such 

a nomber. 

Two days after this, we came to the city Naun, or Naum. We 
thanked the govemor for bis care for us, and collected to the 
value of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which we gave to the 
soldiers sent to guard us ; and here we rested one day. This is a 
garrison, indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here; 
but the reason of it was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay 
nearer to them than they do now, the Muscovites having aban- 
doned that part of the country (which lies from this city west, for 
about two hundred miles) as desolate and unfit for use; and more 
especially, being so very remote, and so diflicult to send troops 
thither for its defence; for we had yet above two thousand miles 
to Muscovy, properly so called. 

After this, we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful 
deserts, one of which we were sixteen days passing over, and which, 



560 "AMONG CHRISTIANS!" 

as I Said, was to be calied No Man's Land; and on the 13tlicf 
April we came to the frontiers of the Muscovite dominiona. I 
think the first citj, or town, or fortress, whatever it might be 
calied, that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Argiui, 
belog on the west side of the river Argun. 

I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was so soon 
arrived in, as I calied it, a Christian country, or at least in a coontry 
govemed by Christians; for though the Muscovites do, in my 
opinion, but just deserve the name of Christians, yet such they 
pretend to be, and are very devout in their way. It would cer- 
tainly occur to any man who travels the world as I have done, 
and who had any power of reflection — I say, it would occur to him 
to reflect what a blessing it is to be brought into the world where 
the name of God and of a Redeemer is known, worshipped, and 
adored; and not where the people, given up by Heaven to strong 
delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate themselves to stocb 
and stones, worship monsters, elements, horrible shaped animals, 
and statues, or Images of monsters. Not a town or city we 
passed through but had their pagods, their idols, and their tem- 
ples, and Ignorant people worshipping even the works of their 
own hands. 

Now we came where, at least, a face of the Christian worship 
appeared, where the knee was bowed to Jesus; and whether igno- 
rantly or not, yet the Christian religion was owned, and the name 
of the true God was calied upon and adored; and it made the very 
recesses of my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave Scots 
merchant I mentioned above, with my first acknowledgment of this; 
and taking him by the band, I said to him, " Blessed be God, we 
are once again come among Christians !'' He smiled, and answered, 
**Do not rejoice too soon, countryman; these Muscovites are bat 
an odd sort of Christians; and but for the name of it, you may 
see very little of the substance for some months farther of cur 
joumey." 

" Well," says I, " but still *tis better than paganism and wor- 
shipping of devils." " Why, TU teil you," says he; "except the 
Bussian soldiers in garrisons, and a few of the inhabitants of the 
eitles upon the road, all the rest of this country, for above a thou- 



A GREAT RIVER. 561 

sand miles farther, is inhabited by the worst and most Ignorant of 
pagans." And so indeed we found it 

We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if 
I anderstand anything of the surface of the globe, that is to be 
found in any part of the earth : we had at least twelve hundred 
miles to the sea, eastward; we had at least two thousand to the 
bottom of the Baitick Sea, westward; and above three thousand 
miles, if we left that sea and went on west to the British and 
French Channels; we had füll five thousand miles to the Indian 
or Persian Sea, south; and about eight hundred miles to the Frozen 
Sea, north; nay, if some people may be believed, th^re might be 
no sea north-east tili we came round the Pole, and consequently 
into the north-west, and so had a continent of land into America, 
the Lord knows where ; though I could give some reasons why I 
believe that to be a mistake. 

As we entered into the Muscovite dominions, a good while before 
we came to any considerable town, we had nothing to observe there 
but this: first, that as all the rivers run to the east; as I under- 
stood by the charts which some of our caravans had with them, it 
was piain that all those rivers ran into the great river Yamour, 
or Gammour.^ This river, by the natural course of it, must run 
into the East Sea, or Chinese Oceaa The story they teil us, that 
the mouth of this river is choked up with bulrushes of a monstrous 
growth, namely, three foot about, and twenty or thirty foot high, 
I must be allowed to say I believe nothing of ; but as its naviga- 
tion is of no use, because there is no trade that way — the Tartars, 
to whom alone it belongs, dealing in nothing but cattle — so nobody 
that ever I heard of , has been curious enough either to go down to 
the mouth of it in boats, or come up from the mouth of it in ships; 
but this is certain, that this river running due east, in the ]atitude 
of about fifty degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers along with 
it, and finds an ocean to empty itself in that latitude; so we are 
sure of sea there. 

1 Tbe Amoor, ioto which numerous small streams flow, is formed by the union 
of the Shilka or Onon and the Aiig^un or Eerulen, which dividea the Chineee and 
Rossian temtoriea for 400 miles. The Arooor runs first S.E. and then E.N.E. 
to the Gulf of Saghalien in the Sea of Okhotsk, in latitude 52* SO' N., longitude 
140* K 

(S48) SN 



562 IN BIUSCOVY. 

Some leagues to tbe north of this river there are several consider- 
able rivers, whose streams run as due north as the Yamour roos 
east; and these are all found to join their waters with the great 
river Tartarus, named so from the northemmost nations of the 
Mongul Tartars, who, the Chinese say, were the first Tartars in 
the World; and who, as our geographers allege, are the Gog and 
Magog mentioned in sacrod story. 

These rivers running all northward, as well as all the other 
rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evident that the Northern 
Ocean bounds the land also on that side; so that it does not seem 
rational in the least to think that the land can extend itself to 
join with America on that side, or that there is not a conununica- 
tion between the Northern and the Eastern Ocean. But of this 
I shall say no more; it was my Observation at that time, and 
therefore I take notice of it in this place. We now advanced from 
the river Arguna by easy and moderate joumeys, and were veiy 
visibly obliged to the care the Czar of Muscovy has taken to 
have cities and towns built in as many places as are possible to 
place them, where his soldiers keep garrison, something like the 
stationary soldiers placed by the Eomans in the remotest countries 
of their empire, some of which I had read particularly were 
placed in Britain for the security of commerce, and for the lodging 
travellers; and thus it was here; for wherever we came, though 
at these towns and stations the garrisons and govemor were 
Eussiaus and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants of the 
country were mere pagans, sacrificing to Idols, and worahipping 
the snn, moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven : and not onlj 
so, but were, of all the heathens and pagans that ever I met wit^ 
the most barbarous, except only that they did not eat man's flesh, 
as our savages of America did. 

Some instances of this we met with in the country betweeo 
Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city of 
Tartars and Eussians together, called Nertsinskay; ^ in which is 
a continued desert or foi-est, which cost us twenty days to travel 
over it. In a village near the last of those places, I had the 
cnriosity to go and see their way of living, which is most brutiah 

1 Nertchinsk in Asiatic Russia. 



A TARTAR GOD. 563 

and unsufferable. They had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that day ; 
for there stood out upon an old stump of a tree, an idol made of 
wood, frightful as the devil, at least as anything we can think of 
to represent the devil can be made. It had a head certainly not 
samuch as resembling any creature that the world ever saw; ears 
as big as goat's homs, and as high; eyes as big as a crown piece; 
a nose like a crooked ram's hörn; and a mouth extended four 
comered like that of a lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a 
parrot's under bill. It was dressed up in the filthiest manner 
that you could suppose; its upper garment was of sheep-skins, 
with the wool outward, a great Tartar bonnet on the head, with 
two horns growing through it; it was about eight foot high, yet 
had no feet or legs, or any other proportion of parts. 

This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village, and 
when I came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures, 
whether men or women I could not teil, for they make no dis- 
tinction by their habits,^ either of body or head These lay all 
flat on the ground, round this formidable block of shapeless wood. 
I saw no motion among them any more than if they had been all 
logs of wood like the idol, and at first really thought they had 
been so; but when I came a little nearer, they started up upon 
their feet, and raised a howling cry, as if it had been so many 
deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away as if they were displeased 
at our disturbing them. A little way off from the idol, and at 
the door of that tent or hut, made all of sheep-skins and cow- 
skins, dried, stood three butchers: I thought they were such; when 
I came nearer to them, I found they had long knives in their 
hands, and in the middle of the tent appeared three sheep killed, 
and one young bullock or steer. These, it seems, were sacrifices 
to that senseless log of an idol, and these three men priests belong- 
ing to it; and the seventeen prostrated wretches were the people 
who brought the offering, and were making their prayers to that 
stock. 

I confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish wor- 
ship of a hobgoblin, than ever I was at anything in my life; to 
see God's most glorious and best creature, to whom he had granted 

^ Habit« here meaos dress or attire. 



564 ZEAL AGAINST IDOLATRY. 

80 maiiy advantages, even by creation, above the rest of tlie works 
of bis hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and that soul adomed 
with faculties and capacities adaptcd botb to honour big Maker 
and be honoured by bim, sunk and degenerated to a degree so 
more tban stupid, as to prostrate itself to a frigbtful Notbing, a 
mere imaginary Object dressed up by tbemselves, and made 
terrible to tbemselves, by tbeir own contrivance; adomed onlj 
witb clouts and rags; and tbat this sbould be the effect of mere 
ignorance, wrought up into bellish devotion by the devil himself, 
who, envying to bis Maker the homage and adoration of his 
creatures, had deluded them into such gross, surfeiting, sordid, 
and brutish things, as one would think should shock Natore 
itself. 

But what signified all the astonishment and reflecdon of 
thoughtsi Thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there 
was no room to wonder at it, or think it impossibla All mj 
admiration turned to rage, and I rid up to the image or monster, 
call it what you will, and with my sword cut the bonnet that vtf 
on its head in two in the middle, so that it hung down by ooe of 
the horns; and one of our men that was with me took hold of 
the sheep-skin that «covered it, and pulled at it, when, behold, a 
most hideous outcry and howling run through the village, and 
two or three hundred people came about my ears, so that I was 
glad to scour for it, for we saw some had bows and arrows. But 
I resolved from that moment to visit them again. 

Our Caravan rested three nights at the town, which was about 
four miles off, in order to provide some horses which they wanted, 
several of the horses having been lamed and jaded with the 
badness of the way and long march over the last desert; so ve 
had some leisure here to put my design in ezecution. I com* 
municated my project to the Scots merchant of Muscow, of whose 
courage I had had sufiicient testimony, as above. I told him 
what I had seen, and with what indignation I had since thoogbt 
that human nature could be so degenerate. I told him I was le- 
solved, if I could get but four or five men well armed to go with 
me, I was resolved to go and destroy that vile abominable idol, 
and let them see that it had no power to help itself, and con- 



A POLITICAL DIFFICULTY. 565 

seqaentlj could not be an object of worship, or to be prayed to, 
müch less help them that offered sacrifices to it 

He laagbed at me. Says be, '^Your zeal may be good, but 
what do you propose to yourself by it?" " Propose!" said I; "to 
yindicate the honour of God, which is insulted by this devil- 
worship." " But how will it vindicate the honour of God ?" said 
he; "while the people will not be able to know what you mean 
by it, unless you could speak to them and teil them so, and then 
they will fight you, and beat you too, TU assure you; for they are 
desperate fellows, and that especially in defence of their idolatry." 
** Can we not," said I, " do it in the night, and then leave them 
the reasons and causes in writing in their own language?" " Writ- 
ing!" said he; " why, there is not a man in five nations of them 
tiiat knows anything of a letter, or how to read a word in any 
^i^gfisige, or in their own." "Wretched ignorance!" said I to 
him; "however, I have a great mind to do it. Perhaps Nature 
may draw inferences frora it to them, to let them see how brutish 
they are to worship such horrid things." " Look you, sir," said 
he: " if your zeal prompts you to it so warmly, you must do it; 
but, in the next place, I would have you consider, these wild 
nations of people are subjected by force to the Czar of Muscovy's 
dominions; and if you do this, 'tis ten to one but they will come 
by thousands to the Govemor of Nertsinskay, and complain, and 
demand satisfaction ; and if he cannot give them satisf action, 'tis 
ten to one but they revolt, and it will occasion a new war with 
all the Tartars in the country." 

This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for a while; 
bat I harped upon the same string still, and all that day I was 
uneasy to put my project in execution. Towards the evening, the 
Scots merchant met me by accident in our walk about the town, 
and desired to speak with me. " I believe," said he, " I have put 
you off your good design. I have been a little concemed about 
it since, for I abhor the idol and the idolatry as much as you can 
do." "Truly," says I, "you have put it off a little as to the 
execution of it, but you have not put it all out of my thoughts; 
and I believe I shall do it still before I quit this place, though I 
were to be delivered up to them for satisfaction." " No, no," says 



566 



A DETERMINfiD ICONOCLAST. 



he; "God forbid they should deliver you up to such a crew of 
monsters. They shall not do that neither : that would be mnr- 
dering you indeed." " Why," says I, " how would they use met" 
"Use you!" says he; "1*11 teil you how they served a poor 
Bussian, who afironted them in their worship just as you did, and 
who they took prisoner. After they had lamed him with an 
arrow that he could not run away, they took him and stripped him 
stark naked, and set him up on the top of the idol monster, and 
stood all round him, and shot as many arrows into him as would 
stick over his whole body, and then they burned him, and all the 
arrows sticking in him, as a sacrifice to the idol." "And was 
this the same idoll" " Yes," says he, " the very same." " Well," 
says I, " ril teil you a story." So I related the story of our mcn 
at Madagascar, and how they burned and sacked the viUage there, 
and killed man, woman, and child, for their murderiiig one of our 
men, just as it is related bef ore ; and when I had done, I added, 
that I thought we ought to do so to this village. 

He listened very attentively to the story; but when I talked oi 
doing so to that village, says he, " You mistake very much. It 
was not this village: it was almost a hundred mile from this 
place; but it was the same idol, for they carry him about in pro- 
cession all over the country." "Well then," says I, "then thit 
idol ought to be punished for it; and it shall," says I, " if I lite 
this night out." 

In a Word, Unding me resolute, he liked the design, and told wt 
I should not go alone, but he would go with me, and bring a stoot 
fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us; "and one,' 
says he, " as famous for his zeal as you can desire any one to be, 
against such devilish things as these." In a word, he bronght m« 
hifi comrade, a Scotsman, who he called Captain Richardson, ao<i 
I gave him a füll account of what I had seen, and, in a word, d 
what I intended ; and he told me readily he would go with me, ß 
it cost him his life : so we agreed to go only us three. I haA 
indeed, proposed it to my partner, but he declined it. He said ht 
was ready to assist me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for 
my defence, but that this was an adventure quite out of his mj 
So, I say, we resolved upon our work, only us three and my ©«»• 



ACTIVE PREPARATIONS. 567 

servant, and to put it in execution that night about midnight^ 
with all the secrecy imaginable. 

However upon second thoughts, we were willing to delay it 
tili the next night, because the caravan being to set forward in the 
moming, we supposed the govemor could not pretend to give thera 
any satisfaction upon us, when we were out of his power. The 
Scots merchant, as steady in his resolution for the enterprise as 
bold in executing, brought me a Tartaros robe or gown of the 
sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and had pro- 
vided the same for himself and his. countryman, that the people, if 
they saw us, should not be able to determine who we were. 

All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible 
matter with aqua vitse, gunpowder, and such other materials as we 
could get; and having a good quantity bf tar in a little pot, about 
an hour after night we set out upon our expedition. 

We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and found 
that the people had not the least jealousy of danger attending their 
idoL The night was cloudy, yet the moon gave us light enough 
to see that the idol stood just in the same posture and place that 
it did before. The people seemed to be all at their rest, only that 
in the great hut, or tent, as we called it, where we saw the three 
priests, who we mistook for butchers, we saw a light, and going 
up close to the door, we heard people talking as if there were five 
or six of them. We concluded, therefore, that if we set the wild- 
fire to the idol, these men would come out immediately, and run 
up to the place to rescue it from the destruction that we intended 
for it; and what to do with them we knew not. Once we thought 
of carrying it away, and setting fire to it at a distance; but when 
we came to handle it, we found it too bulky for our carriage, so 
we were at a loss again. The second Scotsman was for setting 
fire to the tent or hut, and knocking the creatures that were there 
on the head when they came out; but I could not join with that 
I was against killing them, if it was possible to be avoided. 
"Well, then," said the Scots merchant, "Fll teil you what we 
will do : we will try to take them prisoners, tie their hands behind 
them, and make them stand still and see their idol destroycd." 

As it happened, we had twin^or packthread enough about us. 



568 



THE PEOPLE DISMAYED. 



which was used to tie our fireworks together with; so we re- 
solved to attack these people iirst, and with as little Doise as we 
could. The first thing we did, we knocked at the door, which 
issued just as we desired it; for one of their idol priests came to 
the door. We immediatcly seized upon him, stopped his mouth, 
and tied his hands behind him, and led him to the idol, where we 
gagged him that he might not make a noise, tied his feet also 
together, and left him oii the ground. 

Two of US then waited at the door, expecting that anotber 
would come out to see what the matter was; but we waited so 
long tili the third man came back to us, and then nobody Coming 
out, we knocked again gently, and immediately out came two 
more, and we served them just in the same manner, but were 
obliged to go all with them, and lay them down by the idol, some 
distance from one another. When going back, we found two more 
were come out to the door, and a third stood behind them witbin 
the door. We seized the two, and immediately tied them, whcn 
the third stepping back, and crying out, my Scots merchant went 
in after him, and taking out a composition we had made, that 
would only smoke and stink, he set fire to it, and threw it in 
among them. By that time the other Scotsman and my mu, 
taking charge of the two men who were already bound, and tied 
together also by the arm, led them away to the idol, and left 
them there, to see if their idol would relieve them, making hnAe 
backte us. 

When the fuze we had thrown in had fiUed the hut with so 
much smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw in» 
small leather bag of another kind, which flamed like a candle, and 
following it in, we found there was but four people left, who, it 
seems, were two men and two women, and, as we supposed, bd 
been about some of their diabolic sacrifices. They appeared, iB 
Short, frighted to death, at least so as to sit trembling and stopkL 
and not able to speak neither, for the smoke. 

In a Word, we took them, bound them as we had the others, 
and all without any noise. I should have said, we bronght thes 
out of the house or hut first; for, indeed, we were not able to bcir 
the smoke any more than the>*were. When we had done thii 




DBBTRncnON OF THE TARTAR IDOL. Ftot « 



THE IDOL DE8TR0YED. 669 

we carried them all together U> the idol. When we came there, 
we feil to work with him. And, firet, we daubed him all ovcr, 
and his robea also, with tar and such other atuff as we had, which 
was tallow mixed with brirostone; then we stopped his eyes, and 
ears, and mouth füll of gunpowder; and then we wrapped up a 
great piece of wildfire in his bonnct; and then, eticking all the 
combustibles we had brought with us upon him, we looked about 
to aee if we could find anything eise to help to bum Iiim, when 
my man remembered that by the tent or hiit where the men were 
there lay & heap of dry forage, whether straw or rushes I do not 
remeinber. Away he and one of the Scotsmen run, and fetched 
their arms fall of that When we had done this, we took all our 
prisoners, and brought them, having untied their feet and un- 
gagged their mouths, and made them stand up, and set them just 
before their monstrous idol, and then set firp to the whole. 

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereaboute, tili the 
powder in the eyes, and mouth, and eara of the idol hlew up, and, 
we could perceive, had split and deformed tbe shape; and, in a 
woid, tili we Baw it buru into a mere block or log of wood: and 
then settiog the dry forage to it, we found it would be quite con- 
sumed, when we began to think of going away. But the Scotsman 
Said, "No, we must not go; for these poor deluded wratches will 
all throw themselves into the fire, and bum themsetves with the 
idoL" So we resolved to Btay tili the forage was bumed down 
too, and then we came away and left them. 

In the morning we appeared among our fellow-travellera, ex- 
ceeding hmy in getting ready for our j'oumey; nor could any man 
suggeat that we had been anywhere but in our beds, as travellera 
might be supposed to be, to fit themselves for the fatiguea of that 
day's joumey. 

But it did not end so. The next day carte a great multitude 
of the country-peDple, not only of this village, but of a bundred 
more, for ought I know, to the town-gates, and, in a most out' 
rageoua manner, demanded satisfaction of the Russian govemor 
for the insulting their priest«, and buming their great Cbam-Chi- 
Tbanngu; such a hard name they gave the monstrous creature they 
worshipped. The people of NerUinskay were, at first, in a great 



670 



THE GOVERNOR'S PROPOSAL. 



consternation; for they said, the Tartars were no less than thirtj 
thousand, and that in a few days more would be one hundred 
thousand streng. 

The Eussian governor sent out messengers to appease them, and 
gave them all the good words imaginable. He assured them he 
knew nothing of it, and that there had not a soul of bis garrison 
been abroad; that it could not be from anybody tbet^e; and if 
they would let him know who it was, they should be ezemplarilj 
punished. They retumed haughtily, that all the country rever- 
enced the great Cham-Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and 
no mortal would have dared to o£fer violence to bis Image bat 
some Christian miscreant, so they called them, it seems; and thej 
therefore denounced war against him, and all the Kussians, who, 
they said, were miscreants and Christians. 

The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach, or 
to have any cause of war alleged to be given by bim, tbe czar 
having straitly charged them to treat the conquered country with 
gentleness and civility, gave them still all the good words he 
could. At last he told them there was a caravan gone towards 
Eussia that moming, and perhaps it was some of them who had 
done them this injury; and that if they would be satisfied with 
that, he would send after them to inquire into it Tbis seemed 
to appease them a little; and, accordingly, the governor sent after 
US, and gave us a particular account how the thing was; intimating 
withal that if any in our caravan had done it, they sbould make 
their escape ; but that whether they had done it or no, we should 
make all the haste forward that was possible; and that, in the 
meahtime, he would keep them in play as long as be could. 

This was very friendly in the governor; however, when it came 
to the caravan, there waj3 nobody knew anything of the matter. 
And as for us that were guilty, we were the least of all suspected; 
none so much as asked us the question. However, the captain of 
the caravan for the time took the hint that the governor gave usy 
and we marched or travelled two days and two nights without any 
considerable stop. And then we lay at a village called Plothus; 
nor did make any long stop here, but hastened on towaids 
Jarawena, another of the Czar of Muscovy's colonies, and whcre 



PURSUED BY TARTARS. 571 

we expected we should be safe; but it is to be observed, that here 
we began for two or three days' march to enter upon the vast 
nameless desert, of which I shall say more in its place; and which, 
if we had now been upon it, 'tis more than probable we had been 
all destroyed. It was the second day's march from Plothus that, 
by the clouds of dust behind us, at a great distance, some of our 
people began to be sensible we were pnrsued. We had entered 
the desert, and had passed by a great lake called Schaks-Oser, 
when we perceived a very great body of horse appear on the 
other side of the lake to the north, we travelling west We 
observed they went away west as we did, but had supposed we 
would have taken that side of the lake, whereas we very happily 
took the south side; and in two days more we saw them not, 
for they, believing we were still before them, pushed on tili they 
came to the river Udda. This is a very great river when it passes 
farther north; but where we came to it, we found it narrow, and 
fordable. 

The third day they either found their mistake, or had intel- 
ligence of us, and came pouring in upon us towards the dusk of 
the evening. We had, to our great satisfaction, just pitched upon 
a place for our camp which was very convenient, for the night; 
for as we were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of it, 
that was above five hundred miles bver, we had no towns to lodge 
at, and indeed expected none but the city Jarawena, which we had 
yet two days' march to. The desert, however, had some few 
woods in it on this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the 
great river Udda.^ It was in a narrow strait between two little, 
but very thick woods, that we pitched our little camp for that 
night, expecting to be attacked in the night. 

Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for; but as 
it was usual for the Mongul Tartars to go about in troops in that 
desert, so the caravans always fortify themselves every night 
against them, as against armies of robbers; and it was therefore 
no new thing to be pursued. 

But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most 
advantageous camp; for we lay between two woods, with a little 

1 Perhaps Ugpra, a river 200 miles long, joining the Oka 10 roiles above Kaluga. 



I 



672 A STARTLING DEM AND. 

rivulet running just before our front; so that we could not be 
surrounded or attacked any way but in our front or rear. We 
took care also to make our front as strong as we could, bj placing 
our packs, with our cameis and horses, all in a line on Ute msüde 
of the river, and felling some trees in our rear. 

In tbis posture we encamped for the night; but the enemy was 
upon US before we had finished our Situation. They did not come 
on US like thieves, as we expected, but sent three messengers to 
US, to demand the men to be delivered to them that had abused 
their priests, and bumt their god Cham-Chi-Thaungu with fire, 
that they might bum them with fire; and upon this, they said, 
they would go away and do us no farther barm, otherwise tbej 
would bum us all with fire. Our men looked very blank at thts 
message, and began to stare at one another, to see who looked 
with most guilt in their faces; but nobody was the word, nobodj 
did it. The leader of the caravan sent word he was weU assured 
it was not done by any of our camp; that we were peaceable mer- 
chants, travelling on our business; that we had done no barm to 
them, or to any one eise; and that, therefore, they must look 
farther for their enemies who had injured them, for we were not 
the people. So desired them not to disturb us; for, if they did, 
we should defend ourselves. 

They were far from being satisfied with this for an answer; but 
a great crowd of them came down in the moming by break of 
day to our camp. But seeing us in such an unaccountable Situa- 
tion, they durst come no farther than the brook in our front, 
where they stood and showed us such a number that indeed 
terrified us very much; for those that spoke least of them, spoke 
of ten thousand. Here they stood and looked at us a while, and 
then setting up a great howl, they let fly a cloud of arrows among 
us; but we were well enough fortified for that, for we sbeltered 
under our baggage; and I do not remember that one man of ns 
was hurt 

Some time after this, we see them move a little to our right, 
and expected them on the rear; when a cunning fellow, a Cossack, 
as they call them, of Jarawena, in the pay of the Muscovites, 
calling to the leader of the caravan, said to bim, '* Fll go send all 



A CUNNING TRICK. 573 

these people away to Siheilka." This was a city four or five days' 
joumey at least to the south, and rather behind us. So he takes 
bis bow and arrows, and getting on horseback, he rides away from 
oar rear directly, as it were, back to Nertsinskay. After this he 
takes a great circuit about, and comes to the army of the Tartars, 
as if he had been sent express to teil them a long story; that the 
people who had bumt the Cham-Chi-Thaungu were gone to 
Siheilka, with a caravan of miscreants, as he called them, that is 
to say, Christians; and that they had resolved to bum the god 
Schal-Isar belonging to the Tongueses.^ 

As this fellow was himself a mere Tartar, and perfectly spoke 
their langoage, he counterfeited so well, that they all took it from 
him, and away they drove in a most violent hurry to Siheilka, 
which it seems was five days' joumey to the south; and in less 
than three hours they were entirely out of our sight, and we never 
heard any more of them; and we never knew whether they went 
to that other place called Siheilka or no. 

So we passed safely on to the city of Jarawena, where there 
was a garrison of Muscovites; and there we rested five days, the 
caravan being exceedingly fatigued with the last day's hard march, 
and with want of rest in the night. 

From this city we had a frightful desert, which held us three- 
and-twenty days' march. We fumished ourselves with some tents 
here, for the better accommodating ourselves in the night; and 
the leader of the caravan procured sixteen carriages or waggons of 
the country for carrying our water and provisions, and these 
carriages were our defence every night round our little camp; so 
that had the Tartars appeared, unless they had been very numerous 
indeed, they would not have been able to hurt us. 

We may well be supposed to want rest again after this long 
joumey; for in this desert we saw neither house or tree, or scarce 
a bush; we saw abundance of the sable-hunters, as they called 
them. These are all Tartars of the Mongul Tartary, of which 
this country is a part; and they frequently attack small caravans, 
but we saw no numbers of them together. I was curious to see 
the sable-skins they catched, but could never speak with any of 

^ToDgOOSM. 



574 THE TONQUBSBS. 

them; for they durst not come near us, neither durst we straggle 
from our Company to go near them. 

After we had passed this desert we came into a country prettj 
well inhabited ; that is to say, we found towns and Castles, settled 
by the Czar of Muscovy, with garrisons of stationary soldiers to 
protect the caravans, and defend the country against the Tartais, 
who would otherwise make it very dangerous travelling; and bis 
czarish majesty has given such strict Orders for the well guarding 
the Caravans and merchants, that if there are any Tartars heard 
of in the country, detachments of the garrisons are always sent 
to see the travellers safe from Station to Station. 

And thus the govemor of Adinskoy, who I had opportanity to 
make a visit to, by means of the Scots merchant who was ao- 
quainted with him, o£fered us a guard of fifty men, if we thought 
there was any danger, to the next Station. 

I thought long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe 
we should find the country better peopled, and the people more 
civilized; but I found myself mistaken in both, for we had yet the 
nation of the Tongueses to pass through, where we saw the same 
tokens of paganism and barbarity, or worse than before, only as 
they were conquered by the Muscovites, and entirely reduced, thej 
were not so dangerous; but for rudeness of manners, idolatry, and 
multitheism, no people in the world ever went beyond them. 
They are clothed all in skins of beasts, and their houses are built 
of the same. You know not a man from a woman, neither bj 
the ruggedness of their countenances or their clothes; and in the 
winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they Hve Under- 
ground in houses Uke vaults, which have cavities going from one 
to another. 

If the Tartars had their Cham-Chi-Thaungu for a whole village 
or country, these had idols in every hut and in every cave; besidee, 
they worship the stars, the sun, the water, the snow, and in a 
Word, everything that they do not understand, and they imderstand 
but very Uttle; so that almost every element, every uncommon 
thing sets them a-sacrificing. 

But I am no more to describe people than countries, any farther 
than my own story comes to be concemed in them. I niet with 



CHARACTER OF THE PEOPLE. 576 

nothing pecoliar to myself in all this country, which I reckon was, 
from the desert which I spoke of last, at least four huodred miles, 
half of it being another desert, which took us up twelve days' 
severe travelling, without house, or tree, or bush, but were obliged 
again to carry our own provisions, as well water as bread. After 
we were out of this desert, and had travelled two days, we came 
to Janezay, a Muscovite city or Station on the great river Janezay. 
This river they told us parted Europe from Asia, though our 
map-makers, as I am told, do not agree to it; however, it is certainly 
the eastern boundary of the ancient Siberia, which now makes 
up a province only of the vast Muscovite empire, but is itself 
equal in bigness to the whole empire of Germany. 

And yet here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, 
except in the Muscovite garrisons. All the country between the 
river Oby and the river Janezay^ is as entirely pagan, and the 
people as barbarous, as the remotest of the Tartars; nay, as any 
nation, for aught I know, in Asia or America. I also found, 
which I observed to the Muscovite governors who I had oppor- 
tunity to converse with, that the poor pagans are not much the 
wiser or the nearer Christianity for boing under the Muscovite 
govemment; which they acknowledged was true enough; but, as 
they Said, was none of their business. That if the czar expected 
to convert his Siberian, or Tonguese, or Tartar subjects, it should 
be done by sending clergymen among them, not soldiers; and they 
added, with more sincerity than I expected, that they found it was 
not so much the concem of their monarch to make the people 
Christians, as it was to make them subjects. 

From this river to the great river Oby, we crossed a wild, 
uncultivated country. I cannot say 'tis a harren soil; 'tis only 
harren of people and good management; otherwise it is in itself 
a most pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable country. What inhabi- 
tants we found in it are all pagans, except such as are sent among 
them from Russia; for this is the country, I mean on both sides 
the river Oby, whither the Muscovite criminals, that are not put 
to death, are banished, and from whence it is next to impossible 
they should ever come away. 

^ YeneseL 



676 A COUNCIL CALLED. 

I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs, tili I 
came to Tobolski, the capital city of Siberia, where I continued 
some time on the following occasion: — 

We had been dow almost seven months on our joumey, and 
winter began to come on apace; whereupon noy partner and I 
called a coancil about our particular afifairs, in which we found it 
proper, considering that we were bound for England, and not for 
Muscow, to consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of 
siedges and reindeer to carry us over the snow in the winter time; 
and, indeed, they have such things that it would be incredible to 
relate the particulars of, by which means the Eussians travel more 
in the winter than they can in summer ; because in these sleds thej 
are able to run night and day: the snow being frozen, is one 
universal covering to Nature, by which the hills, the vales, the 
rivers, the lakes, all are smooth and hard as a stone ; and they nm 
upon the surface, without any regard to what is undemeath. 

But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of this kisd; 
I was bound to England, not to Muscow, and my route lay tvo 
ways: either I must go on as the caravan went, tili I came to 
Jeroslaw,^ and then go oflf west for Narva, and the Gulf of Fin- 
land, and so either by sea or land to Dantzic, where I might pos- 
sibly seil my China cargo to good advantage; or I must leave tbe 
caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from whence I had bat six 
days by water to Archangel, and from thence might be eure d 
shipping, either to England, Holland, or Hamburg. 

Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter, would have been 
preposterous; for, as to Dantzic, the Baltic would be frozen op, 
and I could not get passage; and to go by land in those countries, 
was far less safe than among the Mongul Tartars; likewise togo 
to Archangel in October, all the ships would be gone from thenoe, 
and even the merchants who dwell there in summer, retire soadi 
to Muscow in the winter, when the ships are gone; so that I should 
have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcity 
of provisions, and must lie there in an empty town all the winttf : 
80 that, upon the whole, I thought it much my better way to 



^ Jarofllav, the capital of a province of the same name in European Runa <m tb« 
Volga. 



LIFE AT TOBOLSKI. 577 

the canvaD go, and to make provision to winter where I was; 
nsnielj, at ToboUki, in Siberia, in the latitude of fif ty-etgbt degrees, 
where I was sure of three things to wear out a cold winter with; 
namely, plenty of provision, such as the country afibrded; a warm 
house, with fuel enough, and exceUent Company : of all which I shall 
give a füll account in its place. 

I was now in a quite different climate from my beloved island, 
where 1 never feit cold, except whcn 1 had my aguo; on the con- 
trary, I had much to do to bear any clothes on my back, and never 
made any fire but without doors, and for my necessity in dressing 
my food, &c Now I made me three good vests, with lai^ robes, 
or gowns over them, to hang down to the feet, and button ctose 
to the wriats, and all these lined with fürs to make them sufBciently 
warm. 

As to a wann house, I must confess I greatly disliked our way 
in England, of making fires in every room in the house, in open 
chimneys, which, when the fire was out, always kept the dr in the 
room cold as the climate. But taking an apartment in a good 
house in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built like a fumace, 
in the centre of six seveial rooms, like a stove; the funnel to carry 
the smoke went np one way, the door to come at the üre went in 
another, and all the rooms were kept equally warm, but no fire 
Seen; just as they heat the bagnios in England. 

By this means we had always the same climate in all the rooms, 
and an equal heat was preserved; and how cold soever it was 
without, it was always warm within, and yet we saw no fire, nor 
was ever incommoded with any smoke. 

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be possible 
to meet with good Company here, in a country so barharous as that 
of the most northerly parts of Europe, near the Frozen Ocean, and 
within but a very few degrees of Nova Zembla. 

But thia being the country where the State criminals of Muscovy, 
as I observed before, are all banished, this city was füll of noble- 
meo, princes, gentlemen, colonels; and, in short, all degrees of the 
nobility, gentry, soldiery, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here was 
the famous Prince Galliozen, the old General Robostiski, and 
•everal other persona of note, and some ladies. 

(MS) %Q 



578 A RUSSIAN EXILE. 

By means of my Scots merchant, who, nevertheless, I part«d 
with here, I made an acquaintance here with several of these 
gentlemen, and some of them of the iirst rank; and from these, in 
the long Winter nights in which I stayed here, I received several 

very agreeable visits. It was talldng one night with Prince , 

one of the banished ministers of State, belonging to the Czar of 
Muscovy, that my talk of my particular case began. He had been 
telling me abundance of fine things, of the greatness, the magnifi- 
cence, the dominions, and the absolute power of the Emperor of 
the Russians. I interrupted him, and told him, I was a greater 
and more powerful prince than ever the Czar of Muscovy was, 
though my dominions were not so large, or my people so manj. 
The Eussian grandee looked a little surprised, and, fixing his ejes 
steadily upon me, began to wonder what I meant 

I told him his wonder would cease when I had explained mj- 
self. First, I told him, I had the absolute disposal of the lires 
and fortunes of all my subjects : that, notwithstanding my absolute 
power, I had not one person disaflfected to my govemment or to 
my person, in all my dominions. He shook his head at that, and 
Said, there, indeed, I outdid the Czar of Muscovy. I told hiio, 
that all the lands in my kingdom were my own, and all my sub- 
jects were not only my tenants, but tenants at will; that thej 
would all fight for me to the last drop; and that never tyrant^ for 
such I acknowledged myself to be, was ever so universally be- 
loved, and yet so horribly feared by his subjects. 

After amusing them with these riddles in govemment for a whik, 
I opened the case, and told them the story at large of my living 
in the island, and how I managed both myself and the people then 
that were under me, just as I have since minuted it down. They 
were exceedingly taken with the story, and especially the prince, 
who told me, with a sigh, that the true greatness of life was to be 
master of ourselves; that he would not have exchanged such a 
State of life as mine, to have been Czar of Muscovy; and that he 
found more felicity in the retirement he seemed to be banished to 
there, than ever he found in the highest authority he enjoyed ifi 
the court of his master the czar: that the height of human wisdoD 
was to bring our tempers down to our circumstances, and to make 



TRUE FELICITY. 579 

a calm within uuder the weight of the greatest scorns without 
When he came first hither, he said, he used to tear the hair from 
his head, and the clothes from his back, as others had done before 
him : but a little time and consideration had made him look into 
himselfy as well as round him to things without; that he found 
the niind of man, if it was but once brought to reflect upon the 
State of universal life, and how little this world was concemed in 
its true felicity, was perfectly capable of making a felicity for itself, 
fully satisfying to itself, and suitable to its own best ends and 
desires, with but very Uttle assistance from the world; that air to 
breathe in, food to sustain life, clothes for warmth, and liberty for 
ezercise in order to health, completed, in his opinion, all that the 
world could do for us: and though the greatness, the authority, 
the riches, and the pleasures which some enjoyed in the world, and 
which he had enjoyed his share of, had much in them that was 
agreeable to us, yet, he observed, that all those things chiefly 
gratified the coarsest of our a£fections, such as our ambition, our 
particular pride, our avarice, our vanity, and our sensuality; all 
which were, indeed, the mere product of the worst part of man, 
were in themselves crimes, and had in them the seeds of all manner 
of crimes, but neither were related to, or concemed with, any of 
those virtues that constituted us wise men, or of those graces which 
distinguished us as Christians : that being now deprived of all tho 
fancied felicity which he enjoyed in the füll exercise of all those 
rices, he said he was at leisure to look upon the dark side of them, 
where he found all manner of deformity ; and was now convinced 
that virtue only makes a man tnily wise, rieh, and great, and pre- 
serves him in the way to a superior happiness in a future State. 
And in this, he said, they were more happy in their banishment 
than all their enemies were, who had the füll possession of all 
the wealth and power that they (the banished) had left behind 
them. 

" Nor, sir," says he, " do I bring my mind to this politically, by 
the neccssity of my circumstances, which some call miserable; but 
if I know anything of myself, I would not now go back, though 
the czar, my master, should call me, and reinstate me in all my 
former grandeur — I say, I would no more go back to it, than I 




580 A GREAT CONQUEROR 

believe my soul, when it shall be delivered from this prison of the 
body, and has had a taste of the glorious State beyond life, would 
come back to the gaol of flesh and blood it is now enclosed in, and 
leave heaven to deal in the dirt and grime of human affairs/' 

He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so mnch 
eamestness and motion of his spirits, which were apparent in his 
countenance, that it was evident it was the true sense of his souL 
There was no room to doubt his sincerity. 

I told him, I once thought myself a kind of a monarch in my cid 
Station, of which I had given hun an account, but that I thought 
he was not a monarch only, but a great conqueror; for that he 
that has got a victory over his own exorbitant desires, and has the 
absolute dominion over himself, whose reason entirely govems his 
will, is certainly greater than he that conquers a city. " But^ my 
lord," Said I, "shall I take the liberty to ask you a questionf 
" With all my heart," says he. " If the door of your liberty was 
opened," said I, " would you not take hold of it to deliver your- 
self from this exilel" 

" Hold!" said he; "your question is subtle, and requires some 
serious just distinctions to give it a sincere answer; and TU give 
it you from the bottom of my heart Nothing that I know of in 
this World would move me to deliver myself from this sUte of 
banishment except these two — first, the enjoyment of my relations; 
and, secondly, a little warmer climate. But I protest to you that 
to go back to the pomp of the court, the glory, the power, the 
hurry of a minister of State; the wealth, the gaiety, and the 
pleasures, that is to say, follies, of a courtier; — if my master 
should send me word this moment, that he restores me to all he 
banished me from, I protest, if I know- myself at all, I would not 
leave this wildemess, these deserts, and these frozen lakes, for 
the palace at Muscow." 

" But, my lord," said I, " perhaps you not only are banished 
from the pleasures of the court, and from the power, and authority, 
and wealth you enjoyed before, but you may be absent, too^ from 
some of the conveniences of life, your estate, perhaps, confiscated, 
and your efFects plundered, and the supplies left you here mn^ 
not be suitable to the ordinary demands of life." 



WINTER AT TOBOIäKI. SSI 

" Af ," Bays he, " that is, as you suppoBe me to be a lord or a 
prince, &C. So indeed I am; but you are now to consider me 
only as as a man, a human creature, not at all distinguished from 
anotber; and so I can suffer no want, unless I ahould be visited 
witb sickness and diatempers. However, to put the question out 
of disput«: you see our manner; we are in this place five persons 
of rank; wo live perfectiy retired, as suited to a State of banish- 
ment; we have something rescued from the shipwreck of our 
fortunes, which keeps us from the mere necesaity of hunting for 
our food; but tbe poor soldiers who are hece, witbout that help, 
live in as mucb plenty as we, who go iuto the woods and catch 
lables and foxes; tbe kbour of a month will maintain them a ycar: 
knd SB the way of living is not expensive, so it is not hard to get 
Buificient to ourselves: so that objection is out of doora." 

I have not room to give a füll account of the moat agreeable 
ronversation I had with this truly great man; in all which he 
ibowed that his mtnd was so inspired with a superior knowledge 
»f things, 80 supported by religion, aa well as by a vast share of 
rtsdom, that his contempt of the world was really as much as he 
id expressed, and that be was always the same to tlie last, as 
1 appear in tbe story I am going to teil 
E had been here eigbt months, and a dark, dreadful winter I 
kight it to be, the cold so intenae tbat I could not so mucb as 
[ abroad without being wrapped in fürs, and a mask of für 
1 my face, or rather a hood, with only a hole for breatb, 
Bwo for sight The little daylight we had was, as we reckoned, 
jhree months not above five hours a day, and six at most; 
Itbat the snow lying on the ground continually, and the 
1er clear, it was never quite dark. Our horses were kept, 
iier starved, Underground; and as for our serrant« — for we 
ftbree servants here to look after our horses and aelres — we 
lery now and then their fingere and toes to thaw and tako 
t lest they shonld mortify and fall off. 
1 tnie, witfain doors we were warm, the houses being cloae, 
i thick, the lights small, and the glass all double. Our 
I chiefly the flesb of deer, dried and cured in the season; 
1 enough, but baked aa biscuits; dried üah of several 



582 



PREPARES TO DEPART. 



sorts, and some flesh of mutton, and of the buffaloes, which is 
pretty good beef. All the Stores of provision for the winter are 
laid up in the summer, and well cured. Our drink was water 
mixed with aqua vitse ^ instead of brandy; and, for a treaty mead 
instead of wine, which, however, they have excelleut good The 
hunters, who venture abroad all weathers, frequently brought m 
in fresh venison, very fat and good, and sometimes bear's flesh, 
but we did not much care for the last. We had a good stock of 
tea, with which we treated our friends as above; and, in a word, 
we lived very cheerfuUy and well, all things considered. 

It was now March, and the days grown considerably longer, 
and the weather, at least, tolerable; so the other travellers begio 
to prepare sleds to carry them ovcr the snow, and to get things 
ready to be going; but my measures being fixed, as I have said, 
for Archangel, and not for Muscovy or the Baltic, I made no 
motion; knowing very well that the ships from the south de not 
set out for that part of the world tili May or June; and that if I 
was there by the beginning of August, it would be as soon as anj 
ships would be ready to go away; and therefore, I say, I madeno 
haste to be gone as others did; in a word, I saw a great many 
people, nay, all the travellers, go away before me. It seems every 
year they go from hence to Muscow for trade ; namely, to canr 
fürs, and buy necessaries with them, which they bring back to 
fumish their shops: also others went of the same errand to 
Archangel; but then they also being to come back again above 
eight hundred miles, went all out before me. 

In Short, about the latter end of May I began to make all readj 
to pack up; and as I was doing this, it occurred to me, that seeing 
all these people were banished by the Czar of Muscovy to Siberii, 
and yet, when they came there, were left at liberty to go whither 
they would, why did they not then go away to any part of the 
World wherever they thought fiti and I began to examinewhii 
should hinder them from making such an attempt. 

But my wonder was over when I entered upon that subjecs 
with the person I have mentioned, who answered me thus: "Con- 
sider, first, sir," said he, " the place where we are; and, secondlj. 

^ A strong spirit resembliDg gin distiUed from rye. 



A STARTLING OFFER, 583 

the condition we are in; especially," said he, "the generality of 
the people who are banished hither. We are surrounded," said 
he, " with stronger things than bars and bolts : on the north side 
an unnavigable ocean, where ship never sailed and boat never 
swam; neither, if we had both, could we know where to go with 
them. Every other way," said he, " we have above a thousand 
miles to pass through the czar's own dominions, and by ways 
Qtterly nnpassable, except by the roads made by the govemor, 
and by the towns garrisoned by bis troops; so that we could 
neither pass undiscovered by the road, or subsist any other way; 
so that it is in vain to attempt if 

I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they were in a 
prison every jot as secure as if they had been locked up in the 
Castle at Muscow. However, it came into my thought, that I 
might certainly be made an instrument to procure the escape of 
this ezcellent person, and that whatever hazard I run, I would 
certainly try if I could carry him oflf. üpon this I took an occa- 
sion one evening to teil him my thoughts : I represented to him 
that it was very easy for me to carry him away, there being no 
guard over him in the country, and as I was not going to Muscow, 
bat to Archangel, and that I went in the nature of a caravan, by 
which I was not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in the 
desert, but could encamp every night where I would, we might 
easily pass uninterrupted to Archangel, where I would immediately 
secure him on board an English or Dutch ship, and carry him off 
safe along with me ; and as to his subsistence, and other particulars, 
it should be my care tili he could better supply himself. 

He heard me very attentively, and looked eamestly on me all 
the while I spoke. Nay, I could see in his very face that what I 
said put his spirits into an exceeding ferment ; bis colour frequently 
changed, his eyes looked red, and his heart fluttered, that it might 
be even perceived in his countenance; nor could he immediately 
answer me when I had done, and, as it were, expected what he would 
say to it; but after he had paused a little he embraced me, and 
said, " How unhappy are we, imguarded creatures as we are, that 
even our greatest acts of friendship are made snares to us, and we 
are made tempters of one another! My dear friend," said he. 



584 THE EXILE'S CHOICB. 

''your offer is so sincere, has such Idndness in it» is so disinterested 
in itself and is so calculated for my advantage, that I most h&Te 
very little knowledge of the world, if I did not both wonder at it^ 
and acknowledge the Obligation I have upon me to you for it; but 
did you believe I was sincere in what I have so often said to you 
of my contempt of the world ? Did you believe I spoke my veiy 
soul to you, and that I had really obtained that degree of felicity 
here, that had placed me above all that the world could give me, 
or do for me] Did you believe I was sincere, when I told you I 
would not go back, if I was recalled even to be all that once I was 
in the court, with the f avour of the czar, my master 1 Did yoa 
believe me, my friend, to be an honest man, or did you think me 
to be a boasting hypocrite ? " Here he stopped, as if he would hear 
what I would say; but, indeed, I soon after perceived, that he 
stopped because his spirits were in motion; bis great haart was fall 
of struggles, and he could not go on. I was, I confess, astonished 
at the thing, as well as at the man, and I used some arguments 
with him to urge him to set himself free; that he ought to look 
upon this as a door opened by Heaven for his deliverance, and i 
summons by Providence, who has the care and disposition of all 
events, to do himself good, aud to render himself useful in the 
world. 

He had by this time recovered himself. " How do you know, 
sir," says he, warmly, *^ that, instead of a summons from Heaven, 
it may not be a feint of another instrument, representing, in all the 
alluring colours to me, the show of felicity as a deliverance, 
which may in itself be my snare, and tend directly to my mini 
Here I am free from the temptation of returniug to my fonn^ 
miserable greatness; there I am not sure, but that all the seeds of 
pride, ambition, avarice, and luxury, which I know remiain k 
nature, may revive and take root, and, in a word, again overwhelm 
me; and then the happy prisoner, who you see now master of 
his soul's liberty, shall be the miserable slave of his own senses, in 
the füll of all personal liberty. Dear sir, let me remain in this 
blessed confinement, banished from the crimes of life, ratber tbtn 
purchase a show of freedom at the expense of the liberty of mj 
reason, and at the expense of the future happiness which now I 




1 



CRUSOES SUBPEKl. 



bare in niy viev, but ehall theo, I fear, quickly lose sight of ; for 
I am but fieah, a maD_, a mere man, have passiona and affectiona 
u likely to possess and overthrow me as any man. Ofi, be not my 
friend and my tempter both togetherl" 

If I was surprised before, I was quite domb now, and etood 




silent, looking ot him; and, indeed, admired what I aaw. The 
stniggle in bis soul was so great, that, though tbe weatber was 
eztremely cold, it put him into a most violent sweat, and I found 
hfl wanted to give vent to bis mind : bo I said a word or two, that 
I would leave him to consider of it, and wait on him again; and 
then I witbdrew to my own apartment. 

About two houTs after, I beard somebody at or near the door of 



586 A HANDSOMS PRESENT. 

my room, and I was going to open the door; but he had opened it, 
and came in. "My dear friend,'^ says he, '^you had almost over- 
set me, but I am recovered; do not take it ill that I do not close 
with your ofifer; I assore you, 'tis not for want of a sense of the 
kindness of it in you: and I came to make the most sincere 
acknowledgment of it to you; but, I hope, I have got the victory 
over myself." 

" My lord," said I, " I hope you are fully satisfied that you do 
not resist the call of Heaven." *'Sir,'' said he, **if it had been from 
Heaven, the same power would have influenced me to accept it; 
but I hope, and am fully satisfied, that it is from Heaven Üiat L 
decline it; and I have an infinite satisfaction in the parting, that^ 
you shall leave me an honest man still, though not a free man.** 

I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make professions 
him of my having no end in it but a sincere desire to serve him 
He embraced me very passionately, and assured me, he was sensibl 
of that, and should always acknowledge it: and with that h 
offered me a very fiue present of sables, too much indeed for me 
accept from a man in bis circumstances; and I would have avoid 
them, but he would not be refused. 

The next moming I sent my servant to bis lordship, with ^ 
small present of tea, and two pieces of China damask, and foai 
little wedges of Japan gold, which did not all weigh above ax 
ounces or thereabout, but were far short of the value of bis sables, 
which, indeed, when I came to England, I found worth near £200. 
He accepted the tea, and one piece of the damask, and one of the 
pieces of gold, which had a fine stamp upon it, of the Japan coin- 
age, which I found he took for the rarity of it, but would not take 
any more; and he sent word by my servant that he desired to 
speak with me. 

When I came to him, he told me, I knew what had passed 
between us, and hoped I would not move him any more in that 
affair; but that, since I had made such a generous offer to him, ^ 
asked me, if I had kindness enough to offer the same to another 
person that he would name to me, in whom he had a great share 
of concem. I told him, that I could not say I inclined to do so 
much for any one but himself, for whom I had a particular value, 




\ 



1 



LEAVE8 TOBOLSKI. 587 

uid Bfaould have been glad to have been the inatrument of hia de- 
liverance: hoTever, if he would please to name the person to me, 
I would give him my anawer, and hoped he would not be 
diapleased with me, if he was with my anawer. He told me, it 
was only his son, who, though I had not seen, yet was in the same 
condJtion with himself, and above two hundred miles from him, 
on the other aide tfae Oby; but that, if I consented, fae would 
send for him. 

I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made some 
ceremony in letting him understand that it was wholly on his 
account; and that seeing I could not prevail on him, I would ahow 
my respect to him by my concem for his son. But these things 
are too tedious to repeat here. He aent away the next day for 
hla son; and, in about twenty days, he came back with the 
messenger, bringing six or seven horaea loaded with very rieh fürs, 
and which an the wbole amounted to a very great value. 

His servants brought the horses into the town, but left the 
young !ord at a distance, tili night, when he came iiKognito into 
our apartmeut, and his father presented him to me; and, in short, 
we concerted there the manner of our travelling, and everything 
proper for the journey. 

I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black fox-sldns, 
fine erminea, and auch other fura aa are very rieh — I say, I had 
bought them in that city in exchange for some of the goods I 
brought from China; in particular, for the clovea and nutmega, of 
which I sold the greateat part here, and the rest afterwards at 
Archangel, for a much better price than I could have done at 
London; and my partner, who was sensible of the probt, and 
wbose business more particularly than mine was merchandize, was 
mightily pleased with our stay, on account of the traffic we made 
here. 

It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place, a 
city, I believe, little heard of in the world; and, indeed, it is so 
far ont of the read of commerce that I know not how it ahould be 
much talked of. We were now come to a very small caravan, 
being only thirty-two horses and cameis in all; and all of them 
passed for mine, though my new guest was proprietor of eleven of 



588 A RÜSSUN REFUGEE. 

them. It was most natural, also, that I shoold take more servaots 
with me than I had before; and the young lord pajssed for my 
Steward. What great man I passed for mjself I know not^ 
neither did it concem me to inquire. We had here the woist 
and the largest desert to pass over that we met with in all the 
joumey, Indeed, I* call it the worst, because the way was veiy 
deep in some places and very uneven in others. The best we 
had to say for it was, that we thought we had no troops of 
Tartars and robbers to fear, and that they never came on this side 
the river Oby, or, at least, but very seldom; but we found it 
otherwisa 

My young lord had with him a faithful Muscovite senrant, or 
rather a Siberian servant, who was perfectly acquainted with the 
country, and led us by private roads, that we avoided coming into 
the principal towns and cities upon the great road, such as Tomen, 
Soly-Kamskoi, and several others; because the Muscovite garrisons 
which are kept there are very curious and strict in their observi- 
tion upon travellers, and searching lest any of the banished persons 
of note should make their escape that way into Muscovy. But by 
this means, as we were kept out of the cities, so our whole jouraej 
was a desert, and we were obliged to encamp and lie in our tente 
when we might have had very good accommodation in the citiea 
on the way. This the young lord was so sensible of, that he 
would not allow us to lie abroad, when we came to several dties 
on the way, but lay abroad himself with his servant in the wooda« 
and met us always at the appointed places. 

We were just entered Europe, having passed the liver Kama» 
which, in these parts, is the boundary between Europe and Asia, 
and the first city on the European side was called Soly-Kamskoi, 
which is as much as to say, the great city, on the river Kama. 
And here we thought to have seen some evident alteration in the 
people, their manner, their habit, their religion, and their businessw 
But we were mistaken; for as we had a vast desert to pass, which, 
by relation, is near seven hundred miles long in some places, bat 
not above two hundred miles over where we passed it, so, tili we 
came past that horrible place, we found very little difference 
between that country and the Mongul Tartary; the people mosüy 



1 



THRBATBNED BY KALHUCKS. 589 

pagans, and little better than the savages of America, their houses 
and towna füll of idols, and their way of living wholly barbaroos, 
ezcept in the cities aa above, and the TÜlages near them, where 
they are Christiana, aa they call tbemselvea, of the Greek Cburch, 
but have their religion mingied with so many relics of superstition, 
that it ia scarce to be known in aome places from mere eorcery 
and witchcraft. 

In pasaing this forest, I thought indeed we must, after all our 
dangers were in our imagination escaped, as before, have been 
plundered and robbed, and perhaps mnrdered, by a troop of thieves. 
Of what country they vere, wbether the roring bands of the 
Oatiachi, a kind of Tartars or wild people on the bank of the Oby, 
had ranged thns far; or whether they were the sable-buDtera of 
Siberia, I am yet at a loss to know; but they were all on horse- 
back, canied bows and arrows, and were at firet about five and 
forty in number. They came so near to us, as within about two 
musket shot, and, asking no questions, they surrounded us with 
their horse, and looked very earnestly upon ua twice. At length 
they placed themselvos just in our way, upon which we drew up 
in a little line before our camels, being not above sixteen men in 
all; and being drawn up thus, we halted, and aent out the Sibe- 
rian servant, who attended bis lord, to see who they were. His 
master was the more willing to let him go, because be was not a 
little apprebenaive that they were a Siberian troop sent out after 
him. The man came up near them with a flag of truce, and 
called them; bat though be spoke aeveral of their languagea, or 
dialecta of languagea rather, he could not understand a word they 
Said. However, after aome aigns to him not to come nearer to 
them at his peril, ao he said he understood tbem to mean, oSering 
to ahoot at him ü he advanced, the fellow came back no wiser than 
be went; only that by their dresa, he aaid, he believed them to be 
aome Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Circassian hordes, and that 
tbere muat be more of them upon the great desert, though he 
never beard tbat any of them ever were aeen so far north befor& 

Thia waa small comfort to us: however, we had no remedy. 
There was on our left band, at about a quarter of a mile's diatance, 
ft little grove or clump of treea, which stood close together, and 



590 THE TRAVELLERS ATTACKED. 

very near the road. I immediately resolved we should adrance 
to those trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we could there: ioT, 
first) I considered that the trees would, in a great measure, corer 
US from their arrows; and, in the next place, they could not come 
to Charge us in a body. It was indeed my old Portuguese püot 
who proposed it, and who had this excellency attending him, 
namely, that he was always readiest, and most apt to direct and 
encourage us in cases of the most danger. We advanced imme- 
diately with what speed we could, and gained that little wood, the 
Tartars or thieves, for we know not what to call them, keepiog 
their stand, and not attempting to hinder us. When we came 
thither, we found, to our great satisfaction, that it was a swampj, 
springy piece of ground; and on the one side, a very great spring 
of water, which, running out in a little rill or brook, was, a little 
farther, joined by another of the like bigness, and was, in short, 
the head or source of a considerable river, called afterüi'^ards the 
Wirtska. The trees which grew about this spring were not in all 
above two hundred, but were very large, and stood pretty thick; 
so that as soon as we got in we saw ourselves perfectly safe from 
the enemy, unless they alighted and attacked us on foot. 

But to make this more difficult» our Portuguese, with indefati- 
gable application, cut down great arms of the trees, and laid tbem 
hanging, not quite cut of, from one tree to another, so that he 
made a continued fence almost round us. 

We stayed here, waiting the motion of the enemy, some hours, 
without perceiving they made any motion : when, about two hours 
before night, they came down directly upon us; and, though we 
had not perceived it, we found they had been joined by some more 
of the same, so that they were near fourscore horse, whereof, how- 
ever, we fancied some were women. They came on tili they were 
within half shot of our little wood, when we fired one musket 
without ball, and called to them in the Eussian tongue to knov 
what they wanted, and bid them keep off. But, as if they knew 
nothing of what we said, they came on with a double fury, directly 
up to the wood-side, not imagining we were so barricaded that 
they could not break in. Our old pilot was our captain as well 
as he had been our engineer, and desired of us not to fire upon 



i 



THE TARTARR REPUt-SED. 



591 



them tili they came within piatol-shot, and tliat we might be sure 
to kill; and tbat, wlien we did fire, we should be eure to take good 
aim. We bade bim give the word of command, which he delayed 
to long tbat they were, some of them, within two pikea' lengtb of 
OB when we fired. 

We aüned bo true, or Providence directed our shot so sure, that 
we killed fourteen of them, and wounded Beveral others, as also 




several of their hoTses; for we had all of os loaded our piecea 
with two or three bulletB at least. 

They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated im- 
mediately about one hundred rode from ob, in which time we 
loaded our pieces agaiu; and seeing them keep that diatance, we 
gallied out, aod catched four or five of their horses, whose ridera, 
we suppose, were killed, aad, Coming up to the dead, we could 
eaaily perceive they were Tartars, but kuew not from wbat 
comitry, of how they came to make an ezcuraion Buch an tmosnal 
lengtb. 

About an boor after, tbey made a motion to attack us again, 



592 THE ENEMY INCREASE. 

and rode round our little wood to see where eise they might break 
in ; but finding us always ready to face them, they went off again, 
and we resolved not to stir from the place for that night 

We slept little, yoa may be sure, but spent the most part of the 
night in strengthening our Situation, and barricading the entrances 
into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. We waited for day- 
light, and when it came it gave us a very unwelcome discovery 
indeed; for the enemy, who we thought were discouraged with 
the reception they had met with, were now increased to no less 
than three hundred, and had set up eleven or twelve huts and 
tents, as if they were resolved to besiege us; and this little camp 
they had pitched upon the open piain, at about three-quarters of 
a mile from us. We were indeed surprised at this discovery; and 
now, I confess, I gave mysclf over for lost, and all that I had. 
The loss of my efFects did not lie so near me, though they were 
very considerable, as the thoughts of falling into the hands of such 
barbarians, at the latter end of my journey, after so many diffi- 
culties and hazards as I had gone through, and even in sight of 
our port, where we expected safety and deliverance. As for my 
partner, he was raging. He declared that to lose his goods wonld 
be his ruin; and he would rather die than be starved: and he 
was for fighting to the last drop. 

The young lord, as gallant as ever flesh showed itself, was for 
fighting to the last also; and my old pilot was of the opinion we 
were able to resist them all in the Situation we were then in. 
And thus we spent the day in debates of what we should da 
But towards evening, we found that the number of our eneinies 
still increased, perhaps as they were abroad in several parties for 
prey. The first had sent out scouts to call for help, and to 
acquaint them of the booty ; and we did not know but by the 
morning they might still be a greater number. So I began to in- 
quire of those people we had brought from Tobolski if there was 
no other or more private ways by which we might avoid them in 
the night, and perhaps either retreat to some town, or get help to 
guard US over the desert 

The Siberian, who was servant to the young lord, told us, if we 
designed to avoid them, and not fight, he would engage to carry 



OUT OF DANGER, Ö93 

US ofif in the night, to a way that went north towards the Petrou, 
by which he made no question but we might get away, and the 
Tartars never the wiser. But» he said, his lord had told him he 
would not retreat, but would rather choose to fight I told him 
he mistook his lord; for that he was too wise a man to love fight- 
ing for the sake of it; that I knew his lord was brave enough by 
what he had showed already; but that his lord knew better than 
to desire to have seventeen or eighteen men fight five hundred, 
unless an imavoidable necessity forced them to it; and that if 
he thought it possible for us to escape in the night, we had noth- 
ing eise to do but to attempt it He answered, if his lord gave 
him such Orders, he would lose his life if he did not perform it 
We soon brought his lord to give that order, though privately; 
and we immediately prepared for the putting it in practice. 

And, first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a fire in 
our little camp, which we kept buming, and prepared so as to 
make it bum all night, that the Tartars might conclude we were 
still there. But as soon as it was dark, that is to say, so as we 
could see the stars, for our guide would not stir before, having 
all our horses and cameis ready loaden, we foUowed our new 
guide, who, I soon found, steered himself by the pole, or north 
Star, all the country being level for a long way. 

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be 
lighter still ; not that it was quite dark all night, but the moon 
began to rise, so that, in short, it was rather lighter than we 
wished it to be; but by six o^clock the next morning, we were 
gotten near forty miles, though, the truth is, we almost spoiled our 
horses. Here we found a Eussian village named Kermazinskoy, 
where we rested, and heard nothing of the Kalmuck Tartars that 
day. About two hours before night, we set out again, and travelled 
tili eight the next morning, though not quite so quiet as before; 
and, about seven o'clock, we passed a little river called Kirtza, 
and came to a good large town inhabited by Eussians, and very 
populous, called Ozomoys. There we heard that several troops or 
hordes of Kalmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but that we 
were now completely out of danger of them, which was to our 
great satisfaction, you may be sure. Here we were obliged to get 

(248) ^^ 



594 REACHES HAMBURG. 

Bome fresh horses, and having need enough of rest, we stayed five 
days ; and my partner and I agreed to give the honest Siberian 
who brought us thither, the value of ten pistoles for his conduct. 
ing US. 

In five days more we came to Veussuna, upon the rive 
Witzogda, and running into the Dwina. We were there, ver^ 
happily, near the end of our travels by land, that river bein 
navigable in seven days' passage to Archangel. From hence \r- 
came to Lawrenskoy, the 3rd of July; and, providing oorselv^ 
with two luggage-boats, and a bärge for our own convenience, i^ 
embarked the 7th, and arrived all safe at Archangfel the 18d 
having been a year and five months and three days on the joume^^ 
including our stay of eight months and odd days at Tobolski. 

We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks, for the arri^ra 
of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had not a Hamburg«, 
come in above a month sooner than any of the English ship«; 
when, after some consideration that the city of Hamburg mi^bt 
happen to be as good a market for our goods as London, we a// 
took freight with him; and, having put my goods on boanf, ü 
was most natural for me to put my Steward on board to take care 
of them, by which means my young lord had a sufficient opporta- 
nity to conceal himself, never Coming on shore in all the time w» 
stayed there; and this he did that ho might not be seen in the 
city, where some of the Muscow merchants would certainly have 
seen and discovered him. 

We sailed from Archangel the 20tb of August, the same year, 
and after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived in the Elbe the 
13th of September. Here my partner and I found a very good 
sale for our goods, as well those of China^ as the sables, Äc, of 
Siberia; and dividing the produce of our eflfects, my shtfe 
amounted to £3475, 175. Sd,^ notwithstanding so many losses 
we had sustained, and charges we had been at, only rememberiog 
that I had included in this about six hundred pounds worth of 
diamonds which I had purchased at BengaL 

Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up the Elbe, 
in Order to go to the Court of Vienna, where he resolved to seck 
protection, and where he could correspond with those of his 



k 



SAPE AT HOHE] 595 

father's frienda who were left aliv& He did not part without all 
the testimonies he could give me of gratitude for the Service I had 
doue him, and his sense of my kindaeBB to the prince, hia father. 

To conclude. Haviog atayed near four months in Hamburg, 
I camo from thence overland to the Hague, where I embaiked in 
the packet, and arrived in London the lOth of Januaiy 1705, 
having been gone from England ten years and nine months. 

And here, resolving to barase myself no more, I am preparing 
for a longer joumey than all these, baving lived eerenty-two 
years a life of infinit« variety, and leamed sufficiently to know the 
valae of retirement, and the blessing of ending our daya in peace. 




**It todoeto Mean. Bb^Je tOHjthatno llnnof pubHalMn tnna out thlidMiof 
litcnUara with more finiah. W« refer noi otaly to Um norel tiniing of Um illoitimtions 
aad Um richncai af Uie oorer, bat more parUaiUrly to Um nliditj af Um bindinc, & 
■wUer af greafc impoctanc« ia boyt* booka."— Tk< ^codMiir. 



BlACKIE & SON'S 



BOOKS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE. 



New Series for Season i88ß. 



Br G. A, HENTY. 

True to thk Old Flao: 

A Talb or THB Ambrican Wa& or Imdipihdkhce. 

In Frsedom's Cause: 

A Stört or Wallaci aitd Bruob. 

St. George for England. 

a Talb or Crbsst amd Poitibb& 

Bt G. MANVILLE FENN. 

BuNTip Land: 

Thb Stobt or a Wild Joübhbt in New GvnrxA. 

Menhardoc : 

A Stört or Corbish Nbts abd Mibbs. 

A NEW EDITION OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

WITH OTBR 100 ILLUSTRATIOBS BT GORDOH BBOWHX. 

Bt HARRY COLLINGWOOD. 

The Pirate Island: 

A STÖRT or THB SouTH FAcma 



Blackie & Son's New Ptthlications, 



Bt JOHN C. HUTCHESON. 

The Wrbck of the Nancy Bell : 
Ob Gast Awat om Kkrouilbm Lakd. 

Bt MARY C. EOWSELL. 

Traitor or Patriot? 

A Talb of the Rys-House flot. 

Bt KATE WOOD. 

Winnie's Secret: 

A Stört of Faith and Patikncs. 

Bt ESM£ STUART. 

Miss Fenwick's Failures: 

OR "PBOGY PEPPER-POT • A STORY OF FaKILT IHTEMSTL 

Bt f. BAYFORD HARRISON. 

Brothers in Arms: 

A Tale of the Crusades. 

STORTES of the SEA in former DAYS: 

Narratitbs of Wrbck and Bbscve. 

ADVENTURES IN FIELD, FLOOD, AND TOBEST: 

Stories of Danoer and Darino. 

Bt ANNIE S. SWAN. 

Warner's Chase: 

Cr the Oentle Heart. 

Bt GREGSON GOW. 

Down and Up Aoain: 

Bking Somb Account of the Feltok Famlt. akd m onn 
People they Met. " ""*^ 

Bt ARTHUR GILMAN, A.M. 
Magna Charta Stories: 

Or struogles for Freedok in the Oldxm Time 



Blackie & Son's New Puhlicaiions. 



B00K8 BY Q. A. HENTY. 

"Surely Mr. Henty ihonld nndentand boys' toites better than any man liTing.** 

—The Tim$t. 



TRUE TO THE OLD FLAG: 

A Tale of tbe American War of Independence. By G. A. 
Hbnty, author of " With Olive in India," " By Sheer Pluck," 
"Facing Deatb/' "Under Drake's Flag/' &c. With 12 fuU- 
page Illustrations by Gordon Browne in black and tint 
Crown 8vo, cloth elegant, bevelled boards, olivine edges, 6s. 

Owing to the unsuccessful termination of the war between Oreat Britain 
and her American colonies, the subject is one which English writers have 
for the most part avoided, and our histories haye been generaUy drawn 
f rom American sources. In the present Tolome the author haa gone. to the 
accounts of English officers who took part in the conflict, and lads will find 
that in no war in which British soldiers have been engaged did tbey behave 
with greater courage and good conduct, than in the long struggle with 
the American colonists. Older people will read with surprise and interest 
this accurately written narrative of the war. The historical portion of the 
book being accompanied with numerous thrilling adventures with the red- 
skins on the shores of Lake Huron, in which the hero of the tale, the son 
of a British officer settled in the Statee, and who joins the Royal army as 
a Mout, takes part, a story of exciting interest is interwoven with the 
general narratiTe and carried through the book. 

IN FREEDOM'S CAUSE: 

A Story of Wallace and Bruce. By G. A. Henty, author of 
« With Clive in India," " By Sheer Pluck," " Facing Deatb," 
"Under Drake's Flag," &c. With 12 fuU-page Illustrations 
by GoRDON Browne in black and tint Crown 8vo, cloth 
elegant, bevelled boards, olivine edges, 6s. 

In this story the author relates the stirring tale of the Scottish War of 
Independence and of the exploits of Wallace and Bruce. The extraordinary 
valoiur and personal prowess of these historical characters rival the deeds 
of the mythical heroes of chivalry Roland and Arthur, and indeed at one 
time Wallace was ranked with these legendary personages. The researches 
of modern historians haTe shown, however, that he was a living, breathing 
man, and that in spite of the fact that the contemporary writers were, for 
tbe most part, bis bitter enemies, tbere can be no doubt that he was a 
great man as well as a Taliant champion. The hero of tbe tale fought 
under both Wallace and Bruce, and while the strictcst historical accuracy 
has been maintained with respect to public events, the work is füll of " hair- 
breadth 'scapes " and wild adventure. 



I 



Blockte & Son^s New Pvhlications. 



BOOK8 BY Q. A. HENTY. 



WITH CLIVE IN INDIA: 

Or the BeginningB of an Empire. By G. A. Hbktt, anthor of 
«Facing Death," "Under Drake'ß Flag," "By Sheer Pluck,"&c. 
With 12 full-page lUustrations by Gordon Browne. Crown 
8vo, cloth elegant, bevelled boards, olivine edgee, 6f. 

The period between the landing of Olive as a yaang writer in India and 
the close of his career was critioal and eventful in the extreme. At its 
commencement the English were traders existing on Bufferance of the 
native princes. At its close they were masters of Bengal and of the gnater 
part of Southern India. The Author has giyen a füll and occurate aocount 
of the historical eyents of that atirrin^ time, and battles and sieg«8 foUow 
eaoh other in rapid suooession, while he oombines with his narratiTe a tale 
of daring and adventure, which givM a lif olike interest to the Tolume. 

" In thia book 1fr. Hentj hu oontrived to exoeed hixoMlf in «tirring adTeotaiw 
and thrilling aitaatioua, while the riMÜitiea «re preaerred. The picturea az« by llr. 
Gordon Browne, who may be oongratalatad on their aoooeaa in addiug to the intenat 
of the book." — Salurdajf Meview. 

** Among writera of atoriea of adrentnre for boya Mr. Hen^ Stands in ths Tarrfliat 
rank, and Mr. Gordon Browne oocupiea a aimilar pL»oe with hia pencil. . . . Tboaa 
who know aomething about India will be the moat resdy to tbank Mr. Benty Ibr 
giving them thia inatroetiTe volome to place in the haads of theirohiJdren."— Aaodmy. 

" He hss taken a period of Indian Hiatoiy of the most Titsl importaBoa, and he haa 
ahown by what meana the work was aooompliahed. He hss embroideted oo tba 
biatorical fiurta a story which of itaelf ia deeply intereating. Young poople aasaiedly 
will be deligbled wilh the volume ss a whole." — BeaUman, 

UNDER DRAKE'S FLAG. 

A Tale of the Spanish Main. By G. A. Henty, author of " By 
Sheer Pluck," &a lUuatrated by 12 full-page Pictures by 
GoRDON Browne. Crown 8vo, cL elegant, bevelled boards» 6f. 

A story of the days when England and Spain straggled for the sapTO- 
macy of the sea, and England carried off the paim. Tne heroes safl as bdi 
with Drake in ihe ezpedition in which the Pacific Ooean was first seen hj 
an Englishman from a tree-top on the Isthmus of Panama, and in his great 
voyage of circumnavigation. The historical portion of the story ia alvso- 
lutely to be relied upon, but this, although very useful to lads, xrill periiape 
be lens attractive tnan the great yariety of exciting adyentore througb 
which the young adyenturers pass in the course of their Toyagsa. 

'* A stirring >>ook of Drake'a time, and juat auch a book as the yoath of this mari- 
time oonntry are likely to prixe highly. "—Z)aily TtUgraph, 

"Ned in the ooila of tiie boa-^onatrietor ia a wonderftü pictors. A boy most ba 
hard to plesae if he wiahea Ibr any thing more exoliting." — PaÜ Mall GamtU. 

*' It is well illostrated, snd Ia a real good story really wall told.**— i*iaid^ 

" A book of adyentnre, whera the bero meets with experienao «noogh one woold 
think to tarn his hsir gray."— üfarper'« Montfdg Magoxime. 



Blackie & San^s New FvblicaUons. 



B00K8 BY Q. A. HENTY. 



ST. GEOEGE FOR ENGLAND: 

A Tale of Cressy and Poitiers. By G. A. Hsntt, author of 
" With Clive in India," " By Sheer Pluck," " Pacing Death," 
"Under Drake's Plag," &c. With 8 full-page niustrations 
by Gordon Brownr in black and tiut Crown 8vo, cloth 
elegant, 5«. 

No portion of English history is more crowded with great events than that 
of the reign of Edward III. Creasy and Poitiers laid France prostrate at 
the feet of England. The Spaniah deet was dispersed and destroyed by a 
uaval battle as remarkable in its incidents as was that wbich broke up the 
Annada in the time of Elizabeth. Europe was raTaged by the dreadful 
I^ague known as the Black Death, and France was the scene of the terriblo 
peasant rising called the Jacquerie. All these stirring events are treated 
by the auUior in St. Oeorpefor England. The hero of the story, although 
of good family, b^ins life as a London apprentice, but after countless 
adventures and perüs, becomes by valour and good conduct the squire, and 
at last the tnisted friend and companion of the Black Prince. 

BY SHEEß PLUCK: 

A Tale of the Ashanti War. By G. A. Hbntt, author of " With 
Clive in India," " Under Drake's Plag/' &c. With 8 fuU-page 
lUustrations by Gordon Browne in black and tint. Crown 
8vo, cloth elegant, bs. 

The Ashanti Campaign seems but an event of yesterday, but it happened 
when the generation now risuig up were too young to have made them- 
selves ao(}uainted with its incidents. The author has woven, in a tale of 
thrilling mterest, all the details of the campaign, of which he was himself 
a witneas. His hero, after many exciting adventures in the interior, finds 
himself at Coomassie just before the outbreak of the war, is detained a 
prisoner by the king, is sent down with the army which invadod the British 
Protectorate, escapes, and accompanies th« English expedition on their 
raarch to Coomassie. 

*' Mr. Henty keeps up his repntution m a writer of boys' stories. ' By Sheer Plnck * 
will be aagerly read. The author» personal knowledge of the west coast has beea 
tomed to good advaDtagei" — AthtnmKm. 

" No one oonld hare done the work better than he haa dose it. The lad mast be 
Tery dilBoalt to aatiafy who is not aatiafied with tbis."— ficotema». 

"The bock ia one which will not only snatain, bat add to Mr. Henty*» repatation. 
Tbe iUnatrattona are particnlarly good." — Stemdard, 

"Of all the new books for boys which the seanon haa prodnoed, there is not one- 
hetter flUed to win their snffirages than ' By Sheer Plnck.' It is written with a simple 
directneaa, foroe, and pnrity of style worthy of Defoe. Morally. the book is every- 
thing that oonld be desired. setting before the bovs a bright and bracing ideal of th» 
Enslish gentlenuui."~CAruftoii Uader, 




Blockte & SorCs New Pvblications, 



BY Q. A. HENTY. 



PACING DEATH: 

Or the Hero of the Vaughan Pit. A Tale of the Goal Miues. 
By G. A. Hbntt, author of " By Sheer Pluck,* « With Clive 
in India,'' &c With 8 full-page lUustrations by Gordox 
Browne in black and tint Crown Svo, cloth elegant^ 5«. 

" Pacing Death " is a story with a porpoae. It is intended to show that 
a lad wbo makes up hia mind firmly and reflolutely that he will riae in life, 
and who is pre|Mkred to face toil and ridicule and hardship to cany out bis 
determination, \b sure to succeed. The hero of the story, tboug^h only a 
colliery lad, is a character that boys will delight in. He is a typical British 
boy, dogged, earnest, generous, apd though '* shamefaced " to a degree, is 
readv to face death in the discbarge of duty. His is a character for imita- 
tion by boys in eveiy Station, who will assuredly be intensely interested in 
the narratiTe. 

"The tale is weil written and well illostrated, and there is much xvality in tbe 
ohancteFS."— J thenmim, 

" If say father, godfather, deiigyman, or sohoolmssier is on the look-out fbr a good 
book to giTe as a preaent this aeason to a boy wbo is worth hia salt, thia is the book 
we wotüd leoommend." — Standard. 



BY PROFESSOR POUCHET. 



THE UNIVERSE: 

Or tub Infinitelt Great and the Infinitbly Littul A 
Sketch of Contrasts in Creation, and Marvels revealed and 
explained by Natural Science. By F. A. Poüchkt, m.d. 
•Illustrated by 273 Engravinga on wood, of which 56 are 
fuU-page size. 8th EditioD, medium Svo, cloth elegant, gilt 
edges, 7«. 6g?.; also füll moroccoy blind tooled, 16«. 

The object of this Work is to inspire and exteud a taste for natural 
science. It is not a leamed treatise, but a simple study. The title adopted 
indicatos that the author has gathered from creation at large, often con- 
trasting the smallest of its productions with the mightiest. 

" We can honesüy commend this work, which is admirably, as it is oopiously 
illoBtrated."— Times. 

" As interesting as the roost exciting romance, and a great deal more likely to b« 
remembered to good purpose."— «Storidard. 

" Scaroely any book in French or in English is so likely to stimolate in the yonng 
an interest in tne physical phenomena. "—/*ortn^At/y Review. 

" The volume, and it is a splendid one, will serve as a good pioneer to more 
«xact studies."— iSaturday Review. 

*' Among the most attractive of the treatises on science there is not one mor« 
suggestive and Impressive than Pouchet's Univeree. The work brlngs so forcibly 
before the thonghtful reader the infinite variety of the nniverse that he most be 
doli indeed who is not awed by the impressive \e§aon.*'—KtiowU<i^e. 



a 



Biackk iE Soiis New PublUations. 



Reprinted ftvm the Aalhoi't Editi 



THE LIFE AND SURPEISING ADVENTURES OF 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

BY DANIEL DEFOK 

BeaatUUlly Prtnted, «nd mustrftted by abov« lOO Plcturee 

Deslgned by Qordon Browne. 

Oown Svo, doth elegant, olivine edges, 6*. 




TheraluTs beencountleneditionBof " Robinson Crueoe,"anii they have 
moati; been mtperfect. inasmuch as they have bern «o Urgely altcrod from 
the original teit that tbe languoge in man; inetaocea has not been th&t of 
Defoe but of his reriserg. The present volumo hai been carofuU; prinlod 
from the original oditjon, und all obsolete or Uttle known terma and obncuro 
phraae« are eiplained in brief foot noCes. The " BditiDg"iB not aeomip- 
tion or pretended improTenient of Defoe'a grcnt work. 



1 



8 BlachU & Sovks New Fublieatians. 



BOOK8 BY GEORGE MANVILLE FENN. 



BÜNYIP LAND: 

The Story of a Wild Journey in New Guinea. By G. Max- 
YILLB Fenn, author of " The Golden Magnet," " In the Eing^s 
Name," " Nat the Naturalist," &c With 12 full-pa^ Dlus- 
trations by Gordon Browne in black and tint. Crown 8vo^ 
cloth elegant, bevelled boards, olivine edges, 6s. 

"Bunyip Land" ia the story of Joseph Carstaira, son of an emineDt 
botanist, who, in hia search for new plants for the London nuraerymen, 
ventures into the interior of New Guinea. Years paas awaj, and Profeasor 
Carstaira does not retum ; and tbough he ia auppoaed to be dead, hia yoong 
wife and son, who live at a atation in Auatralia, rofuae to belicTe tbia to he 
the caae; and aa aoon aa he ia old enou^h, young Joe declarea hia intention of 
going in aearch of hia father. To hia aurpriae and delight hia mother is 
willing that be ahould go, and their friend the young doctor offen to 
be Joe'a companion. Jimmy, a native black, inaiata upon bearing them 
Company ; and a paaaage ia taken to New Guinea in a cruiaing schooner. 
They land, are made priaonera, ^t free, and finally journey into the interior 
of that ttrra incognita, New Guinea, which Jimmy belieTea to be füll of the 
natiTe demona or bunyips, aa he calla them, hence the title Bunyip Land. 
Their adventurea are many and exciting, but after numeroua perils uiej dia- 
coTer the profeaaor a priaoner among the blacka, and bring him home ia 
triumph to bia anzioua wife. 

THE GOLDEN MAGNET: 

A Tale of the Land of the Incas. By Geo. Manyille Fenn^ 
author of " In the King's Name," " Nat the Naturalist^" &c 
With 12 full-page picturea by Gordon Browne. Crown 8vo,- 
cloth elegant, bevelled boards, olivine edges, 6s, 

The tale ia of a romantic lad, who loavea home, where hia father oonducta 
a failing buaineaa, to aeek hia fortune in South America by endeaTouring to- 
diacover aome of that treaaure which legenda declare wa« ages ago biddezi 
by the Perurian rulera and the priesta of that myaterious country, to pre- 
aerve it from the Spaniah invadera. The hero of the atoiy ia aocompanied 
by a faithful companion, who, in the capacity both of comrade and nench- 
man, doea true aervice, and ahowa the dogrod oourage of the TSny^h i^d 
during the atrange adTonturea which befaU them. The plot of Üae atoiy 
ia aimple, but the movement is rapid and füll of stränge excitement. 

" It forma a handaom« rolnme, and clearly a rival to * Robtnaon Croaoe * aa a gift- 
hook.'*—&liiünLrgh Daüy Review. 

" Told with admirable foroe and «trength. Few men otber tban Mr. Fenn hav» 
the capncity for telling tuch stories a« this, and we do not remember to bare aeen one 
of hia prodnotiona which haa ezüeeded it in roorit.'*— ScoCmian. 

** There oould be no mora weloome Cbriatmaa preaent for a boy. Tbo» ia bo4 a 
dnll page in the book, and many will be read with breathleai interast. 'The Ooldea 
Magnet' is, of ooniae, the aame one that attracted Raleigh and the hsroea of * West* 
ward Hol'"— JoumcU of Etlucati4m. 



i 



Blackie & SorCs New Puhlicaüons. 



BOOK8 BY GEORGE MANVILLE FENN. 



IN THE KINGS NAME: 

Or the Cniise of the Kestrel, By G. Manvillb Fenn, author 
of "The Golden Magnet," "Nat the Naturalist/' &c. Illua- 
trated by 12 full-page Pictures by Gordon Browne, Crown 
8vo, cloth extra, bevelled boards, oliviue edgea, 6«. 

"In the Kinff's Name" is a spirited story of the Jacobite times, oon- 
ceming the adventures of Hilary Leigh, a young oaval officer in the 
preventive service o£f the coast of Sussex, on board the Kestrtl. Leigh 
IS taken prisoner by the adherents of the Pretender, amongst whom is an 
early friend and patron who desires to spare the lad's life, but will not release 
him. The narratiTe is füll of exciting and often humorous incident. 

" Mr. Manrille Fenn hu Mready won a foremmt place among writen of stode« 
for buy«. *In the King's Narae,' U. we are inclined to think, the best of all his pro- 
ductioni in thia fleld. It haa the great quality of alwaya 'moving on' — adventure 
foUowing adTenture in oonstaut «ucoeiuon." — Daily News. 

" Told with tiie freehneaa and Terve whioh characterixe all Mr. Fenn's writings and 
put him in the front rank of writers for boya "—Standai-d. 

" A book in whioh boys will delight. Jnst the sort which oan be given to a healtby- 
minded youngiter with the oertainty that he will enjoy it.'*— Scottman, 

** A capital boy's story, füll of inoident and adveuture, and told in the lively atyle 
in which Mr. Fenn ia snch an adept." — OloOe. 

MENHARDOC : 

A Story of Comish Nets and Mines. By G. Manville Fenn, 
author of " The Golden Magnet," " Nat the Naturalist," &c. 
With 8 full-page lUustrations by C. J. Staniland in black 
and tint. Crown Bvo, cloth elegant, 5s, 

The scene of this story of bo3rish aspiration and adventure is laid among 
the granite piles and tors of Comwall, where the huge Atlantic waves, 
clear as crystal, come flowing in to break in glittering cascades upon the 
bEuriera of rock. Here amongst the hardy, honest fishermen and miners the 
two sons of Mr. Temple meet with Will Marion, the nephew of a retired 
purser of the Royal Navy and owner of several fishing-boats. The lads, in 
spite of their differenoes of temperament, fratemize, and the London boys, 
whose father is a mining engineer in search of profitable lodes or veins, 
are inducted into the secrets of fishing in the great bay. They leam how 
to catch mackerei, pollack, and conger with the line, and are present at the 
hauling of the nets, but not without incurring many serious risks. Adven- 
tures are pretty plentiful, but the storv has for its strong base the develop- 
ment of cnaracter of the three boys, who are wonderfully dissimilar. There 
is a good deal of quaint character throughout, and the sketches of Comish 
life and lo^ colouring are based upon experience in the bay, whose fishing 
village is called here Menhardoc. The search for valuable mineral proves 
successful in an unexpected manner, through the knowledge of the London 
boys' Comish companion, and with good result. This is a tboroughly 
Eiiglish story of phases of life but Uttle touched upon in boys' literature up 
to the present time. 



10 Blockte & Son's Nfw Puhlicatiotis. 

BY GEORGE MANVILLE FENN. 

NAT THE NATURALIST: 

Or a Boy's Adventares in tbe Enatern Seaa. By G. Hanville 
Fbhh, aulhor of "The Golden Maguef," "In the Kiug's 
Name," &e. IHuatrated by 8 full-page Pictitrea by Gobdon 
Brovtnb in black aod tiut Crown Bvo, doth eleg&ut, 5*. 

This 19 n pleasant itorj t>( a lad who, thoiip:h be ia brou^bt up in a stncü^ 
quiot faAhioa hy an uunt, hai a great dean to go abroad to aeek speci- 
mens in □atural bistoty, and has tbat deatrs gratified bf an uncle nho 
comea bome from dutant Inndn, whence be brings a beautihil coUectioii. 
Tbo boy Nat and bis unolo Dicii go on a »ojago to the remoter islimds of 
tbe Eogtem iieas, and their ndTentiiraa thore are told in a tnithful and 
viutly mterosting fasbion. wbicb vnll at ouce attract and maintsin the 
oamegt attention of TOiiDg raader«. The doscriptions of Mr. Ebonj, thoir 
black comrade, and of tbe aceneaof iavage life.are füll of genuiue bumoiiT- 

rhia It among th« bat of the bo^' booki 



™j to tnch gMftaplij: 



BY HARRY COLLINQWOOD. 




THE PIRATE ISLAND: 

A Story of the South Pacific. By Harrt Collinowood, author 
of "The Secret of the Sands," " Under the Meteor Flag," 4c. 
lUustrated by S full-page Pictiires by C. J. Stahilahd aod 
J. B. Wells in black and tiut. Ürown 8vd, cloth elegant, bi. 
nbüinfancron 



B pnrty who, after beino burned mit of their ahin ii 






my thnlling- arlTentiiroa, they ultimatflly succeed in effecting tbeir e»- 
cape. llie «tory ilepicts both the Christian and the manly virtuaa in mch 
co'uiirs aa will cause them to be admired— and therefore üuitaled. Tiere 
is not B «ingle objectionabte oi|ireesioii ormjpeeation throughoiit tha book; 
and il abound« in ad venture» of just the kind tbat ara moat oagerly doToured 
by juTenila readers. 



Blackie d- Son's New Publkattons. 



BY ASCOTT R. HOPE. 



STORIES OF OLD KENOWN. 

Tales of Koiglite aiiJ HeroM. By Ascott R, Hopb, Author ot 
"Tue WigwBiu aod tlie Wur-pulh," && With nearlf lüO 
Illustnitious by Gordon Bbownb, Crown 8vo, cloth «legant, 
bevelleü boards, oliriue edges, bt. 

A Serisg of the bert of the Storias of Noble Knighthood and Old 
Romance, told in reflned &nd siniple Unguage, and adapted lo young 
readen. A book pouasiii); remarkable atlractiona, eapecially for bojn 
who loTe to hear ot gnat deedi and enlerpriiea ot high raDown. 




ai' 


.Ä! 


■se, Robert nf SicllT. anrt other ol<l 
«ntifnl type, and imnil'heil wllb . 
a charmlnsi Klft-boak."-ZdmJ and 


Wal 


Id hen>ei Und thctr de«dl 
•aM ikalcbM W Ooidon 


■ Hr. Hnp,'. 
lieh h* recni,] 

lllulnt« U» 


Mtjle ii riiiiU fn accnrd »Ith 1: 
ita th«o -SlnH»! o( Old Rennw 

™t "— /■iriöria? World. ' 


"Ji 


™' 


e. and th. 


B ilmpllclty wIth 


'■The 


•toHH 


an admliaMy cb 


OHD. It l> a 


book tob» cov«l 


MdbraUroung 



iMiltn. "— S» Itma n. 
■' One Ol Uie beit, II not Ihe beat. boji' book of the Haaon.'— TniU. 
" It ii iDpoMibl« to pralM thit ehinnlng nlama too hlgblj.'—Life. 



12 Blaekie i: Son's New PublicaUons. 



BY A800TT R. HOPE. 



THE WIGWAM AND THE WAR-PATH: 

Stories of the Bed Indiana. By Ascott R. Hops, author of 
'< Stories of Old Benown/* &c. With 8 f ull-page Pictures bj 
Gordon Browne. Crown 8vo, doth elegant, 5«. 

The interest taken by boys in stories of the North American Indians is 
probably as keen as ever. At all events the worics of Fenimore Cooper and 
other writers about the red men and the wild hunters of the forests and 
prairies are still among the most populär of boys* books. " The Wigwam 
and the War-path " consista of stories of Red Indians whxcb are none the 
less romantic for being true. They are taken from the actual records of 
those who have been made priaoners by the red men or have lived among 
them, joining in their expeditions and taking part in their semi-savage but 
often picturesque and adventurous life. 

" Mr. Hope*« Tolume is notably good : it gires a Teiy Tivid picture of life amoog 
th« Indiana." — Speciator. 

" Mr. Aioott Hope is lo deservedly populär aa a teller of stories of adTenture, tliat 
in Order to reoommend a naw voliiaie from bis pen we uaed little mora than aay it ia 
hia. All the stori«« are told well, in simple spirited laiiguage aud with « fnlnsH of 
detail that makea them instructive as weil as mterastiiig. ^^/ottnaa/ o/ Education, 

" So far, nothing caii be better than Mr. Asoott Hopa's oboioe of ' The Yfigwnxa and 
the War-path' aa Ute namtt of a oollection of all the most ecalping atoriea, ao to speak, 
of the North American Indiana we have ever heard." — Saturda^ Atvute. 



BY MARY O. ROWBEIX. 



TRAITOR OR PATRIOT? 

A Tale of the Bye-House Plot. By Mary C. Bowsell, author 
of " Love Loyal," " St. Nicholas' Eve," " Filial Devotion," &c. 
Illustrated by 6 fuU-page Pictures by C. O. Mürrat aüd 
C. J. Staniland in black and tint. Crown 8vo, cloth 
elegant, 3s. 6d 

** Traitor or Patriot?" is a romantic story of the lator days of the reign 
of Charles II. The main theme of the story is the consniracy for the aasaa- 
fiination of the king and his brotber the Duke of York, which was to be 
effected in the lane skirting the premises of the Rye-House in Hertfordshire, 
belonffing to Richud Rumbold, a maltster. The brothers were to retum 
from Newmarket to London, and the design was to hew down the giiards, 
attack the coach, and murder its two royal occupants. The hero of the 
«tory, Lawrence Lee, a young farmer of the neighbourhood, leams the 
truth from Rumbold's pretty daughter Ruth, who has accidcntally over- 
heard the intentions of uie traitors. Thereupon Lee starta on horaeback for 
Newinarkct without a moment's loas of time, and obtaining an aiidience of 
the king, wams him of his im pending fate. After a series of adyentures, 
the young man succeeds in his loyal enterprise, and duly receives bis re- 
ward for hia conspicuous ahare in Üie frustration of the " Rye-Houae Plot.^ 



Blackie & Son*s New Pvjblicaiions, 13 



BY JOHN C. HUTCHE80N. 



THE WEECK OF THE NANCY BELL; 

Or, Gast Away on Kergiielen Land. By John C. Hütcheson, 
author of ^* Picked up at Sea,^ &c Illustrated by 6 full-page 
Pictures in black and tint. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3«. Od, 

ThU is a book for boys after a boy's own heart, for it has tbe savour and 
spirit of the sea in every page. The story narrates the eventf ul voyage of a 
Teasel on her way from the port of London to New Zealand, and the haps 
and mishaps that befeil her — the contrary winds in the Chops of the 
Channel, the calms when in the Doldrums off the African coast — culminat- 
ing in the wreck of the ill-fated Nancy Bell on Kerguelen Liand. There is 
no lack of incident. From the opening chapter, with the cowardly steward's 
alarm of *' a ghost in the cabin ' to tne end of the story, which details the 
rescue of the shipwrecked passengers, one engrossing narrative holds the 
attention of the reader, until he reaches the final page that teils in an 
almost poetic vein **the last of the old ship." The characters, also, are füll 
of interest; jolly old Captain Dinks and the quaint baraye Irish mate 
McCarthy, winsome Kate Meldnim and the hero Frank Hamess, down to 
the mischieTous imp Maurice Negtis, and the eccentric Mr. Zachariah 
Lathrope, and Snowball the negro cook, who need only to be known to be 
appreciated. '*The Wreck of the Nancy Bell" has all the elements of a 
populär and favourite story. 

PICKED UP AT SEA: 

Or the Gold Miners of Mintnrne Creek, and other Stories. By 
John C. Hütcheson. With 6 full-page Pictures in tints. 
In crown 8vo, cloth extra, 38. Od, 

The story of a young English lad, rescued in mid Atlantic from a watery 
grave, and taken out west by a party of gold diggers to the wild regions of 
the filack Hills in Dakota. Here, after warring with the elements during 
months of unceasing toil in their search for the riches of the earth, and 
having the result of their indefatigable labour well-nigh tom from their 
grasp when on the verge of victory by a desperate onslaught of Sioux 
braTes, success at last rewards the efforts of the adTonturous band and 
their prot^g€. The tale abounds in exciting scenes and stirring incidents 
— all tending to show that pluck and perseverance when allied to a good 
cause invariably win in the long run all the world over. 

** Tbis iB the firrt appeamnoe of the author ae a writer of booka for bojs, and th» 
raooen is so marked tnat it may well enoonra^ him to farther efforts. The deacrij)- 
tion of mining life in the Far-west is true and acourate." — Standard. 

" A story of thrilling adventure which seems to oombine every easential qnality 
of a prasent-book for boys." — Moming A dvertiter. 

" A capital book; füll of startling incident, clever dialogne, admirable deecriptions 
of sky and water in all iheir aipects, and plenty of taa."--SheffUUi Independent. 



-I 



14 BlackU <t SorCs New Puhlications. 



DR. JOLLIFFE'S BOYS: 

A Tale of Weston School. By Lewis Houoh, author of " Fhil 
Crawford," &c. With 6 full-page Pictures in black and tint. 
In crown 8vo, doth extra, 3«. Od, 

A story of school lifo which will be read with genuine interest, espedally 
as it exposes some of the dangen which even in these da>'s of high Instruc- 
tion may beset lads who are ill instructed at home or have been thrown 
among vicious or unscrupulous companions. The descriptions of some of 
the characters of the boys at Dr. Jolliffe's are vivid and tnithful, — ^that of 
the worst boy beinff not too revolting, although it is necessarüy painfuJ as 
oonyeying a vex^ distinct impression which should be uaef ul in waming 
lads against giving way to overweening personal conceit and envy of tbe 
achievements of others. Perhaps the best touch in the book is tbe subtle 
description of the manner in which the best boy may exhibit weakness of 
purpose and some meannesses under the influence of flattery and of tem> 
porary luxury. The narrative throughout is bright, easy, and li^hted by 
touches of humour. 

" Toong peo:^Ie who apprMiate *Tom Brown'« Scliool-dajs* will flod thia stoiy a 
worthy ooixi)iaiiittii to tbat fnaoinatiiig book. There is the Mine uianlineeB of tone, 
tmthnilnen of ootliiie, avoidanoe of exaggeration and carioatnre, and bealthy mor- 
ality in thla tale of school life as chazacterixed the nuuterpieoe of Mr. Hughes "— 
NtvautU Journal, 

"Tbl* is a niC7 vigorous stoiy of aohool life ; bat it ia more tban this. The char- 
aetora are drawn with graat nioety and diacriniination, while tb« whole apirit of the 
oanatiTe ia auch aa to enoounige and inatnict boya in the triala which thej cannot 
aroid.**— .fiUm^MfyA Cminud, 

"The tone of the book cannot fall to be benefidal. The narratire 'moToa on* 
fhnn flrat to last with graat vigoar. It ahoiild be read not ouly by boya bat by the 
aeniora wbo are apt to xorget the troablea which tlieir boya have to meet." — GloMgoia 
Ntw», « 

" Mr. Lewia Hoagh maj be finnkly coniplimeiited on having written a book tat 
boya in which boys will reoognise their Iikea. He kuows what achoolboya ara, and 
he painta the ofaaracten with a flrm band."— AfoiTiiny Ädvertiter, 



BROTHER AND SISTER: 

Or the Triala of the Moore Family. By Elizabeth J. Ltsagbt, 
author of " Nearer and Dearer," &c With 6 full-page lUus- 
trations in black and tint. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3*. 6rf. 

An interesting story f or young people, showing by the narratiTe of the 
vicissitudes and struggles of a family which has ** come down in the world," 
and of the brave endeavoura of its two younger members, how the pressure 
of adversity is mitigated by domestic afifection, mutual confidence, and 
hopeful honest effort. 

" A petty atory, and well told. The plot ia deverly oonatracted, and the mors! 
ii exoellent."— ^Mencrwm. 

•* A charming story, admirahly adapted for yonng people. which relates the brave 
endeavours of the two yonngest meinbers of a famUy which bat beoome reduced in 
circumstancea to mitigäte the prefeaure of advetaity. — Socw<y. 



Blackie & Son's New PnUicalüma. 



CHEEP AND CHATTER: 

Or, Lebsohs fkom Field and Trbe. By Alice Bakks. With 
G4 Choracter UluBtratious b; Gordon Bbownb, of which four 
ftre full-page siz«. Small 4to, duth, haadaoiue desigu on 
Cover, 3i. 6t/. ; gilt ed^a, 4«. 




About a douD bighlf dram>tio aketches or little Btori«, the actors id 
which an birds, beaats, and inaecti. They ore initmctiTe, auited to the 
oapadtie* of young people, and very amiiuDg. The curious and laughnble 
thmg ia the clever way in which mic«, spamiira, and butterfliai are mode 
to ut uid talk. We take im absorbiiig iDt«mt ia the adTentur« ot 
"Poopy" and "Cheepy," and "Birdio" and "Pecky," in tha o|>iDioDs 
tbey eipren aad the chüactera they d^Tslop, juit aa if they vere papaa 
and mamaa, and boyi and ^rli; and whelher we ore in Fairy-land, or 
Mouas-land, or BiM-Und, or m real Boy-anit-girl-land 
DT, for the matter of that, to care. The chnracter i 



T^Z 



iC li oquAUy at huma; but hU 

" Tlitt li a TtTT plMuluE book toi the ronng. 
nmd. IDd b^ no mniu ottimiio Of th» lllu 



hworoiv Bida ot Ih« vi 
-■The aathor tau doi 



jiUpat» whlch llie mutbor diapLaja" — DaÜTi 

Haalj well, and haa onnveyad Terr rnjinr 
inulTnitwaT. TtaailliutruSouanaii.iul 



16 Blaekie & Son's New Pvblkaiions, 



BOOKS BY MRa EMMA RAYMOND PITMAN. 

*' Mn. Pitmän's worka an »11 to be prixed for thair exmoblin« chAraoter— pnra^ 
«levating, intoraitiug, and intttllactuaL'*— CA^iatian Ünkm, 



GAENERED SHEAVES. 

A Tale for Boys. By Mrs. E. R Pitman. With 4 fuU-page 
IllustratioDS in black and tint. Crowu 8vo, cloth extra, 3«. 6(iL 

This Tale ffives in narrative form the history and adrentures of a claas 
of Sunday-school boys. Bach boy's career is füll of intereat. In some 
chapters we are taken to America, durin^ the civil war, and min^le in 
Bcenes relating to the battle-üeld ; while, m other chapters, we listen to 
the quiet teachings of one of God's faithful senrants who strove to " gamer 
sheaves for Christ." The wide difference between the honourable upright 
youth, and one who is clever and cunning, but dishonest, is here depicted 
bv incidents from the lifo ; and it is proved that " godlinem hath promise 
of the life that now is," as well as of that which is to come. From tbis 
tale Sunday-school teachers may leam that their 'Mabour shall not be in 
yainin the Lord." 

" Hob an earueat purpoee nmning throtigh it. aud a high aod healthy tone. The 
writar ahowa a thoroogh knowledge of the cbaracter of boys." — Olatgov Herald. 

*'ThiB book is of uoiuual merit. It breathoa out good thongbta in eamest and 
tnie tones that «peak to the heart, with that foroe which a stoiy doea wben well 
told. It woold graoa any child's library." — Sehoi^mutrt»». 

"We can honestly reoommend 'Qamered Sheaves' aaone the best boya' etoriea 
we ever read." — ChrUtia'n Globt. 

" The incidenta are well-depioted and the charaoten are tme to Ufa. . . . We 
ahall be glad of nora auch aheavea aa theae." — Frteman. 

** It ahoald be read by every youth who ia leaving achool and home for boaineaB.** — 
LiUraiy World, 

MY GOVERNESS' LIFE: 

Or Earning my Living. By Mrs. E. R. Pitman. With 4 fnll-page 
lUustrations in black and tint Crown 8v0y cloth neat, 3«. 6d, 

This Story, told in the first person, is lamly conccmed with a yoan^ 
woman cast upon the world by ner father's death, and compelied to eam 
her living^ by the exorcise of whatever talent she possesses. Some of the 
minor cmiracters in the narrative are skilfuUy depicted, notably the old 
Comish couple who figure in the little Methodist chapel ; and the yonng* 
man of acience, who is shown to have missed bis way in siibstitutin^ 
science for faith in a personal 6od, but by painful chastening is recovered 
and led to the cross of Christ as a humble believer. Finaliy, he marries 
the heroine of the story, and tiums out a good and usefuj man. The aged 
clerg3rman is a fine specimen of culture and Christian charity. The soenes 
of b^arding-school life here depicted are füll of vivacity and reaUty. 

"Told in the anthor'a uaual winaome style, which holde the reader tpell>b<mnd 
firom first to laat." — CJirititian Union. 

" A beantifol and instmctive story. . . . Mn. Pitman never CsiLa to intereat 
her rBadera.** — The Rock. 

" We atrongly urge all young ladiea to read the hook^^Chrietian Oloöe, 




Blockte & Son's New Fublicaüons. 17 



BOOKS BY MRS. EMMA RAYMOND PITMAN. 



LIFE'S DAILY MINISTRY. 

A Story of Everyday Service for Othere. By Mre. Emma Kay- 
mond PiTMAN. With 4 full-page lUustrations in black and 
tint. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d, 

A Story of seif -sacrifice and of some touching ezperiences of lifo. Some 
of the oharaoters are very attractive, others very repulsive ; but all tend 
to show that true honour and happiness are to be found in serving others, 
according to our capacity, and so imitating Hirn ** who went about doing 
ffood." Some ezperiences of a sincere and gifted, but doubting youth, 
nelpless through spinal disease and destined to early death, and bis attain- 
ment of faith, light, and peace, are peculiarly affecting. Olive Forrester, 
the Chief heroine of the story, presents an ezample of saintly self-denial 
for the sake of her dead sister's children. 

*'The whole Btory ia ftül of tender pntho«, touohing inoident, and enchanting 
interaat." — Christian Union. 

"FoII of flound teaohing and brigbt ezamples of cbanoter." — Sunda^-i^ool 
Chroniele. 

" Ulis Story is powerfülly written, and maintaiiui the reader's interest to the end.** 
— Sehoolmistress. 



« 



Pull of stirriog interest, genuine pictnree of real life, aud perraded by a broad 
aad actire sympathy for the true, beaatifol, and good."— CArütuin Commonwealih. 



FLORENCE GODFREY'S FAITH. 

A Story of Anstralian Life. By Mrs. Emma Eatmond Pitman. 
With 4 full-page lUustrations in black and tint. Crown 8vo, 
cloth extra, 3s, 6d, 

This Tale traces the career and adventures of a family who were forced 
to leave Manchester dnring the time of the cotton famine, and seek a home 
in Australian wilds. Florence, the central character of the story, is a vory 
lovely one; and in spite of girlish timidity, girlish fear, and natiuul shrink- 
ing, succeeds in raising a Christian chiifch in the wildemess. The story 
teaches the lesson of perseverance in well-doing, and shows how faithful 
efTort is rewarded. 

"This i« a derer, and what is better still, a good book, written with a fireshnen 
and power whioh win the reader'B sympathiee, aud carry the story along uuflaggiugly 
to the close."— CArM/üin Olobe. 

*• A story which will be eagerly read by bojrs, and which csn hardly fsil to promote 
the growth of a manly type of Christian character."— i^i(«rary Wortd. 

'*This is A Tery interesting book. and a snitable present for young men or women. 
Tbe inflaenoe of the taie is pure and brmcing."— /Vwman. 

•* A Tery interesting and instructire story."— Ä^corrf. 




18 Blackie d; Sovls New Publications. 



BOOKS BY MRS. R. H. READ. 



DORA: 

Or a Girl without a Home. By Mra. R H. Bead. With 
6 full-page Illustratioua. Crown Svo, cloth elegant^ 3«. M. 

The story of a friendleas orphan g:irl, who is placed as pupil-teacher at 
the school in which she was educated, but ia auddenly removed by hard 
and selftsh relatives, who employ her as a menial as well as a goveme«. 
Through a series of exciting adventures she makes discoveries respectiog' 
a large property which is restored to its rightf ul ownera, and at the same 
time she secures her escape from her peraecutors. The character of Der» 
is a very sweet one, and tne interest of the story is so sustained that it can 
scarcely f ail to please the reader. 

"One of the most pleasing stoTiea for yonng people tbat we hare met with of late 
yean. There is in it a freahnesa, aimplioity, and nataralneaa very engaging.'*— 
Barpfr's Maganne. 

*' It is no alight thing, in an age of rubbiah, to get a »toiy so pore and bealthy."— 
l%e Academp. 

"The heroine is a beantifnl character, well conceived and well portrayed. Hie 
tale ia a fiucinating one." — Sdutolmistrt»». 

'* Mt«. Read has »ucoeeded in writing an exciting tale. The oharacter of Dora is 
one whioh erezy girl would do well to Imitate."— Tm Sckoolauuter. 

OUR DOLLY: 

Her Words and Ways. By Mrs. R H. Read. With many Wood- 
cuts, and a Frontispiece in colours. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 2«. 

A story for children, showing the growth and development of character 
in a little girl, and describiujjf the surroundiugs of the family and a series 
of Intertaming small adventures suitable for very juvenile roEulers. 

<* Pnttily told and prettily illuatrated." -Guardian. 

"Sure to he a great favoorite with young children."— Sc/toot Guardian. 

" The little London ehild will read with a louging haart the atoiy of Onr X^otty.**— 
Sehool Board CkivnicU. 

FAIRY FANCY: 

What she Heard and what she Saw. By Mrs. R H. Read. 
With many Woodcut lUustrations iu the.text, and a Frontis- 
piece printed in colours. Crown 8vo, cloth elegant, 2«. 

The tale is designed to show the influence of character even among little 
children, and the narmtive is such as to awaken and suatain the interest of 
the younger readers. 

"The authoreM has very great inniglit iitto child natura, and a sound healthj tone 
pervadea the book."-67a«i7oir Herald. 

" All is pleaaftnt. iiiee roading. with a little knowledge of natnml history and othor 
naatlen gentiy intruduced and diveaied of dryneu."— i'racftcaZ Ttacher. 



Blockte & SorCs New Fublkations. 19 



BOOKS BY GREGSON GOW. 



NEW LIGHT THROUGH OLD WINDOWS. 

A Series of Stories illustrating Fables of JE&op, By Gregson 

Gow. With 3 full-page Pictures in colours. Crown 8vo, 

cloth extra, 28, 

A seriM of stories designed to bring before the young mind, in a new 
and entertaining form, some of tho shreds of wit and wudom which have 
come down to us frozn ancient times in the guise of fables. Although 
amusement bas been a chief end aimed at, most of the tales will be foimd 
to suggest some important truth, or teach some sound lesson in practical 
morality. 

*' Agreeable reading for the y<mug."—Athena%uti. 

** Bmcj, pointad, and fitted to delight young fulks. '*— Frceman. 

"The mo«t delightfülly-writtan little stories one can ensily find in the litenitnre 
of the seasoD. Well coustnicted aud brightly told, they are sura to be great 

DOWN AND UP AGAIN: 

Being some Account of tbe Feiton Family, and tlie Odd People 
thev Met. By Gregson Gow, autbor of " New Ligbt tbrough 
Old Windows," " Little Tim,'' " Brave and True," &c. With 
2 Illustrations in colours. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, la. Gd, 

A story of city lifo, in which, thongh the chief aim is to amuse tbrough 
the recital of interesting events and the exhibition of original and humor- 
ous character, the reader may see something of the spirit in which mis- 
fortune should be met, find an illustration of the maxim that '* Heaven 
helps those who help themselves,'* receive an impulse towards kindliness 
of deed and charity of thought, and fall on snndry other things worth 
knowing and noting. 

TROUBLES AND TRIUMPHS OF LITTLE TIM. 

A City Story. By Gregson Gow. With Illustration in colours. 
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 1«. Od, 

** Strong in character and fiill of incident. and the nsrratiTe aTl thnragh is in- 
teresting aud ionehing."—£dinbuigh Daily Brviae. 

" An unmistakable nndercurrent of sympatliy with the stniggles of the poor, snd 
an »hility to describe their feelingti ander varimts cin'tiniBtauce", eniinently clinrac- 
teristic of Dickens, are marked features in Mr. Gow» story."— AV/rf7* Btitith Mail. 

BRAVE AND TRUE: 

Or, tbe Story of Emniy üntton. By Gregson Gow. Illustrated. 
Coloured boards, 4d. 

JOHNNIE TUPPER'S TEMPTATION: 

Or, tbe Story of a Top. By Gregson Gow. Illustrated. Coloured 
boards, 4d. 



20 Blockte <k Son*s New Publicaiions. 



BY KATE WOOD. 



WINNIE'S SECRET: 

A Story of Faith and Patience, By Kate Wood, author of 

" Lory Bell," " A Waif of the Sea,'' &c. With 4 f uU-page 

Pictures in black and tint. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2ff. 6cL 

Miss Kate Wood has a talent f or writing a simple and pathetac story with 
a great deal of <}iiaint easy description and enough of ran to enliven aome 
cbapten that mi^ht otherwise seem to be very sad becauae they relate to 
the miffering and poverty of orpban or destitute children. ^'Wümie's 
Secret " haa a plot as interesting as that of many more ambitious rolumes, 
and while the vicisidtudes of the two little sisters are narrated with touching 
sympathy and a feeling of genuine piety, the characters of the niimat)U8 
juvenile and grown-up friends who come to their aid in the course of the 
story are admirably depicted. 

A WAIF OF THE SEA: 

Or, the Lost Found. By Kate Wood. With 4 fuU-page Illus- 
trations in black and tint. Crown ^vo, doth extra, 2s. 6cL 

**A Waif of the Sea" deals very pathetically with the sorrows and triala 
of children, and of mothers who are separat^ from their children. The 
narrative ia füll of human interest, and the lives and strugglea of the 
pcople of a poor London neighbourhood are well portrayed. The child- 
character of '* Little Birdie " and her short but aifecting story will attract 
and delight many readers. 

" Little Birdie ia a beautiftil ohild-oharaeter with whom no one can oome in oontact 
without feeling purer and fmher for life's work."— C/cukproi» Naa. 

" This ia a very ionohlng and pretty tale of town and oonntry, fiill of pathoa and 
intereat embodied in a narrative which never flaga, and told in a atyle which deaerrca 
the higheat pniat for ita lucid aud natural eaae." — Sdinburgh Courant. 

BY E8M£ STUART. 



MISS FENWICK'S FAILURES: 

Or "Peggy Pepper-Pot" A Story. By Esmä Stuart, author 
of "Isabeau's Hero," "Mimi,'» "The Little Brown Girl," &c 
With 4 fuU-page Illustrations in black and tint. Crown 8vo, 
cloth extra, 2s. 6d. 

"Miss Fenwick's Failures" will doubtless be a very complete success 
among young people. The story abounds in capitall^' told domestic adven- 
tures, and though it has an excellent and well-sustained monJ purpose, is 
8o humorous and lively that very few readers, having taken it up, will like 
to part with it tili they have followed the fortunes of the Fenwick famUy 
to the end of the volume. Like other books by the same author this tale 
is a striking ezample of the ability which can teil a story with spirit and 
harmless fun and sustained interest, and at the same time imbue it with 
an excellent losson which the youthful reader may leam without having it 
forced on the attention. 



BlacJde & SorCs New Publkations, 21 



BY F. BAYFORD HARRISON. 



BROTHERS IN ARMS: 

A Story of the Crusades. By F. Bayford Harrison, author o£ 

" A Wise Woman/^ « As Good as Gold," " Under Canvas," &c. 

With 4 full-page lUustratious by Gtordon Brownb in black 

and tint. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2s. (kl. 

** Brothen in Arms *' is a story which while it provides exciting incidenta 
and vivid deacriptions, will be of real value to the young reoder because of 
its containing accurate historical Information on the subject of the Crusades 
and the doings of Richard the I jon-heart and his army in the Holy Land. 
There are few tales which comprise within so brief a compass, such pictur« 
esque representations of life in that olden time, and such stirring and well- 
told adventures of two lads who took a prominent but not by any means 
an impoflsible part in the wars in Cyprus and Palestine. 



B00K8 BY ROSA MULHOLLAND. 



HETTY GRAY; 

Or Nobody's Baim. By Rosa Mulholland, author of " Four 
Little Mischiefs," &c. With 4 full-page Illustrations in black 
and tint. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2$. 6d. 

*' Betty Gray " is the story of a girl who, having been foimd as an infant 
by a villager, is brought up by his wife, and is a kind of general pet, tiül an 
accident causes a rieh widow to adopt her, and spoU her by bringing her up 
in altemate indulgence and neglect. On the death of her adoptive mother 
Betty, who is lef t unprovided for, is taken by the widow's relatives to be 
educated in the family as a dependant, but with a view to her gaining her 
livelihood as a govemess, an event which is prevented by a rather remark- 
able discovery. The tale is carried on throughout with the simplicity but 
genuine effect which distinguishes Miss Mulholland's writing. 

" A pleasantly told story for girk, with a happy ending."— ^fAcrurum. 

" A charming story for yoang folka. Hetty is a delightftil croatnre— piquant, 
tender, and trae— and her varyiug fortunes are perfaotly realistic."— World. 

*' A good story. The oharactors are well drawn, and the tale is altogether Interest- 
iDg."—Ouardian. 

FOUR LITTLE MISCHIEFS. 

By ItosA MuLHOLLAND, author of " Hetty Gray," &c. With 3 
full-page Pictures in colours. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2s, 

This story of child-life is one of the most amusing of the author*s ezcel- 
lont little books. Its fun is innocent, its incident both captivating and 
instnictive. 

" Will b« read with abaorbing intereet by the youngsters."— Zatut and Water. 
" A oharming bright story aboat real childreu." — Watchman, 




22 Bladde & Son*s New PublicoHons, 



STORIES OF THE SEA IN FORMER DAYS: 

Narratiyes of Wreck and Beacue. With 4 f uU-page lUnstratioiiB 
by Frank Fsllsb in black and tint. Crown 8vo, doth 
extra, 2$. 6d. 

^ While no attempt is made in " Stories of the Sea " to paint the sailor's 
lifo in glowing ooloun, or invest it with a glamour of romance, the DarratiTes 
selected, thongh serving, perhaps, more aa beacons to warn than as lures 
to attract, are füll of such thrilling incidents of peril, suffering, and ship- 
wrock, as are always deeply interesüng to the young reader. 

ADVENTURES IN FIELD, FLOOD, & FOREST: 

Stories of Danger and Daring. With 4 fuU-page lUustrations hy 
Frank Feller in black and tint. Crown 8vo, doth extra, 

Incidents of daring, hardship, and danger bave ever had, and doubtleas 
always will bare a powerful faacination for the youthful mind, and these 
narrativM of real personal experience in ** Field, Flood, and Forest," whüe 
in no sense fictitious, and conveying much sound information on the 
topography and customs of foreign lands, will be found quite as ezcitiug 
and more truly interesting than the most cunningly deviaed fahles. 



JACK 0' LANTHORN. 

A Tale of Ad venture. By Henry Frith. With 4 f ull-page Illii»- 
trations in black and tint. Crown 8vo, cloth elegant, 2t, (kl. 

This is a story of the days when George the Third was king, and whea 
** Jack the Painter " was trying to set ^re to the shipping in OoTemment 
dockyards. The hero gets into certain scrapes, and at the sea-coast makei 
the acquaintance of Jack o' Lanthom, the keeper of a light-ship. The lad 
and a companion accidentally drifting out to sea in an open boat, diseoTer 
in a Singular manner the approach of the Spanish fleet, and Jack aooom- 
panies the hero of the tale to report what they have seen. Seized by a 
press-gang they are taken off to sea, and eventually take part in the defence 
of Gibraltar. There have been few books published recently which so well 
represent the spirit of the stories of Marryat and of the author of '* Tom 
Ci5ngle'8 Log." 

*' Fall of moTement. pictareiqtie »itnationa, and illnBtratioDS of bintorical eTsntii. 
' Jaok o' LADthoru ' will hold iu own with the bwt worka of Mr. Henty aad Mr. 
ManTiUe Fenn.**— Aforntnj^ AdttrttMr. 

** The anthor hM related the storj in a rery nstnral and attractire mauner. and h» 
has canght the spiiit of the time* which he tries to delüieate."— JümfritryA CkuttramL 

" The BArratiTe is cnwlied f^ill of »tirring inoiilent. and ie nirB to be a priine 
iaronrite with onr liojrs, wbo will be aasiated by it in maetering a salBcieDtly exätiiig 
chapter in the histocy of Bngland."— CArwtiaa Leader. 



Blackie & Son*s New Publications. 23 



BY DARLEY DALE. 



THE FAMILY FAILING. 

By Darlet Dalb, author of " Little Bricka/' &c. With 4 full- 
page Ulustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth elegant, 2s. 6d. 

This is a livel^r and amusing account of a family, the members of which 
while they lived in affluence were remarkable f or their discontent, but who, 
after the loss of fortune has compelled them to aeek a more humble home 
in Jersey, become less selfish, aiid develop very excellent traits of char- 
acter under the pressure of comparative lydversity. Their escapades and 
narrow escapes from serious dangers form an ezciting part of the narrative, 
which contauis many pleasant episodes of Uf e in the Cfhannel Islands. 

"This is a cheeiy tale. The lflaK>n Is Content, and rery uioely the story is told." 

"This is Et onoe an amusing and an interesting vtarj, and a capital lesson on the 
ralue of oonteutedntM."— il6«ni(e/< Jout-nal. 

BY CHARLES PEARCE. 



THE BALL OF FORTUNE; 

Or Ned Somerset's Inheritance. By Charles Pearce. With 
4 full-page lUustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d. 

A story of plot and character dealing with some out of the many scenes 
of London life, and founded on the stränge bequest left b^ a sea captain, 
and the endeavours of some unscrupulous persons to obtain possession of 
it before the discovery of the true heir in the person of a negiected street 
Arab. The story is lively and attractive, and the incidents move so quickly 
that the attention of the reader is sustained throughout. 

" A capital stoxr for boys. It is rerj Bimply and brightly written. Tliere is plenty 
of inddent, and the interast is sustained throughout." — Journal o/ Education. 

" It is a bright genial story, whioh boy« will thoronghly enjoy. . . . We hare 
Seen few better stories for boys this wottwon."— Birmingham Daily Pott. 

" The moet exciting of them BlL^—The Times. 

BY ALICE CORKRAN. 



ADVENTURES OF MRS. WISHING-TO-BK 

By Alice Corkran, author of " Latheby Towers," &c. With 3 
full-page Pictures in colours. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2s. 

The stränge adventures of a very young lady, showing how she met with 
the wonderful people of nursery legend and the manner of her introduction 
to them. A tale K>r the Little Ones. 

«*SlmpIy a chaming book for little glrls."— 5a<unfay Revitw. 

" Written just in the style and »pirlt to win the kearU of children."— Dat/y Netcs. 

" Well worth buying for the (h>ntispiece alone."- Timt», 



i 




24 Blackie d; Son's New PvMicaüons. 



MAGNA CHARTA STORIES: 

Or Struggles for Freedom in the Olden Time. Edited by 
Abthüb Gilman, a.m. With 12 fuU-page Illustratioiis. 
Crown 8yo, cloth extra, 2$. 

These atories of heroic deed in the cauae of national liberty, from Mai»* 
thon and Thermopylao to the times of King Alfred and the Magna Charta, 
are designed to Bümulate a love of history, and add to the in8piratio& of 
freedom, which should be the heritage of every Engliah-speaking boy and 
girl. 

LONDON, FAST AND PRESENT. 

Being Notices Historical and Descriptive of Ancient and Modem 
London. With lUustrations. Pcap 8vo, cloth extra, 2«. 6dL 

" A compilation from which a variety of interesting inforauition may be gathered 
with regaxd to Ihe past biatory and pratent coudition of the metiopolu.'* — Atkauatem. 

THE NEWSPAPER READER 

Selections from leading Journals of the Nineteenth Century on 
Events of the Day. By H. F. Büsset and T. W. Rkid. 
With eagraved Frontispiece. F'cap Svo, doth extra, 2«. ^ 

The ** idea of the bock ia admirable, and ite ezeeation ia exoeUniL It may be 
read not meraly by young peopie, bat by old ouea, and they will find proftt to them- 
ielvea in ita pernaaL" — ScUnum* 

THE BRITISH BIOGRAPHICAL READER: 

Brief Biographies of prominent British Heroes, Statesmen, Dra- 
matists, Poets, Scientific Men, &c. Illustrated by numerous 
Portraits. Foolscap Svo, cloth extra, 2«. 6(^. 

" A nomber of exoellent portraita add to the attxuctiTeneai of tbe work, whidi 
may be pronoanced oue of tbe most intereating of the Seriea"— ii6erdeen JownaL 

MYTHS AND LEGENDS 
OF ANCIENT GREECE AND ROMK 

A Hand-book of Greek and Boman Mythology, by E. M. Bbrsks. 
Illustrated from Antique Sculptures in a highly interesting 
and instructive manner. Cloth elegant, 3«. Od, 

" Written In a tpirit of reverent »ympathy, and of well-rastained intereet, whiie ite 
abeolute poiity ahoold woore it a ijJaoe in erery famüy."— Sc/uw^mcuCcr. 



BlackU & Son's New PttblicatioJis. 25 



THE WINGS OF COURAGE, 

And The Cloud-Spinner. Translated from the French of 
George Sand, by Mrs. Corkran. With 2 coloured lUustra- 
tions. Crowu 8vo, cloth extra, 2s. 

These stories are among the most attractive of the many tales which the 
great French novelist wrote f or her grandclüldren. Thev are füll of fancy, 
of vivid description, and of a keen appreciation of the best way to arouse 
the interest of juvenile readers. The romantic manner in which they are 
told lenda to tnem the kind of enchantraent which thoughtful children 
deeply appreciate. 

" Mn. Corkran hM eamed cur gratitade hy tranalating into readable Engliah theie 
two oharming liitle storiw." — Atkenoeum. 

"Tbe finett of all these books beyond quettioii is the ' Wings of Coorago/ which 
rank« with the writings of ErokmaDn-Cbatrian for fiuüh, beauty, and naturalnees. 
The whole »tory u delightfül."— i>un((ec Advertiser. 

NAUGHTY MISS BUNNY: 

Her Tricks and Troubles. A Story for Little Children. By 
Clara Mülholland. With 3 Illustrations in colours. Crowu 
8vo, cloth extra, 2$, 

This is a book which will amuse quite little folks, as a story of the way- 
ward tricks of a spoiled child, and the scrapes into which tney lead her. 
The story consists of small incidents such as please small listeners, who will 
be interested not only in Miss Bunny's naughtiness, but in her reformation. 

" Thii nanghty child i« podtiTely delightM. Papas should not omit ' Naughty 
Müi Banny ' txom their list of Juvenile presenta."— Zand and WaUr. 

MADGE'S MISTAKR 

A Becollection of Girlhood. By Annib E. Armstrono. With 
2 coloured Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 1«. 6cf. 

This is a lively, interesting little story, the characters are well marked, 
and the plot, althousph simple, is so well worked out as to lead the reader, 
young or old, on to uie last word. 

" Will please the eye and the fknoy of girls, for ita illnatiationa are aa ezoallant aa 
ita letterpreaa."— ^cotinny. 

' ' We cannot apeak too highly of thia delightfhl little tale. It ia charmingly written, 
and ab(mnd» in intereating aod laoghable incidenta. "—^rütoi Time: 

BOX OF STORIES. 

Packed for Young Folk by Horace Happtman. A Series of 
interesting Tales for the Young. With 2 Illustrations printed 
in colours. Crown 8vo, 192 pp., cloth extra, 1«. 6</. 



26 Blackie & S&n^s New PMicatimis, 



BOOKS BY ANNIE 8. 8WAN. 



WARNER'S CHASE: 

Or the Gentle Heart. By Anxie S. Swan, author of " Into tbe 
Haven/' &c. With 3 Illustratious pnuted in coloura. Crown 
8vo, cloth extra, 2«. 

" Wamer's Chase " is a domestic story, in which we aee the failure of an 
essentially self-seeking and self-aasertive nature to aecure happineas to 
itself or bestow it upon others, and the triumph of gentleneas, love, and 
unaelfiah Service, in the person of a feeble fifirl, orer the coldness and indif- 
ference of a heart contracted and hardened by a Ufe-long pursuit of gain. 

INTO THE HAVEN. 

By Annie S. Swan, author of " A Year at Coverley," " Climbiug 
the Hill," &c. With 2 UlustrationB printed in oolours. 
Crown 8vo, 192 pp., cloth extra, 1». %d. 

" No Story more attractive . . . hj reaaon of iU breezy fkvalineM and unforoed 
jiathc«, as well as for the wholMome practical laasooB it oouveys.*'— CArüCion LtctdUr. 

CLIMBING THE HILL. 

By Annie S. Swan. Illustrated. Coloured boards, 4c?. 

A YEAR AT COVERLEY. 

By Annie S. Swan. Illastrated. Coloured boards, 4rf. 



THE PATRIOT MARTYR: 

And other Narratives of Female Heroism in Peace and War. 
Illustrated by 2 Pictures printed in colours. Crown 8vo, 
192 pp., cloth extra, 1«. 6</. 

" It should be read with interest by every girl who lores to leam wbat her tax cau 
aooompllBh in times of difficolty aud danger." — BrUiol Tone*. 

THE HAPPY LAD. 

A Story of Peasant Life in Norway. From the Norwegiau of 
Björnstjerne Björnson. With Frontispiece in colours. Crown 
8vo, 192 pp., cloth extra, 1«. 6d, 

"This pretty atory has a freshneis and natural eloqaenoe abont it snch aa «lo 
Midom niet with in onr home made talea It aeenu to carry lu back to aome of tho 
love storiea of the BiWe^—Aberdeen Free Prt»». 



k 



Blackie & Son's New Publications, 27 



THE SHILLING SERIES OF BOOKS 
FOR YOUNG PEOPLE. 

Thirteen books, Square 16mo, neatly bound in cloth extra. Each 
book consisting of 128 pages and containing a coloured Ulus- 



tration. 



"The wbole of the aet will be found admintbly adapted for the use of the young. 
The boolu, well-printed and elegautly boand in cloth, are a marvel of cheapneM." — 
Journal of Bducatiojt. 

** They are nncuitially good, and are calcolated to prodaoe souud, wholeaome« moral 
etltaU."—Oiatigow Utrald, 



THE NEW BOY AT MERRITON. By Julia 

GODDARD. 

" A ctory of Eng] iah ichool life. It is an attempt to tetioh a aomewhat higher oode 
of honour than that whioh prevaile among the general nin of »choolboys, and the 
leaaon makea a Tery good hXoxj. **School Board VhtonicU, 

THE BLIND BOY OF DRESDEN. 

*' This ia a fkmily story of great patho». It does not obtruaively diotate it« lenon, 
but it quietly introducee, and leares it within the \\t»xt."—Äbe^'decn, Journal. 

JON OF ICELAND: A True Story. 

'"Jon of loeland' is a stnrdy, well-educated yonng Icelander, who beoomes a suc- 
oeaafnl teacher. It gives children a clear idea of the obief phyeical featorea of the 
ialand, and of the aimple and manly character of ita Inhal ittLUt»."—Sc/tool OtMrdian. 

STORIES FROM SHAKESPEARK 

"The atoriea are told in auch a way that yonng people having lead them will deeire 
to atady the worka of Shakespeare in their original form."— 7Ae Scfioolmiitre$$. 

EVERY MAN IN HIS PLACE. The Story of a 

City Boy and a Forest Boy. 

"Thia ia the hiatory of the aon of a wealthy Hamburg merchant, wbo wiahed to 
fullow in the atepe of Robiiiaon Crusoe. He waa put to the teet, and became con- 
Tinced in the end that it ia better to lire the life of a wealthy merchant in a great 
city than to endure hardahip by choioo."—School Board Chronicle. 

FIRESIDE FAIRIES and FLOWER FANCIES: 
Stories for Girls. 

" Nine atoriea are included, all for girU, encoaraging them to try atid do their 
daty. Young aervants woold find thia book very intereating."— JA« ^loolmistreu. 



i 



28 Blackie & Son^s New Fublicaimis, 



THE SHILLING SERIES—Continued. 



TO THE SEA IN SHIPS: Stories of Süfferiko 

AND SaVING AT SeA. 

" To the Sea in Shipt records several noted dtsaaten at ua, SQch as the fonnderios 
of the LondoA and the wivck o( the AUatdtc. It alao coutaius naxratives of «aooeas- 
f^ reaouea. This ia a capital booK for hoyA."—Schuoi Ouai^ian. 

JACK'S VICTORY: And other Stories about 

Doos. 

'* Ereiy hoy, and aome girls. take great delight in reading about doga. Well, Jack 
was a dog; a famous and wonderful ooe, too. He became leader of a team in Green- 
land, and aome rare ezploita he took part in. Beeidea 'Jaok'a Victory' thers ar» 
ten other atoriea about doga in ihia voiiune."— J/e« Se/toolmistrfts. 

THE STORY OF A KING, Told by one of ms 

SOLDISRS. 

'* Thia book reoounts the bojhood and reign of Cbariea XII. of Sweden. The wara 
in which he waa engaged and the extraordinary Tictoriea he won are weil deaciibed, 
and eqoally ao are the miefortunea wliich latterly canie on him and hia kiugdom 
through hia unoDutrollabie wilfulneaa." — Abet-dten, JowmaL 

LITTLE DANIEL: A Story of a Flood on the Rhine. 

" A aimple and tonching atory of a flood on the Rhine, told aa well aa Qeoxg» 
Eliot ao giaphically wrote of The Mül on tfu Flosa."— OcvemetM. 

PRINCE ALEXIS: A Tale of Old Russia. 

This is a legend wrought into a story, rendering a fiction of Life in 
RusBia, Boraetlung more than a hundred years ago; a state of thinga which, 
as the author says, " is now impoesible, and will soon become incredible." 

SASHA THE SERF: And other Stories of Russian 

Life. 

The stories in the volume comprise: — The Life of Saaba, a poor boy who 
saved the life of bis lord, and nnally rose to wealtb and gained bis free- 
dom, — Incidents of rcmarkable personal bravery in the Russian army, 
kc. &c. 

TRUE STORIES OF FOREIGN HISTORY. A 

Series of Interesting Tales. 

The book contains stories— How Quentin Matsys the Antwerp smith 
became a great painter, — ^The rise and fall of Jean Ango the fisherman of 
Dieppe,— The heroism of Casabianca the little Frencb midahipman, Lc. &c 



k 



Blaclfie & SorCs New Puhlications. 



29 



THE SIXPENNY SERIES 

FOR CHILDREN. 

Twelve books, 16mo, neatly bound in cloth extra. Each book 
^nsistiug of 64 pages and containing a Coloured Illustration. 



THE LITTLE BROWN BIRD: a Story 
of Indiutry. 

THE MAID OF DOMREMY: andother 

Tales. 
LITTLE ERIC : a Story of Honesty. 

UNCLE BEN THE WHALER: and 
oth«r StoriM. 

THE PALACE OF LUXURY: and 
other Stories. 

THE CHARCOAL-BURNER: or, Kind- 
ndMRepaid. 



WILLY BLACK: a Story of Dolng 
Right 

THE H0R8E AND HI3 WAYS: 
Stories of Mau and hls best Friend. 

THE SHOEML/IKER'S PRESENT: a 
Legendary Story. 

LIOHl-S TO WALK BY: Stories for 
the Yonng. 

THE LITTLE MERCHANT: andother 

Storlea 

NICHOLINA: a Story about an Ice- 
beig. 



*' The whole of the aet will be found admirably adapted for the um of the yonng."— 
SehoolmatUr. 

** A rery praiaeworthy aeries of Prize Boolu. Most of the ctories are deaigned to 
enforoe lonie important moral leuon, such a« honeety, indostry, kindneos, helpftil- 
neM, die."— ScAool Guardian. 



A NEW SERIES OF 
FOURPENNY REWARD BOOKS. 



Each 64 Pages, 18mo, lUuttratedf in Picture Boards. 



By Orsqson 
By Julia 



BRAVE AND TRUE. 

Oow. 
POOR TOM OLLIVKB. 

OODDARD. 
THE CHILDREN AND THE WATER- 

LILY. By Julia Ooddard. 

JOHNNIE TUPFERS TEMPTATION. 
By G&EQSON Oow. 



SyLSTITIA 
By ANMIB 



FRITZ'S EXPERIMENT. 
M'CUNTOCK. 

CLIMBING THE HILL. 

8. SWAN. 

A YEAR AT COVERLEY. By Anmix 
8. 8WAN. 

LÜCY'S CHRISTMAS-BOX; er, How 
Georgie found his Couain. 



*«* These little boolu bave been specially written with the aim of inculcating 
Bome sound moral, such as obedience to parents, love for brothera 
and sisters, kindness to animals, perseverance and düigence leading 
to success, &c. &c. 

" Any one who wishe» to send a dainty packet of etory-books to a honeehold bleaeed 
with little children will find in theee exactly what he wauta. They are iaaued with 
the prtttiest of all the ooloured coTera we have yet aeen." — Chriitian Leader. 

" We have aeldom aeen any aeriea of children'a atoriee of ao bigh-daia a character 
plaoed ao pxettily within the reach of even the hnmbleat porohaaer." — IfetecoMtU 
j<numaL 

** Bright. pretty, and entertainiag little booka The atoriee are really admirable 
brief norelettea for little ueople. All are of a natural, freah, aud wholeeome tone, 
and all lively and iutereatmg."— ScAooi Bo€urd ChmnicU, 



30 



BlackU & Son's New Publkations. 



VERE FOSTER'S 

WATER-COLOR DRAWING-BOOKS. 



SIMPLE LESSONS IN FLOWER PAINTING. 

Eight Facsimiles of Original Water-Color Drawings, and nu- 
merons Outline Drawings of Flowers, after various artista. 
With füll instructioua for drawing and painting. 4to, cloth 
elegant) 3«. 



"ETerything neoesMuy for acquiring 
the art of flower painting is here : th« 
/actimiUi of watar-color drawingi are 
very beantifuL" — Ora^ihic. 



"Such exoellent books, «o carefnlly 
written and stadi«i, oannot fkil to have 
gTMt advantage in the craatiqn and Coa- 
tering of a taate for ait." — SeoUrnan, 



SIMPLE LESSONS IN LANDSCAPE PAINTING. 

Eight Facsimiles of Original Water-Color Drawings, and Thirty 
Yignettes, after various artists. With füll instructious by an 
experienced Master. 4to, cloth elegant, 3«. 

SIMPLE LESSONS IN MARINE PAINTING. 

Twelve Facsimiles of Original Water-Color Sketches, and 
numerous Illustrations in Pencil. By Edward Duncan. 
With practical lessons by an exj^erieuced Master. 4to, cloth 
elegant, 3«. 

EASY STUDIES IN WATER-COLOR PAINTING. 

By R. P. Leitch and J. Callow. A series of Nine Plates 
executed in Neutral Tints. With füll instructions for draw- 
ing each subject, and for Sketching from Nature. 4to, cloth 
elegant, Qs. 

SKETCHES IN WATER-COLORS. 

By T. M. RicHARDSON, R. P. Leitch, J. A. Houston, T. L. Row- 
BOTHAM, E. DuNCAN, and J. Needham. Nine Facsimiles 
in colors. With füll instructions for drawing each subject 
4to, cloth elegant, 6^. 

" The books deaerre the bigbeat oom- 
mendation ; thej are extremeJy aerrice- 
able for their parpoae. aud are eot up 
with remarkable care." — St. Javut'» 
OtuetU. 



"The piotnree are jadicioiu in Mlec- 
tioi) and artistic in execution, whlle the 
instniction» are so füll and clear ai to 
almoat aupentede the need of a teacher." 
— Liverj>ool Courier, 



STUDIES OF TREES, 

In Pencil and in Water Colors, by J. Needham. A Series of 
Eighteen Examples in Colors, and Thirty-three Drawings in 
Pencil. With iiiU instructions for Di*awing and Painting. 
First Series, 4to, cloth elegant, 5«. Second Series, 4to, 
cloth elegant, 5«. 



BOÖKS FOK YOUNG READEKS 

Classißed according to Frice, 

ELEGANTLY BOÜND IN EXTRA CLQTH. 



Book at 78. 6d. 

The Unlverse; or The Inflnitely Great and Inflnitely Little. By F. A. Pouchst. M.D. 

Books at 6s. 



Robinson Crusoe. lUiutrated by Oordon 

Browns. 
In Freedom*s Cause. By O. A. Hbntt. 
Wlth Cllve in India. By Q. A. Hentt. 
Bunyip Land. By O. Manville Fenn. 
The Golden Magnet. By G. Manville 

Fenn. 



True to the Cid Flag. By O. A. Hentt. 
Under Drake*s Flag. By O. A. Hentt. 
In the Kinff*s Name. By G. 5UNyiLLE 

Fenn. 
Easy Studios in Water-Color, with 

Colored Flates. 
Sketches in Water-Color, with Plates. 



Books at 5s. 



St. Georire for England. By O. A. Hentt. 
By Sheer Pluck. By G. A. Hentt. 
The Pirate Island. By Harrt Coluno- 

WOOD. 

The Wigwam and the War-Path. By 
asoott E. HOPE. 



Menhardoc. By 0. Manville Fenn. 
Pacing Death. By G. A. Hentt. 
Stories of Cid Renown. By Ascott R. 

HoPE. lUostrated by Gordon Browne. 
Nat the Naturalist. By G. Manville 

Fenn. 



Books at 3s. 6d. 



The Wreck of the Nancy Bell. By J. c. 

HUTCHESON. 

Traltor or Patriot? By M. Rowsell. 
Cheep and Chatter. By Alice Banks. 
Picked up at Sea. By J. c. Hutcheson. 
Dr. JolllfTe's Boys. By Lewis Houqh. 
Brother and Slster. By Mn. Ltsaqht. 



Dora. By &Irs. R. H. Read. 
Garnered Sheaves. By Mn. Pitman. 
Life's Daily Mlnlstry. By Mn. Pitman. 
Florence Godf^ey*s Falth. By B(n. Pit- 
man. 
My Governess Life. By Äln. Pitman. 
Myths and Legends of Anclent Greece. 



Books at 3s. 



simple Lessons In Flower Palntlng. 
Simple Lessons in Marine Painting. 



Simple Lessons in Landscape Paint- 
ing. 



Books at 2s. 6d. 



Brothers in Arms. By F. B. Harrison. 
Wlnnie*s Secret. By Kate Wood. 
Miss Fenwlck's Fallures. By Esm£ 

Stuart. 
Jack o* Lanthorn. By Henrt Frith. 
A Wair of the Sea. By Kate Wood. 
Hetty Gray. By Rosa Mulholland. 



The Bali of Fortune. By Chas. Pbarce. 
The Family Failing. By Darlet Dale. 
Stories of the Sea In Former Days. 
Adventures In Fleld, Flood, and Forest. 
The Newspaper Reader. 
The British Biographical Reader. 
London Past and Present. 



32 



BlacJcie & Son's Booksfor Young Readers, 



Books at 2s. 



Wam6r*8 Chase. By Anntb S. Swan. 
The Winffsof Couraffe. ByGsoBGBSAKD. 
FouF Utile Misohlef^ By Rosa Mul- 
holland. 
Our Dolly. By M». R. H. Kkab. 
Falry Fancy. By Mn. & H. Read. 



Maflma Charta Storles, 

Urs. Wlshlnsr-to-be. By Aucs Cobuuh. 

New UflTht throuffh Old Windows. By 

Grecmon Gow. 

Naoffhty Miss Bunny. By Clara Mrir 

HOLLAND. 



Books at Is. 6d. 



Down and Up Agaln. By Oreoson Gow. 

Troubles and Triumphs of Uttle Tim. 
By Grboson Gow. 

Hadffe*s Mlstake. By Annh E. Arm- 
strong. 

The Happy Lad. By Björnson. 



Into the Haven. By Annis S. Swah. 
Box of Storles. Packed by Horaci 

Happtman. 
The Patriot Hartyr : and other Nazniifet 

of Female Herolim. 



Books at Ib. 



The New Boy at Herrlton. 

The Blind Boy of Dresden and hls Slster. 

Jon of Iceland: A True Story. 

Storles fk*om Shakespeare. 

Every Man In Hls Place. 

Flreslde Fairles and Flower Fandes. 

To the Sea In Shlps. 

Uttle DanlehaStoryofaFloodontheRhine. 



Jack's Vlctory: and other Storles abont 

Doga. 
The Stery of a Klnff : told by one of hii 

Soldlers. 
Prlnce Alexis, or "Beauty and tba 

BeasU" 
Sasha the Serf : Stories of Rossiaa lifft 
True Storles of Foreign History. 



Books at 6d. 



The Uttle Brown Blrd: a Story of Industry. 
The Maid of Domremy: and other Tales. 
Uttle Eric: a Story of Honesty. 
Unde Ben the Whaler: and other Storles. 
The Palace of Luxury: and other Stories. 
The Charcoal-Burner: or, SJndness Re- 
paid. 



Willy Black: a Stoiy of Doing Righi 
The Horse and hls Ways. 
The Shoemaker*s Present: a 

Story. 
Llsrhts to Walk by: Stories for the Yoong. 
The Uttle Merehant: and other Stories. 
Nlchollna: a Story about an Iceberg. 



Books at 4d. 



Brave and True. By Greqson Gow. 
Poor Tom Olllver. By Julla. Goddard. 
The Chlldren and the Water-Uly. By 

JüLLA. GODDARD. 

Johnnle Tupper's Temptation. By 
Grbqson Gow. 



Cllmblnff the Hill. By annir a Swax. 
A Year at Coverley. By Annib S. Swajl 
Fritz*s Experiment. By LsrinA M'Cux- 

TOCK. 

Lucy's Christmas-Box ; or, How Oeoigie 
found bis Cousin. 



LONDON: BLACKIE k SON, 49 OLD BAILEY. E.C.; 
GLASGOW, EDINBURGH. AND DUBUN. 



/i,^ 



