Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



■ -„ Google 



■ -„ Google 



■ -„ Google 



7 



u.a.i,:-.- -,, GllO^^lc 



■ -„ Goo^k 



■ -„ Google 



_THE 

BRITISH NOVELISTS; 

ESSAY, AND PREFACES 

BIOGRAPHICAL AND CRITICAL, 
MRS. BJRBJULD. 






C. B«Mirini Priateri Bridse Street) Blackfiiuf, ,fW^ 



THE LIFE 

AMD 

SURPRISING ADVEKTURES 
ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

OF YORK. MARINER I 
WHO LIVED EiaHT-AND-TVENTY YEABS, 

UL ALOmt, 

ON AN UNINHABITED ISLAND, 

KBAJt THE MOUTH 01 THE GBEAT EIVBIl OROOXOOinb 

ACCOUNT OP HIS TRAVELS 
HOUND THREE PARTS OF THE GLOBE. 

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF. 

m XWO VOLVHES. 

VOL.U, 






u.a.L'c -,, GllO^^lc 



THE LIFE 



SXJHPEISING ADVENTHKES 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



That homely proverb used on so many occasioiu 
in England, viz. " Ttjet what ie bred in the bone, 
will not go out of thf fle&h,'' wiu never more veri- 
fied than in the story of my life. Any one would 
think, that after tbirty-fiTe years' affliction, and a 
variety of unhappy circumstances) which few men, 
if any, ever went through before, and after near 
seven years of peace and enjoyment in the fulness of 
all things, grown old, and when, if ever, it might 
be allowed nie to have had experience of every state 
of middle life, and to know which was most adapti^d 
to make a man completely happy ; I say, afler all 
this, any one would have thought that the native 
propensity to rambling, which 1 gave an account of 
in my iirst setting out in the world to have been so. 
predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out,' 
the volatile part be fully evacuated, or at least con- 
densed, and I might, at sixty-one years of age, have 
been a little inclined to stay at home, and have done 
venturing life and fortune any more. 

Nay, farther, tlie common motive of foreign ad- 
VOL. xvn. X 



2 ADVBMTUBEB OT 

ventures was taken away in me; for I had no for- 
tune to make; 1 had nothing to seek; if I had gain- 
ed ten thousand pounds, I had been no richer ; for 
I had already suinctent for me, and for those I had 
to leave it to; and that I had was visibly increasing; 
for having no great family, I could not spend the 
income or what I had, unless I would set up for an 
expensiveway of living, such as a great family, ser- 
vants, equipage, gaity, and the fflte, which were 
things I DEO no notion of, or inclination to ; so that 
I had nothing indeed to do but to sit still, and fully 
enjoy what I had got, and see it increase daily upon 
my hands. Yet all these things had no effect upon 
me, or at least not enough to resist the strong in- 
clination I had to go abroad again, which hung about 
me like a chronical distemper. In particular, the 
4cMre of seeing mv new pbintation in the island, and 
the ccdony 1 Im there, ran in my head conUniiBlly. 
1 dreamed of it all night, and my imagination ran 
upon it all day; it was uppermost in ^ my thoughts; 
and my tancy worked so steadily and strongly uiwn 
it, that I talked of it in my sleep; in short, nothing 
could remove it out of my mind; it even broke to 
violently into all my discourses, that it made my 
conversation tiresome, for I could talk of nothing 
else ; all my discourse ran into it, even to imperti- 
nence; and I saw it in myself. , 

I have often heard persons of ^ood judgement say, 
that all the stir people make in the world about 
ghosts and apparitions, is owing to the strength of 
uuagination, and the pofi'erful operation of fancy in 
their minds; that there is no such thing as a roirii ap- 
pearing, or a ^08t walking, wid the like: that peo- 
ple's poring aaectionately upon the past conversa- 
tion of their deceased friends, so ^valises it to them, 
that they are capable of feicying, upon some extra- 
ordinary circumstiRCGS, that they see them, talk t« 



ReBINSOtf CRU80K. $ 

them, and are angwered by them, wheoi in truthi 
- there is nothing but shadow aod vapour in the thing, 
and they realty know nothing of the matter. 

For my part, I kaovr not to this hour whether thera 
. are any 6uch things as real apparition!, spectres, or 
walking of people after they are dead; or whether 
thers is any thins in the atoriet they tell us of that 
kind, more than £e product of vapours, sick minds, 
and wanderingfancies: but this Iknow, that my ima- 
gioation worked up to such a height, and brought 
me into such excess of vapours, or what else I may 
call it, that [actually supposed myself often upon 
the spot at nay old castle behind the trees; saw my 
old Spaniard, Friday's father, and the reprobate 
■ailors 1 left upon the island; nay, I fancied 1 talked 
with them, and looked at them steadily, though I 
irasbroadawakfl, as at persons just before me; and 
this I did till 1 often frightened myself with the 
images my fancy represented to me. One time, in 
my sleep, 1 had the Tillainy of the three pirate sail- 
ors, BO bvely related to me by the first Spaniard and 
Friday's fatner, that it was surprising ; they told me 
how they barbarously attempted to murder all the 
Spaniards, and that they set fire to the provisions they 
had laid up, on purpose to distress ana starve them ; 
things that I had never heard of, and that indeed were 
never all efthem true in fact; but it was bo warm 
in my imagination, and so realised to me, that, 
to the hour 1 saw them, I could not be persuaded 
but that it was or would be, true; also bow I re- 
sented it, when the Spaniard complained to me, and 
how I btought them to justice, tried them before 
me, and ordered them all three to be hanged. What 
there was really in this, shall be seen in its place: 
for however 1 came to form such things in my dream, 
and what secret converse of spirits mjectcd it, yet 
there was, I say, much of it (rue. I own, that this 
b2 



i -4DVKS TORES OP 

dreaih had nothing in it literally and specifically 
true; but the general part was eo true, the base 
villanous behaviour of these three hardened rogues 
was such, and had been so much worse than allf can 
describe, that the dream had too much similitude of 
the fact: and as 1 would afterwards have panished 
them severely, so, if I had hanged them all, 1 had 
been much in the right, and even should have been 
justified both by the laws of God and man. liut to 
retuTD to my story : In this kind of temper 1 lived 
some years; I hadno enjoynient of my life, no plea- 
sant hours, no agreeable diversion, but what had 
something or other of this in it, so that my wife, 
who saw my mind wholly bent upon it, told me very 
seriously one night, that she believed there was some 
secret powerful impulse of Providence up<Hi me, 
which bad determined me to go thither agaio ; and 
that she found nothing hindered my going, but my 
being engaged to a wite and children. She told me, 
that it was true she could not think of parting with 
me; but as she was assured, that if she was dead it 
would be the first thing 1 would do ; so, as it seem- 
ed to her that the thing was determined above.'she 
would not be the only obstruction; for, if I thought 

■fit, and resolved to go^ Here she found me very 

intent upon her words, and that I looked very earu- 
«stly at her, so that it a little disordered her, and 
she stopped. I asked her, why she did not go on, 
and say out what she was going to say '. But I per- 
ceived that her heart was too full, and some tears 
stocd in her eyes. Speak out, my dear, said I ; are 
you willing I should go? No, says she, very affec- 
tionately, 1 am tar from willing; but if you are re- 
solved to go, says she, and rather than i would be 
the only hindrance, 1 will go with you: for though 
I think it a most preposterous thing for one of your 
'years, andiuyour condition, yet, it' it must be, said 



HOBINBOK CBUSO& S 

■be, agiun weeping, I would not leave ^ou; for, ifit 
be of Heaven, you must do it; there is no resiBtinC 
it; Bud if Heaven make it your duty to go, he will 
alio make it mine to go wiui you, or otherwiie dis- 
pose of me, that I may not obBtruct it. 

This affectionate b^aviour of my wife's brought 
me a little out of the vapours, and I began to con- 
sider what I was doing ; I corrected my wandering 
iancy, and began to argue with myself sedately, 
what business 1 had, after threescore years, and af- 
ter such a life of tedious sufferings and disasters, and 
closed io so happy and easy a manner; I say, what 
business had 1 to rush into new hazards, and put 
myself upon adventures fit only for youth and po- 
verty to run into? 

With Uiose thoughts I considered my new en- 
gagem^it: that I had a wife, one child born, and 
my wife then great with child of another ; that I 
had all the world could give me, and had no need 
to seek hazard for gain ; that I was declining in 
years, and ought to think rather of leaving what I 
bad gained, than of seeking to increase it ; that as 
to what roy wife had said of its being an impulse 
from Heaven, and tiiat it should be my duty to go, 
I lud no notion of that : so, after many of these 
cogitations, 1 struggled with the power of my ima- 
gination, reasonedm^self out of it, as I believe 
people may always do in like cases if they will : and, 
in a word 1 conquered it ; composed myself with 
such arguments as occurred to my thoughts, and 
whidi my present condition furnished me plentifully 
with ; and particularly, as the most effectual me- 
thod, I resolved to divert myself with other things, 
and to engage in some business that might effectu- 
ally tie me up from any more escursions of this kind{ 
for I found £at thing return upon me chiefly when 
] was idle, and bad nothing to do, nor any thing o> 



6 - ADVEMTURES OF 

moment immediately before me. To this purpose 
I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford, 
and resolved to remoTe myself thither. I hsd a 
little convenient house \ipon it ; and the land about 
it, I found, was capable of great improvement; and 
it was many ways suited to my Inclination, which 
delighted in cultivating, msnaging; planting, wid 
improving of land ; and particularly being an inland 
country, 1 was removed from conventrng among 
sailors, and things relating to the remote parts of 
the world. 

In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my 
family, bought me ploughs, harrows, a cart, wag- 
gon, horses, cows, and sheep, and, setting seriousTy 
to work, became, in one half-year, a mere country 
gentleman : my thoughts were entirety taken up in 
manning my servants, cultivating the ground, en- 
closing, planting, &c. ; and 1 lived, as I thought, 
the most agreeable life that nature was capable of 
directing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes 
was capable of retreating to. 

I farmed upon my own land ; I had no rent to 
pay, was limited by no articles ; 1 could pull up or 
cut down as I pleased : what I planted was for my- 
self, and what 1 improved was for my family ; and 
having thus lel^ off tne thoughts of wandering, I bad 
not the least discomfort in any part of life as to this 
world. Now I thought indeed that I enjoyed the 
middle state of life which my father so earnestly re- 
commended to me, and lived a kind of heavenly life, 
aoniething like what is described by the poet, upon 
the subject of a country life — 

'f ■ Fret from vim, fr« rroD care, 

" Age baa do paiu, and ^ onlh do maie." 

But, in the middle of all this felicity, one blow 
from unseen Providence unhinged me at once i and 



not orAy made a breach upon me inevitable and in- 
curable, but drove me, by its congec|uenceB, into a 
deep relapae of the wandering disposition, which, aa 
I may say, being bom in my very blood, soon re- 
covered Its hold of me. and like the returns of a 
violent distemper, came on with an irresistible force 
upon me, so that nothing could make any more 
impression upon me. This blow was the loss of my 
wife. It is not my business here to write an elegy 
upon my 'wife, give a character of her particut^ 
virtues, and utake my court to the sex by the flat- 
tery of a funeral sermon. She was, in a ^ words, 
the stay of all myajbirs, the centre of all my enter- 
prises,, the engine that, by her prudence, reduced 
tne to that happy compass i was in, from the most 
extravagant and ruinous project that fluttered in my 
head, as above, and did more to guide my rambling 
genius than a mother's tears, a father's instructions, 
a friend's counsel, or all my own resoning powers, 
could do. I wa^ happy in listening to her tears, and 
in being moved by her entreaties ; and to the 'last 
degree desolate and dislocated in the world by the 
loss of her. 

- When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly 
round me. I was as much a stranger in it, in my 
thoughts, as I was in the Brazils, when 1 first went 
on shore there; and as much alone, except as to the 
assistance of servants, as 1 was in my island. 1 knew 
neither what to think nor what to do. I saw tho 
world busy around me; one part labouriog for bread, 
another part squandering in vile excesses or empty 
pleasures, equally miserable, because the end they 
proposed stilt fled from them; for the men of plea- 
sure every day surfeited of their vice, and heaped up 
work for sorrow and repentance; and the men of 
labour spent their strength in daily struggling fo^ 
bread to maintain the vital stroigth they laboured 



S ADVBMTORU OV 

with: SO living id a daily circulBtion of Borrov, liv- 
ing but to work, and working but to live, as if dailjr 
bread were the only end of wearieome life, and a 
wearisome life the only occasiaa ofdaily bread. 

This put me in mind of the life X lived in my 
Iciogdom, the island ; where I Buffered no more corn 
to grow, because I did not wfuit it : and bred no 
more goata, because 1 had no more use for them; 
where the money lay in the drawer till it grew moul- 
dy, and had tcorce the favour to be looked upon 
in twenty years. 

All these things, had I improved them, as ( ought 
to have done, and as reason and religion had dic> 
tatedtome, would faavetaught me to search farther 
dian human [enjoyments for a full felicity ; and that 
there was aamethiog which certainly was the reason 
andend of life, superior to all these things, and which 
was either to be possessed, or at least hoped for, 
on this side the grave. 

But my sage counsellor was gone ; I was like b 
^ip without a pilot, that could only run afore the 
wind: my thoughts ran all away again into the old 
a&ir; my head was quite turned with the whimsies 
of foreign adventures; and all the pleasant, innocent 
amusements of my &rm, my garden, my cattle, and 
By family, whichoeforeentirely possessed me, were 
nothing to me, had no relish, and were like music 
to one that has no ear, or food to one that has no 
taste: in a word I resolved to leave off housekeep- 
ing, let my farm, and return to London ; and in a 
few mtMiths after, I did so. 

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as 
I was before ; I had no relish for the place, no em- 
ployment in it, nothing to do but to saunter about 
like an idle person, of whom it may be said he is 
perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one 
farthing s matter to the rest of his kind whetb^ ha 



ROBIHaoN CRUaOZ. 9 

he dead oralive. Thix also was the tiling wttich, 
of all circumstances of life, was the most my aver- 
sion, who had been all my days used to an active 
life 1 and I would often say to myself, A state of 
idlenesa is the very dregs of life : and indeed I 
thought I was much more suitably employed when 
I was twenty-six days making me a deal board. 

It was now the beginning of the year 1 693, when 
my nephew, whom as I have observed before, 1 had 
brought up to the sea, and had made him comman- 
der of a ship, was come home from a short voyage 
to Bilboa, being the first he had made. He came 
to me, and told me that some merchants of his ac- 
quaint an ce had been proposing to him togoa voyage 
nir them to the Fast Indies and to China, as pnvate 
traders — And now, uncle, says he, if you will go to 
sea with me, I will engage to land you upon your 
old habitation in the island; for we are to touch at 
the BranilB. 

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a fu- 
ture state, and of the existence of an Invisible world, 
than the concurrence of second causeswith the ideas 
of things which we form in our minds, perfectly re- 
served, and not communicated to any in the world. 

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper 
of wandering was returned upon me, and I knew 
nothing of what he bad in his thought to say, when 
that very morning, before he came to me, 1 had, in 
a great deal of confusion of thought, and revolving 
every part of my circumstances in my mind, come 
to this resolution, viz. that 1 would go to Lisbon, 
and consult with my old sea-captain ; and so. If It 
was rational and practicable, i would go and see 
the Island again, and see what was become of my 
people there. I had pleased myself with the 
thoughts of peopling. the place, and cai^ying in- 
habitants from hence, getting a patent for the pot- 



10 ADVENTVREB Of 

<e»iioii, and I knew not what ; when, in the middle 
of all this, in cornea iny nephew, as 1 have said, 
with his project of catryiog me thither in his way 
to the East Indies. 

I paused awhile at his words, and, looking stead* 
ily at him. What devil, said I, sent you on this un- 
lucky errand? My nephew stared, as if he had 
been frightened, at first ; but perceiving that I was 
not much displeased with tiie proposal, he reco- 
vered himself. Ihopeitmaynotbeanunluckypro- 
posaJ, sir, says he; 1 daresay you would be pleased 
to see your new colony there, where you once 
reigned with more felicity than most of your bro- 
ther-monarchs in the world. 

In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my 
temper, that is to say, the prepossession I was 
under,and of whichlhave said so much, thatltold - 
him, in a few words, if he agreed with the merchant* 
I would go with him : but I told him I would not 
promise to go any farther than my own island. 
Why, sir, says he, you don't want to be left there 
Bgam, I hope ? Why, said 1, can you not take m<e 
up again on your return ? He told nle it would not 
be possible to do so ; that the merchants would never 
allow him to come that way with a laden ship of 
such value, it being a'month's sail out of his way, 
and might be three or four. Besides, sir, if I 
should miscarry, said he, and not return at all, 
then you would be just reduced to the condition 
you were in before. 

This was very rational; but we both found out a 
remedy for it ; which was, to carry a framed sloop 
on board the ship, which being taken in pieces, and 
shipped on board the ship, might, by the help of 
same carpeaters, whom we agreed to carry with us, 
be set up again in the island, and finished, fit to go 
to seB| in a few days. 



KOBIMSOtt CHUSOE. 11 

I WB3 not lon|> resolTHig ; for indeed the impor- 
tunitieB of my ne^iew joined bo eSectually with my 
Inclination, that nothing could oppose me ; on the 
other hand, my wife beine dead, 1 had nobody con- 
cerned themeelvea bo much for me as to persuade me 
to one way or the other, except my ancient good 
friend the widow, who earnestly Mruggled with me 
to consider my years, my easy circuowtances, and 
th« needless hasarda of a long voyage : and, above 
all, my young children. But it was all to no pur- 
pose; — 1 had an irreeistible desire to the voyage; 
and I told her 1 thought there was something so 
uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind 
for the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting 
Providence iflshould attempt to stay at home: afl^ 
which she ceased her expostulations, and joined with 
me, not only in m^ng provision for my voyage 
but also in settling my family-itfairs for my absence, 
and providing for the education of my children. 

In order to this, I made my will, and settled Ahe 
estate I had in such a manner for my children, aad 
placed in suuh hands, that I was perfectly easy and 
satisfied they would have justice done tbem, what- 
ever might befall me: and for their education, I left 
it wholly to the widow, with asufiicient maintenance 
toherselffor hercare: all which she richly deserved, 
fef no mother could have taken more care in thar 
education, or understood it better ; and as she lived 
till 1 came home, 1 also lived to thank her for iL 

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning 
of January 169^-5; and I, with my man Friday, 
went on board in the Downs the 8th : having, be- 
sides that sloop which I mentioned above, a very 
considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things 
for my colony; which, if I did not find in good con- 
dition, I resolved to leave so, 

First, I carried with me swne servants, whom I 



IS ADVBMTURBS OF 

purposed to place there ai inhabitants, or at least ta 
Bet on work there, upon itiy account, while I staid, 
and either to leave them there, or carry them for- 
ward, aathey would appear williag; particularly, I 
carried two carpenters, a smith, and a very handy 
ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by trade, and 
was also a );eneral mechanic ; for he waa dexterous 
at making wheeU, and hand-mills to grind corn, was 
a good turner, and a good pot maker : he also made 
any thing that was proper to make of earth, or of 
wood ; in a word, we called him our Jack of all 
trades. With these 1 carried a tailor, who had offered 
himself to go a passenger to the East indies with my 
n^hew, but atterwards consented Co stay on our 
new plantation; and proved a most necessary, handy 
fellow, as couid be desired, in many other bu^ineasea 
besides that of hia trade : for, as I observed formerly. 
Necessity arms us for all employments. 

My cai^o, as near as I can recollect, for 1 have 
not'kept account of the particulars, consisted of a 
sufficient quantity of linen, and some English thin 
Uu^ for clothing the Spaniards thu I expected to 
find there ; and enough of them, as, by my calcula- 
tion, might comfortably supply them for seven years: 
if I remember right, the materials I carried for cloth- 
ing them, with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all 
such things as they could want for wearing, amount- 
ed to above two hundred pounds, including some 
beds, bedding, and household stuff, particularly 
kitcfaen-utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass, 
&c. and near a hundred pounds more In iron-work, 
nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and 
every necessary thing I could think of, 

I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and 
fusees; besides some pistols, a conuderable quantity 
of shot of all sizes, tnree or four tons of lead, anq 
two pieces of brass ctumon; and because I knew not 



BOB IN SON CRUaOK. IS 



•hat time and what extremities I was providing 
for, I carried a hundred barrels of powder, besides 
Bwords, cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes 
and halberds : so that, in short, we had a large ma- 
gazine of all sorts of stores: and I made my nephetv - 
carry two small quarter-decic guns more tlian he 
wanted for his ship, to leave behind if there was oc- 
casion ; that, when we came there, we might build 
8 fort, and man it against all sorts of enemies; 
and, indeed, I at first Uiought there would be need 
enough for all, and much more, if we hoped to 
maintain our possession of the island ; as aihall be 
seen in the course of that story. 

I had not such bad luck Id this voyage as I hsd 
been used to meet with; and therefore shsjl have the 
less occasion to interrupt the reader, who perhaps 
may be impatient to hear how matters went with my 
colony ; yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad 
weather, happened on this iirst setting out, which 
made the voyage longer than I expected it at first: 
and 1, who had never made but one voyage, viz. my 
first voyage to Guinea, in which I might be said to 
come tiacK again as the voyage was at first designed, 
began to think the same ill fete attended me; and 
that I was born to be never contented widi being on 
shore, and yet to be always unfortunate at sea. 

Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and 
we were obtieed to put in at Galwayin Ireland, where 
we lay windbound two-and-twenty days; but we 
had this satisfaction with the disaster, that pro- 
visions were here exceeding cheap, and in die ut< 
most plenty ; so that while we lay here, we never 
touched the ship's stores, but rather added to them. 
Here, also, I took in several live hogs, and two 
cows, with their calves ; which I resolved, if 1 had 
a good passage, to put on shore in my island ; bat 
we fouDU occasion to dispose otherwise of them. 



H ASTBNTUKKS or 

We set out on the 5th of Pebhiftry frmtt Irela^ 
snd had a very fmr gale of wind for same days. At 
I remember, it might be about the 20th of Febni- 
ory, in the evening late, when tlie mate, having tiu 
watch, came into tlie round-house, and totd ua he 
■awafiash of fire, and heard a gun fired; and while 
he was telling us i^ it:, a boy came in, and totd ns 
the boatswain heard another. This made us all ma 
out upon the quarter-deck, where, for a while, we 
heard nothing ; but in a few minutes we aaw a veiy 
great light, and found that there was some ve^ 
terrible fire at a distance ; immediately we had re- 
course to our reckonings, in which we all agreed, 
that there could be do land that way in whidi the 
fire showed itself, no, not for five hundred leagues, 
for it appeared at W.N. W. Upon thiswecoocluded 
it must be some ship on fire at sea ; and as, by our 
hearing the noise ofguns just before, ve concluded 
that it could not be far otT, we stood directly towards 
it, and were presently satis6ed we should discover it, 
because, the farther we sailed, the greater the light 
appeared ; though , the weatlier b&ing haay, we oould 
aot perceive any thing but the light for a while. In 
about half an hour's sailing, the wind bdng fair for 
us, though not much of it, and the weather clearing 
up a little, we could plainly discern that it was a 
great ^p on fire, in the middle of the sea. 

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, 
though not at all acquainted with the persons es- 
gag«S in it: I presently recollected my former cir- 
cumstances, and in what condition I w^ in, when 
taken up by the Portuguese captain ; and how much 
more deplorable the circumataates of the poor crea- 
tures belonging to that ship must be, if they had 
no other ship in company with them. Upon this, I 
immediately ordered that fire guns should be fired, 
one soon after another ; that, if possible, we might 



ROBUfSON CRtlGrOX. IS 

gtm notice to them that Uiere was help for them at 
tend, ftDd that they might eadeaToiu' to save them- 
selves in their boat; for though we could see the 
Meeaet nT the ihip, yet they, it being night, could 
■ee ngtbing of ui. 

We lay by some time upon this, only dnTing as 
■beb^rmtw ship drove, waitingforday-hght; wbeo, 
•n a sudden, to our great terrM*, uiough we bad 
reason to expect it, the ship blew up in tlie aii; and 
immediately, that is to My, in a few mtDutes, all 
the fire was out, tliat is to say, the rest of the ship 
■uBk. lliis was a terrible and indeed an aSictjng 
light, far the sake of the poor men; who, I con- 
diuEed, must be either all destroyed in the ship, or 
be in the utmost distress in their boat, la the middle 
of the ocean ; which, at present, by reason it was 
^wk, I could i>«t see. However, to direct them a» 
wdlas I could, I caused lights to be hung out in all 
thepartaoftbe ship where we could, and frhich we 
bad lantborns for, and kept firiog guns all the night 
long; letting them know, by thu, Unai there was a 
ritip not fer off. 

About eight o'clock in the axmiitag, we dtsca- 
'vered the ship's boats by the help of our perspective- 
glasses; found there were two of them, both throDg-r 
cd with people, and deep in the water. We per- 
ceived they rowed, the wind being against them j 
that they saw our ^p, and did their utmost to make 
K» see tliem. 

We inmiediately spread our ancient, to let them 
know we taw them, and hung a waft out, as a signal 
f» them to come on board ; and then made more 
•ail, standing directly to them. la little more than 
balfan hour, we came up with them; and,iDawiwd, 
IrOok them alt in, being no less than sixty-four men, 
women, and children ; for tbete were a great mvo-y 



16 ADVEHTORKS OV 

Upontbewhole,wefou]iditirasaFreiichmerchaiit- 
shipot'threehundredtoiu, home-bound from Quebec, 
in the river of Canada. The master gave ub a loogac- 
count of the dutressof his ship; how die fire began in 
the steerage, by the negligence of the steerman; but 
on hiscrying out for help, nas, as every body thought, 
entirely put out ; but they soonfound tnat some sparks 
of the first fire had gotten into some part of the ship 
so difficult to come at, that they could not efiectu- 
ally quench it ; and aflerwards getting in between 
the timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, it 
proceeded into the hold, and mastered all the skill 
and all the application they were able to exert. 

They had no more to do then, but to get into 
their boats, which, to their great comfort, were pretty 
large ; being their long-boat, and & great shalop, 
besides a small skiff, which was of no great service 
to them, other than to get some fresh water and pro- 
visions into her, afier they had secured their lives 
from the fire. They had, indeed, small hope of 
their lives by getting into these boats, at that dis- 
tance from any land ; only, as they said well, that 
they were escaped from the fire, and a possibility 
that some ship might happen to be at sea, and might 
take them in. They had sails, oars, and a compass ; 
and were preparing to make the best of their way 
back to Newfoundland, the wind blowing pretty 
fair, for it blew an easy gale at S. E. by E. They 
had as much provision and water, as, with spariog 
it so as to be next door to starving, might support 
them about twelve days ; in which, if tJiey had no 
bad weather, and no contrary winds, the captain 
said he hoped he might get to the Banks of New- 
foundland, and might perhaps take some fish, to 
sustain them till they might go on shore. But there 
were so many chances against them in all these cases, 
such as storms, to overset and founder them; rains 



X0BINSOII cRvaot. 17 

md cold, to benumb and pcriBb their limbs ; con- 
trary wind*, to keep them out and starve them; 
that it miidt have been next to miraculoiu if tbey 
had escaped. 

la the nudst of their consterDStion, every ooe be- 
ing bopelera and ready to despair, the captain, with 
tears in his eyes, told me they were on a suddeo sur- 
prised with the ^oy of hearing a gun fire, and after 
that four more ; these were the five guns which I 
caused to be fired at first seeing the light. This re- 
vived their hearts, and gave tbem the notice, which, 
as above, I draired it suould, via. that there was a 
■hip at band for their beip. It was upon the hearing 
of ibese guns, that they took down tlieir masts and 
aa^ ; (be sousd coming trom tbe windward, they 
Rsolved to ILe-by till iboroine. Some time af^er 
this, bearii^ no more gum, tbey fired tliree mus- 
keta, one a conuderable while after another ; but 
these, the wind being contrary, we never heard. 

Some time after that again, they were still more 
agreetd>ly surprised with seeing our Lights, and hear- 
ing tbe guns which, as I have said, I caused to be 
fired all tbe rest of the mgbt : this set them to work 
with their oars, to keep their boats ahead, at least, 
that we might Uie sooner come up with them ; and, 
St last, to their inexpressible joy, tbey found we 
MW them. 

It is imposibje for me to express tbe several ges- 
tm-es, the strange ecstasies, tbe variety of postures, 
which these poor delivered people ran into, to ex- 
press tbe joy of their souls at so unexpected a deli- 
Teronce. Grief and fear areeasily described; sighs, 
tears, groans, and a very few moticHU of the bead 
and h^ds, make up tbe sum of its variety; but an 
excess of ioy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand ex- 
travagancies in it: there were aonie in tears; some 
raging sod teari^ tbeniBelveSi w if they had beea 
cS 



IS ADVENTUBES OF 

in the ^eatest agonies of sorrow; BomeRtarlcravinBi 
and downright lunatic; some ran about the ehip 
stampingwith their feet, others wriiiging their hands; 
some vere dancing, some singing, Bome laughing, 
more crying ; many quite dumb, not able to speak 
a word ; otttera sick and vomiting ; several swoon- 
ing, and ready to faint ; and a few were crossing 
themselves, and giving God thanks. 

I would not wrong them neither ; there might be 
many that were thankful afterwards, but the passion 
was too strong for them at first, and they were not 
able to master it : they were thrown into ecstasies, 
and a kind of phrensy; and it was but a very few 
that were composed and serious in their joy. 

Perhaps, also, the case may have some addition 
to it from the particular circumstance of that nation 
they belonged to; I mean the French, whose temper 
is allowed to be more volatile, more passionate, and 
more sprightly, and their spirits more fluid, than in 
other nations. I am not philosopher enough to 
determine the cause ; but nothing 1 had ever seen 
before came up to it. The ecstasies poor Friday, 
my trusty savage, was in, when he found his father 
in the boat, came the nearest to it ; and the surprise 
of the master and his two companions, whom 1 de- 
livered from the villains that set them on shore in 
the island, came a little way towards it; but no- 
thing was to compare to this, either that I saw in 
Friday, or any where else in my life- 
It is further observable, that these extravagances 
did not show themselves, in that different manner [ 
have mentioned, in different persons only ; but all 
the variety would appear, in a short succession of 
momenta, in one and the same person. A man that 
Ive saw this minute dumb, and as it were stupid and 
confounded, would the next minute be dancing and 
hollowing like an antic ; and the next moment be 



ROBINSON CRtlSOI. 19 

Cearing his hair, or puIlmK hw clotbei to pieces, 
and BtaiNpJng them under hU feet, like a madman ; 
in a few moments after that, we would have him all 
ill tears, then sick, swooning, and, had not immedi- 
ate help been had, he would in a few moments have 
been dead; and thus it was, not with one or two> 
or ten or twenty, but with the greatest part of them ; 
and, if 1 remerobcr right, our eurgeon was oUiged 
lo let Uood of about mirty of them. 

There were two priests among them, one an old 
mm, and the other a young man ; and that which 
was strangest was, the old«8t man was the worst. 
, As soon as he set his foot on board oar ship, and 
Bw hiiMelf safe, he dropt down stoneKlead, lo all 
appearance : not the least sign of life could be per- 
ceived in hini : our surgeon immediatelj applied pro- 
V3r remedies to recover him, and was the only man 
m the ship that believed he was not dead. At length 
hs opened a vein in his arm, having first chafed and 
nibbed the part, so as to warm it as much as posN- 
Ue ; upon this the blood, which only drc^ped at 
first, flowing freely, in three minutes after the man 
opened his eyes ; and a quarter of an hour after 
Uiat be spoke, grew better, and in a little time quite 
well. Anertheblood was stopped, he walked about; 
told us he was perfectly well; took a dram of cordial 
which the surgeon gave him, and was what we called 
come to himself. About a quarter of an hour after 
this, they came running into the cabin to the sur- 
geon, who was bleeding a Frem^ womui that had 
tinted, and told him the priest was gone stark mad. 
It seems he had begun to revolve the change of his 
.circumstances in his mind, and asain this put him 
into an ecstasy of joy ; his spirits whirled about fester 
than the vesseis could convey them, the blood grew 
hot and feverish, and the man was as fit for Bedlam 
M any creature that ever was in it: the turgeon 



would not bleed him again in that condi^on> but 
gave him Eomething to doze and put him to sleep,, 
which, after some time, operated upon him, and he 
awoke next raoroing perfectly composed and welL 

The younger priest behaved with great command 
of hie pasaionB, and was really ao example of a eeriouf, 
well-governed mind : at his first coming on board 
the ship, he threw himself flat on his face, prostrat- 
ing himself in thankfulness for his deliverance, ia 
which 1 unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, 
really thinking ne had been in a swoon ; but he spoke 
calmly, thanked me, told me he was giving God 
thanlu for his deliverance ; begged me to leave hiia ^ 
a few moments, and that, next to his Maker, he 
would give nie thanks also. 

I was heartily sorcy that 1 disturbed him, and not 
only left him, but kept others iVom interrupting hina 
also. He continued in that posture about three mi- 
nutes, or little morci after 1 left him ; then cama 
to me, as he had said be would, and, with a great 
deal of seriousness and affection, but with tears in 
his eyes, thanked me, that had, under God, given 
him, and so many miserable creatures, their lives. 
I told him 1 had no room to mmve him to thank God 
for it, rather than me, for I had seen that he had 
done that already ; but, 1 added, that it was nothing 
but what reason and humanity dictated to all men, 
and that we had as much reascm as he to give thanka 
to God, who had blessed us so far, as to make us the 
instruments of his mercy to so many of his cf vaturtte. 

After this, the young priest ^plied himself to hia 
country-folks; laboured to compcHe them ; penwad- 
ed, entreated, argued, reasoned with them, aad did 
hia utmost to keep them within the exercise of their 
reason; and with some he had success, though o^ers 
were fix a time out uf alt government of themselves. 

I cannot help committing thia Lo wdting, as peiv 



ROBtNSOH 

iap» it may be useful to thoae !nto whose faoDds it 
■n^ fall, for the guiding themselves in all the extra- 
vagances of their (lastions ; for if an excess of joy 
csn cany men out to such a length beyond the reach 

. ttf their reason, what will not die extravagances of 
■Dger, n^e, and a provoked mind, carry us to? 
And, indeed, here I saw reason for keeping an ex- 
ceeding watch over our passions of every Kind, as 
well those of joy and satinactioo, as those of sorrow 
aod anger. 

We were something disordered, by these extrava- 
gances among our new guests, for the first day ; but 
when they had heen retired, lodgings [H-ovided for 
them as well as our ship wonid allow, and the^ had 
■lent heartily — as most of them did, being fatigtled 
ana frightened — they were quite another sort of peo< 
pie the next day. 

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledg- 
ments for the kindness shown them, was wanting ; 
&» French, it is known, are naturally apt enough 
to exceed that way. The captain and one of Uie 
priests came tome the next day, anddesired to Speak 
with me and my nephew : the commander began to 
consult with us what should be done with them ; 
and, first, they told us that we had saved their lives, 
so all they had was little enough for a return to ua 
for that kindness received. The captain swd they 
had saved aome money, and some ihingg of value, 
in their boats, catched hastily out of the flames, and 
K we would accept it, they were ordered to make an 
oSet of it all to hb ; they only desired to be set on 
shore somewbepe in our way, where, if possible, they 

~ tmght get a passage to France. My nephew was 
for accepting their money at firat word, and to con- 
sider what to do with thCTi aflerwards ; but I over- 
ruled him in that part, for I knew what it was to be 
set on Bbore in a strange country : and if the Portu- 



9S ADVBMTUBIS OF 

guese captain that took me up at eea had Henednv 
so, and Cook all I had for my deliverance, I must 
have starred, or have been as much a flave at the 
Brazils as I had been at Barbary, the mere being 
aotd.to a Mahometan excepted : and perhapd a Pois 
tuguese is not a much better master dian a Turk, if 
not, in tome cases, much worse. 

I therefore told the French captain that we had 
taken them up in their distress, it was true, but 
that it was our duty to do so, as we were fellow-crea- ' 
tures ; aod we would desire to be so delivered, if we, 
were b the like, or any other extremity ; that wa 
had done nothing for them but wliat we believed 
they would have done for us, if we had been in 
their case, and they in ours; but that we took 
them up to save them, not to plunder them; and it 
would be a most barbarous thmg to take that little 
from them which they had saved out of the fire, and 
th^a set them ou shore and leave them ; that tliia 
would be first to save them from death, and then 
kill them ourselves ; save them from drowning, and 
abandon them to starving ; and therefore I would 
not let the least thing be taken from them. Aa 
to setting them on shore, 1 told them, indeed, that 
was an exceeding difficulty to us, for that the ship 
was bound to the East Indies ; and though we wera 
driven out of our course to the westward a very great 
way, and perhaps were directed hy Heaven on pur- 
pose for tneir deliverance, yet it was imposBible for 
us wilfully to change our voyage on their particular 
account; nor could my nephew, the captain, answer 
it to the freighters, with whom he was under char- 
ter-party to pursue his voyage by the way of Brazil: 
and all 1 kaew we could do for them, was to put 
ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships 
homeward-bound froon the West Indies, and get 
them a passage, if possible, to England or France. 



ROBIKSON CRtriOE. SS 

- "The first part ofthe proposal vas SO generous ami 
lind, they could not bat be very thankful for il; 
but theywereinaTerj^eat consternation, especially 
the passengers, at the notion of being carried away 
to the East Indie*: they then entreated me, that 
■eeing 1 was driren so far to the westward before I 
met with them, I would at least keep on the same 
course to the Banks of Newfoundland, where it was 
probable I might meet with some riiip or sloop that 
they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from 
wfaoDCe they came. 

1 thought tilts was but a reasooable request on 
their part, and therefore I inclined to agree to it ; 
tor, indeed, I considered, that to carry this whole 
company to the East Indies, would sot only be ati 
intolerable severity upon the poor people, but would 
be ruinmg our whole voyage, by devouring all our 
provisions ; so I thought it no breach of charter- 
party, but what an untoreseen accident made abso- 
lutely necessary to us, and in which no one could 
■ay we were to blame : for the laws of God and na- 
ture would have forbid that we should refuse to take 
op two boats Aill of people in such a distressed coud*> 
tion ; and the nature of the thing, as well respecting 
ourcelres as the poor people, obliged us to set them 
iBi shore somewhere or other for their deliTerance: 
•0 I consented that we would carry them to New- 
foundland, if wind and weather would ptrmit; and 
if not, that I would carry tbem to Martmico, in die 
Weat Indies. 

'llie wind continned fresh easto'ly, but the wea- 
ther pretty good ; said as the winds had continued 
in the points between N. £. and S. E. a long tiati, 
we missed sereral opportunities of eendbg them to 
France ; for we met several ships bound to Europe, 
whereof two were French, from St. Christopher's ; 
but they had boen so long beating up agmnst the 



S* ADTEHTVRBS Or 

wiDd, that they durst take in iio passragers, Tor 
fear of wantiag provUioQS for the voyage, as well 
for themselves as for those they should take in ; ea 
we were obliged to eo on. It was about a week af- 
ter this that we made the Banks of Newfoundland; 
where, to shorten my atorj, we put all our French 
people on board a bark, which they hired at sea 
therej to put them on shore, and afterwards to.car- 
ry them to France, if they could get provisions to 
.victual themselves with. When I say, all the 
French went on shore, I should remember that the 
young priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to 
the East Indies, desired to go the voyage with us, 
and to be set on shore on the Coast of Coromandel; 
which I .readily agreed to, fur i wonderfully liked 
the man, and had very gooil reason, as will appear 
^ilerwards ; also four of the seamen entered theia- 
. selves on our ship, and proved very useful fellows. 
From hence we directed our course for the Weet 
indies, steering away S. and S> by E. for aboixC 
twenty days together, sometimes little or no wind at 
all ; when we met with another subject for our hu- 
Bianity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that 
before. 

It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes 
north, on the I9th day of March 1694-5, when we 
spied a sail, our course 8. £. and by S. : we so<hi 
perceived it was a large vessel, and that she bore up 
to us, but could not at first know what to make of 
her,'till, afler coming a little nearer, we found she 
had lost her main top-mast, fore-mast, and bowsprit ; 
and presently she fired a gOn, as a signal of distress: 
the weather was pretty good, wind at N. N. W. a 
fresh gale, and we soon came to apeak with her. 

We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from 
Barbadoes, but had been blown out of the road at 
Barbadoes a few days before she was ready to sail, 



KOBINSOtf CRUSOE. 25 

t>y a terrible hurricane, while the captain and chief 
mate were both gone on shore ; so that, besides the 
terror of the storm, they were in an indifierentcase 
for good artists to bring the ship home. They had 
been already nineweeiis at sea, and had met with* 
jHiother terrible storm, after the hurricane was over, 
which had blown them quite out of their knowledge 
to the westward, and in which they lost their masts, 
as above. They told us they expected to have seen 
~the Bahama islands, but were then driven away 
again to the south-east, by a strong gale of wind at 
N. N. W. the same that blew now ; and having no 
sails to work the ship with but a main-course, and 
a kind of square sail upon a jury fore-mast, which 
they had set up, they could not lie near the wind, 
but were enoeavouring to stand away for tlie 
Canaries. 

£ut that which was worst of all was, that they 
were almost starved for want of prorisions, besides 
thefatigues they had undergone: theirbreadandflesh 
were quite gone ; thej' had not one ounce left in the 
ship, and had none for eleven days. The only re- 
liei they had was, their water was not ail spent, and 
they had about half a barrel of flour left ; they had 
sugar enough ; some tuccades, or sweet meats, they 
bad at first, but they were devoured; and they had 
seven casks of rum. 

There were a youth and his mother, and a' maid 
servant, on board, who were goins passengers, and 
thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily came 
on board the eveaing before the hurricane begnn ; 
and having no provisions of their own left, they 
were In a more deplorable condition than the rest: 
for the seamen being reduced to such an extreme ne- 
ceuity themselves, nad no compasNon, we may be 
sure, &r the poor paMengen i and they were^ in- 



te ADVKHTURI3 OW 

deed, in a condition, that their misery is very hard 
to describe. 

I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity 
had not led me (the weather being fair, and clie 
wind abated) to go on board the ship. The second 
mate, who, upon this occasion, commanded the 

'fihip, had been on board our ship, and, he told me, 
indeed, th ey had three passengers in the great cabin, 
that were in a deplorable condition ; Nay, says he, 
I believe they are dead, for 1 have heard nothing of 
them for above two days ; and I was afraid to inquire 
aftertbem, saidhe, for 1 had nothing to relieve them 
with. 

We immediately applied ouneWes to ^ve them 
what relief we could spare ; and. indeed, I had so 
far overruled thing* with my ne[diew, that! would 
have victualled them, though we had gone away to 
Virginia, or tuiy other part of the coast of America, 
to have supplied ourselves; but there was no neces- 
sity for that. 

But now they were in a new danger ; for they 
were a&aid of eating too much, even of ^lat little 
we gave them. The mate or commander brought 
six men with him lin his boat ; but these poor 
wretches looked like skeletoos, and were so weak, 
that they could hardly sit to their oars. The mate 
himself was very ill, and half- starved ; for he de- 
clared he had reserved nothins from the men, and 
went share aad share alike wiui them in every bit 
they ate. 

1 cautioned him to eat spaiingly, but set meat 
before him immediately ; and he had not eaten three 

' mouthfuls before he began to be sick, and out of 
order; so he stopped a while, ai)d our surgcfen 

' mixed him up something with tome broth, which he 

. Mid would be to him both foodftnd fdi^c; aud afiw 



ROBINSOIS CBDSOI. 2T 

he had Uken it, he grew better. In the mean tinie, 
I forgot not the men ; I ordered victuals to be given 
them; and the poor creatures rather devoured than 
ate it : they were ao exceeding hungry, that the^ 
were in a kind ravenous, and bad no command of 
tfaemselvet ; and two of them ate with so much 
. greedinesB, tiiBt they were in danger of their Uvea 
the next morning. 

The sight of these people's distress was very mov- 
kig to me, and brought to mind what I had a ter- 
rible prospect of at mj- first coming on shore in my 
iBlaDa, where I had never the least mouthful of food, 
or any prospect ofprocuring any: besides the hourly 
apprehensions i had of being made the food of other 
creatures. But all tlie while the mate was thus re- 
lating to me the miserable condition of the ship's 
cmnpany, I could not put out of my thought the 
itory he had told me of the three poor creatures in 
the great cabin, viz. the mother, hf;r son, and the 
maia-servant, whom he had heard nothing of for 
two or three days, and whom, he seemed to confess, 
they had wholly neglected, their own extremitiei 
being so great : by which I understood, that tliey 
had realty given them no food at all, and that there- 
fore they must be perished, and be all lying dead, 
perhaps, on the floor or deck of the cabin. 

Ah I therefoie kept the mate, whom we then call- 
ed captain, on board with his men, to refresh them, 
so I also forgot not the starving crew that were left 
on board; but ordered my own boat to go on board 
the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men, to 
carry them a sack of bread, and four or five pieces 
of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged the men to 
cause the meat to be boiled while they staid, and 
to keep guard in the cook-room, to prevent the men 
taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot be- 
fore it was well boiled, and then to give every man 



18 ADVENTORES OF 

but a veiT little at a time : and by this caution he 
preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed 
themwlves with that very food that was ^ren them 
on purpose to save their lives. 

At tne same time, 1 ordered the mate to go into 
the great cabin, and' see what condition tlie poor 
passengers were in ; and if they were alive, to com- 
fort them, and give them what refreshment was 
proper: and the surgeon gave him a large pitcher, 
with aome ofthe prepared broth which he had given 
the mate that was on board, and which he did not 
question would restore them gradually. 

J was not satisfied with this ; but, as I said above, 
having a great miud to see the scene of misery which 
I knew the siiip itself would present me wiui, in a 
more lively manner than 1 could have it by report, 
1 took the captain of the ship, as we now called 
him, with me, and went myself, a little after, in 
their boat. 

I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, 
to get tbe victuais out of the boiler before it waa 
ready ; but my mate observed his orders, and kept 
a good guard at the cook-room door; and the man 
he placed there, aiter using alloossible persuanon to 
have patience, kept them off by force : however, 
he caused some biscuit-cakes to be dipped in the 
pot, and softened with the liquor of the meat, which 
they called brewis, and gave them every one some, 
to stay their stomachs, and told them it was for 
their own safety that he was obliged to give them 
but little at a time. But it was afl in vain ; and had 
I not come on board, and their own commander and 
officers with me, and with good words, and some 
tlireats also of giving them no more, 1 believe they 
would have broaen into the cook-room by force, and 
torn the meat out of the furnace ; for words are in- 
deed of very sraall force to a hungry belly : however, 



HOBIKSOM CRUSOE. S9 

we paeified them, and fed them ^Tadually and cau- 
Uoub}; for the firat, and the next time gave them 
more, and at lait filled their bellies, and the men 
did ncU enough.. 

But the misery of the poor paasengers in the cabin 
was of another nature, and far beyond the rest ; for 
as, first, the ship's company had so little for th^n- 
selves, it was but too true that they had at first kepi 
them very low, and at last totally neglected them i 
so that for six or seven days it might be said tbe^ 
had really do food at all, and for several days before 
very little. The poor mother, who, at the men rc- 

Crted, was a woman of sense and good-breedings 
] spared all she could so a&ctionatelyfcu' her son, 
that at last she entirely sunk under it ; and when 
the mate of our ship wenb in, she sat upon the floor 
or deck, with her back up against the sides, betwe^i 
two chairs, which were lashed fost, and her head 
smik between liet shoulders, like a corpse, though 
not quite dead. My mat« said all he could to re- 
vive and encourage her, and with a spoon put some 
broth into her mouth. She opened her lips, and 
Ufted up one hand, but could not speak ; yet she 
understood what he said, and made signs to aim, in- 
timating that it was too late for her, but pointed to 
her child, as if she would have said they should take 
care ofhim. However, the mate, who was exceed- 
ingly moved with the sight, endeavoured to get some 
^ the broth into her mouth, aod, as he said, sift 
two or three spoonfuls down; though 1 question 
whether he could be sure of it or not : but it was too 
late, and she died the same night. 

The youdi, who was preserved at the price of l»t 
most af^tionate mother's lil^, was not so &r gone i 
vet he lay in a cabin-bed, as one stretched out, with 
hardly any life left in him. He bad a piece of an old 
glove in nis mouthy having eaten up the rest of it i 



50 ADVENTCRES OT 

however, being young, and having more ftrength 
than his mother, the mate got something downliia 
throat, and he began Eensibly to revive; though' by 
giving him, gome time after, but two or t'lree 
■poonfuls extraordinaiy, he was very uck, and 
brought it up again. 

But the next care wae the poor maid: she lay 
all aJong upon the deck, hard by her mistress, and 
just like one that had fallen down with an apoptevy, 
and struggled for life. Her limbs were distuned ; 
one of her hands was clasped round the Frame of a 
chair, and she griped it so hard, th^ we could not 
easily make her let it go : her other arm lay over her 
head, and her feet lay both together, set fast against 
the frame of the cabin-table : in short, she lay just 
like one in the agonies ef death, and yet she waa 
alive too. 

The poor creature was not only starved with hun- 
ger, and terrified with the thoughts of death, but, 
as the men told us afterwards, was brokenihearted 
for her mistress, whom she saw dying for two or 
three days before, and whom she loved most t^i- 
derly. 

We knew not what to do with this poor girl ; for 
when our surgeon, who was a man of very great 
knowledge and experience, had, with great appli- 
cation, recovered her as to life, he had her upon his 
hands as to her senses ; for she was little less than 
distracted for a considerable time after, as shall ap- 
pear presently. 

Whoever shall read these memorandums must be 
desu-ed to consider, that visits at sea, are not like a 
journey into the country, where sometimes people 
stay a week or a fortnight at a place : our business 
was, to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie 
by for them ; and though they were willing to steer 
toe same course with us for eome. days, yet we could 



SI 

cany lio b^I> to keep pace with a ship that had no 
masta : however, as their captain begged of us to 
help him to aet up a main-topmast, and a kind of a 
topniRJit to his jury-foremast, we did, as it were, 
lie by him for three or four days ; and then having 
giveo him five barrels of beef, a bairel of pork, two 
hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, 
flour, and what other things we could spare ; and 
taking three casks of sugar, some rum, and some 
pieces of eight from theni for satisfactian, we le>l 
them ; taking on board with us, at their own ear- 
nest request, the youth and the maid, and all their 

The young lad was aboot seventeen years of age ; 
a pretty, well-bred, modest and sensible youth, 
grcatty dejected with the loss of his mother, and, 
as it seems, had lost his father but a few months 
before, at Barbadoes : he begged of the suigeon to 
speak to me to take him out of the ship ; for he said 
the cruel fellows had murdered his mother: and, in- 
deed, so they had, that is to say, passively; for 
they might have spared a small sustenance to the 
poor helpless widow, that might have preserved her 
life, though it had been but just enough to keep 
her alive : but hunger knows no friend, no relation, 
no justice, no right ; and therefore is remorseless, 
and capable of no compassion. 

The surgeon told him how far we were going, 
and that it would carry him away from all histriends, 
and put him perhaps in as bad circumstances almost 
as those we found him in, that b to say, starving 
in the world. He said it mattered not whither he 
went, if he was but delivered from the terrible 
crew that he was among ; that the captain (by which 
he meant me, for he could know nothing of my 
ne^diew) had saved his life, and he was sure would 
not hurt him ; and as far the maid, be was sure, ii 



S2 ADVEBTDHM Of 

■he caoie to henelf, the would be verytlwiikAilfiir 
it, let us carry them where we would. The su^eon 
lepreeented the case lo aflecttonatelj to me, that I 
yielded, and we took them both on board, with all 
their goodc, except eleven hogsheads of sugar, 
which could not be lemored or come at ; and a> the 
youth had a bill of lading for them, I made his com- 
mander sign a writing, obliging himself lo go, as 
soon aa he came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a 
tn^chant there, to whom the youth said he was re- 
lated, and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him. 
and all the ^oods he had belonging to the deceased 
widow ; which 1 suppose was not done, for I could 
nerer learn that the ship came to Bristol, but was, 
as ii most probable, lost at sea ; being in eo disabled 
a condition, and so far from any land, that 1 am of 
opinion the first storm she met with afterwards she 
might founder in the sea; for she was leaky, and 
had damage in her hold, when we met with her. 

I was now in the latitude of 1 9 degrees 32 mi- 
nutes, and had liithetto a t<^erable voyage as to 
weather, thoush, at first, the winds had been con- 
trary. I shall trouble nobody with the little inci- 
dents of wind, weathn*, currents, &c. on the rest of 
oui voyage ; but, to shorten my story, for the sake 
of what is to follow, shall observe, that 1 came to my 
old habitation, the island, on tfaelOth of April, 1695. 
Jt was with no saudI difficulty that 1 found the place ; 
forjSB I came to it, and went frcHn it, before, on the 
south aod east side of the island, as coming from the 
Brazils, so now, coming in between the m^n oihI 
the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor any 
lond-maric, I did not know it when I saw it, ov 
know whether I saw it or not. 

We beat about a great while, and west m shne 
«a several islands in the mouth of the great rivee 
Oroao«(iu(^ but none for my purpose t only thia I 



' XOBTNSOti' CRUSOE. 3S 

learned by in^ coastinff the shore, that I was under 
one great Rustake before, viz. thai the continent 
which I thought 1 saw from the island I lived in, was 
redly no continent, but a long island, or rather a 
ridge of islands, reaching from one to the other side 
of the extended mouth of that great river; and that 
the savages who came to my ieland were not properly 
those which we call Caribbees, but islanders, and 
other barbarians of the aanie kind, who inhabited 
something nearer to our side than tiie rest. 

In short, I visited several- of tliese islands to no 
purpose ; some I found were inhabited, and same 
were not: on one of them 1 found some Spaniards, 
and thought they had lived there i but speaking with 
them, found they had a sloop lay in a small creek 
hard by, and came thither to make salt and to catch 
some pearl muscles, if they could ; but that they be- 
longed to the Isle de Trinidad, which lay ^tker 
north, in the latitude of 10 and 11 degrees. 

Thus coasting from one island to another, some- 
times with the ship, sometimes with the French- 
men's shallop, which wehadfound a convenient boat, 
and therefore kept her with their very good will, at 
length I came fair on the south side ot my island, 
and presently knew the very countenance of the 
place: so 1 brought the ship safe to an anchor, 
broadside with the little creek^where my old habita- 
tion was. 

As soon as f saw the place, I called for Friday, and 
asked him if he knew where he was t he looked about 
a little, and pres«itly clapping his hands, cried, O 

Jes, O there, O yes, O there, pointing to our old 
abitatidn, and fell dancing and capering like a mad 
fellow ; and I had much ado to keep him from jump- 
ing into the sea, to swim ashore M the place. 

Well, Friday, says I, do you think we shall find 
.any body here or do ? and d» you think we shall see 



St ADVIKTURBS OF 

jQUT iatber ? The fellaw stood mute as a stock » 
good while, bub when 1 named his fatlier, the poor 
afiectiooate creature looked dejected^and I could gee 
the tears run down his face very plentifully. What 
is the matter, Friday^ aavs 1, are you troubled bC'^ 
cause you may see your father ? No, no, says hey 
shaking his head, no see him more: no, never more 
■ee him agaia. Why so, said I, Friday P how da 
you know that ? O no, O no, says Friday ; be Ions 
ago die, long ago; he much old man. Well, weU* 
■ays I, Friday, you don't know; but shall we see any 
one else theo P The fellow, it seems, had better eyes 
than 1, and he points to the hill just aboxe my old 
house : and though we lay half a league off, he criea 
out. We see, we see, yea, yea, we see much man 
there, and there, and there. . I looked, but 1 saw 
nobody, -no, not with a perspective -glass, wtiich 
was, Isuppoae, because 1 could not hit the place; 
for the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the 
next day ; and there were five or six men all toge- 
ther, who stood to look at the ship, not knowmg 
what to think of us. 

As soon as Fridaytoldniahesawpeople, I caused 
the English ancient to be spread, and fired three 
guns, to give them notice we were fi-iends ; and in 
about hau a quarter of all hour after, we perceived 
a smoke arise from the side of the creek ; so I kn* 
mediately ordered the boat out, taking Friday with 
me ; and hanging out a white fiag, or a flag of truce, 
I went directly on tihore, taking with me the young 
friar 1 mentioned, to whom I had told the story of 
my living there, and the manner of it, and every 
particular both of myself and those Ileft there; and 
who was, OD that account, extremely desirous to go 
with me. We Had besides about^ixteeo men well 
armed, if we bad found any new guests there which 
w< did not know of; hut we bad no need of weapons 



ROBIRMIN CRDSOE. 35 

Afi we went on shore npati the tide of flood, near 
high wtiter, we rowed directly into the creek ; and 
the first man 1 fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard 
whose life 1 had saved, and whom I knew by tiii fac« 
perfectly well : as to his habit, ^ shall describe it af- 
terwards. 1 ordered nobody to go on shore at first 
but mysatf ; but there was no keeping Friday in the 
boat, for the affectionate creature had spied his fa- 
ther at a distance, a good way off the Spaniards, 
where indeed I saw notliing of him ; and if they had 
not let him go ashore, he would have jumped into 
tbe sea. He was no sooner on shore, but he fiew 
juway to his father, like an arrow out of a bow. It 
would have made any num abed tears, in spite of the 
firmest resolution, to have seen the first transports 
of this poorfellow's joy when he came to hia father; 
how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his tacc, 
took him up in his arras, sethttn down upon a tree, 
and lay down l^ him ; then stood uid looked at him, 
as any one would look at a strange picture, far a 
quarter of an hour together ; then lay down on the 
ground, and strokBd his legs, and kissed them, and 
Uien got up aaain, end stared at him ; one would 
have thought uie fellow bewitched. But it would 
have made a dog laugh tbe next day to see how bis 
passion ran out another way ; in the imMning be 
walked along the shore, to and again, with his father 
•everal hours, dwajs leading him by Hie hand, as if 
he hod been a lady ; and every now and then he 
would come to the boat to fetcn something or other 
-for him, either a lump of sugar, a dram, a biscuit- 
cake, or soniething or ^ther that was good. In the 
afternoon his frolics ran another away; for then 
he wmdd set the old man down upon the ground 
-end dance about him, and make a thousand antic 
postures and geitiffea ; and all tk* while he did Hut, 



be would be talking to him, and telling him one 
story or other of his travels, and of what hod hap- 
pened to him abroad, to dirert nim. In short, if 
the same filial afiection was to be found in Chris- 
tians to their pareiUa in our put of the world, one 
would be tempted to say, there would hardly harfl 
been anv need of the fifth coroman^ent. 

But this ia a disTessian : I return to my landing. 
It would be needless to' take notice of all the cere- 
mnniea and civilities that the Spaniards received me 
with. The first Spaniard, who, as I said, I knew ' 
very well, was he whose life I had saved; he came 
towards the boat, attended by one more, carrying a 
flag of truce also ; and he not only did not know me 
at first, but he bad no thoi^hts, no notion of its be- 
ins me that was come, till Ispoke to him. Seignior, 
■aid 1, in Portuguese, do you not know mer At 
which he spoke not a word, but giving his musket 
to the man that was with him, threw his arms 
abroad, saying something in Spanish that 1 did not 
perfectly bear, came forward and embraced me ; tell- 
ug me he was inexcusable not to know that face 
aguin, that he bad once seen as if an angel trom 
heaven sent to save bis life : be said abundance of 
very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard al- 
ways knows how ; and then beckoning to the person 
that attended him, bade him go and call out his 
comrades. He then asked me if I would walk to my 
.old limitation, where be would give me possession of 
my own house again, and where I should see they 
had made but mean improvements: so I walked 
along with him ; but, alas 1 I could no more find the 
place again than if I had never been there ; for they 
had planted so many trees, and placed them in sut^ 
a posture, so thick and close to one another, and ia 
ten yearn' time they were grown so big, that, in short. 



ROKINSON CROSOS. 37 

the plaCe was inaccesBible, except by such windings 
and bliod ways aa they then^aeWes only, iriio made 
Uiem, could find. 

I aaked them what put them upon all these faitifi- 
cations : he told me I wouldeay there was need enough 
of it, when they had given me an account how they 
had passed their time since their arriving in the 
island, especially afler they had the misfortune to find 
that I was gone. He told me he could not but have 
some satis&ctionin my good fortune, when he beard 
that I was gone in a good ship, and to my satisfac- 
tion ; and that he had oftentimes a strong persuasion 
that, one time or other, he should see me again ; but 
nothing that ever befell him in his life, he said, was 
BO surprising and afflicting to him at first, as the 
disappointment he was under when he came back to 
the island and found I was not there. 

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that 
were lefl behind, and of whom, he said, he had a' 
long story to tell me, the Spaniards all thought 
themselves much better among the savages, only 
that their number was so small : and, says he, had 
they been strong enoueh, we had been all long ago' 
in purgatory ; and wim that he crossed himself on 
the breast. But, sir, says he, I hope you will not 
be displeased when I shall tell you, how, forced by 
neceeiity, we were obliged, for our own preservation, 
to disarm them, and make them our subjects, who 
would not be content with being moderately our 
masters, but would be our murderers. I answered, 
I was heartily afraid of it when I left them there, 
and nothing troubled me at my parting from the 
island but that they were not come back, that I 
mi^t have put them in possession of every thing 
first, and left the others in a state of subjection, as 
they deserved ; but if they had reduced them to it, I 
was very glad, and should he v^ tar from finding 

VOL. XVII. B 



3S ADVBNTDRBS Or 

BUT ftult with it : for I knev they were k parcel of 
refractory, ungoveroed TillniOB) and vers nt for any 
maoner of mischief. 

While I was thus saying this, the man came 
whom he had sent back, and vith him eleven mea 
more. In the dress they were in, it was impossible 
to guess what nation they were of; but he made all 
clear, both to them and to me. First he turned to 
me, and pointing te them, said, These air, are some 
of the gentlemeD who owe their lives to you; and 
then turning to them, and pointing to me, he let 
them know who I was ; upon, which they all came 
up, one by one, not as if they had been sailors and 
ordinary fellows, and the like, hut really as if ther 
had been ambassadors of noblemen, and la monaitJi 
or great conqueror : their behaviour was to the last 
degree obliging and courteous, and yet mixed with 
a manly, majestic gravity, which very well became 
them ; and, in short, they had so much more man* 
ners than I, that I scarce knew how to receivA tlieir 
civilities, much less how to return them in kind. 

The history of their coming to, and conduct in, 
the island, after my going away, is so very remarka- 
ble, and has so many incidents, which the former 
part of my relation will help to understaad, and 
which wUl, in most of the particulars, refer to the 
account I have already raven, that I camiot but com* 
mit them, with great delight, to the reading of thoas 
that come after me. 

I shall no longer trouble the story with a rdation 
in the first person, which will put me to the expense 
of ten thousand said J's, and taid he's, and he foU 
»)«*«, and / told him't, and the tike ; but I shall col- 
lect the facte histerically, as near as I can gathu' 
them out of my memory, from what they related to 
me, and from what I met with in my converung 
ir^-lhem and wttk the place. 



ROSINSOH CBOIOB. 89 

In order to do this luccmctly, and u inteUigibljr 
as I can, I must go back to the circiunitances ia 
vhich 1 lefl the island, and in whicfa the peraons 
were of whom I am to speak. And flrst, it ia neces- 
■^ytore[>eat,thatlhtidBeDtawaTFriday'B&lierand 
the Spaoiard (the two trtiose lives I had rescued 
from the Savages) in a large canoe, to the main, as 
I then thought it, to fetch over the ^HUiiard'a com- 
panioDs that he left behind him, in order to save 
them from the like calamitv that he had been in, and 
in order to succour them for the present ; and that, 
if possible, we might together find some way for our 
deliverance afterwards. 

When 1 seat them away, I had no visible appear- 
ance of, or the least room to hope for, my own de- 
liverance, any more than I had twenty years before, 
much less had I any foreknowledge of what after* 
-wards happened, I mean, of an Eoglish ship coming 
on shore there to fetch me off; and it could not but be 
a very great surprise to them, when they came back, 
not only to find that I was goae, bat to find three 
Btrwgers left m the spot, possessed of all that I had . 
left behind me, which would otherwise have been 
their own. 

Tbe first thing, however, whidi I in(|uired into, 
that I might begin where I left off, was of their 
own part ; and 1 desired he would give me a parti- 
cular account of his voj^e back to his countiymen 
with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. 
He told he there was little variety tn that part, for 
nothing remarkable happened to them on the way, 
having had very calm weather, and a smooth sea. 
As for his countrymen, it couM not be doubted, he 
said, but that they were overjoyed to see him (it 
seems he was the principal man among them, the 
captain of the vessel they bad beeu shipwrecked in 
having been dead some time) ; they were, be said, 
e2 



40 ADVEMTUKBS Of 

the more lurprised to see him, because they knew 
that he WBS fallea into the hands of the savages, who; 
they, were satisfied, would devour him, as they did 
all the rest of their prisoners ; that when he tulcl 
them the story of his aelJTerance, and in what man- 
ner he was furnished for carrying tliem away, it 
was like a dream to them, and their astanishoKnt, 
he said, was somewhat like that of Joseph's bre^ 
thren, when he told them who he was, and told 
them the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court ; 
but when he showed them the arms, the powder, 
the ball, and provisions, that he brought them for 
their journey or voyage, they were restored to them- 
selves, took a just share of the joy of their deliver- 
ance, and immediately prepared to come away with 

Their first bunness was to get tanoes : and in this 
tiiey were obliged not to stick so much upon tlie 
honest part of it, but to trespass upon their friendly 
savages, and to borrow two large canoes, or peria- 
guas, on pretence of going out a fishing, or for 
pleasure. In these they came away the next mord- 
ing. It seems they wanted no time to get them- 
selves ready; for they had no baggage, neither, 
clothes nor provisions, nor any thing ia the world 
but what they bad on them, and a few roots to eat, 
of which they used to make their bread. 

They were in all three weeks absent ; and in that 
time, unluckily for them, I had the occasion offered 
for my escape, as I mentioned in my other part, and 
to get off from tlie island, leaving three of the 
most impudent, hardened, ungovemed, disagreeable 
villains behind me, that any man could desire to 
meet with ; to the poor Spaniards' great grief and 
disappointment, you may be sure. 

Tne only just Uiing the rogues did was, that when 
the Spaniards come ashore, they gave my letter 



HOBINSON CBITSOt. 



to them; and gare them provisionB, aad other relief, 
ae I bad ordered them to do ; ^so they gave them 
the long paper of directions which I had left with 
thera, contaittiag the particular methods which I 
took for managing every part of my life there ; the 
way how 1 baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and ' 
planted my corn ; how I cured roy grapes, made 
my potB, and, in a word, every thing I did ; all 
this being written down, thrv gare to the Spaniards 
(two of them understood English well enough): 



e; 



with anything else, for they agreedvery well for some 
lime. They gate them an equal admission Into the 
house, or cave, and tfaey began to live very sociably; 
«nd the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much 
of my methods, and Friday's iathcr together, ma- 
naged all their aStos : but as for the Englisfameit, 
they did nothing but ramUe about tfae ialuid, shoot 
ts, and catch tortoisee; and when they cane 
at night, (be Spaniards provided their suppen 
lor mem. 

The Span iardswould have been satined with this, 
bad the others bat lettbem alone; which, however, 
they could not find in their hearts to do long, hut, 
like the d(^ in the manger, they would not eat tbem- 
seives, neither would they let the others eat. The 
ditferences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, 
and such as are not worth relatmg, but at last it 
broke out into open war : and it be^an with all the 
rudenesa and tnsokace that can be imagined, with- 
out reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, 
and, indeed, to common sense : and ttiough, it is 
true, the first relation of it came Irom the Spaniards 
themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet when 
1 came to examine the fellows, they could not deny 
a word of it. 

But before I come to the particulais of this part, 
X 3 



4S ADVKHTUBKS Of : 

I must supply a defect in my fonner relatum ; OaA 
this was, I forgot to set down, among the rest, that 
just as we were weighmg the anchor to set sail, there 
happened a little quand on board of our ship, which 
I was once afraid would have turned to a second 
mutiny ; nor was it appeased till the captain, rous- 
ing up his courage, and taking us all to his assist- 
ance, parted them by force, and making two of th i 
most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in 
irons ; and as they had been active in the former 
disorders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous words, 
the second time he threatened to carry them in irons 
to England, and have them hanged therefor mutiny, 
'and running away with the ship. This, it seems, 
though the captam did not intend to do it, iright- 
aned some other men in the ship ; and some of them 
had put it into the heads of the rest tiiat the captain 
only gave them good words for the present, till they 
should come to some English port, and that then 
they should be all put into ^ol, and tried for their 
lives. The mate got intelligence of this, and ac- 

Juainted us with it; upon which it was desired that 
, who still passed for a great man among them, 
' should go down with the mate, and satisfy the men, 
and tell them that they might be assured, if they 
behaved well the rest of die voyage, all they had 
done for the time past should be pardoned. So I 
went, and after passing my honour's word to them, 
they appeared easy, and the more so when I caused 
the two men that were in irons to be released and 
forsiven. 

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor 
for that night ; the wind sJso falling calm next 
morning, we found that our two men who had been 
laid in irons had stole each of them a musket, and 
some other weapons (what powder or shot they haii 
we knew not), and had taken the ship's pinnace. 



ROBIHBOH CBUSOB. iS 

which was not yet haled up, and run away with her, 
to their compamoDB in rpguery on .shore. As aoon 
as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on shore, 
with twelve men and the mate, and away they went 
to seek the rogues; but they could neither find them 
or any of the rest, for they all fled into the woods 
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate 
was once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to 
have destroyed their plantations, burned all their 
househoid-stuff and furniture, and left them to shift 
without it'; but having no orders, he let it all alone, 
left every thing as he found it, end bringing the 
pinnace away, came on board without them. These 
two men made their number five ; but the other 
three villains were so much more wicked than they, 
that aft«r they bad been two or three days together, 
they turned the twonew-comersout of doors to shift 
for themselves, and would have nothing to do with 
them-, nor could they, for a good while, be persuad- 
ed to give them any food ; as for the Spaniards, they 

When Uie Spaniards came first onshore, thebusi- 
ne»s began to go forward : the Spaniards would have 
persuaded the three English brutes to have taken in 
their two countrymen again, that, as they said, they 
mi^ht he all one l^ily; but they would not hear 
of It: so the two poor fellows lived by themEelves; 
imd finding nothing but industry and application 
would make them live comfortably, they pitched 
their teats on the north shore of the island, but a 
little more to the west, to be out of danger of the 
savages, who always landed on the east parts of the 
island. 

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, 
and the other to lay up their magazines and stores 
in ; and the Spaniards having given them some corn 
for seed, and especially some of the peas which I had 



44 ADVBNTORES Ot 

left them, they dug, planted, and enclosed, after the 
pattern I had set for them all, and began to live 
pretty well. ITieir fint crop of com was on the 
ground : and though it was but a little bit of land 
which they bad dug up at first, having had but a 
little time, yet it was enough to relieve them, and 
find them with bread and other eatables; and one 
of the fellows being the cook's-mate of the ship, was 
very readyat making soup, puddings, and such other 
preparations as the rice and the milk, and such little 
flesh as they got, Aimished him to do. 

They were going on in this little thriving posture, 
when tne three unnatural rogues, their own coun> 
trymen too, in mere humour, and to insult them, 
came and bullied them, and told them the island 
was theirs; that the governor, meaning me, had 
^ven them the possession of it, and nobody else 
had any right to it; and that they should build no 
houses upon their grouDd, unless they would pay 
rent for them. 

The two men, thinking they .were jesting at first, 
asked them to coToe in and sit Mown, and see what 
fine houses they were that they had built, and to 
tell them what rent they demanded ; and one of 
them merrily said, if they were the ground-landlords, 
he hi^d, if they built tenements upon their land, 
and made improvements, they would, according to 
the custom of landlords, gmut a long lease ; and 
desired they would get a scrivener to draw the writ- 
ings. One of the three, cursing and raging, told 
them thev should see they were not in jest ; and go- 
iDg to a little place at a distance, where the hcmevt 
men had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes 
a firebrand, and elape it to tbe outside of their hut, 
and very fdirly set it on fire; and it would have been 
all burnt down in a few minute, if one of the two 
had not nm to the fellow, thrust him away, and trod 



BOBINSOM CBUaOE. 45 

tfie'fire out with his feet, and that not witbout some 
difficulty too. 

tlie fellow was id such a rage at the honest man's 
thnistbg him awa^, that he retmned upon him, 
with a pole he had m his hand, aad had not the man 
avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, 
be bad ended his days at oijce. His comrade, seeing 
the danger they were both iu, ran in after him, and 
immediately they came both out with their muskets, 
and the man that was first struck at with the pole, 
knocked the fellow down that had beguu the quar- 
rel with the stock ofhis musket, and ^at before the 
other two could come to help him ; and then seeing 
the .rest come at tb^n, they stood together, and 
presenting the other ends of their pieces to them, 
bade them stand ofi*. 

The others bad fire-arms with tfaem too : but one 
of the two honest men, bolder than his comrade, 
and made desperate by his danger, told them, if 
they offered to move hand or foot they were dead 
men, and boldly commanded them to lay down their 
arms. They did not, indeed, lay down thf:ir arms, 
but seeing him so resolute, it brought them to a 
parley, and they consented to lake their wounded 
man with tbem and be gone ; and, indeed, it seems 
the fellow was wounded sufficiently with the blow. 
However, they were much in the wrong, since they 
had the advantage, that they did not disarm them 
effectually, as they might havedooe, and have gone 
immediately to the Spaniards, and given them an 
account how the rogues had treated them ; for the 
three villous studied nothing but revenge, and every 
day gave them some intimation that they did so. 

But not to crowd this part with an account of the 
lesser part of the rogueries, such as treading down 
their coiii ; shootmg &ree young Idds and ashe-goat, 
which the poor men had got to breed up tome for 



4fi ADTEMTUIIII OF 

. their store ; and, in a word, plazuiog them night 
and day in this manner; it forced the two men to 
Mich a despoMion, that they resolved to fight them 
all three, the first time they had a f^r opportunity. 
In onkr to this, they resolved to so to the castle, 
as they called it (that was, my old dwelling), where 
Ae three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together 
at that time, intending to have a fair battle, and 
the Spaniards should stuid by, to see fair play ; so 
tiiey got up in the morning before day, and came to 
the place, and called the Englishmen by their names, 
telling a Spaniard that answered that they wanted 
to speak with them. 

It happened that the day before, two of the Spa- 
niards, having been in the woods, had seen otie of 
the two Englishmen, whom, for distinction, 1 call* 
«d the honest men, and he had made a sad com- 
plaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they 
Dad met with from tiieir three countrymen, and 
how they had mined their plantation, and destroy- 
ed their com that they had laboured so hard tobring 
forward, and killed the milch-goat and their three 
kids, which waa all they had provided for their sus- 
tenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning 
the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they shoula 
be starred. When the Spaniards came home at 
night, and they were all at supper, one of them totdc 
the freedom to reprove the three Englishmen, 
though in vety gentle and mannerly terms, and 
asked them how they could be so cruel, they being 
harmless, inoffenuve fellows ; that they were put- 
ting themselves in a way to subsist by their labour, 
and that it had cost them a great deal of pains to 
bring things to such perfection as they were Uien 
in. 

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly. 
What had they to Sa there? that they came on shore 



noaiNson critsob. 47 

without leave ; and that they thould not plant or 
build upon the island ; it was none of their ground. 
Why, says the Spaniard, very calmly, Selsnior Ing- 
leae, they must not s.tarve. The Englishman re- 
plied, like a rough-hewn tarpauling, They might 
starve and be d— — d ; tbey should not plant nor 
build in that place. But what must they do then, 
seignior P said the Spaniard. Another of the briitet 

returned, Do? d nthem, they should be ser- 

T&nts, and work for them. But how can you expect 
that of them ? says the Spaniard ; they are not 
bought with your money : you have no right to 
malce them servants. The Engtishmaa answered, 
the island was theirs ; the goTemar had given it to 
them, and no man had any thing to do there but 
themselves: and with that swore by his Maker that 
they would go and bum all their new huts ; they 
should build none upon their land. Why, Eeignior, 
says the Spaniard, by the same rule, we must be 
your servants too. — Aye, says the bold dog, and so 
^ou shall too, before we have done with you : tmix- 
mg two or three G— d d— u me's in the proper in- 
tervals of his speech). The Spaniard only sipiled at 
that, and made him no answer. However, this lit- 
tle discourse had heated them ; and, -starting up, 
one says to the other, I thiiik it was he they called 
Will Atkins, Come, Jack, let's go, and have t'other 
brush with 'em ; well demolish their castle, I'll 
warrant you ; they shall plant no colony in our do- 
minions. 

Vfoa this the^ went all trooping away, with every 
man a gun, a putol, and a sword, and mutterM 
gome insol^t things among themsdves, of what 
they would do to the Spaniards too, when oppor- 
tunity offered ; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not 
>operft<^y undentond them ai to know all the par- 



ticulan, only that, in general, they tbrestened them 
hard for taking the two Engli^men's part. 

Whilher they went, or how they bestowed their 
time that evening, the Spaniards said they did not 
know ; but it seeniB they wandered about the coun- 
ter part of the night, and then Jying down in the 
place which I used to call my bower, they were 
weary, and oversJept themselTCi. The case was 
this ; they had resolved to stay till midnight, and 
■o to take the two poor men when they were asleep, 
and, as they acknowledged afterwards, intended to 
set fire to their huts while they were ia them, and 
either bum them there, or murder them .as they 
came out; as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was 
ver^ strange they should not have been kept awake. 

However as the two men had also a design upon 
them, as I have said, thoueh a much &irer one than 
that of burning and murdering, it happened, and 
very luckily for them all, that they were up, and 
gone abroad, before the bloody-mindedrogues came 
to their huta. 

When they came there, and found the men gone, 
Atkins, who, it seem«, was the forwardest man, 
called out to his comrade. Ha, Jack, here's the 
nest, but, d'— n them, the birds are flown. They 
mused awhile, to think what should be the occasion 
of their being gone. abroad so soon, and suggested 
presently that the Spaniards had given them notice 
of it : and ^ith that they shook hands, and swore 
to one another that they would be revenged of the 
Spaniards. As soon as they had made tnis bfoody 
bargain, they fell to work with the poor men's ha- 
bitation; they did not set fire, indeea, to any thing, 
but they pulled down both their houses, and puU^ 
them so hmb from limb, that they left not the least 
(tick standing, or acarce aDysignon IhegmuBd 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 49 

where (her Stood : they tore all their little collected 
household-stuff in pieces, and threw every thing 
about in such a maDaer, that the poor men after- 
wards found some of their things a mile off their ha* 
bitation. When they had done this, they pulled up 
all the young trees which the poor men haa planted ; 
pulled up an enclosure they had made to secure their 
cattle and their com; and, in a ward, sacked and 

flundered eveir thing as completely as a horde of 
'artars would have done. 
. The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find 
them out, and had resolved to fight them wherever 
they had been, though they were but two to three ; 
so that, had they met, there certainly would have 
been bloodshed among them ; for they were all very 
stout, resolute fellows, to give them their due. 

But Providence took more care to keep diem asun- 
der than tbey tbemselves could do to meet; for, as 
if they had dogged one another, when the three 
were gone thither, the two were here ; and after- 
wards, when th» two went back, to find them, the 
three were cotne to the old habitation again : we 
shall see their different conduct presently. When 
the three came back like furious creatures, flushed 
with the rage which the work they had been about 
had put them into, they came up to the Spaniards, 
and told them what they had done, by way of scoff 
and bravado; and one of them stepping up to one 
of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of 
boys at play, takes hold of his hat as it was upon 
his head, and giving it a twirl about, fleering iii his 
face, says to him, And you, seignior Jack Spaniard, 
shall have the same sauce, if you do not mend your 
manners. The Spaniard, who, though a quiet civil 
man, was as brctve a man as could be, and withal a 
strong, well-made man, looked at him for a good 
while, and then, having no weapon in hia hand, 



Mepped grayelv up to him, and with one blow rf" 
his fist knocked him down, as an ox is felled with 
a pole-axe; at which oae of the rogues, as insolent 
as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard imma^- 
ately : be missed his body, indeed, for the bullets 
went through his hair, hut one of them touched the 
tip of his ear, and he bied pretty much. The blood 
made tbe Spaniard believe he was more hurt than 
he really was, and that put him into some heat, for 
before he acted all in a perfect calm ; but now re- 
solving to go through with his worlc, he stooped, 
and took the fellow's musket whom he had knocked 
down, and was just going to shoot the man who had 
fired at him, when ^e rest of the Spanivds, being 
in the cave, came out, and calling to him not to 
shoot, they stepped in, secured the other two, and 
took their arms from them. 

When they were thus disarmed, and found ther 
had made all the Spaniards their enemies, as well aa 
their own countrymen, they began to cool, and, 
giving the Spaniards better words,. would have their 
arms again; but the Spaniards, considering the 
feud that waa between them and the other two 
Englishmen, and that it would be the best method 
they could take to keep them from killing one 
another, told them they wtnild do them noli^ii, 
and if they would live peaceably, they would be 
very wi]liiiR to assist and associate with them aa 
they did before; but that they could not think ofgir- 
i&g them their arms again, while they a{qiearea so 
resolved to do mischief with th^u to their own 
countrymen, and had even threatened them all to 
make them their servants. 

The rogues were now no more enable to hear 
TeasoD than to act with reaaMi; but being refused 
their arms, they went raving away, and raging like 
nadura, threatoiiug what they would At, though 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 51 

lAey bad no fire-armB. But the Spaoiards, despising 
Iheir threatening, told ihem they should take care 
^w they otTered any injury to their plantation or 
cattle, for U* they did, they would shoot them as 
&ej would ravenous beasts, wherever they found 
them ; and if they fel! into theii hands alive, they 
■h«u!d certainly be hanged. However, this was far 
bom cooling them, but away they went, raging and 
(wearing like furies of hell. As soon as they were 
gone, the two men came back, in pasBicHi and rage 
enough also, though of another kind ; for having 
been attheirplantatian, and finding it dl demolished 
and destroyed, as above, it wiU easily be supposed 
they had provocation enough. They could scarce 
ia»e room to tell theie tale, the Spaniards were bo 
eager to tell them theirs ; and it was strange enough 
to find that three men should thus bully nineteen, 
and receive no punislunent at all. 

Hie Spaniards, indeed, deapiscd them, and esp&- 
cifdly having thus disarmed th^, made light of their 
thteatenings ; but the two Englishmen resolved to 
bave their remedy against them, what pains soever 
it coiit to find them out. But the Spaniards inter- 
posed here too, and toid them, that as they had dis* 
armed them, they could not consent that thev (the 
two) should pursue ihem with fire-arms, ana per- 
beps kill them. But, said the grave Spaniard, wh» 
was their gwemw, we will endeavour to make them 
do you justice, if you will leave it to us : for there 
i» no doubt but they will come to us agaioi when 
tfteir passion is over, being not able to subsist with- 
«iit our assisbiDce ; we promise you to make na 

£eace ntfi them, without having a full satis&ction 
m you ; and upon this condition we hope you wilt 
pYtniise to use no violence with them, other-than in 
your own defence. The two Englishmen yielded to 
this very awkwardly, and with great reluctance ; but 
e2 



AS ADVBNTDRZS OF 

the Spaniards protested, that they (Ud it only tn 
keep them from bloodshed, and to make all ea^ at 
last. For, said they, we are not so many of us; 
here is room enough for lu all, and it is a great pity 
we should not be all good friends. At length they 
did consent, and waited for the issue of the thinff, 
livinc for some days with the Spaniards; for their 
own habitation was destroyed. 

In about five days' time the three vaj^rants, tired 
with wandering, and almost starved with hunger, 
having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs all that while, 
came back to the grove ; and findmg my Spaniard, 
who, as I have said, was the governor, and two 
more with him walking by the sitfe of the creek, they 
came up in a very submisaive, humble manner, and 
begged to be received again into the family. The 
Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they 
bad acted so unnaturally by their countrymen, and 
BO very grossly by them (Uie Spaniards), that they 
could not come to any conclusion without consult- 
ing the two Englishmen and the rest; but, however. 



they would go to them, and discourse about it, 
and they sho^d know in half an hour. It may be 
guessed that they were very hard put to it : 



seems, as they were to wait this half-hour for an 
answer, they begged they would send them out 
some bread in the mean time, which they did; send- 
ing, at the same time, a large piece of goat's flesh, 
and a boiled parrot, which they eat very heartily, 
for they were hungry enough. 

Ailer half an hours consultation, they were call- 
ed in, and a long debate ensued; their 'two coun- 
trymen charging tbem with the ruin of all their la- 
bour, and a design to murder them ; all which they 
owned before, and therefore could not deny now. 
Upon the whole, the Spaalards acted the mode- 
rator between them; ana as they had obliged tlie 



k; 



ROBINSON CBIT80Z. 53 

tim Englighmen , not to hurt the three while tiiey 
were caked and uiwnned, so they now obliged the 
three to go and rebuild their fellows' two huts, one 
to be of the same, and the other of larger dimen- 
uooE than they were before ; to fence their ground 
xgaio where they had pulled up thetr fences, plant 
trees in the room of thow pulled up, dig up the 
land again for planting com where they had spoiled 
it, and in a word, to restore every thing in the same 
■tate at they fonnd it, as near as they could ; for 
entirely it could not be, the season for the com, 
and the growth of the trees and hedges, not being 
passible to be recovered. 

W«ll, they submitted to all this; and 06 they had 
plenty of pTovisions given them all the while, they 

:ew yery Miierly, and the whole society began to 

'e pleasantly and agreeably together again ; only, 
that these three fellows could never be persuaded to 
work, I mean for themselvea, except now and then 
a little, just as they pleased : however, the Spa- 
niards told them plainly, that if they would but live 
■ociably and friendly together, and study the good 
of the whole plantation, they would be content to 
work for them, and let them walk about and be aa 
idle as they pleased : and thus having lived pret^ 
well together for a month or two, me Spaniards 
gave them arms again, and'gave them liberty to go 
abroad with them as before. 

It was not above a week after they had these arms, 
and went abroad, but the ungratnul creatures be- 
gan to be as insolent and troublesome as before: 
but, however, an accident happened presently upon 
this, which endangered the s^ety of them aJl ; and 
they were obliged to lay by all private resentments, 
and look to the preservation of their lives. 

It happened one night that the Spanish governor, 

as I call him, that is to say, the Spaniard whose life 

»3 



ADVBNTURBS OF 



I had sated, who was now the captain, or leader, or 
governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy in 
the night, and could by no means get any sleep; he 
was perfectly well in body, as lie told me the story, 
only found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran 
upon men fighting and killing of one another, but 
he was broad-awake, and could not by any means 
get any sle^; in short, he lay a great while ; but 
growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise. 
As they lay, being so many of them upon goals' 
skins laid thick upon such couches and pads as they 
made for themselves, and not in hammocks and 
ship-beds, as I did, who was but one, so they had 
little to do when they were wUling tu rise, but to 
get up u^on their feet, and perhaps put on a coat, 
such as it was, and their pumps, and they were 
ready for going any way tliat their thoughts guided 
them. Being thus got up, he looked out; but, be- 
ing dark, he could see little or nothing ; and, be- 
eiaes, the trees which I had planted, as m my former 
account is described, and which were now grown 
tall, intercepted his sight, so thathe could only look 
up, and see that it was a clear star-liaht night, and 
hearing no noise, he returned and laid him down 
again : but it was all one; he could not sleep, nor 
could he compose himself to any thing like restj 
but his thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and 
he knew not for what. 

Having made some noise with rising and walking 
about, going out and coming in, .another of them- 
waked, and calling, asked who it was that was up. 
The governor told him how it had been with him. 
Say you so? says the other Spaniard; such thin^ 
are not to be slighted, I assure you; tliere is 
certainly some mischief working near us : and pre- 
sently he asked him, Where are the Englishmen? 
—They are all in their huts, says he, sa^ enough. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 54 

It BeemB the Spaniards had kept poBeewioii of the 
main apartment, and had made a place for the three 
Engliabmen, who, since their laat mutiny, were 
always quartered by themselves, and could not come 
at the rest. Well, says the Spaniard, there is some- 
thing in it, I am persuaded, from my own expe- 
rience. I am satisfied our spirits embodied have a 
converse with, and receive intelligence from, the 
spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible 
world ; and this friendly notice is given for our ad- 
vantage, if we knew how to make use of it. Comef 
says he, let us go and look abroad ; and if we find 
nothing at all in it to justify Ae trouble, I'll tell 
you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you 
of the justice of my proposing it 

In a word they went out, to go up to the top of 
the hill, where 1 used to go ; but they being strong, 
and a good company, not alone, as I was, used none 



of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and pulling 
it up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, 
but were goiag round through the grove, uncon- 
cerned and unweary, when they were surprised with 
seeing a light as of fire, a very little way off from 
them, and hearing the voices of men, not of one 
or two, but of a great number. 

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages 
landing on the island, it was my constant care to 
prevent them making the least discovery of there 
being any inhabitant upon the place ; and when by 



iny occasion they came to know it, they felt it so 
iSectually, that tney that got away were scarce able 
to give any account of it ; for we disappeared as 
soon as possible ; nor did ever any that had seen me 
escape to tell any one else, except it was the three 
savages in our last encounter, who jumped into tlie 
boat; of whom, I mentioned, I was afraid they 
should go home and bring more help. Whether it 



56 ADVEMTUBBS or 

was the coneequence of die escape of those men that 
so great a number came now together, or whether 
they came ignorantly, and by accident, on their 
usual bloody errand, the Spaniardg could not, it 
seems, understand; but, wnatever it was, it had 
been their business either to have concealed them- 
selves, or not to have seen them at all, much leas 
to have let the sav^e» have seen that there were 
any inhabitants in the place ; or to have fallen upon 
them so effectually, as that not a man of them 
should have esc^»l, which could only hate beenby 
getting in between them and their boats: but this 
presence of mind was wanting to them, which was 
the ruin of their tranquillity for a great while. 

We need not doubt, but that the governor and 
the man with him, surprised with this sight, ran 
back immediately, and raised their fellows, giving 
tbem an account of the imminent danger they were 
lii in, and they again as readily took the alarm; 
but it was impossible to persuade them to stay close 
within, where they were, but they must ^ run out 
to see how things stood. 

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, 
and they had opportunity enough, for some hours, 
to view them, by the light of three fire* they had 
made at a distance from one another ; what they 
were doing they knew not, and what to do them- 
, selves they knew not. For, first, the enemy were 
too many: and, secondly, they did not keep toge- 
ther, but were divided into several parries, and were 
on shore in several places. 

The Spaniards were in no am^l consternation at 
thia si^t ; and as they found that the fellows ran 
straggling all over the shore, they made no doubt 
but, first or last, some of them would chop in upon 
their haltitation, or upon some other place where 
they would see the toLea of iidii^itants; and they 



ROBINSOM CBUSOE. 57 

were in greet perplexity aUo for fear of their flock 
of goata, which would have beeo little less thaa 
starving them, if they should have been destroyed; 
•o the first thing they resolved upon wasj to diepatch 
three, men away before it waa light, two Spaniards 
aod one Englishman, to drive all the goat« away to 
the great valley where the cave was, and, if need 
were, to drive them into the very cave itself. Could 
they have seen the savages all together in one body, 
and at a distance from their canoes, they resolved, 
if there had been a hundred of them, to have at- 
tacked them; but that could not be obtained; for 
they were some of them two miles off from the 
other; and, as it appeared aflerwards, were of two 
different nations. 

After having mused a great while on the course 
they should t^e, and beating their braing in consi- 
dering their present circumstances, they resolved, 
at last, while it waa still dark, to send the old savage, 
Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, 
someuiing concerning them ; as what they came for, 
what thev intended to do, and the like. The old 
man readily undertook it ; and stripping himself' 
quite naked, as most of the savages were, away he 
went. After he liad been gone an hour or two, he 
brings word that he had been among them uudis' 
covered ; that he found they were two parties, and 
of two several nations, who had war with one ano- 
ther, and had a great battle in their own country : 
and that both sides having had several prisoners 
taken in the fight, they were, by mere chance, 
landed all on the same island, for the devouring 
their prisoners and making merrv, but their coming 
so by chance to the same place had spoiled all their 
tniru; that they were in a great rage at one ano- 
ther, and were so near, that he believed they would 
fight again as soon as day-light began to appear : 



58 adtehthrbs or 

but he did not perceive that they had any notion of 
any body beiog on the island but themselves. He 
had hardly made an end of telling his story, when 
they could perceive, by the unusual noise they 
made, that the two little armieB were engaged is a 
bloody fight. 
■ Friday a father used all the arguments he could to 
persuade our people to lie close, and not be seen ; 
he told them their safety con£isted in it, and that 
they had nothing to do but lie still, and the savages 
would kill one another to their hands, and then the 
rest would go away.; and it was so to a tittle. But 
it was impossible to prevail, especially upon the Eng- 
lishmen; their curiosity was so importunate upon 
their prudentials, that they must ruu'out and see 
the battle : however, they used eoaik caution too, 
viz. they did not go openly, just by their own dwell- 
ing, but went farther into the woods, and placed 
diemselves to advantage, where they might securely 
see them manage the fight, and, as they thought, 
not be seen by them ; but ib seems the savages did 
see them, as we shall find hereafter. 

The battle was very fierce ; and, if 1 might be- 
lieve the Englishmen, one of them said he could per- 
ceive that some of them were men of grest bravery, 
of invincible spirits, and of great policy in guiding 
the fight. The battle, they said, held two hours be- 
fore they could guess which party would be beaten; 
but ^en that party which was nearest our people*! 
habitation began to appear weakest, and, after some 
time more, some of them began to fly ; and this put 
our men again into a great consternation, lest any 
one of those that fled should run into the grove be- 
fore their dwelling for shelter, aod thereby involun- 
tarily discover the place; and that, by consequence, 
the pursuers would do the like in search ot them. 
Upon this they resolved that diey would st ' 



ROBIMBOM GRUaOE. 59 

within tLe wall, and whoever came into tbe grove, 
they resolved to sallyout over the wall and kill them: 
«o that, if posBible, not one ihould return to give 
an account of it : they ordeied also that it should be 
doiie with their BwordB, or by knocking theta down 
with the stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting 
tfaem, for fear of raising ail alarm by the noise- 
As they expected, it tell out : three of the touted 
army Sea for life, and crossing the creek, ran di' 
rectly into the place, not in the least knowing whi- 
ther they went, but running as into a thick wood 
for dielter. lite scout they kept to look abroad 
gave notice of this within, with this addition, to 
our men's great satisfaction, viz. that the conquer- 
ors had not pursued them, or seen which way they 
were gone; upon this, the ^aoiard governor, a 
man of humanity, would not sufier them to kill the 
three fugitiveSt but sendtt^ three men out by the 
top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in 
behind them, and surprise and talta them prisoners, 
which was done. The residue of liie conquered peo- 
ple fled to their canoes, and got off to sea ; the ric- 
tors retired, made no pio^uit, or veTy littie, but 
drawing themselvea into a body together, gave two 
great screaming shouts, which they supposed was 
by way of triumph, and so the fight raidm : and the 
same day, about three o'clock in the afternoon, 
they alio marched to their canoes. And thus the 
Spaniards had titea island again free to thenuelves, 
their fright was over, and they saw no savages in 
sev^al years after. 

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out 
of their den, and viewing the field of battle, they 
found about two and thirty men dead on the spot: 
some were killed with great long arrows, some of 
which were found sticking in their bodies; but most 
of them were kiUed wUb great wooden swords, six- 



60 advehtDrks o> 

teen or Beveoteen of which they found in the field 
of battle, and as many bowa, with a great many ar- 
rows. These swords were strange, great, unwieldy 
things, and they must be very strong men that used 
them: tnoet of thoee men that were icilled with 
them had their heads mashed to pieces, as we may 
say, or, as we call it in English, their brains knoclc- 
ed out, and several their arms and legs broken; go 
that it is evident they fight with inexpressible rage 
and fury. We found not one man that was not 
stone-dead, for either they stay by their enemy tilt 
they have quite killed him, or tiiey carry all the 
wounded men that are not quite dead away with 

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a 
great while; the sight had filled them with horror, 
and the consequences appeared terrible to the last 
degree, especially upon supposing that some time 
or other they should fall into the hands of those 
creatures, who would not only kill them as enemies, 
but kill them for food, as we kill our cattle; and they 
professed to me, that the thoughts of being eaten 
up like beef or mutton, though it was supposed it 
was not to be till they were dead, had something in 
it so horrible, that it nauseated their very stomachs, 
made them sick when Uiey thought of it, and filled 
their minds with such unusual terror, that they were 
not themselves for some weeks atler. This, as I 
■aid, tamed even the three English brutes I have 
been speaking of, and, for a great while after, they 
were tractable, and went about the common business 
of the whole'BOciety well enough; planted, sowed, 
reaped, and began to be all naturalised to the coun- 
try. But some time after this, they fell into such 
simple measures again, as brought them into a great 
deal of trouble. 
- They had takm three piisonen, as I obaened ; 



SOBIMSON CKinOX. 61 

and tliese three being lusty, itout young fellows, 
they mode them servants, and taught them to work 
for them; and, as slaves, they did well enough ; but 
they did not take their measures with them as I did 
by my raan Friday, viz, to begin with them upon 
the principle of havin? saved their lives, and tneo 
JDstruct them in the rational principles of life ; much 
less- of religion, civilizing, and reducing them by 
kind usage and offiKtionate arguiDgs; but as they 
gave them their food every day, go uiey gave them 
their work too, and kept them fuUy employed in 
drudgery enough ; but they failed in this by it, that 
they never had them to assist them, and fight for 
th^, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to 
me as the very flesh upon my bones. 

But to come to the family peiU 'Being all now 
good friends, for common danger, as I said above, 
Ead efiectually reconciled them, they began to con- 
uder their general circumstances; and the first 
thing that came under their consideration was, whe- 
ther, seeing the savages particularly haunted that 
side of the island, and that there were more remote 
and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way 
of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they 
diould not rather move their habitation, and plant 
in Bone more proper place for their safety, and es~ 
pecially for the security of their cattle and com. 

Upon this, fsHex long debate, it was concluded 
that they would not remove their h^itation ; be- 
cause that, some time or other, they thought they 
nUBht hear from their governor again, meaning me; 
and if I should send any one to seek them, I should 
be sure to direct them to that 8'de ; where, if they 
should find the place demolished, they would con- 
clude the aavages had killed us all, and we were 
gone ; and so our supply would go too. But as to ' 
uieir com and cattle, they agreM to remove then 



62 ADVBNTUHES OV 

into the Valley where my cave wai, where the laiid 
was as pruper fur both, and where, indeed, there 
was land enuugh : howerer, upon second thoughts, 
t^y altered one part of (heir resolution too, and 
resolved only to remove part of their cattle thither, 
and plant part of their corn there ; and so if one 
part was dt'stroyed, the other might be saved. And 
one part of prudence they used, which it was very 
well they did, viz. that they never trusted tboae 
three savages, which they had prisoners, with know- 
ing any thmg of the plantation they had made in 
that valley, or of any cattle they had there, much 
less of the cave there, which they kept, in case of 
necessity, as a Ba& retreat ; and thither they carried 
also the two barrels of powder which 1 had sent them 
at my coming away. But, however they resolved 
not to change their habitation ; yet they agreed, 
that as I had carefully covered it first with a wall 
fir fortification, and then with a grove of trees, ao 
seeing their safety consisted entirely in their being 
concealed, of which they were now fully convincetC 
they set to work to cover and conceal the place yet 
more effectually than before. For this purpose, aa ■ 
I planted trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in 
time all grew up to be trees, for some good dis- 



tance before the entmnce into my apartments, they 
went on in the same manner, and fitted up the rest 
of that whole space of ground, trom the trees I had 
set, quite down to the side of the creek, where, as 
I said, 1 landed my floats, and even into the very 
ooze where the tide Sowed, not so much as leaving 
any place to land, or any sign that there had been 
any landing thereabotft ; these stakes also being of 
a wood very forward to grow, as 1 have noted tor- 
merly, they took care to have them generally much 
laiver and taller than those which I had planted ; 
and at tli«y grew apace, so tb^ planted (beta n 



ROBINSOK CRUSOE. 6S 

vny thick utd close together, that when the^ had 
been three or four years grown, there wa» no pierc- 
ing with the eje any considerable way into the 
plantation: and, as for that part which I had plant* 
ed, the trees were grown as thick as a man's thigh, 
and among thetn they placed so many other short 
ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a 
pallisado a quarter of a mile thick, and it was next 
to impossible to penetrate it. but with a tittle army 
to cut it all down ; for a httle dog could hardly get 
between the treeH, tbey stood so close. 

But this was not all ; for they did the same by all 
the ground to the right hand and to the lefl, and 
round even to the top of the hill, leaving no way, 
not so much as for themselves to come out, but by 
the ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and 
then lifled up, and placed again from the lirst stage 
up to the top ; and when the ladder was taken down, 
nothing but what had wings, or witchcrail to assist 
it, could come at them. This was excellently well 
contrived ; nor was it less than what they aflerwards 
found occasion for ; which served to convince me, 
tlut as human prudence has the authority of Pro- 
vidence to justify it, so it has doubtless the direc- 
tion of Providence to set it to work ; and if we lis- 
tened carefully to the voice of it, I am persuaded 
we might prevent many of the disasters which our 
lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to: 
but this by the way. - 

I return to the story. — They lived two years after 
this in perfect retirement, and had no more visits 
from the savages. I'hcy had indeed, bh alarm giv«t 
them one morning, which put them into a great 
consternation ; for some of the Spaniards being out 
carir one morning on the west side, or rather end, 
of the island (which was that end where I never 
went, for fear of being discovered), they were SOT* 



64 ADVBNTOKSB Or 

priged with seeing above twenty canoei of lodiaiu 
jiutcomingon shore. They msde the best oftb«r 
way home, in hurry enough ; and giving the alarm 
to their comrades, they kept close all that da^ and 
the next, going out only at night to make their ob- 
servation: but they had the good luck to be. mis- 
taken ; for wherever the savages went, they did not 
land that time on the island, but punued some 
other design. 

And now they had another brolt with the three 
Englishmen; one of whom, a most turbulent fel- 
low, being in a rage at one of the three slaves, 
which I mentioned tney had taken, because the fel-* 
low had not done something right which he bid him 
. do, and seemed a little untractable in his showing 
him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-belt, in which he 
wore it by his side, and fell upon the poor savage, 
not to correct him, but to kUl him. One of uie 
Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow 
a barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed 
at his head, but struck into his shoulders, so that he 
thought he had cut the poor creature's arm off, ran 
'to him, and entreating him not to murder the poor 
man, placed himself between him and the savage, to 
prevent the mischief. The fellow being enraged the 
more at this, struck at the Spaniard witn his hatchet, 
and swore he would serve him as he intended to 
serve the savage ; which the Soaniard perceiving, 
avoided the blow, and with a snovel which he had 
in his hand (for they were all woHdng in the field 
about their corn-land), knocked the brute down. 
Anotlier of the Englishmen running at the same 
time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard 
down; and then two Spaniards more came in to 
help their man, and a third Englishman lell in upon 
them. They had none of them any fire-arms, or any 
other weapons but hatcheU and other tools, excqit 



ROBimoN esTtsoE. 85 

ibis third Englishman ; he had one of mj rusty ciit< 
lasses, with whichhe made at the two kit Spaniards, 
and woilnded them both. This fray set the whole 
family in an uproar, and more help comine in, they 
took the three Engliahmen prisoners. The next 
question was, what should be done with them? 
They had been so oflen mutinous, and were so very 
furious, so desperate, and so idle withal, they knew 
not what course to take with them, for they were 
mischievous to the highest degree, and valued not 
what hurt they did to any man; so that, in short, 
it was not safe to live with them. 

The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so 
many words, that if they had been of his own coun- 
try, he would have hanged them ; for all laws and 
ell governors were to preserve society, and those 
who were dangerous to the society ought to be ex- - 
pelled out of it; but as they were Englishmen, and 
that it was to the generous kindness of an English- 
man that they all owed their preservation and deli- 
verance, he would use them mth all possible lemty, 
and would leave them to the judgement of the other 
two Englishmen, who were Uieir countrymen. 

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and 
said they desired it might not be left to them ; For, 
says he, I am sure we ought to sentence them to the 
gallows : (md with that he gives an account how 
Will Atkins, one of the three, had proposed to have 
all the five Englishmen join together, and murder 
all thf Spaniards when they were in their sleep. 

When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls 
to Will Atkins, How, Seigniw Atkins, would you 
murderusallc' Whathaveyou tosay to that? The 
hardened villain was so far from denying it, that he 
said it was true : and, G — d d — m him, tbey would 
do it still, before they had done with them. Well, 
but Seignior Atkins, says the Spaniard, what have 
g3 



66 ADVINTVRSB OF 

we dmie to you, that you will kill us? And what 
would you get by killing us? And what must we 
do to prevent your killing ui ? Must we kill you, 
or you kill ub ? Why will you put ua to the necessity 
of this, Seignior Atkins? says the Spaniard very 
calmly, and smiling. Seignior Atkins waa in such tt 
rage at the Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, had 
he not been held by three men, and withal had no 
weapon near him, it was thought he would have at- 
tempted to have killed the Spaniard in the middle 
oEall tl)e company. This hair-brain carriage obliged 
them to consider seriously what was to be done : the 
two Englishmen, and the Spaniard who saved the 

Eoor savage, were of the opuiion that they should 
ang one of three, for an example to the rest ; and 
that particularly it should be he that had twice at- 
tempted to commit murder with his hatdiet ; and, 
indeed, there was some reason to believe he had 
done it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable 
condition with tne wouna he had received, that it 
was thought he could not live. But the governor 
Spaniard still said no ; it was an Englishman that 
had saved all their lives, and he would never consent 
to put an Englishman to death, thoueh he had mur- 
dered half of them ; nay, he said, it he had been 
killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left 
to ^eak, it shodd be that they should pardon him. 

This was so positively insisted on by the governor 
Spaniard, that there was no gainsaying ft ; and as 
merciful counsels are most apt to prevail, where 
they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came mto 
it ; but then it was to be considered what should be 
done to keep them from doing the mischief tb^ de- 
signed ; for all acreed, governor and all, that means 
were to he used tor preserving the socie^ from dan- 
ger. After a long debate, it was agreed, first, that 
wey should be diurmed, and not permitted to have 



ROBIHaON CRUSOK. 67 

Mther gun, powder, ihot, sword, or any weapon ; 
and should be turned out of the society, and left to 
live where they would, and how they would, by 
themselvet ; but that none of the rest, either Spa- 
niards or English, should converse with them, speak 
with them, or have any thing to do with them : that 
they should be forbid to come within a certain dis- 
tance of the place where ihe rest dwelt ; and if they 
offered to commit any disorder, so as to spoil, bum, 
kill, or destroy any of the com, plantings, buildings, 
fences, or cattle belonging to the society, they 
should die without mercy, and they would shoot 
them wherever they coula find them. 

The governor, a man of great humanity, murine 
upon the sentence, considered 8*111116 upwi it ; and 
turning to the two honest Englishmen, said, Hold ; 
you must reflect that it will be long ere they can 
raise corn and cattle of their own, and they must 
not starve ; we must therefore allow them provi- 
sions : so he caused to be added, that they gnould 
have a proportion of com eiven them to last them 
eight months, and for seed to sow, by which time 
they might be supposed to raise some of their own ; 
that they should have six milch-goats, four he-goats, 
and six kids given them, as well for present subBist- 
ence as for a store; and that they should have tools 
given them for their work in the fields, such as 
' c hatchets, an adze, a saw, and the like ; but 



they should have none of these tools or provisions, 

nnlese they would swear solemnly that tney would 

it hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with them. 



or of their fellow Englishm< 

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned 
them out to shifl for themselves. They went away 
sullen and refractory, as neither content to go 
away nor to stay ; but, as there was no remedy, they 
went, pretending to go and choose a place where they 



68 ADTBNTURla Of 

would settle themselves ; and some providons were 
given them, but no weapons. 

About four or five days atWr, they came again for 
Bome victuals, and gave the governor an account 
where they had pitched their lent*, and marked 
themselves out a habitatioo and plantation ; and it 
was a very tonveoient place, indeed, on the remotest 

fart of theiUand, N.E. much about the place where 
providentially landed in my first voy^e, when I 
was driven out to sea, the Lord alone knows whi- 
ther, in my foolish attempt to sail round lJ>e island- 
Here they built themselves two handsome butSi 
and contrived them in a manner like my first habi-> 
tation, being close under the side of a hill, having 
some trees growing abeady on three sides of it, so 
that by planting others, it would be very easily 
covered from the sight, unless narrowly searchra 
for. They desired some dried goats'-skins, for bedi 
and covering, which were given them : and upon 
giving their words that they would not disturb the 
rest, or injure any of their plantations, they gave 
them hatchets, and what other tools they could 
spare ; some peas, barleyi and rice, for sowing ; and. 
in a word, any thing they wonted, except arms and 
ammunition. 

They hved in this separate condition about silt 
months, and had got in their first harvest, though 
the quantity was but small, the parcel of land thev 
bad plantea being but little; for, indeed, having all 
their plantation to form, they had a great deal of 
work upon their hands; and when they caioe to , 
make boards and pots, and such things, they were 
quite out of their element, and could make nothing 
of it : and when the rainy season came on, for want 
of a cave in the earth, they could not keep their 
grain dt^, and it was in great danger of spmUng; 
and this bumbled them much : bo they came and 



ROBIHSON CRUSOB. 69 

begged the Spaniard! to help them, which they 
very readily did ; and in four days worked a great 
hole in the side of the hill for them, big enough to 
secure their com and other things from the rain ; 
but it was but a poor place, at best, compared to 
mine, and especially as mine was then, for the 
Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made seyertd 
new apartments in it. 

About three quarters of a year after this separa- 
tion, a new frolic took these rogues, which, to^ 
gether with the former villainy they had committed) 
brought mischief enough upon them, and had very 
near been the ruin of Uie whole colony. The three 
Dew associates began, it seems, to be weary of the 
laborious life the^ led, and that vrithout hope of 
bettering their circumstances; and a whim took 
them, that they would make a voyage to the con- 
tinent, from whence the savages came, aod would 
try if they could seize upon some prisoners among 
' the natives there, and bring them home, so to 
make them do the laborious part of their work for 
them. 

The project was not so preposterous, if they had 
gone no iarther : but they did nothing, and pro- 
posed nothing, but had either roischi^ in the de- 
sign, or mischief in the event : and, if 1 may give 
my opinion, they seemed to be under a blast irom 
Heaven; for if we will not allow a visible curse to 
pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the • 
events of things with the divine justice ? It was 
certainly an apparent vengeance on their crime of 
mutiny and piracy that brought them to the state 
they were in ; and they showed not the least re- 
morse for the Clime, hut added new villanies to it, 
such as the piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding 
a poor slave, because he did not, or perhaps could 
not, uoderstand to do what he directed, and to 



70 ADVENTUBXS OF 

wound fahn in such a manner as made him a cripple 
all his life, and in a place where no sureeon or me- 
dicine could be had for his cure : and what was still 
worse, the murderous intent, or, to do jusUce to 
the crime, the intentiooai murder, for sudi to be 
sure it was, as was afterwards the formed design 
they all laid, to murder the Spaniards in cold blood, 
and in their sleep. 

But I leave observing, and return to the story : — 
The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one 
morning, and in very humble terms desired to be 
admitted to speak with them : the Spaniards very 
readily heard what they had to say, which was thia; 
— That they were tirecl of living in the manner they 
did ; and that they were not handy enough to make 
the necessaries they wanted, and that having dq 
belp, they found they should be starred; but if the 
Spaniards would give them leave to take one of the 
canoes which they came over in, and give them 
arms and ammunition proportioned to their defence, 
they would go over to the main and seek their for* 
tunes, and so deliver them from the trouble of sup- 
plying them with any other provisions. 

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of 
them, but very honestly represented to them the 
certain destruction they were running into; told 
them they had suffered such hardships upon that 
very spot, that they could, without any spirit of 
prophecy, tell them they would be starved, or mur- 
a»ed, and bade them consider of it. 

The men replied audaciously, they should be 
starved if they staid here, for they could not work, 
and would network, and they could but be starved 
abroad; and if they were murdered, there yiae tax 
end of them ; they had no wives or children to cry 
sAer them : and, in short, insisted importunately 
upon their demand; declaring they would go, 
whether they would give them any arms or no. 



JSOE. 71 

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, 
that if they were resolved to go, they should not 
go like naked men, and be in no condition to de- 
fend themselves : and that though they could ill 
spare their fire-arms, haviog not enough for them- 
selves, yet they would let them have two muskets, 
a pistol and a cutlas«, and each man a hatchet, 
which they thought was sufficient for them. In a 
word, they accepted the olFer; and having baked 
them bread enough to serve them a month, and 
pven them as much goat's-flesh as they could eat 
while it was sweet, and a great basket of dried 
grapes, a pot of Iresh water, and a young kid alive, 
fliey baldiv set out in the canoe for a voyage over 
the sea, wnere it was at least forty mites broad. 

The boat, indeed, was a large one, and would 
very well have carried fifteen or twenty men, and 
therefore was rather too big for them to manage ; 
but as they had a fair breeze, and flood-tide with 
them, they did well enough. They had made a 
mast of a long pole, and a sail of four laige goats*- 
skins dried, which they had sewed or laced together; 
and away they went merrily enough : the Spaniards 
called after them, Bou veyajo; and no man ever 
thought of seeing them any more. 

The Spaniards were often saying to one another, 
and to the two honest Englishmen who remained 
behind, how quietly and comfortably they lived, 
now these three turbulent fellows were gone ; as for 
theu' coming again, that was the remotest thing 
from their thoughts that could be imagined; when, 
behold, afVer two and twenty days' absence, one of 
the Englishmen, being abroad upon his planting 
work, sees three strange men coming towards him 
at a distance, with guns upon their shoulders. 

Away runs the Englishman, as if he was bewitched, 
comes frightened and amazed to tlie governor 



72 . ADVENTURSS OF 

Spaniard,Biid tells him they were all undone, for there 
were BtroDgen landed upon the island, but could 
not tell who. The Spaniard, pausing a while, says 
to him, How do you mean, you cannot tell who ? 
They are the savages to be sure. — Ko, no, says the 
EDglishman ; they are men in clothes, with arms. — 
J^aythen,sayBtheSpaniard, why areyou concerned? 
If uiey are not savages, they must be friends ; for 
there is no Christian nation upon earth but will do 
lu good rather than harm. 

While they were debating thus, came the three 
EnglishmeD, and standing without the wood, which 
was new planted, hollowed to them : they presently 
knew their voices, and so all the wonder of that 
kind ceased. But now the admiration was turned 
upon another question, viz. What could be the mat- 
ter, and what made them come back again P 

It was not long before, they brought the men in, 
and inquirins where they had been, and what they 
bad been doing, they gave them a full account of 
-their voyage in a few words, viz. That they reached 
the land in two days, or something less ; but find- 
ing the people alarmed at their comiog, and pre- 
paring with bows and arrows to fight them, they 
durst not go on shore, but sailed on to the north- 
.ward six or seven hours, till they came to a great 
opening, by which they perc^ved that the land they 
saw firom our island, was not the main, but an island; 
upon entering that opening of the £ea, they saw an- 
-other island on the right hand, north, and several 
more west ; and being resolved to land somewhere, 
they put over to one of the islands which lay west, 
and wentboldly on shore : that they found the peo- 
ple very courteousiand friendly to them; and that 
they gave them several roots and some dried fish, 
tad appeared very sociable ; and the women as well 
u the men, were very forward to supply them with 



ROBINSON CRDSOE. 73 

any thia^ they could get for them to eat, and 
brought It to them a great way upon their heads. 

Toey cootinued here four days ; and inquired, as 
well as they could of them, by si&Tia, what notiont 
were this way, and that way ; and were told of se- 
veral fierce and terrible people that lived almost 
every way, who, as they made known by signs to 
them, used to eat men ; but as for themselves, they 
said, they never eat men or women, except only 
such as they took in the wars; and then, th^ 
owned, they made a great feast, and ate their pn- 
soners. 

The Englishmen inquired when they had had a 
feast of tJiat kind ; and thev told them about two 
moons ago, pointing to the moon, and to two 
fingers ; tad that their ereat king had two hun- 
dred prisoners now, which he had taken in his war, 
and they were feetliog them to make them fat for 
the next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty 
desirous of seeing those prisoners ; but the others 
mistaking them, uiought they were desirous to have 
some of them to carry away for their own eating ; 
ao they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting 
of the sun, and then to the rising; which was to 
aignify, that the next morning at sun-rising they 
would bring some for them; and, accordingly, the 
next morning, they brought down five women and 
jeleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to 
•cany with them on their voyage, just as we would 
bring so many cows and oxen down to a sea^port 
town to victual a ship. 

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at 
home, their stomachs turned at this sight, and they 
;did not know what to do. To refuse the prisoners 
would have been the highest a&ont to the savago 
gentry that could he onered them, and what to do 
with them they knew not. However, a^er some 



7* 

debate, theyreeolvedto accept ofthem; and, in re- 
turn, they gave the iavagee that brought them one 
of their hatchets, an old key, a. knite, and six or 
seven of their bullets ; nhich, though they did not 
understand their use, they seemed particularly 
pleased with ; and thee tying the poor creatures' 
hands behind them, they dragged the prisoners into 
the boat for our men. 

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as 
soon as they had them, or else they that gave Uient 

~ this noble present would certainly have expected 
that they should have gone to work with them, have 
lulled two or three of them the next morning, and 
perhaps have invited the donore to dinner. But 
having taken their leave, with all the respect and 
thanl^ that could well pass between people, where, 
on either side, they understood not one word they 
could say, they put off with their boat, and came 
back towards the first island ; where, when they ar- 
rived, they set eight of their pristmere at liberty, 
there being too many of them for their occasion. 

In then- voyage, they endeavoured to have some 
communication with Uieir prisoners ; but it was 
■impossible to make them understand any thing ; no- 
thmg they could say to them, or ^ve them, or do 
for them, but was looked upon as going to murder 
■them. They first of all unbound theia; but the 
-poor' creatures screamed at that, especially the wo- 
men, as if ibey had just felt the knife at their 
throats-; for they immediately concluded they were 
unbound OD purpose to be kiUed. Iftheygavediem 
Big- thing to eat, it was the swne thing; they then 
concluded, it was for fear they should sink in flesh, 

■ and so not be fat enough to kill. If they looked at 
one of them more particularfy, the party presently 
concluded,itwastosee whether heorshe was fattest,' 
and fittest to kill first : nay, after they had brou^t 



ROBIMSOH CBU80K. 75 

them quite over, and b^an tause them kindly, anA 
treat tnera well, etill &ey expected every day to 
make a dinner or supper for their new masters. 

When the three wanderers had given this unac- 
countable history or journal of their voyage, the 
Spaniard asked tJiem where their new family was ; 
and being told that they had brought them on ' 
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and 
were come up to beg some victuals for them, they 
(the Spaniards) and the other two EDgliahmeo, that 
is to say, the whole colony, resolved to go all down 
to the place and see them ; and did so, and Friday's 
&ther with them. 

When they came into the hut, there they sat all 
bound ; for when they had brought them on shore, 
they bound their hands, that they might not take 
the boat and make their escwe ; uiere, I say, they 
sat, all of them stark naked. First, there were 
three men, lusty, comely fellows, well-shaped, 
straight and fair limbs, about thirty to thirty-five 
years of age ; and five women, whereof two might 
be from tfirty to forty ; two more not above four 
or fire and twenty; and the fifUi, a tall comely 
maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. The women 
were well favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape 
and features, only tawny ; and two of them, had 
they been perfect white, would have passed for very 
handsome women, even in London itself, having 
pleasant agreeable countenances, and of a very mo- 
dest behaviour : especially when they came after- 
wards to be clothed and dressed, as they called it, 
though that dress was very indifierent, it must be 
confessed; of which hereafter, 

The sight, you may be sure, was something un- 
twuth to our Spaniards, who were, to give them a 
just character, men of the best behaviour, of the 
most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good-hu- 



76 ADVENTURES OP 

inoiir, that ever 1 met with ; and, in pftrticular, of 
the bioat modesty, as will presently appear: I any 
the sight was very uncouui, to see three naked 
men and five naked women, all together bound, 
Bnd in the most miserable circumstances that hu- 
mail nature couid be supposed to be, viz. to be ex- 
pecting every moment to be dragged out, and have 
their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up 
like a calf that is killed for s dainty. 

The first thing they did was to cause the old In- 
dian, Friday's father, to go in, and see, first, if he 
knew any of them, and then if he understood uny 
of their speech. As soon as the old nl^i c&me in, 
he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them; 
neither could any of theita imderstand a word he 
said, or a sign be could make, except cue of the 
women. However, this was enough to answer the 
end, which was to satisfy them that the in«i into 
whose hands they were fallen were Christians ; that 
they abhorred eating men or women ; and that they 
might be sure they would not be killed. As soon 
as they were assured of tiiis, they discovered such 
a joy, and by such awkward gestures, several ways, 
as is hard to describe ; for, it seems, they were of 
several nations. 

The woman who was their interpreter wbb bid, in 
the next place, to ask them if they were willing to 
be servants, and to work for the men who had 
brought thera away, to save their lives ; at which 
they all fell a dancing ; and presently one fell to 
takmg up this, and another that, any thing that 
lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to intimate that 
they were willing to work. 

The governor, who found that the having wo- 
men among them would pres^itly be attended with 
some inconvenience, and mightoccasion sraue strife, 
and perhaps blood, asked the three men what they 



J30B. 77 

intenikd to do with these women, and how thej in- 
tended to use them, whether as aervanta or as wo- 
men? Oneof Uie Englishmen answered very boldly 
and readily, that they would use them as both ; to 
which the governor said, I am not going to restrain 
you from it; ^ou are your own masters as to that ; 
.but this I think is but just, for avoiding disorders 
and quarrels among you, and I desire it of you for 
that reason only, viz. That you will all engage, that 
if any of j'ou take any of these women as a woman 
or wife, that he shall take but one: and that hav- 
ing taken one, none else shall touch her ; for though 
.we cannot marry any one of you, yet it is but rea- 
sonable that Vhile vou stay here, the woman any 
of you takes should be maintained by the man that 
takes her, and should be his wife; I mean, says he, 
while he continues here, and that none else shallhave 
any thing to do witli her. All this appeared so just, 
that every one agreed to it without any difficulty. 

Then tlie Englishman asked the Spaniards if they 
designed to take any of them? But every one of 
them answered no: some of them said they had 
wives in .Spain, and the others did not like women 
that were not Christians : and all together declared 
that they would not touch one of them : which waa 
an instance of such virtue as 1 have not met with in 
all niy travels. On the other hand, to be short, the 
five Englishmen took them every one a wife, that is 
to say, a temporary wife ; and so they set up a new 
form of living ; for the Spaniards and Friday's &• 
ther lived in my old habitation, which they had en- 
laived exceedingly within. The three servants 
which were taken in the late battle of the savt^es 
lived with them i and these earned on the main pi^rt 
of the colony, supplied all the rest with food, and 
assisted them in any thing as they could, or as they 
found necesMty required. 

u3 



"78 ASVENTintES OF 

But the wonder of this atorf iras, how five such 
refractory, ill-matched fellows, should ame about 
these women, and that two of them should not pitch - 
upon the BBine woman, especially seeing two or three 
of them were, without comparison, more agreeable 
than the others : but they took a good way enough 
to prevent (juarrellinp among themselves ; for they 
set the five women oy theraselves in one of their 
huts, and thev went all into the other hut, and drew 
lotfi among them who should choose first. 

He that drew to choose first went away by him- 
self to the hut where the poor naked creatures were, 
and fetched out her he chose ; and it was worth ob- 
serving, that he that chose first took her that was 
reckoned the homeliest and oldest of the five, which 
made mirth enough among the rest ; and even the 
Spaniards laughed at it : but the fellow considered 
better than any of them, that it wa« application and 
business thev were to expect assistance in, as much 
as in any thmg else ; and she proved the best wife 
of all the parcel. 

When the poor women saw themselves set in a 
row thus, and fetched out one by one, the terrors of 
their condition returned upon them again, and th^ 
firmly believed they were now goin^ to be devoured. 
Accordingly, when the English sailor came in and 
-fetched out one of them, the rest set up a most la- 
mentable cry, and hung about her, and took theif 
leave ofhernith such asonieB and afiection, as would 
have grieved the hardest heart in the world ; nor 
was it possible for the Englishmen to satisfy them 
that they were not to be immediately murdered, till 
they fetched the old man, Friday's father, who im- 
mediately let thepi know that the five men, who had 
filched them out one by one, had chosen them for 
their wives. 

When they had done, and the fright the women 



ROBINMMT CBUSOE. 79 

were in tru a licde over, the men went to work, 
goA the 9p«aaads came and helped them ; and in a 
few houn they had bu3t diem every one anew hut 
or tent for their lodging apart ; for those they had 
already wei« crow&d with their tools, houBchold 
fetuff, and proYifiions. The three wicked ones had 
pitched fertheat off, and the two honest ones nearer, 
but both on the north shore of the island, so that 
they continued separated as before ; and thus my 
island was peopled in three places ; and, as I might 
say, three towns were begun to be built. 

And here it is very well worth observing, that, 
as it oilen happens in the world (what the wise 
ends of God's pravideace are in inch a disposition of 
things, I ctumot »ay), the two hcmest fellows had 
the two worst wives ; mid the three reprobates, that 
were scarce worth hanging, diat were fit for nd- 
thine, and neither seemed bom to do themselves 
good, nor any one else, had diree clever, diligent, 
careful, and ingenious wives ; not tliat the first two 
were bad wives, as to their temper or humour, for 
all the five were most willing, quiet, passive and 
subjected creatures, rather iSte slaves than wives ; 
but my meaning is, th^ were not alike capable, 
ingenious, or industrious, or alike cleanly and 
neat. 

Another observation I must make, to the honour 
of a diligent application, on one hand, and to the 
^ggrace of a slothful, negligent, idle temper, on 
the other, that when I came to the place, and 
viewed the several improvements, plantings, and 
m^iagemcnt of the several little colonies, the two 
men had so far out-gone the three, that there was 
no comparison. They had, indeed, both of them 
as much ground laid, out for com as they wanted, 
and the reason was, because, according to my rule, 
nature dictated that it was to no purpose to sow 



80 ■ ' ADVIMTtTRBS 07 

more corn than they wanted ; but the difference of 
the cultivalioD, of the plantiag, of the fences, and, 
indeed, of every thing ebe, was easy to be seen 
at first view. 

■ The two men had innumerable young trees plant- 
ed about their huts, so that when you came to the 
place, nothing was to be seen but a wood: and 
though they had twice had their plantation demo- 
lished, once by their own countrymen, and once by 
the enemy, as shall be shown in its place, yet they 
had restored all again, and every thing was thriving 
and flourishing about them : they had grapes plant- 
ed in order, and managed like a vineyard, tliough 
they had themselves never seen any thing of that 
kind ; and by their good ordering their vines, their 
(p^pes were as good again as any of the others. 
Thev had also found themselves out a retreat in the 
thickest part of itte woods ; where, though there 
was not a natural cave, as I bad found, yet they 
' made one with incessant labour of their hands, and 
where,,when the mischief which followed happened, 
they secured their wives and children, so as they 
could never be found ; they having, bv sticking 
innumerable stakes and poles of the wooa which, as 
1 said, grew so readily, made the grove unpassable, 
except in some places where they climbed up to get 
' over the outside part, and then went on byways of 
their own leaving. 

As to the three reprobates, as 1 justly call them, 
though they were much civilized by their settlement 
compared to what they were before, and were not 
BO quarrelsome, having not the same opportunity; 
yet one of the certain companions of a proffigale 
mind never left them, and that was their idleness. 
It is true, they planted corn, and made fences ; but 
Solomon's words were never better verified than in 
them, " 1 went by the vineyard of the slothful, and 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 81 

It was i^I overgrown with thorns ;" for when ' the 
Spaniards came to view thdr crop, they could not 
see it ID some places for weeds, the nedge had several 
gaps in it; where the wild goats had got in and eaten 
up the corn ; perhaps here and there a dead bush 
was crammed in, to stop them out for the present, 
but it was odIv shutting the stable-door af^er the 
Gteed was stolen : whereas, when they looked on 
the colony of the other two, there wss the very face 
of industry and success upon all they did ; there 
was not a weed to be seen in all their com, or a eap 
in any of their hedges ; and the^, on the ouier 
hand, verified Solomon's words in another place, 
" that the diligent hand nlaketh rich ;'' for every 
thing ^w and thrived, and they had plenty within 
and witliout ; they had more tame cattle than the 
otliers, more utensils and necessaries within doois, 
and yet more pleasure and diversion too. 

It is true, the wives of the three were very handy 
and cleanly within doors, and having learned the 
English ways of dressing and cooking from one of 
U)c other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a cook's- 
mate on board the ship, they dressed their husbands' 
victu^ very nicely and well ; whereas the others 
could not be brought to understand it ; but then 
the husband, iiiio, as I say, had been cook's-mate, 
did it himself. But as for the husbuids ofthe three 
wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' eggs, 
and canght fish and birds ; in a word, a^ thing 
but labour, and they &red accwdingly. 'Hie diU- 
gent Jived well and comfortably; and the slothtiil 
lived hard and beggarly ; and so, I believe, gene- 
rally speaking, it is all over the world. 

But I now come to a scene diflerent from all that 
had happened before, either to them or to me ; and 
the original of the story was this : Earfy one mom- 
ing, there came on shore five or six canoes of In- 



82 ADVXHTURU OS 

diaito or lavages, call them which you plesse, amd 
there is no room to doubt they came upon the old 
errand of feeding upon their daveg; but that part 
ma now so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our 
men too, that they did not concern themselves 
about it, as I did : but having been made sensible, 
by their experience, that their only business was to 
lie concealed, uid that if they were not seen by any 
of the savages, they would go off again quietly, 
when their business was done, having, as ^et, Dot 
the least no^on of there being any inhabitants in 
the island ; 1 say, having been made sensible of this, 
they had nothing to do but give notice to all the 
three plantations to keep within doors, and not 
show uiemselveg, only placing a scout in a proper 
place, to give notice when tne boats went to sea 
again. 

This was, without doubt, very right ; hut a dis- 
aster spoiled all these measures, and made it known 
among the savages that there were inhabitaots 
there ; which was, in the end, the desolation of al- 
most the whole colony. After the canoes with the 
savages were gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad 
again; and some of them had the curiosity to go 
to the place where they had been, to see what they 
had been doing. Here, totheir great auipriae, they 
found three savages left b^Ud, and laying last 
asleep upon the ground. It was supposed they had 
either been so gorged with their inhuman feast, 
that, like beasts, they were fallen asleep, and would 
not stir when the ouiera went, or they had waa- 
dered into the woods, and did not come back in 
time to be taken in. 

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, 
and perfectly at a Ims what to do. The Spanish 
^yemor, as it happened, was with them, and his 
advice was asked, but he professed he knew not 



BailNSOK CRDSOI. 8S 

vhattodo. Asfor8lavea,they had enough, already ; 
and as to killing them, they were none of them in- 
clined to that: the Spaniard governor told me, they 
could not think of shedding innocent blood: for 
as to them, the poor creatures had done them no' 
wrong, invaded none of their property, and they 
thought they had no just quarrel against them, to 
take away their lives. And here 1 must, in justice 
to these Spaniards, observe, that let the accounts of 
Spanish cruelty in Mexico and Peru be what they 
will, I never met with seventeen men of any nation 
whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were so 
universally modest, temperate, virtuous, so very 
good-humoured, and so courteous, as these Spani- 
ards; and as to cruelty, they had nothine of it in 
their very nature : no inhumanity, no Barbarity, 
no outrageous passions ; and yet all oT them men 
of great courage and spirit. Their temper and 
calmness had appeared in their bearing the insuf- 
ferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their 
justice and humnnity appeared now in the case of 
the savages, as above. After some consultation, 
they resolved upon this ; that they would lie still a 
while longer, till, if possible, these three men 
might be gone. But then the governor Spaniard 
recollected that the three savages bad no boat; 
and if they were left to rove about the island, they 
wonid certainly discover that there were inhabitants 
in it; and bo they should be undone that way. 
Upon this they went back again, and there lay the 
fellows fast asleep still, and so they resolved to 
waken them, and take them prisoners ; and they 
did so. The poor fellows were strangely Frightened 
when they were seized upon and bound ; and afraid, 
like the women, that they should be murdered and 
eaten : for it seems, those people think all the world 
does as they do, eating men's flesh ; but diey were 



84 ADVEMTUKES OF 

soon made easy as to that, and awtiy they carried 

It was very happy for them tliat they did not 
carry them home to iheir castle, 1 mean to my pa- 
lace under the hill ; but they carried them first to 
tlie bower, where was the chief of their country 
work, such as the keeping the goats, the planting 
the com, &c. ; and afterwards tiiey carried them to 
tite habitation of the two Englishmen. 

Here they were set to work, though it was not 
much they Jbiad for then to do ; and whether it was 
by BegUeence in guarding them, or that they 
(Qought bbe fellowB could not mend themselveB, I 
know not, but one of them ran away, and taking to 
the woods, iJKy could never hear of him any more> 

They had good reason to believe he got home 
again Hoon after, in stHne other boats or canoes of 
iiavages who came on shore three or four weeks 
afterwards ; and who, carrying on their revels as 
usual, went off in two days time. This thought 
terrified them exceedingly ; for they concluded, wid 
that not without good cause indeed, that if this 
fellow came home safe among his comrades, he 
would certainly cive them an «ccouDt that there 
were people in the island, and also how few and 
weak Uiey were ; £or this savage, as I observed be- 
f«re, had nevn beoi tbld, and it was very happy he 
had not, how many there were, or where they 
lived ; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of luiy 
t^ their gtms, much less had they shown him any 
of their other retired places ; such as the cave in 
the valley, or the new retreat which the two Eng- 
lishmen had made, and the like. 

The first testimony they had that this fellow had 
ffvea intelligence of them was, that about two 
manths.after this, six canoes of savages, .with about 
seven, dght, or >tfis men in a canoe, came rawing 



HOBIMBON CBUBOK. 85 

alone the north side of the island, where diey never 
used to come before, and landed, about an hour 
a&et uin-rBei at a convenient place, about a mile 
from tJie habitation of the two Englishmen, where 
this escaped mwi had been kept. As the Spaniard 
governor said, had they been all there the damage 
would not have been so much, for not a man of 
them would have escaped : but the case diflered now 
very much, for two men to fifty was too much odds, 
'nie two men had the happiness to discover them 
about a league off, so that it was above an hour be- 
fore they landed ; and as they landed a nwie &om 
their huts, it was some time before they could come 
.at them. Now, having great reason to believe that 
they were betrayed, the first thing they did was to 
bind the twa staves which were left, and cause two 
of the three men .whom they brou^ with the wo- 
men (who, it seems, proved very faithful to them) to 
lead them, with their two wives, and whatever they 
could carry away with them, Iq theh' retired places 
in the woods, whicb I have spoken of above, and 
there te.bind the two fellows hand satA foot, till 
tbey heard &rtber. 

In the next place, seeing the savages were all 
CMue on shwe, and that they had boot their course 
directly that way, they opened.the fences where the 
tnilch'goats were kept, .and drove them all out ; 
leavmg theirgoatstoetraggleinihe woods, whither 
they pleased, that the savages might think they 
were all bred wild; but the rogue, who came with 
thffln was too conning for that, and gave them an 
acoount of it ail, for u\ey went direclJy to the place. 

When the two poor frightened men had secured 
their wives and goods, they sent the other slave they 
had of the three who came with the women, and 
who was at their place by accident, away to the 
Spaniards with all speed, to give them the tdartn, 



8fi ADVBNTURK8 OF 

and deure speedy hel)>; and, in the mean time, 
they took their arms, and what ammunition they 
had, and retreated towards the place in the woo<l 
where their wives were sent ; keeping at a distance, 
yet ID that they might see, if possible, which way 
the savages took. 

Tbev had not gone far, but that from a risini; 
ground they could see the little army of their ene* 
mies come on directly to their habitation, and, ' 
uld 



more, could see all their huts and house- 
hold stuff flaming up together, to their great Rtief 
and mortification : for they had a very great loss, 
to them irretrievable, at least for some time. They 
kept their station for a while, till they found the 
savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves all over 
the place, rummaging every way, and every placu 
they could think of, in search of prey ; and in par- 
ticular for the people, of whom, now, it plainly ap- 
peared, they had intelligence. 

The two Englishjnen seeing this, thinking them- 
selves not secure where they stood, because it was 
likely some of the wild people might come that 
way, and they might come too many togelJier. 
thought it proper to make another retreat about 
half a mile fartner : beheving, as it afterwards hap* 
pened, that the farther they strolled, the fewer 
would be together. 

Their next halt was at the entrance into a very 
thick-grown part of the woods, and where an old 
trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow and vastly 
large ; and in this tree they both took their stand- 
ing, resolving to see there what might offer. They 
had not stood there long, before two of the savages 
appeared running directly that way, as if they al- 
ready had notice where uiey stood, and were com- 
ing up to attack them; and a little way farther 
they espied three more coming after them, aod 



ROBINSOM CRD80E. 87 

fire more beyond them, all coming the same way: 
besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a 
distance, ninning another way i for, in a word, they 
ran every way, like sportsmen beating for their 
game. . 

The poor men were now in great perplexity whe- 
ther they should stand and keep their posture, or fly ; 
but, after a very short debate with themselves, they 
iwDsidered, that if the savages ranged the country 
thus before help came, they might perhaps find out 
(heir retreat in the woods, and then all would be 
lost ; 80 they resolved to stand them there ; and if 
they were too many to deal with, then they would 
get up to the top of the tree, from whence they . 
doubted not to defend themselves, fire excepted, as 
long as their ammunition lasted, though all the 
savages that were landed, which was near fifty, were 
to attack them. 

Having resolved upon this, they next considered 
whether they should fire at the first two, or wait 
for. the three, and so take the middle party, by 
which the two and the five that followed would be 
separated ; at length they resolved to let the first 
two pass by, unless they should spy them in the 
tree, and come to attack them. Tbe first two sa- 
vages confirmed them also in this regulation, by 
turning a little from them towards another part of 
the wood ; but the three, and the five aAer them, 
came forward directly to the tree, as if they had 
known the Englishmen were there. Seeing them 
come 80 straight toward them, they resolved to 
take them in a line as they came; and as they re- 
solved to fire but one at a time, perhaps the first 
shot might hit them all three: for which purpose, 
the man who was to fire put three or four small 
bullets into his piece; and having » fair loop-hole, 
as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, be took 



88 ^DTENTDRES Or 

R sure ainit without being aetfo, wuting till they 
were within about tliirtjr yards of the tree, to th^ 
he could not miss. 

While they were thus waiting, and the SBTagea 
came on, tliey plainly saw that one of die three waa 
the runaway savage that had escaped from them; 
and they both knaw him distinctly, and resolved 
that, if pouible, he should not escape, though the^ 
should both fire ; so the other stood ready with hut 
piece, that if he did not drop at the first shot, he 
should be sure to have a second. But the first waa 
too good a marksman to miss his aim ; for as the u- 
vages kept near one another, a little behind, in a 
line, he fired, and hit two of them directly i the 
foremost was killed outright, bebg shot Id the 
head ; the second, which was the runaway Indiui, 
was shot throueh the body, and felli but waa not 

auite dead ; and the third had a little scratch in the 
loulder, perhaps by the same ball that went 
through the body of uie second ; and being dread- 
fully frightened, though not so much hurt, sat 
down upon the ground, screuning and yelling in ■ 
hideous manner. 

The fire that were behind, more frlgfateaed with 
the noise than sensible of the danger, stood still at 
first-; for the woods made the sound a thousand 
times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling 
from one side to another, and the fowls rising from 
all parts, screaming, and every sort m^ng a dif- 
ferent noise, accordiDg Co their kind ; just as it was 
when I fired the first gun that perhaps was ever 
Aot off in the island. 

However, all being silent again, and they not 
knowing what the matter was, came oa uncon- 
cerned, till they came to the place where their 
companions 1^, in s condition miserable entnigh ; 
«nd here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensiUe 



K0B1M80H 

that they were within reach of the same mischief, 
stood all of a huddle over the wounded man, talk- 
JDg, and, as may be Bupposed, inquiiing of him 
how he came to he hurt ; and who, it is very ra- 
tional to helieve, told them, that a flash of fire firtt, 
and immediately after that thunder from their gods, 
had killed those two and wounded him ; this, I^ay, 
is rational ; for nothing is more certain than that, 
as they saw no man near them, eo they had never 
heard a gun in all their lives, nor so much as heard 
of a gun ; ueither knew they any thiag of killing 
and wounding at a distance with fire and bullets : 
if they had, one might reasonablv helieve they 
would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing the 
fate of their fellows, withsut some apprehengions of 
their own., 

Our two men, though, as (hey oonfeased to nae, 
it grieved them to be obliged to kill so many poor 
creatures, who, at the same ^me, had no notion of 
their danger ; yet, having them all thus in their 
power, and the first having loaded his piece again, 
resolved to let fiy both together among them ; and 
singling out, by agreement, which to aim at, ther 
shot together, ana killed, or very much wounded, 
four of them ; the fifth, fi-ightened even to death, 
though not hurt, fell with the rest ; so that our 
men seeing them all fall together, thou^t they had 
killed them all. 

The belief that the savages were all killed made 
our two men come baldly out from the tree before 
they had charged their guns, which was a wrong 
step ;.and they were under some surprise when they 
came to the place, and found ijo less than four of 
thera alive, and of them two very little hurt,>and 
one not at all : this obliged them to fall Ujpon them 
with the stocks of their muskets; and first they 
made sure of the runaway savage, that had been the 



90 Advcmtubbi or 

cauae of all the mischiei^ and of anotiier that was 
hurt in the kiiee> and pat them out of their pain ; 
then the man that wkb hurt not at all came and 
kneeled down to tb^ni, with his two hands held up, 
and made piteoris moans to them, hj gestures and 
eigne, forhislife, but could not eay one word to tittem 
that they could understand. However, they made 
signs to him to ait down at the foot of a tree hard 
bjr ; and one of the Englidmien, with a piece of 
rope twined, which he had by great chance in his 
pocket, tied his two hands behind him, and there 
they leilhimi andwith what speed they could made 
after the other two, which were gone before, fear- 
ing they, or any more <^ them, should find the 
way to dieir covered place .in Uie woods, where 
their wives, and the few goods they had left, lay. 
They came oDce in sight en the two men, but it was 
at a great Stance ; however, they had the satisfac- 
tion to cross over a valley towards the sea, quite the 
(MMrtrary way from that which led to lieir retreat, 
v^ch they were afufod.of ; and being satisfied with 
that, .they wort back to the tree where they left 
their prisooM', who, as they supposed, was delivered 
by his comrades, for he vras gone, and the two 
pieces of rope-f ara, with which they had bound 
him, lay just at the foot of the tree. 

They were now in as gcea/t concern as before, not 
knowing what course to take, or how near the 
enemy might be, or in what numbers ; so they re- 
solved to go away to the place where their wives 
were, to see if ail was well there, and to make them 
easy, who were in fright enough to be sure ; for 
though the sav^;es were their own country-folk, yet 
they were most terribly afraid of them, and per- 
il^ the more for the knowledge they had of them. 

When they came there, they found uiesava^es bad 
-been in the wood, and very near that place, but 



ROfilHWM CSOSOK. 91 

ba4 not founil it : for it was indeed inaccessible, by 
tbe -trees standing so thick, as before, unless the 

Ersons seeking it had been directed by liioge that 
ew it, which these did not : tbey found, there- 
fore, ev«7 thing very safe, only the women in a 
terrible fright. While they were here, they had the 
conifoit to bave seven of the Spaniards come to 
their assistance; the other ten, with their servants, 
and old Friday, I mean Friday's father, were gone 
in a body to defend their bower, and the com and 
cattle that was kept there, in case the savages 
should have rowed over to that side of the country; 
but they did not spread so far. With ^e s^ven 
Spaniards came one of the three savages who, ae 1 
said, were their prisoners formerly ; and with them 
also came the savage whom the Englishmen had 
left bound hand and foot at the tree; for it seems, 
they come that way, saw the slaughter of the seven 
men, and unbound the eighth, and brought him 
along with them ; where, however, th^ were 
obliged to bind him again, as tbey had the two 
others who were left when the third ran away. 

"Vhe prisoners now began to be a burthen to 
them ; and they were so afraid of their escaping, 
that tJiev were once resolving to kill them all, be- 
lieving tliey were under an absolute necessity to do 
so, for their own preservation. However, the 
Spaniard governor would not consent to it ; but or* 
dered, for the present, that they should be sent out 
of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be 
kept there, wich two Spaniards to guard them; and 
give them food for their subsistence, which was 
done1 and they were bound there hand and foot for 
thai night. 

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen 
were so encouraged, that they could not satisfy 
themselves to stay any loDger there ; but taking five 



92 ' ADVBHTtlRBS OF 

of the Spaniards and themgelves, with four muskets 
and a piatol among diem, and two stout quarter- 
staves, away they went in quest of the savages. 
And first they came to the tree where the men lay 
that had been killed ; but it was easy to see that 
some more of the savages had been there, for they 
had attempted to carry their dead men awav, and 
had dragged' two of them a good way, but had given 
it over. From thence they advanced to the first 
rising ground, where they had stood and seen their 
camp destroyed, and where they had the mortifica- 
tion still to see some of the smoke : but neither 
could they here see any of the savages. They then 
resolved, though widi all passible caution, to go 
forward, towards their nuned plaotation; but a 
little before they came thither, coming in sight of 
the sea-shore, they saw plunly the savages all em- 
barked again in their canoes, in order to be gone. 
They seemed sorry, at first, that there was no way 
to come at them, to give them a parting blow ; but, 
upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be 
rid of them. 

The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, 
and all their improvements destroyed, the rest all 
agreed to come and help them to rebuild, and to'as- 
Hst them with needful supplies. Their three coun- 
trymen, who were not yet noted for having the 
least inclination to do any good, yet as soon as 
they heard of it (for they living remote eastward, 
knew nothing of the matter till all was over), came 
and offered their help and assistance, and did, very 
friendly, work for several days, to restore their ha- 
bitation, and make necessaries for them. And thus, 
in a little time, they were set upon their legs again. 

About two davs after this, they had the farther 
satis&ction of seemg three of th e savages' canoes come 
driving on shore, and, at some distance from them. 



two 4rowned men : by which they had reaiop to 
believe that they had met with a storm at sea, 
which had overaet some of them ; for it had blown 
very hard the night after they went o£ 

However, as nome might miscarry, bo, on the 
other hand, enough of them escaped to inform the 
rest, a« well of what they had done as of what had 
happened to them, and to whet them on to another 
enterprise of the same nature ; which they, it 
seems, resolved to attempt, with sufficient force to 
carry all before them : for except what the fint 
man hqd told them of inhatfitants, they could say 
little of it of their own knowledge, for they never 
saw one man ; and the fellow being killed that had 
affirmed it, they had no other witness to confirm it 
to them. 

It was five or six months after this before they 
heard any more of the savages, in which time our men 
were in hopes they had either forgot their former 
bad luck, or given over hopes of better ; when, on 
a sudden, they were invaded with a most formida- 
ble fleet of no less than eigh»-and-twenty canoes, 
full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great 
clubf I wooden swords, and such-like engines otwatf 
and they brought such numbers with them, that, in 
short, it put all our people into the utmost conster- 
nation. 

As they'came on shore in the evening, and at the 
eastermost «de of the island, our men had that 
night to consult and consider what to do; and, in 
the first place, knowing that their being entirely 
concealed was their only safety before, and would 
be much more so now, while the number of their 
enemies was so great, they therefore resolved, first 
of aB, to take down the huts which were built for 
the two Englishmen, and drive away Uieir goats to 
the old cave; because they qupptKteijL th^savages would 



94- ADVENTOBES OP 



Uie 



directly thither, as Boon as it was day, to play 
old game over again, thougli they did not now 
land wiUlin two leagues of it. In the nest place, 
they drove away all the flocks of goats they had at 
the old bower, as I called it, which belonged to the 
Spaniards ; and, in short, left as Uttle appearance 
01 inhabitants any where as was possible ; and the 
next morning early they posted themselves, with all 
their force, at the plantation of the two men, to 
wait for their coming. As they guessed, so it hap- 
pened : these new invaders leaving their canoes at 
the east end of the isTand, came ranging along the 
shore, directly towards the place, to the number of 
two hundred and fifty, as near as our men could 
judge. Our army was but small, indeed ; but that 
which was worse, they had not arms for all their 
number neither. The. whole account, it seems, 
stood thus : first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, 
five Englishmen, old Friday, or Friday's father, the 
three slaves taken with the women, who proved very 
faithful, and three otiier slaves, who lived with the 
Spaniards. To arm these, they had eleven muskets, 
five pistols, three fowling-pieces, five muskets or 
fowling-pieces which were taken by me firom the 
mutinous seamen whom I reduced, two swords, and 
three old halberds. 

To their slaves they did not give either musket or 
fusee, but they had every one a halberd, or a long 
staff, like a quarter-staff, with a great spike of iron 
fastened into each end of it, and by his side a hatchet ; 
alBO every one ofour men had a hatchet. Two of the 
women could not be prevailed upon but they would 
come into the fight, and they had bows and arrows, 
which the Spaniards had taken from the savages 
when the first action happened, which I have 
spoken of, where the Indians' fought with one an* 
other ; and the women had hatchets too. 



[I80E. 95 

The Spaniard governor, whom I described so oft- 
en, commanded the whole; and Wilt Atkins, who, 
though a dreadful fellow for wickedoew, was a 
most daring, bold fellow, commanded under him. 
The savages came forward like lions; and our men, 
which was the worst of their fate, had no advan- 
tage in their situation ; only that Will Atkins, who 
DOW proved a most useful fellow, with six men, was 
planted just behind a small thicket of bushes, as an 
advanced guard, with orders to let the first of them 
pass by, and then fire into the middle of them, and 
as soon aa he had fired, to make his retreat as nim> 
ble as he could round a part of the wood, and so 
come in behind the Spaniards, where^they stood, 
having a thicket of trees before them. 

When the savages came on, they ran straggling 
about every way in heaps, out of all manner of or- 
der, and Will Atkins let about fifty of them pass by 
him ; then seeing the rest come in a very thick 
throng, he orders three of his men to fire,, having 
loaded their muskets widi ux or seven bullets a- 
piece, about as big as large pistol bullets. How 
many they killed or wounded they knew not, but 
the consternation and surprise was inexpressible 
among the savages ; they were frightened to the 
last degree to hear such a dreadful noise, and see 
their men killed, and others hurt, but see nobody 
that did it ; when, in the middle of their fright, 
Will Atkins and his other three let fly again among 
the thickest of them ; and in less than a minute the 
first three being loaded again, gave them a third 
volley. 

Had Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, 
as soon as they had fired, as they were ordered to 
do, or had the rest of the body been at hand, to 
have poured in their shot continually, the sav^es 
had been eflectually routed ; for the terror that was 



96 ADVZHTURSB OP 

atttong them came princi^ly fVotn this, nz. that 
they were killed by the gods with thunder and ligbt- 
ning, and could see taobody that hurt them ; but 
Win Atkins, itaying to load again, discovered the 
cheat ; some of tne savages who were at a distaoce 
Bpying ihem, came upon them brfiind ; and though 
Atkios and his men fired at them also, two or three 
times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as 
they could, yet they Wounded Atkins hinisdf, and 
killed one of his fellow Enghehmen with their ar- 
rows, as they did afterwards one Spaniard, and one 
of the Indian slaves who came with the women. 
This slave was a moet gallant fellow, and fought 
most desperately, killing five of them with his own 
hand, liaving no weapon but one of (he armed 
staves and a hatchet. 

Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wdund<- 
ed, and two oUiei- men killed, retreated to a rising 
ground in the wood ; and die Spaniards, after firing 
uiree volleys upon them, retreated also; (oi tiieir 
number was so great, and they were so desperate, 
that though above fifty of diera were killed, and 
more than as many wounded^ yet they came on in 
(tre teeth of our men, fearicss of dang^*, and shot 
their arrows like a cloud : and it was observed that 
their wounded men, wh« Were not quite disabled) 
were made outrageous by tbeh* wounds, and fought 
Uke madmen. 

When OIH men retreated, they left the Spaniard 
and the ^ngli^tnan chat were killed behind them ; 
and the savages, when they came iq> to them, kill- 
ed them over again in a wretched manner, break- 
ing their arms, legs, and heads, with their clnbs and 
Wooden 'swords, Tike true savages ; bat findmg our 
men were gone, they did not seem to pursue them, 
but drew themselves up in a i^g, whidi is, it 
seems, their custom, and shouted twice, in token 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 97 

oFilieiT victory; after which, they had the mortifi- 
cation to see several of their wotinded men fill, dy- 
ing with the mere loss of blood. 

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little 
body up together upon a rising ground, Atkins, 
though he was wounded, would tiave had them 
march and charge again ^1 together at once : but 
the Spaniard replied, Seignior Atldns, you see how 
their wounded men fight : let them alone till morn- 
ing ; all the wounded men will be stiff and sore 
with tlieir wounds, and faint with the loss of blood ; 
twid so we shall have the fewer to engage. This ad- 
vice was good ; but Will Atkins replied merrily, 
That is true, seignior, and so shall I too ; and that 
is the reason I would go on while I am warm. — Well, 
seignior Atkins, says the Spaniard, you have be- 
haved gallantly, and done your part; we will fight 
for you, if you cannot come on; but I think it best 
to stay till morning: so they wfuted. 

But as it was a clear moon-lic^t night, and they ' 
found the savages in great disorder about their dead 
and wounded meo, and a great noise and hurry 
among them where they lay, thej afterwards resolv- 
ed to fill upon them in the night; especially if 
they could come to give them but one vo'ley before 
they were discovered, which they had a fair oppor- 
tunity to do ; for one of the Englishmen, in whose 
quarter it was where the fight began, .led them 
round between the woods and the sea-side westward, 
and then turning short south, they came so near 
where the thickest of them lay, that, before they 
were seen or heard, eight of them fired in amoi^ 
them, and did dreadfnl esecution upon them ; in 
half a minute more, eight others fired afler them, 
pouring in their small ^ot in such a quantity, that. 
abundance were killed and wounded ; and all thia 



98 ADVBHTDRES OP 

white they were not able to see who hurt them, or 
which way to fly. 

The Spaniards charged again with the utmoEt ex- 

Sedition, and then divided liiemselvea in three bo- 
ies, 4nd resolved to fall in atnong them all together, 
lliey had in each body eight persons, that is to say, 
twenty-two and the two women, who, by the way, 
fought desperately. They divided the fire-arms 
equally in each party,and so the halberds and staves. 
They would have had the women kept back, but 
they said they were resolved to die with their hus- 
bands. Having thug formed their little army, they 
' marched out from among the trees, and came up to 
the teeth of the enemy, shouting and holluns as 
loud as they could; the savages stood all togeUier, 
but were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise 
of our men shouting from three quarters together : 
they would have fought if they had seen us ; for as 
goon as we came near enoi^h to be seen, some aT> 
rows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, 
though not dangerously ; but our men gave them 
no time, but, running up to them, fired among 
them three ways, and then fell in with the but-cnds 
of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and 
hatchetg, and laid about them so well, that, in a 
word, they set up a dismal screaming and howling, 
flying to save their lives which way soever they could. 
Our men were tired with the execution, and kill- 
ed or mortally wounded in the two fights about one 
hundred and eighty of them; the rest, being fright- 
ened out of their wits, scoured through the woodg 
and over the hills, with all the speed lear and nim- 
ble feet could help them to ; and as we did not 
trouble ourselves much to pursue them, they got 
all together to the sea-side where they landed, and 
where their canoes lay. Rut their disaster was not at 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



an end yet ; for it blew a terrible storm of wind 
that evening from the sea, so that it was iinpoGsi< 
ble for them to go off; nay, the storm continuing 
aJI night, when Uie tide came up, their canoes were 
most of them driven b^ the surge of the sea so high 
upon the shore, that it required infinite toi] to get 
them off; and some of them were even dashed to 
pieces oeainst t)ie beach, or against one another. 

Our men, though glad of their victotr, yet got 
little rest that night ; but having refreshed them- 
selves as welt as uiey could, they resolved to march 
to that part of the island where the savages were 
fled, and see what posture they were in. This ne- 
cessarily led them over the place where the fight 
had been, and where they found several of the poor 
creatures not quite dead, and yet past recovering 
life { a sight oisagreeable enough to generous 
ihinds ; for a truly great man, though obliged by 
the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no de- 
light in his misery. However, there was no need 
to give any orders in this cose ; for their own 
savages, who were their servants, dispatched these 
poor creatures with their hatchets. 

At length, they came in view of the place where 
the more miserable remains of the savages' army 
lay, where there appeared about a hundred still ; 
their posture was generally sitting upon the ground, 
with their knees up towards their mouth, and the 
head put between the two hands, leaning down 
upon the knees. 

When our men came within two musket-shots of' 
them, the Spaniard governor ordered two muskets 
to be fired, without ball, to alann them : this he 
did, that by their countenance he might know what 
to expect, viz, whether they were still in heart to 
fight, or were so heartily beaten as to be dispirited 
and discouraged, and so he might manage accord- 
K 2 



}00 ADVENTUBES OF 

iDgly. This itratagem took ; for as soon as the sa- 
vages heard the first gun and saw the flash of the 
second, they started up upon their feet in tiie great- 
est coDSternatioQ imaginable: and as our men ad- 
vanced Bwiflily towards them, they all ran screaming 
and veiling away, with a kind of howling noise, 
whicn our men md not understand, and had never 
heard before ; and thus they ran up the hiils into 
the country. 

, At first our men had much rather tLe weather 
had been calm, and they had all gone away to sea ; 
but they did not then consider that this might pro- 
bably have been the occasion of their coming again 
in such multitudes as not to be resisted, or, at least, 
to come so many, and so often, as would quite de- 
solate the island, and starve them. Will Atkins, 
therefore, who, notwithstanding his wound, kept 
always with them, proved the best counsellor iq 
this case : his advice was, to take the advantage that 
offered, and clap in between them and their boats, 
and 30 deprive them of the capacity of ever return- 
ing any more to plague the island. 

They consulted long about this ; and Home were 
against it, for fear of making the wretches fly to the 
woods and live there desperate, and so they should 
have them to hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to 
stir out about their business, and have their planta- 
tion continually rifled, all their tame goats destroy- 
ed, and, in short, be reduced to a life of continual 
distress. 

Will Atkins told them they had better have to do 
with a hundred men than with a hundred nations : 
that as they must destroy their boats, so they must 
destroy the men, or be ^ of them destroyed them- 
selves. In a word, he showed them the necessity 
" '' I - ■ .1 . .. II g jjjj^ jj . ^^ they 

e boats, and get- 



KOBIKSOM CHUSOE. 101 

ting Eome dry wood together from a dead tree, they 
triad to Bet some of them on fire, but ^ey were so 
wet that they would not burn ; however, the fire 
BO burned the upper part, that it soon made them 
unfit for swinuniDg in the seu as boats. When 
the Indians saw what they were about, some of 
them came running out of the woods, and coming 
as near ss they could to our men, kneeled down 
and cried, " Oa, Oa, Waramokoa," and some other 
words of their language, which none of tlie others 
understood any thbg of; but as they made pitiful 
gestures and strange noises, it was easy to under- 
stand they begged to have their boats spared, and 
that they would be gone, and never come there 
again. But our men were now satisfied that they 
had no way to preserve themselves, or to save their 
colony, but effectually to prevent any of these people 
from ever going home again: depending upon this, 
that if even so much as one of them got back into 
their country to tell the story, the colony was un- 
done ; so that, letting them know that they should , 
not have any mercy, they fell to work with their 
canoes, and destroyed them every one that th^storm 
had not destroyed before; at the Bight of which the 
savages raised a hideous cry in the woods, which 
our people heard plain enough, after which they 
ran about the island like distracted men ; so that, 
in a word, our men did not really know at first 
what to do with them. Nor did the Spaniards, with 
all their prudence, consider, that whde they made 
those people thus desperate, they ought to have 
kept a good guard at the same time upon their 
plantations; for though it is true, they had driven 
away their cattle, and the Indians did not find out 
their main retreat, I mean my old castle at the hill, 
uor the cave in the valley, yet they found out my 
plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, 
k3 



102 ADVENTURES OF 

and all the fences and planting about it ; trod ail 
the com under foot, tore up tlie vmes and grapes, 
being just then almost ripe, and did our men an in- 
estimable damage, though to themselves not one 
farthing's worth of service. 

Though our men were able to fight them upon 



I, vet they were in no condition ti 
sue then), or hunt them up and down ; for as they 
were too nimble of foot for our men, when they 
found them single, so our men durst not go abroad 
single, for fear of being surrounded with their 
numbers. The best was, they had no weapons ; 
for though they had bowa, they had no arrows left, 
nor any materials to make any ; nor had they any 
edged tool or weapon among them. 

The extremity and distress they were reduced to 
wasgreat and indeed deplorable; but at the same 
time, our men were also brought to very bad cir- 
cumstances by them ; for though their retreats were 
preserved, yet th«r provision was desb^iyed, and 
their harvest spoiled; and what to do, or which 
way to turn themselves, they knew not. The only 
refuge they had now was, uie stock of cattle they 
had m the valley by the cave, and some little com 
which grew there, and the plantation of the three 
Englishmen, Will Atkins and liis comrades, who 
were now reduced to two ; one of them being kill- 
ed by an arrow, which struck him on the side of 
iuB head, just under the temples, so that he nerer 
spoke more: and it was very remarkable, that this 
was the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor 
savage slave with his hatchet, and who allerwards 
intended to have murdered the Spaniards. 

I looked upon their case to have been worse at 
this time than mine was at any time, after I first 
discovered the grains of barley and rice, and got 
into the manner of planting and raising my com, 



JSOB. 103 

aad my tame cattle; far now they had, as I may 
say, a hundred wolves upon the island, wht(^ 
would devour every thing tney could come at, yet 

could be hardly come at themselves. 

When they saw what their circumatances were, 
the first thiug they ooncluded was, that they would, 
if possible, drive mem up to the &rther part of the 
island, south-west, that if any more savages came 
on shore they might not fiud one another: then 
that they would daily himt and harass them, aod 
kill as many of them as they could come at, till 
they had reduced their number; and if they could 
at last tame them, and bring them to any thing, 
they would give them com, and teach them how to 
plant, and hve upon their daily labour. 

In order to this, they so followed them, and so 
terrified them with their guns, that in a few days, 
if any of them fired a gun at an Indiaa, ifhe didnot 
hit him, yet he woum fall down for fear ; and so 
dreadfully frightened they* were, that they kept out . 
of sight farther and farther; till, at last, our men 
following them, and almost every day killing or 
wounding some of them, they kept up m the woods 
or hollow places so much, that it reduced them to 
the utmost misery for want of food; and many were 
afterwards found dead in the woods, without any 
hurt, absolutely starved to death. 

When our men found this, it made their hearts 
relent, and pity moved them, especially the Spaniard 
governor, who was the most gentleman-like, gene* 
rous-minded man, that I ever met with in my life j 
and he proposed, if possible, to take one of them 
alive, and bring him to understand what they meaot, 
so far as to be able to act as interpreter, and go 
among them, and see if they might be brought to 
some conditions that miglit be depended upon, to 
save their lives and do us no harm. 



104 

It waa Bome while before any of them could be 
taken ; but being weak and half-starved, oae of 
Uiem was at last surprised and made a prisoDer. He 
was sullen at first, and would neither eat nor drink ; 
but finding himself kindly used, and victuals given 
him, and no violence oSered bim, he at last grew 
tractable, and came to himself. They brought old 
Friday to him, who talked often with "him, and told 
him how kind the others would be to them all ; that 
they would not onl v save their lives, but would give 
them part of the island to live in, provided tncv 
would give satisiiction that they would keep in their 
own bounds and not come beyond it to mjure or 
prejudice others ; and that they should have corn 
given them to plant, and make it grow for their 
bread, and some bread given them for their present 
' subsistence : and old Friday bade the fellow go and 
talk with the rest of his countrymen, and see what 
they said to it: assuring, them, that if they did not 
agree immediately, they should be all destroyed. 

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and re- 
duced in number to about thuty-scvCn, closed with 
the proposal at the first oSer, and begged to have 
some food given them ; upon which, twelve Spa- 
niards and two Englishmen, well-armed, with three 
Indian slaves and old Friday, marched to the place 
where they were. The three Indian slaves curried 
them a large quantity of bread, some rice boiled up 
to cakes and dried in the sun, and three live goats; 
and they were ordered to go to the side of a hill, 
where triey sal down, ate theit provisions very thank- 
fuUy, and were the most faithful fellows to their 
words that could be thought of; for, except when 
they came to beg victuals and directions, they never 
came out of their bounds: and there they lived when 
I came to the istoid, and I went to see them. 
They had taught them both to plant com, make 



ROBINSON CHDSOE. 105 

bread, breed tame ^oatSt and milk them : thev want- 
ed nothing but wives, and they soon would have 
been a nation. They were confined to a neck of 
land, BUTTounded with high rocks behind them, 
and lying plain towards the sea before them, on 
the south-east corner of the island. Theyhadland 
enough, and it was very good and fruitful; about 
a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles in 
length. 

Our men taught them to make wooden sptldes, 
such as I made for mvself, and gave among them 
twelve hatchets and three or four Icnives ; and there 
they lived, the most subjected innocent creatures 
tliat ever were heard of, 

After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tanquil7 
Ijty with respect to the savages till I came to revisit 
them, which was about two years after; not but 
that, now and then, some canoes of savages came 
on shore for their triumphal, unnatural feasts; but 
as they were of several nations, and perhaps had 
never heard of those that came before, or the rea- 
son of it, they did not make any search or inquiry 
after thetr countrymen ; and if they had, it would 
have been very hard to have found them out. 

Thus, I think, I have given a full account of all 



,ve givi 

that happened to them till my return, at least, that 
was worth notice. The Indians or savages were 
wonderfully civilized by them, and they frequendy 
went among them; but forbid, on pain of death, 
any one of the Indians coming to them, because 
they would not have their settlement betrayed again- 
One thing was very remarkable, viz. that they 
taught the savages to make wicker-work, or has- 
kets, but they soon outdid their masters; for they 
made abundance of most ingenious things in wicker- 
work, particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird* 
cages, cupboards, &c,; as also chairs to sit on,' 



106 ADVENTURES OF 

fitooU, beds, couches, and abundance of otherthiogs; 
being ver;^ ingeniouB, at such Work, when they were 
once put in the way of it, 

Mj coming was aparticukr relief to these people, 
because we furnished them with knives, scissars, 
spades, BhoveU, pick-axes, and all things of that 
kmd which they could want. With the help of 
those tools they were eo very handy, that they came 
at last to build up their huts, or houses, very hand- 
somely, raddling or working it up like basket-work 
all the way round; which was a very extraordinary 
piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd, but was 
an exceeding good fence, as well against heat as 

XQSt all sorts of vermin; and our men were so 
n with it, that they got the wild savages to 
come and do the like for them; so that when I 
came to see the two Englishmen's colonies, they 
looked, at a distance, as if they all lived like bees 
in a hive. As for Will Atkins, who was now be- 
come a very industrious, useful, and sober fellow, 
he had made himself such a tent of basket-work, 
as, I believe, was never seen ; it was one hundred 
and twenty paces round on the outside, as I mea- 
sured by my steps ; the walls were as close worked 
as a basket, in pannels or squares of thirty-two in 
number, and very strong, standing about seven 
feet high : in the middle Was another not above 
twenty-two paces round, but built stronger, being 
octagon in its form, and in the eight corners stood 
eight very strong posts; round the top of which he 
laid strong pieces, pinned together with wooden 
pins, from which he raised a pyramid for a roof of 
eight rafters, very handsoitie, I assure you, and 
jomed together very well, though he had no nails, 
and only a few iron spikes, which he made himself 
too, out of the old iron that I had left there ; and, 
indeed, this fellow showed abundance of ingenui^ 



ROBINSON CRD30E. 107 

in several things which he had no knowledge of: 
he made himarorge, with a pair of wooden bellows 
to blow the fire; he made lumaelf charcoal for his 
work ; and he formed out of the iron crows a mid- 
dling good anvil to hammer upon : in this manner 
he made many things, but especially hooks, staples 
and spikes, bolts and hinges. — But, to return to the 
house : After he had pitched the roof of his inner- 
most tent, he worked it up between the raiters with 
basket-work, so firm, and thatched that over ag^n 
so ingeniously with rice-straw, and over that a large 
leaf of a tree, which covered the top, tliat his house 
was as dry as if it had been tiled or slated. Indeed, 
he owned that the sav^es had made the basket' 
work for him. The outer circuit was covered as a 
lean-to, all round this inner apartment, and long 
rafters lay from the thirty-two angles to the top posts 
of the inner house, being about twenty feet distant ; 
so that there was a space like a walk witlno the 
outer wicker-wall and without the inner, near 
twenty feet wide. 

The inner place he partitioned off with the same 
wicker-work, but much fairer, and divided into six 
apartments, so that he had six rooms on a fioor, 
and out of every one of these there was a door; 
first into the entry, or coming into the main tent, 
another door into the mau tent, and another 
door into the space or walk that was round it; so 
that walk was also divided into six equal parts, 
which served not only for a retreat, but to store 
up any nece^aries which the family had occasion 
for. These six spaces not taking up the whole cir- 
cumference, what other apartments the outer cir- 
cle had were thus ordered: — As soon as you were in 
at the door of the outer circle, you had a short pas- 
sagestraightbeforeyoutothedooroftheinncrhouse; 
but on either side was a wicker partition^ and a 



iOd ADVBMTUKES UF 

door in it, by which jou went firet into a large room, 
or Btore-house, twenty feet wide, and about thirty 
feet lone, and through that into another, not 
quite BO long; so that in the outer circle were ten 
handsome rooms, six of which were only to be come 
at through the apartments of the inner tent, and 
served as closets or retiring rooms to the respective 
chambers of the inner circle; and four large ware- 
houses, or bams, or what you please to call them, 
which went through one another, two on either 
handof the passage, liiat led tlirough the outer door 
to the inner tent. 

Such a piece of basket-work, I believe, was never 
seen in the world, nor a house or tent so neatly con- 
trived, much less so built. In this great bee-hive 
lived the duree families, that is to say, WIl Atkins 
^d his companion; the third was ulled, but his 
wife remained, with three children, for she was, it 
seems, big with child when he died: and the oUier 
two were not at all backward to ^ve the widow her 
full share of every thing, I mean as to their com, 
milk, grapes, &c. and when they killed a kid, or 
feund a turtle on the shore ; so tnat they all lived 
well enough; though it was true, they were not 
so industrious as the other two, as has been observed 
already. 

Onething.however, cannot be omitted, viz. thatas 
for religion, Idonotknow that there was any thingof 
that kind among them : they often, indeed, put one 
another in mind that there was a God, by the vei^ 
common method of seamen, viz. swearing by his 
name: nor were their poor ignorant savage wives 
much better for having been mam'ed to Christians, 
as we most call them; for as they knew very little of 
God themselves, so they were utterly incapable of en- 
teringintoany diEcouisewith their wives aboutaGod, 
or to talk any tiling to them concerning religion. 



ROBINSON CBUS'OE. 109 

The utmost of all the improvemeDt which I can 
gay the wives had made from them was, that they 
had taught them to speak Enghsh pretty well ; and 
most of their children, which were near twenty in 
all, were taught to speak English too, &om their 
first learning to speak, though they at first spoke it 
in a very hroken manner, like their mothers. There 
was none of these children above six years old when 
I came thither, for it was not much above seven 
years that they had fetched these five savage ladies 
over; but they had all been pretty fruitful, for 
they had all diiidren, more or less ; I think the 
cook's mate's wife was big of her sixth child ; and 
the mothers were all a good sort of well-governed, 

S|uiet, laborious women, modest and decent, help- 
ul to one another, mighty observant and subject to 
their masters (I cannot call them husbands), and 
wanted nothing but to be well instructed in the 
Christian religion, and to be legally married; both 
which were happily brought about afterwards by 
my means, or, at least, in consequence of my com- 
ing among th^n. 

Having thus ^ven an account of the colony in 
seneral, and pretty much of my runagate Enghsh, , 
1 naust say something of the Spaniards, who were 
the main body of the family, and in whose story 
there are some incidents also remarkable enough, 

1 had a great many discourses with them about 
their circumstances when they were among the sa> 
vages. They told me readily that they had no in- 
stances to give of their application or ingenuity in . 
that country ; that they were a ^oor miserable, de- 
jected handful of people; that if means had been 
put into their hands, yet they had so abaodoned 
themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight 
of their misfortune, that they thought of nothing 
but starving. One of them, a grave and sensible 

VOL. XVII. L 



110 AJDVEKTUUES OF 

maiit told me he was coDvinced tfaey were in the 
wrong ; that it was not the part of wise mec to give 
themselves up to their misery, but always to take 
hold of the helps which reason ofiered, as well for 
present. su^ort as for future deliverance: he told 
,me that grief was the most seoselesB insignificant 
pasdon in the world, for that it regarded only things 
past, which were generallv impossible to be recall^ 
or to be remedied, but had no views of Utiaga to 
come, and had no share in any thing that looked 
like deliverance, but rather added to the afflicdoo 
than proposed a remedy ; and upon this be repeated 
a Spanish proverb, wtuch though I cannot repeat 
in just the same words that he spoke it in, yet I re- 
member I made it into au English proverb of my 
own, thus : 

Ib troable to be troobM. 
Ii to b&TC joor trouble doablcd. 
He ran on then in remarks upon all tbe little im- 
provements I had made in my solitude: my un- 
wearied application, as he called it ; and how 1 had 
made a condition which in its circumstances waa at 
first much worse than theirs, a thousand times more 
happy than theirs was, even now when they were 
all together. He told me it was remarkable tfa^ 
EngUAuneo had a greater presence of mind, in tb«T 
distress, than any people that ever he met with: 
that their unhappy nation and the Portuguese were 
the worst men m the world to stru^le with misfor- 
tunes; for that their first step in dangers, after the 
common efibrts were over, was to de^air, lie down 
under it, and die, without rousing their thoughts up 
to proper remedies for escape. 

I told him their case and mine difoed exceed- 
ingly ; tliat they were cast upon the shore without 
necessaries, without supply of food, pr present sus- 
tenance till they could provide ; that, it was true, I 



ROXTNSON CRUSOE. Ill 

had this dkadvantAge and dtscomfort, that 1 wat 
alone ; but then the supplies I had providentially 
thrown into my hands, by the unexpected driving 
of the ship on ahore, was such a help as would have 
encouraged any creature in the world to have applied 
himself as I had done. Seignior, says the ^aniard, 
had we poor Spaniards been in your case, we should 
never have got half those things out of the ship, as 
you did ; nay, says he, we should never have found 
means to have got a raft to carry them, or to h&ve 
got the raft on Btiore without boat or sail : and how 
much less should we have done if any of us had 
hem alone ! Well, I desired him to abate his com- 
pliment, and go on with the history of their coming 
on shore, ^ere they landed. He told me they 
unhappily landed at a place where there were peo- 
ple without provisions ; whereas, had they had the 
common sense to have put off to sea again, and gone ' 
to another island a little farther, they had found 
provisions, though without people ; there being an 
island that way, as they had been told, where there 
were provisions, though no people ; that is to say, 
that the Spaniards of Trinidad luid frequently been 
there, and had filled the island with eoats and hogs 
at several times, where they had bred in such m^- 
litudes, and where turtle and sea-fowls were in 
such plenty, that they could have been in no want 
<rf flesh, though they had found no bread ; whereas 
here, ther were only sustained with a few roots and 
herbs, wnich they understood not, and which had 
no substance in them, and which the inhabitants 
gave them sparingly enough ; and who could treat 
Siem no better, unless they would turn cannibals, 
and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty of 
their country. 

They gave me an account how many ways they 

Btrove to civilise the savages they were with, and to 

l2 



112 ADVENTUHEE OF 

4each them rational cuBtoms in the ordinary way of 
living, but in vain ; and faow they retortea it upon 
them, as unjufit, that they, nho came there for ax- 
gistance and support, should attempt to set up for 
inetructore of those that gave tbetn food ; intimat- 
ing, it seems, that none should set up for the in- 
Rtructors of others but those who coula live without 
them. 

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities 
tKey were driven to ; how sometimes they were 
many days without any food at all, the island they 
were upon being inhabited by a sort of savages that 
lived more indolent, and for that reason were less 
supplied with the necessariea of life, than they had 
reason to believe others were in the same part of the 
world : and yet they found that these savages were 
less ravenous and voracious than those who nad bet- 
ter supplies of food. Also they added, they could 
not but see with what demonstrations of wisdom 
and. goodness the governing providence of God 
directs the events of ihin^ in the world ; which, 
they said, appeared in their circumstances ; for if, 
pressed by uie hardships they were under, and the 
barrenness of the country where th^ were, they 
had searched after a better to Uve in, Ihey had then 
been out of the way of the relief that h^)pened to 
them by my means. 

They then gave me an account how the savages 
whom they lived among expected them to go out 
with them into their wars ; and, it was true, that as 
they had fire-erms with them, had they not had the 
disaster to lose their ammunition, they should have 
been serviceable not only to their friends, but have 
made themselves terrible both to friends and ene- 
mies; but being without powder and shot, and yet 
in a condition that they could not in reason deny 
to go out with their landloids to their wars, so whra 



ROBIMSOM CftVaOB. US 

they caoK into the field of battle, they were iq b 
woree condttion than the savages thetiuelvee ; for 
they had neither bowB nor sttowb, nor could they 
lue thoae the savages gave them ; so they could do 
nothing but stand still, and be wounded with ar- 
rows, till thev came up to the teeth of their enemy; 
and then, indeed, the three halberds they had were 
of use to them ; and they would often drive a whole 
little army before them with tJiose halberds, and 
sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their mus* 
kets : but that, for all this, they were soruetimefi 
surrounded with multitudes, and in great danger 
from their arrows, till at last they found the way 
to make themselves large targets of wood, which 
they covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names 
they knew not, and these covered them from the 
arrows of the savages : that, notwithstanding these, 
they were sometimes tn great danger t and five of 
them were once knocked down together with the 
clubs of the savages, which was the time when one 
of tbem was taken prisoner, that is to say, the Spa- 
niard whom I had reeved : that at first they thought 
he bad been killed ; but when they aAerwards heard 
he was taken prisoner, they were under the greatest 
grief iraa^oable, and would willingly have til ven- 
tured their lives to have rescued him. 

They told me that when they were so knocked 
down, the rest of their company rescued them, and 
stood o»er them fightlngtill they were come to them- 
selves, all hut him who they thou^t had beeni 
dead : and then they made their way with their hal- 
berds and pieces, standing close together in a line, 
through a body of above a thousand savages, beat- 
ing down all that came in their way, got the victory 
over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, be- 
cause it was with the loss of their mend, whom the 
l3 



114 ADVENTURES OP 

Other party, finding him alive, carried off, with some 
others, as I gave an account before. 

They described most aiFectionately how they were 
snrpriged with joy at the return of their friend and 
companion in miEcry, who, they thought, had been 
devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz, by 
wild men ; and yet how more and more they were 
surprised with the account be gave them of hie er- 
rand, and that there was a Christian in any place 
near, much more one that wai able, and had miman- 
ity enough, to contribute to their deliverance. 

They described how they were astonished at the 
sight of the relief I sent them, and at the appear* 
ance of loaves of bread, things they had not seen since 
their coming to that miserable place; how often 
they crossedand blessed it as bread sent from Hea- 
ven ; and what a reviving cordial it was to their spi- 
rits to taste it, as also the other things I bad sent 
for their supply : and, after all, they would have 
told me something of the joy they were in at the 
sight of a boat and pilots, to carry them away to 
the person and place trom whence all these new 
comforts came, but it was impossible to express it 
by words, for their excessive joy naturally driving 
tnem to unbecoming extravagances) they had no 
way to describe them, but by telling me they bor- 
dered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to 
their passions suitable to the sense that was upon 
them 1 that in some it worked one way, and in some 
another; and that some of them, through asurprise 
of joy, would burst into tears, others be stark mad, 
and others immediately faint. This discourse ex- 
tremely affected me, and called to my mind Friday's 
ecstasy when he met his father, and the poor peo- 
ple's ecstasy when I took thera up at sea after dieir 
ship was on fire ; the joy of the mate of the ship 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 115 

when he found himself .delivered in the place where 
he expected to perish ; snd my own joy, when, 
after twenty-eight years' captivity, I found a good 
ship ready to carry me to my own country. All 
these things made me more sensible of the relation 
of these poor men, and more affected with it. 

Having thus given a view of the state of things 
as 1 found them, I must relate the heads of what I 
did for these people, and the condition in which I 
left them. It was their opinioo, and mine too, that 
they would be troubled no more with the savages, 
or, if they were, they would be able to cut them 
off, if they were twice as manyas before ; so they 
had no concern about that. Then I entered into 
a serious discourse with tbe Spaniard, whom I call 
gflvemor, about their stay in the island; for as I 
was not come to carry any of them off, so it would 
not be just to carry off some and leave others, who, 
perhaps, would be unwilling to stay if their strength 
was diminished. On the other haiid, I told them I 
came to establish them there, not to remove them: 
and then I let them know that I had brought with 
me relief of sundry kinds for them ; that I had been 
at a great charge to supply them with all thin^ 
necessary, as well for tiieir convenience as their 
defence ; and that 1 had such and such particular 
persons with me, as well to increase aird recruit 
their number, as by the particular neceeeary em- 
ployments which they were bred to, being artificers, 
to assist them in those things in which at present 
they were in want. 

"they were all together when I talked thus to 
them ; and before 1 delivered to tliem the stores I 
had brought, 1 asked them, one by one, if they had 
entirely ^rgot and buried the first animosities that 
had been among them, and would shake hands with 
one another, and engage in a strict friendship and 



116 ADVBNTOKKl Ot 

union of interest, that so there might be no mwe 
misundentandings and jealoinieB. 

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankDcas and 
good humeur, said, they had met with affliction 
enou(;h to make them all sober, and enemies enouch 
to make them all friends; that, for his part, he 
would live and die with them ; and was so far ^om 
designing any thing against the Spaniarcb, that be 
owned they had done nothing to him but what his 
own mad humour made necessary, and what he 
would have done, and perhaps worse, in their case; 
and that be wonld ask them pardon, if I desired it, 
for the foolish and brutieh'thfflgs he had done to 
them, and was very willing and desirous of living in 
terms of entire friendship and union with them, 
and would'do any thing that lay in his power to 
convince thera of it ; and as for ^oing to Engltmd, 
he cared not if he did not go thither diese twenty 
years. 

The Spaniards sud tfaey had, indeed, at first dis- 
armed and excluded Will Atkins and his two coun- 
trymen for their ill conduct, as they bod let me 
know, and they appealed to me for the necessity 
they were under to do so ; but that Will Atkins had. 
beluved himself eo bravely in the great figbt they had 
with the savages, and on several occasions since, and 
had showed himself so &ithful to, and concerned 
for, the general interest of them all, that they had 
forgotten all that was past, and thought he merited 
as much to be trusted with arms, and supprtedwith 
neccfisaries, as any of them; and they had testified 
their satisfaction in htm, by committing the com- 
mand to him, next to the governor himsdf ; and as 
they had entire confidence m him, and alt his coub> 
trymen, so they acknowledged they had merited 
that confidence by all the methods that honest men 
could merit to be v^ued and trusted; and they 



HOBINSOM CRUSOE. 117 

most heartily embraced the occasion of giving me 
this aBBurtmce, that they would' never have any in- 
terest separate from one another. 

Upon these frank and open declarations of friend- 
ship, we appointed the next day to dine all together; 
and, indeea, we made a splendid feast. I caused 
the ship's cook and bis mate to come on shore and 
dress our dinner, and the old cook's-mate we had 
OD shore assisted. We brought on shore six pieces 
of good beef, and four pieces of pork, out of the 
■hip's provision, with our punch-bowl, and mate- 
rials to fill it { and, in particular, I gave them ten 
bottles of French claret, and ten bottles of English 
beer; things that neither the Spaniards nor the 
English had tasted for many years, and which, it 
may be supposed, they were very glad of. The 
Spaniards tulded to our feast five wnole kids, which 
the cooks roasted ; and three of them were aent 
covered up close, on board the ship to the seamen, 
that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, 
as we did with their ealt meat from on board. 

After this feast, at whidi we were veir innocently 
merry, I brought out my cargo of goods ; wherein, 
that there might be no dispute about dividing, I 
showed them that there was a sufficiency for them 
all, desiring that they might all take an equal quan- 
tity of the goods that were for wearing; that is to 
■ay, equal when made up. As, first, 1 distributed 
linen sufficient to make every pne of them four 
shirts, and, at the Spaniards request, afterwards 
made them up six ; these were exceeding comfort- 
able to them, having been what, as I may say, they 
had long since forgot the use of, or what it was to 
wear them. I allotted the thin English stuS, which 
I mentioned before, to make every one a light coat 
like a frock, which I judged fittest for the heat of 



lis ADVIHTURKB OP 

the seBBOD) cool and loose ; and ordered that when- 
ever they decayed they should make more, as they 
thought fit; the like for pumps, shoes, stockings, 
hats, &c. 

I cannot express what pleasure, what latis&ction, 
sat upon the countenances of all tliese poor men, 
when they saw the care I had taken of them, and 
how well I had lurtiished them. They told me I 
was a father to them ; and that baling such a cor- 
respondent as I was in so remote a part of the world, 
it would make them forget that they were left in a 
desolate place ; and they alt Tuluntarily engaged to 
me not to leave the place without my ctHuent. 

Thml presented to them the peoplelhad brought 
with me, particularly the tailor, the smith, and the 
two carpenter*, all of them most necessary people { 
but, above all, my general utificer, than whom 
they could not name any thing that was more use- 
ful to them : and the taiUr, to show his concern for 
them, went to work inunediatelv, and, with my 
leave, made l^m every one a shirt, die first thin^ 
he did ; and, which was still more, he taught the 
women not only how to sew ai>d stitch, and use the 
needle, but made them assist to make the shirts for 
their husbands, and for all the rest. 

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how 
useful they were ; for they took to pieces all my 
clumsy, unhandy things, and made them clever con- 
venient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, 
shelves, and every thing they wanted of that kind. 
But to. let them see how nature made artificers at 
first, I carried the carpenters to see Will Atkins's 
basket-house, as I called it : and they both owned 
they never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity 
before, nor any thin^ so regular and so handily 
built, at least of its kind; and one o( tb«n, when 



HDBINBOK CRD80B. 119 

he Baw it, after mtiaing b good while, turoing about 
to me, 1 am aure, says he, that man has no need of 
lu ^w need do nouing but give him tools. 

Then I brought iJiem out ail my store of tools, 
and gave every man a diggiog-epade, a shovel, and 
a mke, for we had no harrows or ploughs ; and to 
every separate place a pick-axe, a crow, a broad 
axe, and a saw ; always appointing, that as often as 
any were broken or worn out thev should be sup- 
plied, without ^dging, out of tne general stores 
that I left behind. Nails, staples, hinges, ham- 
mers, chisels, knives, scissars, and all sorts of iron- 
work, they had without tale, as they required ; for 
no man would take more than he wanted, and he 
must be a fool that would waste or spoil them on 
any account whatever i and, for the use of the miith, 
I left two tons of unwraugjit iron for a supply. 

My magazine of powder and arms which I brought 
them was such, even to profusion, that they could 
not but rejoice at them ; for now they could Inarch 
as I used to do, with a musket upon each shoulder, 
if there was occasion ; and wereahl^to fight a thou- 
sand savages, if they had but some little advantages 
of situation, which also they couM not miss, if they 
had occasion. 

I carried on shwe with me the young man whose 
nwther was starved to death, and the maid also : 
she was a sober, well-educated, religious young wo- 
man, and behaved so ino^Diively, that every one 
gave her a good word ; she had, indeed, an unlu^y 
ufe with us, there being no woman in the ship but 
herself, butshe boreitwitb patience. Afterawhile, 
seeing things so well ordered, and in so fine a way 
of thnving upon my island, and ocmsidering that 
they had neither business nor acquaintance m the 
East Indies, or reason fer taking so long a voyage ; 
J say, ctmsidering all this, bcib oi^ma came to 



120 ADVENTORRS OP 

me, and de«red I would give them leave to reronin 
on the island, and be entered among my family, as 
they called it. I agreed to this readily ; and they 
had a little plot of ground allotted to them, where 
they had three tents or houeeB set up, surrounded 
witJi a basket-work, patlisadoed like Atkins's, ad- 
joining to bis plantation. Their tente were con- 
trived BO that ttiey had each of them a room apart 
to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great store- 
house, to lay their goods in, and to eat and drink in. 
And nov the other two Englishmen removed their 
habitation to the same place ; and so the island was 
divided into three colonies, and no more, viz. the 
Spaniards, with old Friday, and the first servants, 
at my old habitation under the hill, which was, in 
a word, the capital city ; and where they had so en- 
larged and extended Uieir works, as well under as 
on the outside of the hill, that they lived, though 
perfectly concealed, yet full at large. Never was 
there such a little city in a wood, and so hid, in any 
part of the world ; for I verily believe a thousand 
men mi^bt have ranged the island a month, and, if 
they had not known there was such a thing, and 
looKed on purpose for it, they would not have found 
it ; for the trees stood so thick and so close, and 
grew so fast<woven one into another, that nothing 
but cutting them down first could discoverthe place, 
except the only two narrow entrances where they 
went in and out could be found, which was not veir 
easy ; one of them was close down at tlie water's 
edge, on the side of the creek, and it was afterwards 
above two hundred yards to the place; and the other 
was up a ladder at twice, as 1 have already formerly 
descnoed it ; and tJiey had also a large wood thick- 
planted on the top of the hill, containing above an 
acre, which grew apace, and concealed the place 
from all discova^ there, with only one narrow place 



ROBINSOK CRUSOE, 121 

between two trees, not easily to be discovered, to 
enter on that side. 

The other coloivy was that of Will Atkins, where 
there were four ramilies of Englishmen, I mean 
those 1 had left there, with their wives and children; 
three savages that were slaves ; the widow and the 
children of the Englishman that was killed ; 



young man and the maid ; and, by ihe way, w 
made a wife of her before we went away. Thei 
s also the two carpenters and the tailor, whom 



I brought with me for them; also the smith, who 
was a very necessary man to them, especially as a 
gunsmith, to take care of their arms ; and my other 
man, whom I called Jack of all trades, who was in 
himself as good almost as twenty men ; for he was 
not only a very ingenious fellow, but a very merry 
fellow; and before 1 went away we marriea him to 
the honest maid that came with the youth in the 
ship 1 mentioned before. 

And now 1 speak ofmarrving, it brings me na- 
turally to say something of the French ecclesiastic 
that I had brought with me out of the ship's crew 
whom I took up at sea., It is true, this man was a 
Roman, and perhaps it may give offence to some 
hereafter, if I leave any thing extraordinary upon 
record of a man whom, before I begin, I must ( to 
set him out in just colours) represent in terms very 
much to his disadvantage, in the account of protest- 
ants : as, first, that he was a Papist ; secondly, a 
Popish priest ; and, thirdly, a French Popish priest. 
But justice demands of me to give him a due cha- 
racter j and I must say, he was a grave, sober, 
pious, and most religious person ; exact in his life, 
extensive in his charity, and exemplary in almost 
every thing he did. What then can any one say 
against being very sensible of the value of such a 
man, notwiutstanding his profession? though it 



122 ADVENTURBG OF 

may be mj opinion, periupa, as well u the (pinion 
of others who shfJl read this, that he was mis- 
taken. 

The firit hour that I began to converse with him 
after he had agreed to go with me to the East In- 
dies, I found reason to delight exceedingly in his 
conversation; and he drat began with me about re- 
ligion in the most obliging manner imaginable. 
Hit, says he, you have not only under God (and at 
that he crossed hig breast) saved my life, but you 
have admitted me to go this voyage in your snip, 
and by your obl^ing civility have taken me inUi 
your family, giving me an opportunity of free con- 
versation. Now, air, you see by my habit what my 
profession is, and I guess by your natimi what yours 
u ; 1 may think it is my duty, and doubtless it is 
M, to use my utmost Nideavours, on all occaHoni, 
.Ut bring all the loids I can to the knowled^ of the 
truth, and to embrace the catholic doctnne ; but 
■a I am here under your permission, and in your 
family, I am bound, in justice to your kindness, as 
well as in decency and good manneri, to be under 
your government ; and therefore 1 shall not, with- 
out your leave, enter into any debate on the points 
of religion in which we may not agree, &rtber than 
you wdl give me leave. 

I toldhimfaiscarriage was so modest, that I could 
not bat acknowledge it ; that it was true, we were 
■ich people as they called heretics, but that he was 
not the first catbofic I had convetaed with, without 
fitUiog into inconveniences, or carryinff the tjuestioni 
to anv height in debate ; that he would not find 
himself the worse used for being of a different opi- 
nion from us ; and if we did not converse without 
any dislike on eithCT side, it ^ouid foe his fault, not 

He repHed, tiiat he tiiought all our cunrersatioa 



BOBIMBOII CIUME. 12$ 

mi^t be easily Mpanted from disputes ; that it 
was not his business to cap principles with every 
man he convened with ; and Uiat he rather desired 
me to converge with him as a gentleman than as a 
religionist ; and that, if I would give him leave at 
any time to discourse upon religious subjects, be 
would readily comply with it, and that he did not 
doubt but I would aUow him also to defend his own 
(pinions as well as he could ; but that, without my 
leave, he would not break in uponme with any such 
thing. He told me farther, that he would not ceaae 
to do ail that became him, in his office as a priest ai 
well as a private Christian, to procure the good of 
the ship, and th^ safety of all that was in her ; aod 
though, pei^aps, we would not join with him, and 
be could not pray with us, he hoped he might pray 
for us, which he would do upon all occasions. In 
this manner we conversed: and, as he was of the 
most obliging, gentleman-like behaviour, sohewasi 
if I may te ulowed to say so, a man of good sense, 
and, as 1 believe, of great teaming. 

He gave me a most diverting account of hia life, 
and of the man^ extraordioary events of it ; of many 
adventures which had befallen him in the few years 
that he had been abroad in the world: and par^- 
cularly this was very remarkable, viz. that in the 
voyage he was now engaged in, he had the misfor- 
tune to be five times shipped and unshipped, and 
never to go to the place whither any of the ships he 
was in were at first designed. That his first intent 
was to have gone to Martinico, and that he went 
on board a ship bound thither at St. Malo : but, be- 
ing forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the ship re- 
ceived some damage by running aground in the 
mouth of the river Tagus, and was obliged to un- 
load her cargo there ; but finding a Portuguese ship 
thereJtiound to the Madeiras, and ready to aail, ana 
m2 



12+ 

suppoaing he should easily meet with a vessel there 
bound to MarttDico, he weot on board, in order to 
Bail to the Madeiras; but the master of the Portu- 
guese ship, being but an indifferent mariner, had 
been out of his reckoning, and they drove to Fyal ; 
where, however, he happened to find a ve^ good 
market for his cargo, which was corn, and there- 
fore resolved not to go to the Madeiras, but to load 
salt at the isle of May, and to go away to Newfound- 
land. He had no remedy in Uiis exigence but to go 
with the ship, and had a pretty good voyage as lar 
as the Banks (so they call the place where tbey 
catch the fish) ; where meeting with a Fr^ich ship 
bouud from France to Quebec, in the river of Ca- 
nada, and from thence to Martinico, to cany pro- 
visions, he Uiought he should have an opportunity 
to complete his first design ; but when be came to 
Quebec, the master of the ship died, and the vessel 
proceeded no farther : so the nextvo^agebe shipp^ 
himself for France, in the ship that was burned when 
we took them up at sea ; and then shipped with us 
for the East Indies, as 1 have already said. Thus 
he had been disappointed in five voyages, all, as I 
may call it, in one voyage, besides what I shall have 
occasion to mention mrther of the same person. 

But I shall not make digression into other men's 
stories, which have no relation to my own ; I return 
to what concerns our a^rs in the island. He came 
to me one morning, for he lodged among us all the 
while we were upon the island, and it happened to 
be just when I was going to visit the Englishmen's 
colony, at the farthest part of the island; 1 say, he 
came to me, and told me, with a very grave coun- 
tenance, that he had for two or three ^ys desired 
an opportunity of some discourse with me, which 
he hoped would not be displeasing to me, because 
he thought it might in some measure correspond 



ROBINSOH CRUaOB. 125 

with my graeral deaigiit which was, the prosperity 
of my newcolony, and perhwB might put It, at least 
more than he yet thought it was, in the way of 
God's bleuiog. 

1 looked a little surprised at the last part of his 
discourse, and tumiog a little short. How, sir, said 
I, con it be said that we are not in the way of God's 
blessing, after such visible assistances and wooder- 
ful deliverances as we have seenhere, and of which 
I have given you a large account?— If you had 
pleased, sir, said he, with a world of modesty, and 
yet with great readiness, to have heard me, you 
would have found do room to have been displeased, 
much less to think so hard of rae, that I should sug- 
gest that you have not had wonderiul assistances 
and deliverances ; and I hope, on your behalf, that 
you are in the way of God's blessing, as your design 
IS exceeding good, and will prosper; but, sir, though 
it were more so than is even possible to you, yet 
there maybe some among you that are not equally 
right in their actions : and you know, that in the 
story of the children of Israel, one Achan in the 
camp removed God's blessing from them, and turned 
hishand BO against them, that six and thirty of them, 
though not concerned in the crime, were uie objects 
of divine vengeance, and bore the weight of that 
puniehmenC 

I was sensibly touched with his discourse, and 
told him his inference was so just, and the whole 
design seemed so sincere, and was really so religious 
!n its own nature, that 1 was very sorry I had in- 
terrupted him, and b^ged him to go on : and, in 
the mean time, because it seemed that what we bad 
both to say might take i«i some time, I told him I 
was going to ube Englishmen's plantations, and 
asked him to go with me, and we might discourse 
of it by the way. He told me he would the more 



126 ADVEKTtJRES OF 

willingly wait on me thither, because there partly 
the thing waa acted which he desired to speak to 
me about; so we walked on, and I pressed him to 
be free and plain with me in what he had to say- 
Why then, sir, says he, be pleased to give me leave 
to lay down a few propositions, as the toundation of 
what I have to say, that we may not differ in the 
general principles, though we may be of some dif- 
fering opinions in the practice of particulars. First, 
sir, though we differ in some>of the doctrinal arti.- 
cles of r^igion, and it h very unhappy it is so, es- 
pecially in the case before us, as I shall show after- 
wards, yet there are some general principles in 
which we both agree, viz. that there is a God ; and 
that this God having given us some stated general 
rulee for our service and obedience, we ought not 
willingly and knowingly to offend him, either by 
neglecting to do what he has commanded, or by 
domg what he has expressly forbidden : and let our 
different religions be what they will, this general 
principle is readily owned by us all, that the blessing 
of God does not ordinarily follow presumptuous sin- 
ning against his command; and every good Chris* 
tian will be affectionately concerned to prevent any 
that are under his care living in a total neglect of 
God and his commands. It is not your men being 
Protestants, whatever my opinion may be of such, 
that discharges me from being concerned for their 
souls, and from endeavouring, if it lies before me, 
that they should live in as little distance from en- 
mity with their IVIaker as possible, especially if you 
give me leave to meddle so far in your circuit. 

t could not yet imagine what he . aimed at, and 
told him I granted all he had said, and thanked hi&i 
that he would so far concern himself for us ; and 
begged he would explain the particulars of what he 
had observed, that, like Joshua, to take his own pa- 



RtlBlNSOM CRUSOE. 127 

rable, I might put away the accursed thing from 
us. 

Why then, sir, sayB he, I will talie the liberty yrtu 
l^veme; and there are three things, which, if I 
am tight, must stand in the way of God's blessing 
upon ynur endeavours here, and which I should re- 
joice, for your sake, and their own, to see removed: 
and, sir, 1 prcKniae myself that you will fully agree 
with me in tbem all, as soon as I name them ; es- 
pecially because 1 shall convince you that every one 
of them may, with great ease, and very much to 
your aatiefaction, be remedied. First, sir, says he, 
you have here four Englishmen, who have fetched 
women from among the savages, and have taken 
them as their wives, and have had many children by 
them all, and yet are not married to them after any 
stated, legal manner, as the laws of God and man 
require ; and therefore are yet, in the sense of both, 
no less than foTnicatorg, if not living in adultery. 
To this, sir, I know you will object that there was 
no clergyman or priest of any kind, or of any pro- 
fession, to perform the ceremony ; nor any pen and 
ink, or paper, to write down a contract of marriage, 
and have it ugned between them : and I know also, 
sir, what the Spaniard governor has told you, I 
mean, of the agreement that he obliged them to 
make when they took tliose women, viz. that they 
should choose them out by consent, and keep sepa- 
rately to them ; which, by the way, is nothing of a 
marriage, no agreement with the women, as wives, 
but only an agreement among themselves, to keep 
them from quarrelling. But, sir, the essence of the 
sat:rament of matrimony (so he called it, being a 
Roman) coneists not only in the mutual consent of 
the parties to take one another as man and wife, 
but m the formal and legal obligation that there is 
in the contract, to compel the man and womui, at 



128 ADVENTTJRK8 07 

all UmeS) ta own and ackooirledge each gtha:; 
obliging the man to abstain from all other women, 
to engage in no other contract while these subsist, 
and, on all occasions, as ability allows, to provide 
honestly forthem and their children; and to oblige 
the women to the same, or like conditions, nttUatu 
muiandit, on their side. Now, sir, aays he, these 
men may, whfen they please or when occasion pre- 
sents, abandon these women, disown their children, 
leave them to perish, and talse other women, and 
marry them while these are living ; and here he add- 
ed, with some warmth, How, sir, is God honoured 
in this unlawful liberty ? and how shall a blessing 
succeedy our endeavours in this place, however good 
in themselves, and however sincere in your design^ 
while these men, who at present ore your subjects, 
under your absolute government and dominion, are 
allowed by you to live in open adultery ? 

I confesa I was struck with the thing itself, but 
much mcM'e with the convincing arguments he sup- 
ported it with ; for it was certainly tfue, that though 
they had no clergyman upon the spot, yet a formal 
contract on both sides, made bef<»% witnesses, and 
confirmed by any token which they had all agreed 
to be bound by, though it had been but breakmg a 
stick between them, engaging the men to own 
these women for their wives i^on ail occasions, and 
never to abandon them or their children, and the 
women to the same with their husbands, had 
been an efiectual lawful marriage in the sight of 
God ; and it was a great neglect that it was not 
done. But I thoi^ht to have got off my young 
priest by telling him that tdl that part was dtyie 
when I was not here ; and they baa lived so many 
years with them now, that if it was adultery, it was 
past remedy ; tkey could do nothing in it now. 

Cjir,BBys he, asking your pardoB for such freedoni, 



ROBINSON crUbqe. 129 

you are right in this, that, it being done in your ab- 
sence, you couid not be charged with that part of 
the crime ; but, 1 beseech you, flatter not yourself 
that you arc not thererore under an obhgation to do 
your utmost now to put aQ«nd to it. How can you 
think but that, let. the time past lie on whom it will, 
all the guilt, for the future, will lie entirely upon 
"flu? because it ia certauily in your power now to 
put an end to it, and in nobody's power but yours. 
I was so dull still, that 1 did not take him right; 
but I imagined that, by putting an end to it, be 
meant that I should port them, and not suffer them 
to live together any longer : and I said to him I 
could not do that, by any means, for that it would 
put the whole island into confusion. He seemed 
surprised that I should so far mistake him. No, 
sir, says he, 1 do not mean that you should now se- 
parate them, but legally and tfFtctually marry them 
now ; and as, sir, mf way of marrying them may 
not be easy to reconcile them to, though it will be 
e&ctual, even by your own laws, so your way may 
be as well before God, and as valid among men ; I 
mean, by a written contract signed by both man and 
woman, and by ail the witnesses present, which all 
the laws of Europe would decree to be valid. 
• 1 was amazed to see so much true piety, and so 
much sincerity of zeal, besides the unusual impar- 
tiality tn his discourse as to his own party or church, 
and such true warmth for preserving the people that 
he had no knowle^e of or relation to ; I say, for pre- 
serving them from transgressing the laws of God, 
the li£e of which I had indeed not met with any 
where : but, recollecting what he had said of mar- 
rying them by a written contract, which I knew he 
would stand to, I returned it back upon him, and 
told him, I granted all that he had said to be just, 
and on his part very kind ; that I would discoorse 



130 ADVEKTUBKS OF 

with the men upon the point now, when I came to 
tbem ; and I knew no reason why they Bhould scra- 
pie to let him many them all, which I knew well 
enough would be graated to be as aathentic and 
valid in England ai if they were married by one of 
our own clergymen ; what was afterwards done in 
this matter, I shall speak of by itself. 

I then pressed him to tell me what was the second 
complaint which he had to make, acknowledging 
that i was veiy much his debtor for the first, and 
thanked him heartily for it. He told me he would 
use the same freedom and plaimiess in the second, 
and hoped I would take it as well ; and this was^ 
that not withstanding these English subjects of min^ 
as he called them, nad lived with those women for 
almost seven years, bad taught tbem to speak Eng* 
lish, and even to read it, and that they were, as he 
perceived, women of tolerable undenrtanding, and 
capable of instruction, yet titer had not, to this 
hour, taught them any thing of the Christian reli< 

g'on, no, not so much as to know that there was a 
od, or s worship, or in what manner God was to 
be served; or that their own idolatry, and worship- 
ing they knew not whom, was false and absm^ 
Ilia, he said, was an unaccountahle neglect, and 
what God would certainly call them to account for, 
and perhaps, at last, take the work out of their 
hands — he spoke this very affectionately, and warmly, 
lam persuaded, says he, had those men lived in the 
savage countrywhence their wives came, the savages 
would have talcen more pains to have brought them 
to be idolaters, and to worship the devil, than auv 
of these men, so far as I can see, have taken with 
them to teach them the knowledge of the true God. 
Now, sir, said he, though I do not acknowledge 
your religion, or you mine, yet we would be glad to 
see the Evil's servants, and the subjects of his king- 



ffi 



JSOE. 131 

dcHD, tanglit to know the general principle* of the 
Christian religion ; that tfaey might, at least, hear of 
God and a Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and 
of a future state, — things which we all believe ; 
they bad, at least, been so much nearer coming into 
the bosom of the true church than they ore now, in 
the public profeHioii of idolatry and devil- worship. 

I could hold no longer ; I took him in my arms, 
and embraced him with an excess of passion. How 
far, said I to him, have I been from understanding 
the most essential part of a Christian! viz. to love 
the interefit of the Christian church, and the good 
of other men's souls ; 1 scarce have known what 
belongs to the beine a Christian.— O, sir, do not say 
80, replied he; this thing it not your fault. — No, 
said I ; but why did I never lay it to heart as well 
as you ? — It is not too late yet, said he ; be not too 
forward to condemn youcself. — But what can be 
done now? said I; you see I am going away.— 
Will you give me leave to talk with these poor men 
about it? — Yes, with all my heart, tdd I; and will 
oblige them to give heed to what you say too. — As 
to that, said he, we must leave them to the mercy 
ofChrist; but it is your business to assist them, en- 
courage them, and instruct them; and if you give 
me leave, and God his bleswng, I do not doubt but 
the poor ignorant souls shall be brought borne to 
the gre^ circle of Christianity, if not into the par- 
ticular faith we all embrace, and that even while you 
stay here. Upoo this 1 said, I ^all not only give 
you leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it. 
What followed oa this account, I shall mention also 
again in its place. 

I now prMsed him for the third article in which 
we i^ere to blame. Whv, really, says be, it is of the 
some nature ; and I will proceed, wkiog your leave, 
with fte same fdainneai as before : it is about your 



138 ADVSNTURKS OF 

poor BavBges,whoBre, as I may say, your coiMjuered 
subjects. It is a raaKim, air, that is, or ought to be, 
received among all Chriatians, of what church or 

firetended church Boever, *iz. The Christian koow- 
edee ought to be propagated by all possible meaos, 
and on all possible occasions. It is on this principle 
that our church sends missionaries into Persia, In- 
dia, China; and that our clergy, even of tbe supe- 
rior sort, willingly engage in the moat hazardous 
voyages, and the most dangerous residence among 
murderers and barbarians, to teach them the know- , 
ledge of the true God, and to bring them over to 
embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have 
such an opportunity here to have six or seven and 
thirty poor savages, brought over from idolatry to 
the knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, 
that I wonder how vou can pass such an occasion 
of doing good, which is really worth tbe expense of 
a man's whole life. 

I was now struck dumb, indeed, and had not one 
word to sayi I had here a spirit of true Christian 
zeal for God and religion before me, let his parti- 
cular principles be of what kind soever : as for me, 
I had not so much as entertained a thought of this 
in my heart before, and I believe I should not have 
thought of it : for. 1 looked upon these savages as 
slaves, and people whom, had we had any work for 
them to do, we would have used as such, or would 
have been glad to have transported them to any 
other part of the world : for our.business was to get 
rid of them ; and we would all have been satisfied 
if they had been sent to any country, so they had 
never seen their otrn. But to the case ; — I say, I 
jras confounded at his discourse, and knaw not what 
answer to make him. 

He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some 
disorder — Sir, says he, I shall be very sorry if what 



J30E. 13S 

I have >aid givu yon any ofience.'~No, no, said I, 
I am offended with nobody but myself; but I am 
perfectly confounded, not only to think that I should 
never take any notice of this before, but with re- 
flecting what notice 1 am able to take of it now. 
You know, sir, said I, what circumstances I am in; 
I am bound to the East Indies in a ship freighted 
by merchants, and to whom it would be an insuf* 
ferable piece of injustice to detain their ship here, 
the men lying all this while at victuals ana wages 
on the owners' account. It it true, I agreed to be 
allowed twelve days here, and if I stay more, I must 
pay three pounds sterling per diem demurra^ ; nor 
can I stay upon demurrage above eight days more, 
and I have been here thirteen already; so uiat I am 
perfectly unable to engage in this work, unless I 
would sufier m3rself to be left behind here again; 
in which case, if this single ship should miscarry in 
any part of her voyage, 1 should be just in the same 
condition that I was left in here at first, and from 
which I have been so wonderfully delivered. He 
owne'd the case was very hard upon me, as to riiy 
voyage ; but laid it home upon my conscience, whe- 
ther the blessing of saving mirtv-seven souls was not 
worth venturing all I had in the world for. 1 was 
not so sensible of that as he was. I returned upon 
him thus : Why, sir, it is a valuable thing, indeed, 
to bean instrument in God's hand to convert thirty- 
seven heathens to the knowledge of Christ ; but as 
you are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to the 
work, BO that it seems so natuially to fall into the 
way of your profesupn, how is it then that you do 
not rather ofier yourself to undertake it, than press 
me to do it ? 

Upon dus he faced about just before me, as he 
walked along, and putting me to a full stc 
me a very low bow. 1 most heartilvtha^ (lod and 




1S4 ADVXNTURE8 OV 

yon, nr, said he, for giving me »o evident a csti to 
■o biesied a. work ; and i? jrou think yourself dis- 
charged from it, and desire me to undertake it, 1 
nill most readily do it, and think it a happy reirard 
for all the hazards and difficulties of such a broken, 
disappointed voyage as 1 have met with, that I am 
dropped at least into so glorious a work. 

I (Uscovered a kind of rapture in his face while 
he spoke this to me ; hie eyes sparkled like fire, hia 
face glowed, and his colour came and went, as if 
he had been falling into fits ; in a word, be was fired 
with the joy of bang embarked in such a work. I 
paused a considerate while before I could tell what 
to say to bim ; for I was really surprised to find a 
maa of such sincerity and zeal, and carried out in 
hit zeal beyond the ordinary rate of men, not of his 
profession ooly, but even of any profession whatso- 
ever. But after I had considered it awhile, I asked 
him seriously if he was. in earnest, and that he would 
venture, on the single consideration of an Mt^npt 
on those poor people, to be locked up in an un- 
planted island for peihsp his life, and at last might 
not know whether be snould be able to do them 
good or not? 

He turned short opon me, and asked me what I 
called a venture ? Pray, sir, said he, what do you 
think I consented to go in your ^p to the East In- 
^es for? — Nay, said I, that I know not, unleai it 
was to preach to the Indiana. — Doubtless it was, 
said he ; and do you thinlc, if 1 can convert these 
(huty-seven men to the faith of Jesus Christ, it is not 
worth mv time, though I should never be fetched 
off the island again ? nay, is it not infinitely of more 
worth to save so many souls than my life is, or the 
life of twenty more of the same profesnon ? Yes, 
air, saysheil would give Christ and the blessed Vir- 
gin ^nks all my iByt, if 1 could be made the least 



ROB ma ON CRUSOE. 135 

happj iDStrumeDt of sa^ug the sauli of tboae poor 
men, though I were never to set mj foot off this 
islaod, or see my native country any more. But 
siikce you will honour me with putting me into this 
work, for which I will pay for you aTl the days of 
roy life, I have one humble petition to yon besidei. 
— What is that? said T. Why, tays he, it is, that 
you will leave your man Friday with me, to be my 
interpreter to them, and to awiit me ; for without 
some help I cannot speak to them, or they to me. 

I was senBibly touched at his requesting Friday, 
because 1 could not think of parting with him, and 
that for many reasons ; he hul been the co'mpani(»i 
of my travels; he was not only fiuthful to me, but 
tincerely affectionate to the last desree ; and I had 
resdved to do something considerable for him if he 
outlived me, as it was prob^le he would. Then I 
knew that as I had bred Fnday up to be a Protest- 
ant, it would quite confound him to bring him to 
embrace another profession ; and be would never, 
while his eyes were open, believe that his old master 
was a heretic, and would be dsiUned; and this migfat, 
in the end, ruin the poor fellow's principles, and so 
turn him back again to his first idolatry. However, 
a sudden thought relieved me in this strait, and it 
was this : 1 told him I could not say that I was will- 
ing to part with Friday on any account whatever, 
though a work that to him was of more value than 
his life, ought to be to me of much more value than 
the keeping or pardng with a servant. But, on the 
other huid, I wfis persuaded thtlt Friday would by 
no means agree to part with me; and I could not 
force him to it widiout hta consent, without mani- 
fest injustice; because I had promised I would 
never put him away, and he had promised and en- 
gaged to me that he would never leave me unless I' 
put him away. 



136 ADVBMTUBES UF 

He seemed rery much concerned at it, for he had 
DO rational access to these poor people, seeing he 
did not understand one word of their language, nor 
they one word of bis. To remore this dimcultv, 
I told him Friday's father had learned Spanish, 
which I found he also understood, and he should 
serve him as an Interpreter. So he was much bet- 
ter satisfied, and nothing could persuade him but 
he would stay and endeavour to convert them ; but 
Providence gave another very happy turn to all 
this. 

I come back now to the first part of his objec- 
tions. When we came to the Englishmen, I sent 
for them all t(»ether, and after some account given 
them of what 1 had done for them, viz. what neces- 
sary things I had provided for them, and how they 
were distributed, which they were very sensible M, 
and very thankfiil for, 1 began to talk to them of the 
scandalous life they led, and gave them a full ac- 
count of the notice the clerg}rman had, taken of it; 
twd arguing how unchristian and irreligious a life it 
was, I first asked them if they were married men or 
bachelors ? They soon explamed their conditions to 
me, and showed that two of them were wtdowets, 
and the other three were ungle men, or bachelors. 
I asked them with what conscience they could take 
those women, and lie with them as they had done, 
call them their vfives, and have so many children 
by them, and not be lawfully married to them? 

'lliey all gave me the answer 1 expected, viz. that 
there was nobody to marry them ; uiat they agreed 
before the governor to keep them as their wives, 
and to maintain them and own them as their wives; 
and tfaey thought, as things stood with them, they 
Were as legally married as if they had been mamed 
by a parson, and with all the ionnalities in the 



' KOBINaOH CKUSOE. 137 

I toltl them that no doubt they were married in 
the gieht of God, and were bound in coiucience to 
Leep them as their wives ; but that the laws of men 
being otherwiie, they might desert the poor women 
and chiJdren hereafter ; and that their wives being 
poor desolate women, friendleBs and moneyless, 
would have no way to help theraaelves ; 1 therefore 
told them that unless I wi^ assured of their honest 
intent, 1 could do nothing for them, but would take 
care that what I did should be for the women and 
children without them ; and that unless they would 
give me some assurance* that they would marry the 
women, I could not think it was convenient they 
should continue twether as man and wife ; for that 
it was both scandalous to men and offensive to God, 
who they could not think would bless them if they 
went on thus. 

All this went on as I expected : and they told me, 
especially Will Atkins, who now seemed to spealc 
for the rest, that they loved their wives as well a> 
if they had been barn in their own native country, 
and would not leave ihem upon any account what- 
ever ; and they did verily believe their wives were 
as virtuous and as modest, and did, to the utmost of 
their skill, as much for them and for their children, . 
as any women could possibly do; and they would 
Dot part with them on any account : and Will At- 
kins, for his own particular, added, that if any man 
would take him away, and ofier to carry him home 
to England, and m^e him captain of tne best man 
of war in the navy, he would not go with him, if 
be might not carry his wife and diildren with him; 
and if there was a clergyman in the ship, lie would 
be manied to her now with all his heart. 

This was just as I would have it : the priest was 
not with me at that moment, but was not &r off; 
so, to try him tarther, I told him I had a clergyman 

MS 



ISB ADVENTURES OF 

vith me, and, if he was tincere, I would have him 
married next monimg, and bade him consider of it, 
and talk with the rest. He said, as for himself, he 
need Dot consider of it at all, for he was very ready to 
do it, and was glad t had a minister with me, and 
he believed they would be all willing also. I then 
told him that my friend, the minister, was a French- 
man, and could not speak English, but I would act 
the clerk between them. He never so much as 
asked me whether he was a Papist or Protestant, 
which was indeed what I was afraid of; so we part- 
ed ; I went back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins 
went in to talk with his companions, i desired the 
■French gentleman not to say any thing to them tiH 
the business was thorough ripe ; and I told him 
what answer the men had ^ven me. 

Before 1 went from their quarter, they all came 
to me, and told me they had been considering what 
I had said ; that they were glad to hear I had a 
clergyman in my company, and they were very will- 
ing to give roe the satisfaction I desired, and to be 
formally married as soon as I pleased ; for they were 
far from desiring to part with their wives, and that 
they meant nothing but what was very honest when 
they chose them. So I appointed them to meet 
me the next morning ; and, in the mean time, they 
should let their wives know the meaning of the mar- 
riage-law ; and that it was not only to prevent any 
scandal, but also to oblige them that they should 
not forsake them, whatever might happen. 

The women were easily made sensible of the 
meaning of the thing, and were very well satisfied 
with it, as indeed they had reason to be : so they 
failed not to attend all together at my apartment 
next morning, where I brought out my clergyman; 
and though be had not on a minister's gown, afler 
the manner of England, or the habit of a prieat^ 



ROBINSON CRU30E. 139 

af)£r the manner of France, yet having a black 
Test, something like a cassock, with s sash round 
it, he did not look very unlike a minister ; and as 
. for his language, I was his interpreter. But the 
seriousness of his behaTJour to them, and the scru- 
ples he made of marrying the women, because they 
were not baptised and professed Christians, gave 
them an exceeding reverence for bis person ; and 
there was no need, after that, to inquire whether he 
was a clergyman or not. Indeed, 1 was afraid his 
scruples would have been carried so far, as that he 
would not have married itiem at all ; nay, notwith- 
standing all I was able to say to him, he resisted 
me, though modestly, yet very steadily : and at last 
refused absolutely to marry them, unless he had first 
talked with the men and the women too ; and though 
at first 1 was a litiJe backward to it, yet at last I 
agreed to it with a good will, perceiving the sin- 
cerity of his design. 

\\'hen he came to them, be let them know that I 
had acquainted him with their circumstances, and 
with the present design; that he was very willing 
to perform that part of his function, and marry 
them, as I had desired ; but that before he could do 
it, he must take the liberty to talk with them. He 
told them, that in the sight of all indifferent men, 
and in the sense of the laws of society, they had 
lived all this while in open fornication ; and that it 
was true, that nothing but the consenting to marry, 
or effectually separating them from one another, 
could now put an end to it ; but there was a diffi- 
culty in it tod, with respect to the laws of Christian 
matrimony, which he was not fully satisfied about, 
viz. that of marrying one that is a professed Chris- 
tian to a savage, an idolater and a heathen, one that 
is not baptised; and yet that he did not see that 
there was time left to endeavour to persuade tl»e 



140 ADVEHTOBBS OS 

women to be baptiied, or to profess the name of 
Christ, whom they bad, he doubted, heard nothioe 
of, and without which they could not be baptised. 
He told tbem he doubted they were hut indifferent 
Christiana the rnselves; thatthey had but little know- 
ledge of God or of his way», and therefore he could 
not expect that they had said much to their wives 
on that head yet^ but that unless they would pro- 
mise him to use their endeavours with their wives 
to persuade them to become Christians,' and would, 
as well as they could, instruct them in the know- 
ledge and belief of God that made them, and to 
worship Jesus Christ that redeemed them, be could 
not marry them ; for he would have no hand iu ' 



ing 



Christians with savages ; nor was it consistent 



with the principles of the Christian religion, and 
was indeed expressly forbidden iu God's law. 

Th^ heara all this very attentively, and I de- 
livered it very faithfully to them from hie mouth, 
as near his own-words as I could: only sometimes 
adding something of my own, to convince tliem 
how just it was, and how I was of his mind : and I 
always very faiUifuliy distinguished between what I 
said from myself, and what were the clergymen's 
words. They told me it was very true what the 
gentleman said, that they were very indifferent 
Christians themselves, and that ,they had never 
talked to their wives about religion. Lord, sir, 
says Will Atkins,. how should we teach tbem reli* 
fpon ? why, we know nothing ourselves ; and be- 
sides, sir, said he, should we talk to them of God 
imd Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell, it would 
make them laugh at us, and ask us what we believe 
ourselves i And if we should tell them that we 
believe all the things we speak of to them, such as 
of good people going to heaven, and wicked people 
to the devil, they would ask us where we intend to 



nOBINSOH CBDSOE. 14>I 

go ourselves, that believe all this, and are Buch 
wicked fellows as we indeed are? Why, gir, 'tis 
enough to eive them a surfeit of religion at first 
hearing ; folks must have some religion themselves 
before they pretend to teach other people. — Will 
Atkins, said I to him, though I am afraid that what 
you say has too much truth in it, yet can you not 
tell your wife she is in the wrong; that there is a 
God, and a religion better than her own ; that her 
gods are idols ; that they can neither hear nor 
speak ; that there is a great Being that made all 
things, and that can destroy all that he has made; 
that he rewards the good and punishes the bad ; 
and that we areto be judged by him at last for all 
we do here? You are not so ignorant, but even 
nature itself will teach you that all this is true ; and 
I am satisfied you know it all to be true, and be- 
lieve it yourself. — That is true, sir, said Atkius; 
but with what face can I say any thing to my wife 
of all this, when she will tell me immediately it can- 
not be true ? — Not true ! said I ; what do you mean 
by that? — Why, sir, said he, she will tell me it can- 
not be true that this God I shall tell her of can be 
just, or can punish or reward, since I am not pu- 
nished and sent to the devil, that have been eucn a 
wicked creature as she knows I have been, even to 
her, and to every body else ; and that I should be 
Bufi^red to live, that have been always acti ng so con- 
trary to what I must tell her is good, and to what 
I ought to have done.— Why, truly, Atkins, said I, 
I am afraid thou speakest too much truth ; and with 
that i informed the clergyman of what Atkins had 
Baid, for he was impatient to know. 0, said the 
priest; tell him there is one thing will make him the 
best minister in the world to his wife, and that isi 
repentance ; for none teach repentance like true 
penitents. He wants nothing but to repent, and 



1*2' 

then he will be ao much the better qualified to in- 
struct his wife : he will then be able to tell her that 
there is not onlv a God, and that he is the juet re- 
warder of good and evil, but that he is a merciful 
being, and with infinite goodness and looK-sutTeriDg 
forbears to punish those that offend ; waiting to be 
gracious, aod willing .not the death of a sinner, but 
rather that he sbomd return and live: that often- 
times he suffers wicked men to go a long time, and 
even reserves damnatioa to the general dav of re- 
tribution 1 that it is a clear evidence of God and of 
a future state, that righteous mea receive not their 
reward, or wicked men their punishment, till they 
come into another world ; and this will lead him to 
teach his wife the doctrine of the ri 



of the last iudgement. Let him but repent for him- 
self, he will be an excellent preacher of repentance 
to his wife. 

J repeated all this to Atkins^ who looked very se- 
rious all the while, and who, we could easily per> 
ceive, was more than ordinarily affected with it: 
when being eager, and hardly sulfering me to make 
an end — 1 know all this, master, says he, an^ a 
great deal more ; but I have not the impudence to 
talk thus to my wife, when God and my conscience 
know, aod mr wife will be an undeoiaole evidence 
against me, that 1 have lived as if I had never heard 
of a God or future state, or any thing about it; and 
to talk of my repenting, alas ! (aod with that he 
fetched a deep sigh, and I could see that the tears 
stood in his eyes), 'tis past all that with me. — Past 
it, Atkins P said I; what dost thou mean by that? — 
I know well enough what I mean, says he ; I mean 
'tis too late, and that is too true. 

I told the clergyman, word for word, what he 
said: the poor zedous priest, — I must call him so, 
for, be his opinion wliat it will, he had certainly a 



ROBIKSOM CRDSDE. H3 

Bxwt ungnlar affection for the good of other men's 
goub, and it would be hard to uiink he had not the 
like for his own,-~l gay, this aflectionate man could 
not refrain from tears ; but, recovering himself, 
said to me, Ask him but one question ; fs he easT 
that it is too late ; or is he troubled, and wishes it 
were not so ? I put the question feirly to Atkins ; 
and he answered, with a great deal of passion, How 
could any man be easy in a condition that must cer- 
tainly end in eternal destruction? tliat he was far 
from being easy; but that, on the contrary, he be- 
lieved it would, one time or other, ruin him. What 
do you mean by that? said I. Why, he said, he 
believed he should one time or other cut his throat, 
to put an end to the terror of iL 

The clergyman shook his head, with great concern 
in his face, when I told him all this; but turning 
quick to me upon it, says. If that be his case, we 
may assure him it is not too late; Christ will give 
him repentance. But, pray, says he, explain this 
to him ; that as no man is saved but by Christ, and 
the merit of his passion procuring divine mercy for 
him, how can it be too late for any man to receive 
mercy ? Dees he think he is able to sin beyond the 
power or reach of divine raercv? Pray tell hira.diere 
may be a dme when provokea mercy will no longer 
stnve, and when God may refuse to hear, but that 
it is never too late for men to ask mercy ; and we, 
that are Christ's servants, are commanded to preach 
mercy at all times in the name of Jesus Christ, to 
all those that sincerely repent; so that it is never 
too late to repent. 

1 told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great 

earnestness; but it seemed as if he turned on the 

discourse to the rest, for he said to nie, he would go 

and have some talk with his wife ; so he went out a 

. while, and we talked to the rest. J perceived they 



144 ADVIKTUHES 0¥ 

were all stupidly ignorant as to raattera of religion, 
as much as I was when I went rambling away nom 
my father ; and yet there were none of them hack- 
ward to hear what had been sdd ; and all of them 
seriously promised that they would talk with their 
wives about it, and do their endeavours to persuade 
them to turn Christians. 

The clergyman smiled upon me whea I reported 
what answer they gave, but said nothbg a good 
while ; but at last shaking his head, We that are 
Christ's servants, says he, cao go no ferther than to 
exhort and instruct ; and when men comply, submit 
to the reproof, and promise what we ask, 'tis all 
we can do; we are bound to accept their good 
words ; but, believe me, sir, said he, whatever you 
may have known of the life of that man you call 
WUl Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere convert 
among them : I take that man to be a true peni- 
tent: I will not despair of the restj but that man 
is apparently struck with the sense of his past life, 
and 1 doubt not, when he comes to talk of religion 
to his wife, he will talk himself etfectually into it ; 
for attempting to teach others is sometimes the best 
way of teaching ourselves. I know a man, who, 
having nothing but a summary notion of reli^on 
himself, and being wicked and profligate to the last 
degree, in his life, made a thorough reformation iq 
himself by labouring to convert a Jew. Jf that poor 
Atkins begins but once to talk Keiiously of Jesus 
Christ to his wife, my life for it, he talks himself 
into a thorough convert, makes himself a penitent, 
and who knows what may follow ? 

Upon this discourse, however, and their promis- 
ing, as above, to endeavour to persuade their wives 
to embrace Christianity, he married the other two 
couple ; but Will Atkins and his wife were not yet 
come in. After this, my clergyman waiting awhile, 



BOBINSOH 

was curious to know where Atkios was gooe; and 

turning to me, said, I entreat you, sir. iet us wdk 
out of your labyrinth here, and look; I daresay we 
shall find this poor man somewhere or other talking 
seriously to his wife, and teaching her already some- 
thing of religion. I began to be of the same mind ; 
so we went out together, and 1 carried him a way 
whicli none knew but myself, and where the trees 
were so very thick that it was not easy to see through 
the thicket of leaves, and far harder to see in than 
to see out; when coming to the edge of the wood, 
I saw Atkins and his tawny wife sitting under the 
shade of a bush, very eager in discourse : I stopped 
short till my clergyman came up to me, and then 
having showed him where they were, we stood and 
looked very steadily at them a good while. We ob- 
served him very earnest with her, pointing up to 
the sun, and to every quarter of the heavens, and 
.then down to the earth, then out to the sea, then 
to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the treea. 
Now, says the clergymaa, you see my words are 
made good, the man preaches to her ; mark hingi 
now, he is telling her that our God has made him 
and her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the 
woods, the trees, &c. — 1 believe he is, said I. Im- 
mediately we perceived Will Atkins start upon bis 
feet, fall down on his knees, and lift up both his 
hands. We supposed he said something, but we 
could npt hear him ; it was too far for that. He 
did not continue kneehng half a minuta, but conies 
and sits down agaiii by hi;i wife, and talks to her 
again : we perceived then tiie woman very attentive, 
but whether she said any thing to him, we could 
not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees, 
I could see the tears run plentifully down my cler- 
pyman's cheeKs, and I could hardly forbear myself; 
but it was a great afBiction to us both that we wete 



146 ADVtKTDREa OV 

Bot near enough to hear any thing that paued be- 
tween them. Well, however, we could corae no 
nearer, for fear of disturbing' them ; so we resolved 
to see an end of this piece of still conversation, and 
it spoke loud eoough to us without the help of Toic%. 
He sat down again, as I have said, close bv her, and 
talked a«un earnestly to her, and two or three times 
we could see him embrace her moat passionately ; 
another time we saw him take out his handkerchief 
and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a 
kind of transport veir unusual ; and after several of 
these things, we saw him on a sudden jumn up again, 
and lend her his hand to help her up, wlien imme- 
diUely leading her by the hand a step or two, they 
both kneeled down t^^ether, and continued so about 
two minutes. 

- My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out 
alou4 St. Faull St. Paul! behold he prayeth. I 
was afraid Atkins would hear him, thm&re I en- 
treated him to withhold himself awhile, that we 
mi^t see an end of the scene, which to me, 1 must 
confess, was the most afiecting that ever I saw in 
my life. Well, he strove with nimself for a while, 
but vfOB in such raptures to think that tiie poor hea- 
then woman was become a Christian, that he was 
not able to contain himself; he wept several times, 
^en tiirowing up his hands and crossing his breast, 
s^d over several things ejaculatory, and by way of 

S'v'sDg God thanks for so miraculous a testimony of 
esuccessof our endeavours; some he spoke softly, 
and I could not well hear odiers ; some in Latin, 
some in French ; then two or three times the tears 
would interrupt him, that he could not speak at 
all ; but I be^ed that he would contain himself, 
and let us more narrowly and fiilly observe what was 
before us, which he did for a time, the scene not 
being near ended yet ; for after the poor man and 



KOBINSON CBUSOE. 14? 

hii wife were risen again from their knees, we ob- 
served he stood talluDg still eagerly to her, and we 
observed her motion, that she was greatly a^cted 
with what he said, by her frequently lifting up her 
hands, laying her hand to her breast, and such other 
postures as express the greatest seriousness and at- 
tention : thie continued about half a quarter of an 
hour, and then they walked away ; so we could see 
BO more of them in that situation. I took this in- 
terval to talk with my clergymmi ; and first, I was 
glad to see the particulars we had both been wit- 
nesses to, that, though I was hard enough of be- 
lief in such cases, yet that I began to think it was 
alt very sincere here, both in the man and his wife, 
however ignorant tt^ev might both be, and I hoped 
such a beginning would yet have a more happy end : 
And who knows, said I, but these two may m time, 
by instruction and example, work upon some of the 
others? — Some of them? said he, turning quick 
upon me : aye, upon all of them : depend upon it, 
if those two savages, for he has been but little bet- 
ter, as you relate it, should embrace Jesus Christ, 
they will never leave it till they work upon all the 
rest ; for true religion is naturally communicative, 
and he that is once made a Christian will never leave 
a pagan behind him, if he can help it. I owned it 
was a most Christian principle to thmk so, and a tes- 
timony of true zeal, as well as a generous heart, in 
him. But, my friend, said I, will you give me 
leave to start one difficulty here P I cannot tell how 
to object tiie least thing against that affectionate, 
concern which you show for the turning the poor 
people from their paganism to the Christian reli- 
gion : but how does this comfort you, while these 
people are, in your account, out en the pale of the 
catholic church, without which you believe there is 
no salvation? so that you esteem these but heretics, 
o2 ■ 



148 ADVENTURES OT 

for other reasons as cflectually tost as the pagans 
them selves. 

To this he answered, with abundance of candour, 
thus : Sir, I am a catholic of the Roman church, 
and a priest of the order of St. Benedict, and I em- 
brace all the principles of the Roman faith ; but Tet* 
if you will believe me, and that I do not speak in 
Conipliment to you, or in respect to my circum- 
stances and your civilities ; I say, nevertheless, 1 do _ 
not look upon you, who call yourselves reformed, 
without some charity: I dare not say (though I 
know it is our opinion in general) that you cannot 
be saved ; 1 will by no means limit the mercy of 
Christ so far as to Uiink that he cannot receive you 
into the bosom of his church, in a manner to us 
unperceivable ; and 1 hope you have the same cha- 
rity for us : I pray daily for your being all restored 
to Christ's church, by whatsoever method he,, who 
is all-wise, is pleased to direct. In the mean time, 
aure you will allow it consists with me, as a Roman, 
to distinguish fiu- between a protestant and a paean i 
between one that colls on Jesus Christ, thougn in 
away which I do not think is according to the true 
iaith, and a savage or a barbarian; that knows no 
God, no Christ, no Redeemer ; and if you are not 
within the p^e of the coolie church, we hope you 
are nearer Mine restored to it than those that know 
nothing of God or of his church : and I rejoice, 
therefore, when I see this poor man, whom you 
say has been a profligate, and almost a murdOTer, 
kneel down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose 
he did, though not fully enlightened; believing 
that God, from whom every such work proceed^ 
will sensibly touch his heart, and bring him to the 
farther knowledge of that truth in his owp time : 
and if God shall influence this poor man to convert 
and instmct the ignorant savage, his wife, 1 cm 



ROBIKSOH CKUSOZ. 1^ 

never believe that he shall be CBstawaybimaelf, And 
have I not reason then to rejoice the nearer any are 
brought to the knowledge of Christ, though the; 
may not be brought quite home into, the bosom of 
the catholic c))urch juBt at the time when I may 
desire it, leaving it to the ^odness of Christ to per- 
fect his work in his own time, and in his own way ? 
Certainly, 1 would rejoice if idl the savages in Ame- 
rica were brought, like this poor woman, to pray to 
God, though they were all to be protestants at nnt, 
rather than they should continue pagansor heathena; 
firmly believing, that he that bad bestowed the first 
light to them would farther illuminate them with a 
beam of his heavenly grace, and bring them into 
the pale of his church, when he should spe good. 

I was astonished at the uncerity and temper of 
this pious papist, as much as I was oppressed by the 
power of hiB reasoning ; and it presently occurred to 
my thoughts, that if such a tempr was universal, 
we might be all catholic Christians, whatever 
church or particular profession ne ioined in ; that a 
spirit of charity would soon wort us all up into 
nght principles ; and as be thought that the lik^ 
charity would make us all catholics, so I told him I 
' believed had all the members of his church the like 
moderation, they would soon all be protestants. — 
And there we tefl that part ; for we never disputed 
at all. 

However, I talked to him another w^, and tak- 
ing him by the hand, My friend, says I, I wish all 
the clergy of the Romish church were blest with 
such moderation, and had an equal share of your 
charity. I am entirely of your opinion : but I must 
tell you, that if you should preach such doctrine in 
Spain or Italy, they would put you into the Inqui- 
sition.— It may be so, eaii he; I know not what 
they would do in Spun or Italy ; but I will not say 



150 ADVXMTUBES 07 

they would be the better Chrbtiana for that Bererity 
for I am sure there is do heresy in abounding with 
charity. 

Wei), as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our 
business there was over, so we went back our own 



way 



and when we came back, we found them 



waiting to be called id : observing this, 1 asked n ^ 
clergyman if we should discover to him that we had 
seen him under the bush or not ; and it was his 
opinion we should not, but that we should talk to 
him first, and hear what he would say to us ; so we 
called him in alone, nobody being in the place but 
ourselves, and I began with, him thus : 

Wi)l Atkins, said I, prithee what education had 
you? What was your father? 

fV. A. A better man than ever I shall be: Sir, my 
&ther was a clergyman. 

R. C. What education did he give you? 
W. A. He would have taught me well, sir ; but I . 
despised all education, iuBtruction, or correction, 
like a beast as I was. 

R. C. It is true, Solomon says. He that despises 
reproof is brutish; 

ff. A. Aye, sir, I was brutish indeed, for I mur- 
dered my father : for God's sake, sir, talk no more 
about that; sir, I murdered my poor father. 
pT. Ha ! a murderer ! 

Here the priest started (for I interpreted every 
word as he spoke) and looited pale ; it seems he be- 
lieved that Will had really killed his father. 

R. C. No, no, sir: 1 do not understand him so: 
Will Atkins, explain yourself: you did not kill your 
fiither, did you, with your own hands? 

IV. A. No, Sir, I did not cut his throat : but I 
cut the thread of all his comforts, and shortened his 
days : I broke his heart by the most ungrateful, un- 
natural retuni, foi the most tender and affectionate 



I cRtrsoB. 151 

treatment that father ever gave, or child could re- 

R. C. Well, I did not ask you about your father, 
to extort this confession : I pray God give you re- 
pentance for it, and forgive that and all your other 
Bins ; but I asked you because 1 see that though you 
have not much learning, yet you are not so ignor- 
ant as some are in things that are good ; that you 
have known more of rdigion, a great deal, than 
you have practised. 

)fl A, Though you, sir, did not extort the con- 
fession that I make about my father, conscieoce 
does ; and whenever we come to look back upon our 
lives, the sins aKainst our indulgent parents are cer- 
tainly the first that touch us ; the wounds they make 
lie deepest, and the weight they leave wilt lie hea- 
viest upon the mind, of all the sins we can commit. 

a. C, You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me, 
Atkins ; I cannot bear it. 

W.A. Youbearit, masterl I dare say you know 
nothing of it. 

R. C. Yes, Atkins ; every shore, every hill, nay, 
I may say every tree in this island, is witness to the 
anguish of my soul for my ingratitude and bad 
usage of a good, tender father ; a father much like 
yours, by your description : and I murdered my fa- 
ther as well as you. Will Atkins ; but I think, for 
all that, my repentance is short of yours too, by a 
great deal, 

I would have said more, if I could have restrained 
my passions ; but I thought this poor man's repent- 
aaac was so much sincerer than mine, that 1 was 
going to leave off the discourse and retire ; for I was 
surprised with what he had said, and thought that 
instead of my going about to teach and instruct 
him, the man was made a teacher and instructor to 
me ia a most surprising and unexpected manner. 



Ij2 ADVXHTCRES OF ■ 

I laid all this before the young clergjmaii, who 
was greatly afected with it, and said t<i me, Did I 
not say, sir, that when this man was converted he 
would preach to us all ? I tell, you, sir, ifthisone 
man be made a true penitent, here will be no 
need of me ; he will make Christians of all in the 
island. — But having a little composed myself, I re- 
newed my discourse with Will Atkins. But Will, 
said I, how conies the sense of this matter to touch 
you just now ? 

IV. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that 
has Btnick a <Wt tlirough my very soul; I have 
been talking about God and religion to my wife. In 
order, as you directed me, to make a Christian of 
her, and she has preached such a sermon to me as 
J shall never forget while I live. 

R. C. No, no, it is not your wife has preached tp 
you; but when you were moving religious argu- 
ments to her, conscience has flung them back upon 

fT. A, Aye, ai, with such ibrce as is not to be 
resisted. 

R. C. Pray, WHl, let us know what passed be- 
tween you and your wife ; for I know something of 
it already. 

: /f. A. Sv, it is unpoBuble to give you a fuU ac- 
count of it; I un too full to hold it, and yet have no 
tongue to express it ; but let her have said what she 
win, and though I cannot ^ve yoU an account of 
it, this 1 can tell you, that I have resolved to 
amend and reform my Ufe. 

R. C. But tell us some of it : how did you^egin, 
Will ? For this has been an extraordinary case, mat 
is certain. She has preached a sermon, indeed, if 
she has wrought this upon you. 

W. A. Why, I first told her the nature of our 
laws about marriage, and what the reasoui were 



ROBIMSOM CRUSOE. 153 

that men and women were obliged to enter into such 
compactB, as it was neither in the power of one nor 
other to break; thatDtherwise.oiderandjustice could 
not be maintained, and men would run from their 
wires, and abandon their children, mix confusedly 
with one another, and neither &milies be kept en- 
tire, nor inheritances be settled by legal descent. 

R, C. You talk like a civilian, Will. Could you 
make her understand what you meant by inherit- 
ance and families ? They know no such things 
among the savages, but marry any how, without re- 
gard to relation, consanguinity, or family ; brother 
and sister, nay, as I have been told, even the father 
and the daugnter, and the son and the mother. 

IV. A. I believe, sir, you are misinformed, and 
my wife assures me of the contrary, and that they 
abhor it; perhaps, for any farther relations, they 
raay not be so exact as we are ; but she tells me they 
never touch one another in the near relationship 
you speak of. 

B. C. Well, what did she say to what you told 
her? 

fV. A. She said she liked it very well, and it was 
much better than in her country. 

R. C. But did you tell her what marriage was ? 

JV. A. Aye, aye ; there began our dialogue. I 
asked her if she would be married to me our way. 
She asked me what way that was. I t^d her mar- 
riage was appointed by God ; and here we had a 
strange talk together, indeed, as ever roan amd wife 
had, I believe. 
N.B. This dialogue between Will Atkins and his 

wife 1 took down in writing, just after he had 

told it me, which was as follows : 

IVife. AppointedbyyourGod! Why,baveyoaa 
Odd la your country i* 



154 ADVENTUBBS OS 

W, A. Yw, my dear, God is in every country. 

Wije, No your God in my country ; my country 
have the great old Benamuckee Goa, 
- W. A. Child, I am very unfit to show you who 
God is ; God is in heaven, and made the heaven and 
the earth, the eea, and all that in them is. 

Wife. No makee de earth ; no your God makee 
all earth ; no maJcee my country. 

Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of , 
God not making her country. 

Wife. No laugh; why laugh me? This nothing 
to laugh. 

He was justly reproved by his wife, for she was 
more serious than he at firat. 

W. A. That's true, indeed ; I will not laugh any 
more, my dear. 

Wife. Why, you say you God makee all ? 
' W. A. Yes, diild, our God made the whole worid, 
and you and me, and all things ; for he is the only 
ttue God, and there is no God but him ; be lives fw 
ever in heaven. 

W^e. Why, you no tell me long ago ? 

W. A.' That's tarue, indeed ; but f have been a 
wicked wretch, and have not only forgotten to ac- 
quaint thee with any thing before, but hare lived 
without God in the world mysel£ 

Wife. What, have you a great God in your coun- 
try, you no know him ? No say.O to him ? No do 
good thine for him ? That no possible ? 

W. A. It is true ; though, lor all that, we live as 
if there was no God in heaven, or that he had no 
power on earth. 

Wife. But why God let you do so ? Why he no 
makee you good live ? 

W. A. It IS all our own fault. 

Wife. But you say me he is great, much great, 



ROBIMSOM CRC80E. 155 

have much great power, can makee kill vhen he 
will, whyhenomakeekill when you no serve hiniP 
No My O to him, no be good rnsne. 

fV. A. That is true, he might strike me dead ; and 
I ought to expect it, for 1 have been a wicked 
wret(ji, that is true ; but God ii merciful, and doe* 
not deal with ua as we deserve. 

Wife. But then do you not tell God thankee for 
that too ? 

W. A. No, indeed, I hare not dianked God for hii 
mercy, any more than I have feared God for his 
power. 

Wifi. Then you God no God; me no think be- 
lieve he be sudi one, great much power, ttrongt 
no makee kill ^ou, diou^ you make him mu^ 

W. A. What, wQ] my wicked life hinder you from 
believing in God? Wlwt a dreadful creature am I! 
and what a sad truth is it, that the horrid lives of 
Christiana hinder the conversion of heathens ! 

Wife. How me think you have great much God 
up there (she points up to heaven), and yet no do 
well, no do good thing P Can he tell ? Sure he no 
tell what you do ? 

W. A. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all things ; he 
hears us speak, sees what we do, knows what we 
think, thoi^ we do not speak. 

wife: What! he no hear you curse, swear, speak 
de great damn ? 

W. A. Yes, yes, he hears it all. 

Wife. Where be then the much great power 
strong? 

W. A. Heismercifulithatisallwecansayforit-; 
and this proves him to be the true God ; he is God, 
and not man, and therefore we are not consumed,- 

Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with hor- 
ror, to think how he could t«ll his wife so dearly that 



1S6 ADVEHTUnES OF 

God sees, and hears, and knows the secret thoughts 
of the hearty and all that we do, and yet that he had 
dared to do all ri!ie vile things he had done. 

Wife. Merciful ! What you call that? 

frT j1. He is our fatha and maker, and he pities 
and spares us. 

Wife. So then he never makee kill, never angry 
when you do wicked; then he no good himself, or 
no great able. 

iv. A. Yes, yes, my dear, he is infinitely good 
and infinitely great, and able to punish too ; and 
sometimes; to show his justice and vengeance, he 
lets fly his anger to destroy sinners and make ex^ 
amples ; many are cut oif m their sins. 

tVi/e. But no makee kill you yet ; then he tell you, 
may be, that he no makee you kill ; so you makee de 
bargain with him, you do bad thing, he no be angry 
at you when he be angry at other maos. 

W, A. No, indeed; my sins are all presumptions 
upon his goodness ; and ne would be mfinitely just 
if he destroyed me, as lie has done other men. 

Wife, Well, and yet do kill, no makee you dead; 
what you say to him for that i You no tell him 
thankee for all that too? 

W. A. 1 am an unthankful, ungrateful dog, that 
is true. 

Wi/e. Why he no makee you much good better? 
you say he njakee you. 

W. A. He made me, as he made all the world : it 
is 1 have deformed myself and abused his goodness, 
and made myself an abominable wretch. 

Wife. I wish you makee God know me ; I do 
makee him angry, I no do bad wicked thing. 

Here Will Atkins said his heart sunk within liim, 
to hear a poor untaught creature desire to be taught 
to know God, and he such a wicked wretch that he 
could not say one word to her about God, but what 



ROBINSOK cnosoB. 157 

the reproach of his owa carriege woiiM make roost 
irratJonal to her to believe; Day, that alteady she 
had told him that she could not believe in God, be- 
cause he, that was lo wicked, was not destroyed. 

W. A, My dear, you mean, you wish 1 could teach 
you to know God, not God to know you ; for he 
knows you already, and every thought'in your heart. 

fftfe. Why then he know what I say to you 
now; he know me wish to know him; how snail 
me know who makee me? 

W.A. Poor creature, he must teach thee, I can- 
not teach thee ; I will pray to him to teach thee to 
know him, and forgive me, that am unworthy to 
teach thee. 

The poor fellow was in such an agony at her 
desiring him to make her know God, and her wish> 
ing to know him, < that he said he fell down on his 
knees, before her, and prayed to God to enlighten 
her mind with a saving knowledge of Jesus Cnrist, 
and to pardon his sins, and accept of his being the 
unworthy initrument of instructing her in the prin- 
ciples 01 religion; after which he Bat down by her 
l^ain, and uieir dialogue went on. — lliis was the 
time when we saw him kneel down, and hold up his 
hands. 

Wife. What you put down the knee for? What 
you hold up the hand for ? What you gay ? Who 
you speak to i What is all that? 

JV. A. My dear, I bow my knees in token of my 
submission to him that made me ; 1 said to him, 
as you call it, and as your old men do to tlisir idpt 
Benomuckee ; that is, I prayed to him. 

Wtft. What you ta.y O to him for ? 

W.A, I prayed to him to open your eyes, and 
your understanding, that you may Know bim> and 
be accepted by him. 

Wife. Can he do that too ? 



158 ADyzmoBcs or 

W^ A. Yes, be CKir; he ca do ill thiogg. 

Wife. Bot now ke hear what you wj? 

IT.^I. Yes, he has bid 111 pray to him, and 
proinieed to hear ub 

Wife. Bid you pmy? When he bid you? How 
be bid you? What, you hear him speak? 

W,A. No, we do not bear him ^leak ; but he 
has reveled himself many ways to va. 

Here he was at a great loss to mak« her tindei^ 
stand that God has revealed himsdf to ua by hia 
word, and what his word was ; bat at last he told 
irlier thus : 

W. A. God has spoken to some sood men in for- 
mer days, even from heaven, by plain words ; and- 
God h^ inspired good nen b^ bis Spirit ; and they 
have written all bis laws down m a book. 

Wife. Me no uodentand that ; where is boc^ ? 

W.A. Alas ! my poor creature, I have not this 
book ; but I hope I shall one time or other get it 
for you, and help you to read it. 

Here be embraced her with great a&ction ; but 
mdi expressible grief that he had not a Bible. 

Wife. But how ^ou makee me know that God 
teadiee them to wnte that book ? 

W.A. By the same rule that we know him to beGod. 
'ife. What rule ? What way you know him ? 
'^.A. Because he teaches end commands notliing 
but what is good, righteous, and holy, and tends Co 
m^e us perfectly good, as well as perfectly happy; 
and because he forbids, and commands us to avoid, 
all that is wi<died, that is evil in itself, 'or evil in its 



Wl 



see : if he teoehee all good thing, he makee ^ ^od 
thin^, be give alt. thing, ^e bear roe ifhen I m^0 
to him, as you do just now; be mahee me good,ir 
I wish to t»e good; hesp^ne, nonakeexill ne 



ROBlNfiOM CRUMB. 1^ 

when I no be good: all thb you mt he io, yet be 
be great God : me takei tbink, believe him to be 
great God; me »ay O to him wi^ you, my dear. 

Here the poor man could forbear no longer, bat 
raised her np, made her kneel by him, and he prayed 
to God aloud to instruct her m the knowledge of 
himself, by his Spirit; and that by some good pro- 
vidence, it posNble, the might some time or other 
come to haVe a Bible, that ^e mieht fead the word 
of God, and be taught by it to know him.— This 
was the time that we saw him lift her up by the 
hand, and saw him kneel down by her, as above. 

They had several other discourses, it seenUf after 
this, too long to be set down here] and particularly 
she made bim promise that since he confessed hu . 
own life bad beena wicked abominable course of pro- 
TOGStions against God, that he would reform it, and 
not make God angry any more; lestbe^ould make 
him dead, as she called it, and then she would be 
left alone, and never be taught to know this God 
better ; and lest he should be miserable, as he had 
told her wicked men would be after death. 

This was a strange account, and very affecting to 
tiB both, but particularly to the young clergvman; 
he was indeed wondenully surprised with it, but 



he greatest affliction unaginable that he 
it talk to her, that he could not speak Eng- 
' lisb, to make her understand bim; and as ibe 



spoke but very broken English, he could not under- 
stand her ; however, he turned himself to me, and 
told me that be belived that there must be more to 
do with this woman than to marry her. I did not 
understand bim at first, hut at length be explained 
himself, viz. that she ought to be baptised. lagreed 
with bim in that part readily, and was for going 
about it presently. No, no; hold, sir, said he; 
though I would have her be baptised by all means, 



yet I 
baeir 



ADVKNTCHES OI 

fet I must obserre that Will Atkins, her husband, 
18 indeedbrought her, inawonderful manner, to be 
rilling to emhrace a relirioue life, and has given her 
just ideas of the being of a God ; of his power, jus- 
tice, and mercy: yet I desire to know of hira if he 
has said wy thmg to her of Jesus Christ, and of die 
salvation of sinners; of the nature of faith in him, 
and redemption by him ; of the Holy Spirit, the re- 
fiurrection, the last judgement, and a future state. 

I called Will Atkins ^ud, and asked him; but 
the poor fellew fell immediately into tears, and told 
us he had said something to her of all those things, 
but that he was himself so wicked a creature, and 
his own conscience so reproached him with his hor- 
rid, ungodly life, that he trembled at the appre- 
hensions that her knowledge of him should lessen 
the attention she should give to those things, and 
make her rather contemn religion than receive it; 
but he wis assured, he said, that her mind was so 
disposed to receive due impressions of all those 
things, and that if I would but discourse with her, 
she would make It appear to my satisfaction that 
my labour would not be lost upon her. 

Accordingly I called her in, and placing myself 
as interpreter between my religious priest and the 
woman, I entreated him to begin with her; but 
sure such a sermon was never preached by a po- 
pish priest in these latter ages of the world: and, 
as I told him, I thought he had all the zeal, all the 
knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian, without 
the error of a Roman catholic; and that I took him 
to be such a clergyman as the Roman bishops were, 
before the church of Rome assumed spiritual sove- 
■ reignty over the consciences of men. In a word, 
he brought the poor woman to embrace the know- 
ledge of Christ, and of redemption by him, not with 
wonder and astonishment only, as snedid the first 



ROBiMcoH cauaoE. 161 

notioiu of a Gad, but with joy and &ith ; with an 
affection, and a surprising degree of under§tandiiig, 
Bcarce to be imagined, much less to be expressed; 
and, at her own request, die was b^tiied. 

When he wtis preparing to baptise her, 1 entreat- 
ed him that he would perform tost office with some 
caution, that the man might not perceive he was of 
tbe Roman church, if possible, because of other ill 
conaequences which might attend adiference among 
us in that very rehgion which we were instructing 
the other in. He told me that as he had no conse- 
crated chapel, nor proper things for the offioe, I 
should see be would do it in a manner that I should 
not know by it that ha was a Roman catholic myself 
if I had not known it before; and so he did; for 
Baying only some words over to himself in Latin, 
which I could not understand, be poured a whole 
dishful of water upon the woman's head, pronoun- 
cing in French verr loud, " Mary" (which was the 
name her husband desired me to ^ve her, for 1 
was her god&ther), " I baptise thee m the name of 
the Father, and of the- Son, and of the Holy Ghost ;" 
so thai none could Icnow any thing by it what r^ 
ligion he was of. He ^ave the banediction after- 
wnds in Latb, but either Will Atkins did not 
kuow but it was French, or else did sot take notice 
of it at that time. 

As Booa as this ma over, we raarried them; and 
after the marriage was over, he turned to Will 
Atkins, and in a very affectionate manner exhorted 
him, not only to persevere in that good disposition 
he was in, but to support the coimctions that were 
upon him by a resolution to reform his life; told 
him it was in vain to say he repented if he did sot 
tondte big crimes: represented to him how God 
had honoured him wiui being the instrument of 
bringndg bis wife to the knowledge of the Christian . 



162 ADVENTDBES Or 

religion, and that he should be careful he did not 
dishonour the grace of God; and that if he did, he 
would see the heathen a better Christian than him- 
self; the savage converted, and the instrument cast 
away. He said a great many good things to them 
both; and then recom mending them to God's good- 
ness, gave them the benediction again, I repeating 
every thing to them in English; and thus ended 
the ceremony. I think it was the niost pleasant 
and agreeable day to me that ever 1 passed in my 
whole life. 

But my clergyman had not done yst ; his thoughts 
hung continually upon the conversion ol the thirty- 
seven savages, and fain he w>u]d have staid upon 
the island to have undertaken it; but 1 convinced 
him, first, that his undertaking was impracticable 
in itself; and, secondly, that perhaps I would, put 
it into a way of being done in bis absence to his 
satisfaction ; of which by and b^. 

Having thus brought the a&irs of the island to 
a narrow compass, I was preparing to go on board 
the ship, when the young man I had taken out of 
the famished ship's company came to roe, and told 
me he understood I had a clergyman with me, and 
that I had caused the Englishmen to be married to 
the savages; that he had a match, too, which he 
desired might be finished before I went, between 
two Christians, which he hoped would not be dis- 
agreeable to roe. 

1 knew this must be the young womaq who was 
his mother'a servant, for there was no other Chris- 
tian woman on the island: so 1 began to persuade 
him not to do an^ thin^ of that kind rashly, or be- 
cause he found himself m this solitary circumstance. 
I represented to him that he had some considerable 
substance in the world, and good friends, as I uu- 
- tlentood by himself, and the maid also ; that the 



XOBINSOH cnusoE. 163 

maid was not onljr poor, and a servant, but was un- 
equal to him, she being aix or seven and twenty 
yeara old, and he not above seventeen or eighteen ; 
that he fbight very probably, with my asaistance, 
make a remove from this wilderness, and come into 
his own country again ; and that then it would be 
a thousand to one but he would repent his choice, 
and the dislike of that circmnstance might be dis- 
advantageous to both. 1 was going to say more, 
but he interrupted,, smiling, and told me, with a 
great deal of modesty, that J mistook in my gue&scs, 
that he bad nothing of that kind in I)is thoughts ; 
and he was very glad to hear that 1 had an intent 
of putting them in a way to see their own country 
again; and nothing should have put him upon 
staying there, but that the Voyage I was going was 
so exceeding long and hazardous, and would carry 
him quite out of the reach of all his friends ; that 
he had nothing to desire of me, but that 1 would 
settle him in some little property in the island where 
he was, give him a servant or two, and some few 
necessaries, and he would settle himself here like a 
planter, waiting the good time when, if ever I re- 
turned to England, I would redeem them ; and 
hoped I would not be unmindful of him when I 
came to England : that he would give me some let- 
ters to his friends in London, to let them know how 
good 1 had been to him, and in what part of the 
world, and what circumstance, I had left tim in ; 
and he promised me that whenever I redeemed him, 
the plantation, and all the improvements he had 
made upon it, let the value be what it would, should 
be wholly mine. 

His discourse was very prettily delivered, consi- 
dering his youth, and was the more agreeable to me, 
because he told me positively the match was not for 
himself. 1 gave him all possible, assurances "that if 



le* ADTBltTURKS OF 

I lived to come safe to England, I would deliver hit 
letten, and do his basinets efectually ; and that h« 
might depend 1 should never forget the circum- 
stances I nad left him in : but still I was impatient 
to know who was the person to be married ; iqton 
which he told me it was my Jade of all trades and 
his maid Susan. I was most agreeably surfHiied 
when he named the match ; for indeed I thought 
it very suiiable. The character of that man I have 
giveD already ; and as for the maid, she was a very 
honest, modest, sober, and religious young woman ; 
had a very good share of sense, was agreeable enough 
in her person, gpoka very handsomely, and to tne 
purpose, alwajn with decency and good mannersy 
and neither too backward to speak, when requisite, 
nor impertinently forward, when it was not her 
business ; very handy and bousewif^y, and an ex- 
cellent manager; fit, indeed, to have been govemew 
to the vhole iBland, and Ae knew very well how t« 
behave in every respect. 

The match being propoaed in (his manner, we 
married them the some day ; and as I was fiitber at 
the altar, as I nuiy tay, and gave her away, so I gave 
her a portion ; for 1 appointed her and her husmnA 
a hanasoroe large space of ground for their planta- 
tion ; and, inde^, mis match, and the propmal the 
young gentleman made to give him a small property 
m the island, put me upon parcelling it out amongat 
them, that they might not quarrel aitorwards about 
their situation. 

This sharing out the Itmd to them I left to WUI 
Atkins, who was now grown a sober, grave, manag- 
ing fellow, perfectly reformed, exoeedincly pious 
and rdi^ouB, and, «s flir as I may be wowed to 
■peak pmitively in such a case, I verily believe fae 
was a true penitent. He divided tJiinga so justly, 
and so much to every ove's satis&Gtioii, that tb^ 



xoniNSON CRUSOE. 165 

only desired one general writing under my hand for 
the whole, which 1 causetfto be drawn up, and signed 
and sealed to them, setting out the bounds and si- 
tuation of every man's plantation, and testifying- 
that I gave them thereby severaJly a right to the 
whole possession and inheritance of the re^ectire 
plantations or farms, with their improvements, to 
them and their heirs, reserving all the rest of the 
island as my own property, and a certain rent for 
every particular plantation alter eleven years, if I, 
or any one from me, or in my name, came to de- 
mand it, producing an attested copy of the same 

' As to the government and laws among them, I 
■ told them I was not capable of giving them better 
rules than they were able to give themselves ; only 
I made them promise me to hve in love and good 
neighbourhood with one another; and bo 1 pre- 
pared to leave them. 

One thing I must not omit, and that is, that be- 
ing now settled in a kind of commonwealth among 
themselves,- and having much business in hand, it 
was but odd to have seven and thirty Indians live in 
a nook of the island, independent, and, indeed, un- 
employed; for, excepting tlie {providing themselves 
food, which they bad difficulty enough to do, some- 
times they had no manner of business or property 
to manage. I proposed, therefore, to the governor 
Spaniard, that he should go to tbem, with Friday's 
Either, and propose to them to remove, and either 
plant for themselves, or take them into their seve- 
ral families as serv^ts, to be mainlined fur their 
labour, but without being absolute slaves i for I 
would not admit them to make them slaves by forcO) 
by any means ; because they had their liberty given 
them by capitulation, as it were articles of sunenderi 
which they ought not to break. 



tW ADVBNTURia OB 

They most irillingly embraced the propOBai, and 
came aJl very cheertul along with him : »o we allot- 
ted them land, and plantation!, which three or four 
accepted of, but all the rest cboae to be employed aa 
aervants in the teveral faxitliea we bad lettled ; and 
thus my colony waa in a manner aettled, ub follows i 
— The Spaniards poraeaaed my original habitation, 
which was the capital city, and extended their plant- 
ations all along the side of the brook) which mode 
the creek that I have go often deacHbed, aa fiir aa 
my bower ; and aa they increaaed their culture, it 
went always eastward. The Eugliah lived in the 
north-eaat part, where Will Atkins and his comrades 
began, and came on southward and south-west, to- 
wards the back part of the Spaniatda ; and every 
plantation had a great addidon of land to tidce in, 
if they found occaaion, ao that they need not jostle 
one another for want of room. Ail the east end of 
the island was left uninhabited, that if any of the 
savagea should come oti shiure there only for their 
usual customary barbarities, they might come and 
go ; if they disturbed nobody, nobody would disturb 
them : and no doubt but they were often ashore, 
and went away again, for I never heard that the 
planters were ever attacked or disturbed any more. 

It DOW came into my thoughts that J had hinted 
to my friend the clergyman that the work of con- 
verting the savages might perhaps be set on footin 
his absence to his satisfaction, and told him that 
now I thought it was out in a fair way ; for the sa- 
vages being thua divided among the Chriatiana, if 
they would butevery one of them do their part with 
thoae which came under their hands, 1 tioped it 
might have a very good effect. 

He agreed presently in that, if they did their part. 
But how, says he, shall we obtain that of them P 
I told bim we would call them all together, and 



K0eiN>OM CRUtOE. 16? 

love it in chaive with them, or go to them, one 
bf one, which he tiiought beit : go we divided it, lie 
to <peak to the Spaniarde, who were ^1 papisti, 
and I to the EngliEh, who were all protestant^ ; and 
we recommead^ it earnestly to them, and made 
them promise that they would nerer make any dis- 
tiDctiiMi of papist or proteitant in theu- exhorting 
(be aavages to turn Christians, but teach th«t) the 
general knowledge of the true God, and of their Sa- 
viour Jesus Chnst ; and they likewise promised us 
that they would never have any difierences or dis- 
putes one with another about rdigitm. 

When I caoie to Wili Atkins's house (I maycall it 
so, fiM" such a house, or such apiece of ba^et-work, 
I believe, was not standing in the world again), there 
I found the young woman [ have mentioiied above, 
and Will AUcios's wife, were become intimates ; and 
this prudent, religious young woman, had perfected 
the work Will Atkins had b^un; and though it was 
not above four days after what I have related, yet 
die newbaptised savage woman was made sucn s 
Christian a* I have seldom hevd of in all my obser- 
vation of conversation in the world. 

It came next into my mind, in the raoming be- 
fore I went to them, that amongst all the needful 
things 1 had to leave with them, Ihad not Idl them 
a Bible, in which I ^owed myself less considering 
for them than my good friend the widow was for 
me, when she sent me the cargo of a hundred 
pounds from Lisbon, where she packed up three 
Kbles and a prayer-book. However, the good wo- 
Dtao's diaiity had a greater extent than ever she 
inaa^ed, for they were reserved for the comfcfft 
and tnatructioD of those that made much better use 
•fxhetn than I had done. 

I todt oneiof the BSdes in my pocket, and when 
I came io Will Atkku's tent, «r -house, ^d found 



the young woman and Atkins's baptised wife had 
been discoursing of religion tc^ther, for Will At- 
Lins told it me with a great deal of joy. I asked if 
they were together now, and he said ye« ; so I went 
into the bouae, and he with me, and we found them 
together very earnest in discourse. O, sir, says* 
Will Atkins, when God has sinners to reconcile to 
himself, and aliens to bring home, he never wants £ 
messenger; my wife has got a new instructor; I 
Icnew 1 was as unworthy as I was incapable of that 
work i that young woman luA been sent hither from 
heaven; she is enough to convert a whole island of 
savages. The young woman blushed, and rose up 
to go away, but I desired her to sit still ; f told het 
she had a good work upon her hands, and I hoped 
God would bless her in it. 

We talked a little, and I did not perceive they 
had any book among them, though I did not ask : 
but I put my hand into my pocket, and pulled out 
my Bible ; Here, says 1 to Atkins, I have brought 



to speak for some time ; but recovering himself, he 
takes it with both his hands, and turning to his wife, 
Here, my dear, says he, did not i tell you our God, 
though he lives above, could hear what we said '? 
Here s the book 1 prayed for when you and I kneel- 
ed down under the bush ; now God has heard us, 
and sent it. When he had said so, the man fell 
into such transports of passionate joy, that between 
the joy of having it, and giving God thanks for it, 
the tehrs ran down his face like a child that was 
crying. 

The woman was surprised, and was like to have 
run into a mistake that none of us wete aware of, for 
she firmly believed God had sent the book upon her 
husband's petition. It is true, that providentially it 



KOBIMSON CRUSOE. 16!) 

Was so, and mi^ht be taken soiin a consequent 
sense ; but i believe it would have been no difficult 
matter, at that time, to have persuaded the poor 
woman to have believed that an express messenger 
came from heaven on purpose to bring that indivi- 
dual book ; but it was too serJuus a matter to suf- 
fer ttay delusion to take place ; so I turned to the 
Toung woman, and told her we did not desire to 
impose upon the new convert, in her first and more 
ignorant understanding of things, and begged her 
to explain to her that God may be very properly 
said to answer our petitions, when, in the course of 
his providence, such things are in a particular man- 
ner brought tn pass as we petitioned for ; but we 
did not expect returns from Heaven in a miraculous 
and particular manner, and it is our mercy that it 
is not 60. 

This the young woman did afterwards efiectually, 
80 that there was, I assure you, no priestcraft used 
here ; and I should have thought it one of the most 
unjustifiable frauds in the world to have had it so. 
But the surprise of joy upon Will Atkins is really 
not to be expressed ; and there, we may be sure, 
was no delusioQ. Sure no man was ever more 
thankful in the world for any thing of its kind than 
he was for the Bible; nor, I believe, never any man 
was glad of a Bible from a better principle; and 
though he had been a most profligate creature, 
headstrong, furious, and desperately wicked,, yet 
this man is a standing rule to us all for the weljl in- 
structing children, viz. that parents should never 
give over to teach and instruct, nor ever despair of 
the success of their endearqurs, let the diildren be 
ever so refractory, or, to appearance, insensible of 
instruction; for, if ever God, in his providence, 
touches the conscience of such, the force of their 
education returns upon them, aiid the early instruc- 



170 ADVKMTtlRIS Op 

don of puents it not loU, though it may have heea 
taaay years laid fwieep, but, same time or oilier, 
they may find the benefit of it. Thus it was with 
this poor man, however igooraot he was of reJigioji 
and Christian knowledge, he found he had some 
to do with oow more ignorant thaa hinuelf, and 
that the least part of the instruction of hi^ good 
father that now came to his mind was a£ use t^ 

Among the rest it occurred to hitn, he said, how 
his &ther used to insist so much on die inexpressi- 
ble value of the Bible, Ae privilege and blessing of 
it to nations, families, and persons ; but he never 
entertained the least notion of the worth of it till 
now, when being to talk to heathens, savages, and 
barbarians, he wanted the help of the written oracle 
for his assistance. 

The young woman was glad of tt also for the pre- 
sent occasitm, though she had one, and so bad tfae 
youth, on board our ship, among their goods, which 
were not yet brought on shore. And now having 
said BO many thjogs of this young woman, I cannot 
«mit telling one story more ot her and myself, 
which has something in it y^y informing and re- 
markable. 

I have rdated to what extreBtity tfae poor young 
woman was reduced, bow her mistress was starved 
ito death, and died on board that unhappy dup we 
met at sea, and how the whole idup's company tvas 
reduced to the last «ctremity. Tlte gendewooian 
and her son, and this maid, wece first hardly used, 
as to provisimiB, and at last totally neglected and 
starved ; that is to say, brou^t to the last cKtre- 
.mity at hunger.— One day, being discoursing with 
Jier on ike eKtretaities they su&red, I asked herif 
she cMild describe by what she had telt, what it 
-was to sfaiwc, and how it >^p^ared ? ^She^told me 



ROMMSON CntJSOE. 171 

Ae beHeved sbe could, dtid she t«ld her tele veiy 
(listinctlyi thiu: 

First, sir, said the, we bad for some dars fared 
exceding hard, and luffered verj great hniiger : 
but at last we were wholly without food of any 
kind, except suear, and a little wine and water. 
The first day, after I had received no food at all, I 
found myself, towards eTcnioK, fint empty and lick 
at the stomach, and nearer nigfat much inclined to 
yawning and sleep. I laid down on a conch in the 
great c:^iin to aWep, and slept about three hours, 
and awaked a little refreshed, having taken a glass 
of wine when 1 lay down : after being about uiiee 
hours awake, h being about five o clock in the 
taanangt I found myself empty, and my stomach 
nckishi and lay down asaia, but could nut sleep at 
all, being very fiitnt and ill ; and thus I continued 
aU the second day, with a strange Tsriety, firBt 
hungry, then sick again, with readiings to vmniu 
The Mcond night, being obliged to go to bed a^n 
without any food, more than a draught of fresh 
water, and being asleep, I dreamed I was at Barba- 
doea, and that the market was mightily stocked 
with provieions ; that 1 bought some for my mis- 
tresB, and went and dined very heartily. I thought 
my Gtomach was as full afler this as it would haTc 
been after a good dinner ; but when I awaked, t 
*aa exceedingly sunk in my spirits to find myBclf ia 
the extremity of famine. The last glass of wine we 
had I drank, and put sugar in it, because of its 
having some spirit to supply nourishment ; but 
there being no subsUmce in the stomach for the di" 
gesting office to work upon, 1 found the only efiect 
of the wine was, to raise disagreeable fumes from 
die BtoniBch into the head ; and I lay, as they told 
me, nupid and seiueleSB, lu one dniok, for Bftne 
<t2 



\7i advektVrbs ot 

time. The third day. in the morning, after a night 
of strange, confused, and incoosistent dreams, and 
rather dozins'than sleeping, I awaked ravenous and 
furious with huDger; and I question, had not my 
understanding returned and conquered it, whether, if 
1 had been a mother, and had had a little child with 
me, its life would have been safe or not. This lasted 
about three hours ; during which time I was twice 
raging mad as any creature in Bedlam, as my young 
master told me, and as he can now inform you. 

In one of these fits of lunacy or distraction I felt 
down, and struck my face against the comer of a 
pallet bed, in which my mistress lay, and, with the 
blow, the blood gushed out of my nose ; and the 
cabin-boy bringing me a little basin, I gat down and 
bled into it a great de&l; and a> the blood came 
from me, 1 came to myself, and the violence of the 
flame or fever I was in abated, and so did the ra- 
venous part of the hunger. Then I grew sick, and 
reached to vomit, but could not, for I had nothing 
in my stomach to bring up. Afler I had bled some 
time, I swooned, and they all believed I was dead; 
but 1 came to myself soon after, and then had a 
most dreadful pam in my stomach, not to be de- 
scribed, not like the cholic, but a knawing, eager 
pain for food ; and towards the night it went off, 
with a kind of earnest wishing or longing for food, 
BOmethinglike, aslsuppose, thelongingofawoman 
with child, i took another draught of water, with 
sugar in it; but my stomach loathed the sugar, and 
brought it all up again : then 1 took a draught of 
water without sugar, and that staid with me ; and 
I kid me down upon the bed, praying most heartily 
that it would please God to take me away ; and com- 
posing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered awhile, 
and then waking, thought myself dying, being Mf^t 



ROBIKBOR CRUSOE. 179 

with vapours from an empty stomach ; I recom- 
mended my soul then to Goa, and eam^y wished 
that somebody would throw me into the sea. 

All this while my mistreM lay by me, just, Rs I 
thoi^ht, expiring, but bore it with much more pa- 
tience than I; nve the last bit of bread she had 
lefl to her child, my young master, who Would not 
have taken it, but she obliged him to eat it : and I 
believe it saved his life. 

Towards the momiDe I slept again ; and when I 
awoke, I fell into a vi^nt paaston of crying, and 
after that had a second £t of violent hunger ; I gn 
up ravenous, and in a most dreadAd condition: bad 
my mistress been dead, as much as I loved her, [ am 
certain I should have eaten a piece of her flesh with 
as much relish, and as unconcerned, as ever I did 
eat the flesh of any creature appointed for/ood; and 
once or twice I was going to bite my own arm t at 
last I saw the basin in whidi was the blood I had 
bled at my nose the day before ; 1 ran to It, and 
swallowed it with such haste, «nd such a greedy ap- 
petite, as if 1 wondered nobody had bdten it before, 
and afraid it should be taken from me now. After 
it was down, though the thougtMs of It filled me 
with horror, yet it checked the fit of hunger, and I 
took another draught of water, and was composed 
and refi^eiihed for some houn aft». This was Uie 
fourth day ; and thus I held it till towards night ; 
when, within the compass of three hoOTa, I fa^ all 
die several circumstances over again, one after 
another, viz. sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry, pain ki 
the stomach, then ravenous again ; then sick, theh 
iunatto, then crving, then ravenovs again, and so 
every quarter of an hour ; and my strength wasted 
exceedingly : at night I laid me down, having ijo 
comfort but in the hope that I shoidd die befoK 
morning. 

q3 



l7* ADVENTURES OF 

All this night I had no sleep ;buf the hunger wa« 
now turned into a disease ; and I had a terrible 
cholic and gripbg, by wind, instead of food, having 
found its way into the bowels ; and in this condition 
I hiy till morning, when I was surprised with the 
cries and lamentations of my young master, who 
called out to me that his mother was dead ; I lifl^ed 
myself up a little, for ! had not strength to rise, but 
found she was not dead, though she leasable to give 
*ery little signs of life. 

I had then such canvulsions in my. stomach, for 
want of some sustenance, that I cannot describe; 
with such frequent throes and pangs of ajipeUte, 
that nothing but the tortures of death can imitate; 
aad in this condition I was when I heard the seamen 
above cry out, A sail 1 a sail J and hullo and jump 
about as if they were distracted. 

I was not able to get off from the bed, and my 
mistress much less ; and my young master was so 
sick, that I thought he had been expiring ; so we 
could not open the cabin door, or get any account 
whatit was that occasioned such confusion ; nor hod 
we any conversation with the ship's company for two 
days, they having told us that they had not a mouth- 
, fui of any thiog to eat in the ship ; and they told 
us allerwards, diey thought we had been dead. It 
was this dreadful condition we were in when you 
were sent to save our lives; and how you found us, 
sir^ou know as well as 1, and better too. 

This was her own relation, and is such a distinct 
account of starving to death, as, I confess, I never 
met with, and was exceeding entertaining to me. 
I am the rather apt to believe it to be a true account, 
because the youth gave me an account of a good 
part of it ; though, 1 must own, not so distinct and 
BO feeling as the maid ; and the rather, because it 
seems his mother fed bim at the price of her own 



ROB IH SON CRUSOE. 175 

life; but the poor maid, though her constitudoa 
being Btroager than that of her mistress, who was in 
veara, and a weakly woman too, she might struggle 
narder with it ; I saj, the poor m^d might be sup- 
posed to feel the extremity something sooner than 
ber mistress, who might be allowed to keep the last 
bit Bomething longer than she parted with any to 
relieve the maid. No question, as the case is here 
related, if our ship, or some other, had not so pro- 
videntially met them, a few days more would have 
ended all theirlives, unless they had prevented it by 
eating one another; and that even, as their case 
stood, would have served them but a little while, 
they being five hundred leagues from any land, or 
any possibility of relief, other than in the miracu- 
lous manner it happened: but this is by the way; 
I return to my disposition of things among the 
people. 

And, first, it is to be observed here, that for many 
reasons I did not think fit to let them know any 
thing of the sloop i had framed, and which I thought 
of setting up among them ; for I found, at least at 
my first commg, such seeds of divisions among them, 
that I saw plenty, had I set up the sloop, and left 
it among tnem, they would, upon every light dis- 
gust, have separated, and gone away from one 
another, or perhaps have turned pirate, and so 
made ttie island a den of thieves, instead of a planta- 
tion of sober and religious people, as I intended it : 
nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon that 
I had on board, or the two quarter-deck guns that 
my nephew took extraordmary, for the same reason: 
I thought it was enough to qualify them for a de- 
fensive war against any that should invade them, 
but not to set tliom up for an offensive war, or to 
go abroad to attack others ; which, in the end, 
would only bring nua and destruction upon them: 



176 AbVBMTOMa of 

I reset-red tiie sloop, dierefore, and the gutu, Itir 

thefr service another way, as I Bhall obserre in iu 

place. 

Having nnw done *itti the itiand, I left them sll 
in good circumatances iad in a flourishing condition, 
and went on board my ship ag^D the 6th of May, 
having been about twetity-fivB days among them ; 
and as they were all resolved to stay upon the istand 
till I came to remove them, 1 promised to send theU 
ferther relief from the Brazils, if I could posnbly 
find an oppottunity : and, particularly, I promtged 
to send uiem some cattle, auch as ebeep, bogh, and 
cowa ; as to the two cows and calves which I brOi^bt 
from England, we had been lAliged, by ti)e lebgth 
of om- voyage, to kill them at sea, for WKnt of bay 
to feed them. 

The next day, giving them a aalnte of five gtus 
at paring, we set sail, and arrived at the bay <^ AB 
Samts, in the Brazils, in about twenty-two days, 
meeting nothing remarkable in O ur passage but ttus: 
that about three days after we had sailed, betng be- 
calmed, and liic cuireAt setting strong to tbe K. N. B. 
running, as it were, into a bay or gulf on the land 
side, we were driven gomething out of Mr codne, 
and once or twice our men cried out, Land to tbe 
eastward; but whether it was tiie continent or ialands 
we ccruld not tell by any means. But tbe third day, 
towards evening, the sea smooth, and the weather 
calm, we saw &e sea, as rt were, covered towards 
the land with aomething very black ; not being idile 
to discover what it was, till after some time, our 
chief mate going up the main-shrouds a h'ttle way, 
and looking at them with a perspective, cried out it 
was an army. 1 couldnotima^newhatbemeantby 
an army, and thwarted him ahttle hastily. Nay, sir, 
says he, don't be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet 
too t for I beUeVe there are a thousand 'canoes, and 



BOBINSOM csvaoB. 177 

f ou may see them paddle along, for (hey are C(Hn- 
ing towards lu apace. 

I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so waa 
Biy nephew the captain ; fur he had heard such ter- 
rible stories of them in the island, and having never 
been in those seas before, that he could not tell what 
to think of it, but said, two or three times, we 
should all be devoured. I must confess, consider- 
ing we were becalmed, and the curr^it set strong 
towards the shore, 1 liked it the worse ; however, I 
bade them not be afraid, but bring the ship to an 
anchor aa soon as we came so near as to know that 
ive must engage them. 

The weuher continued calm, and they came on 
apace towards us ; so I gave order to come to an 
anchor, and furl all our sails : as f<v the eavages, I 
told them they had nothing to fear but fire, and 
thereforetbeyshouldget their boats out, and fasten 
them, one close by the head, and the other by the 
stem, and man them both well, and wait the issue 
in tlut posture : this i did, that the men in the 
boats might be ready with sheets and buckets to put 
out any hre these savages would endeavour to fix 
to the outside of the ship. 

Tn this posture we lay by for them, and in a httle 
while they came up wiu us ; but never was such a 
horrid sieht seen by Christians: though, my mate 
was mu(£ mistaken in his calculation of dieir num- 
ber, yet when they came up we reckoned about a 
hundred and twenty-six ; some of them had sixteen 
or seventeen men m them, and some more, and the 
least six or seven. 

When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be 
struck with wonder and astonishment, as at a sight 
which doubtless they had nerer seen before ; nor 
could they, at first, as we aflerwards understood, 
know what to make of us ; they came boldly up, 



178 ADVtffTtJkSS 6V 

hoiteveti vety (tear to cm, md Stxtriei tO go about M 
row round us ; but we called to our tten in the 
boeita not to let them come too near th«in. This 
Tfiry order brought ns to an engagement withHiem, 
\*ithout oiir designing it ; for five or sis of the lai^ 
canoes came bo near our long-boat that our men 
beckoned with their hands to keep thedi back, whieh 
thev understood rerf well, and went back, but at 
their retreat about nfty arrows came on board ■• 
from those boats, and one of onr men in tbe long- 
boat was very much wounded. However, I called 
to them not to fire by any means ; but we handed 
down some deal-boards into the boat, alid the car- 
Bemter presently set up a kind of ftnce, like waste 
DOdrds, to cover tbeih from the arrcnrs Of the SB- 
tages, itihej shoiild shoot again. 

About half an hotir afterwards they all came np 
Ufa body astern of us, and bo near^ as that We coald 
easily dJsceru what they were, though we could not ' 
tell their design ; and I easily found they were 6ome 
of my old friends, the same sort of tardtfe^ that 1 
had been used to engage with ; and ih a ^ort time 
iHore they rowed a little farther oat to sea( tai they 
came di rectly broadside whb us.and then rowed doinl 
i^traight upon us, till they came so near that they 
Could hear us speak : upon this I ordered all my men 
to keep closejesttheyfihouldsfaoot anymore arrows^ 
and made all our guns ready ; but being so near at 
to be within beariilg, I made Friday go out upott 
the deckf and call out aloud to them in his um- 
^uage, to know what they meant ; which accord* 
mgly he did. Whether they understood him or nCtj 
that T knew not ; but as soon as he had called to 
them, six of them, who were in Uie foremost of 
Highest boat to us, turned their canoes ft'om us, and 
stooping down, showed us their naked backaideb 
jost ds if, In English, saving your presence, they hid 



bid ut lata — ■- ; whetber tlua was a de&wpe or 
didlenge we knew no^, or whether it was done ip 
mere ouidraapt, or as a signal to the rest; butini'- 
oedistely Friday criedout they were going to shoot, 
■ad; unbappily tot him, poor fellow, they let fly 
about three hundred of their arrows, and, to my io- 
exwegsible grief, killed poor Friday, no other man 
bang iD their aight. The poor fellow was shot with 
no less than three arrows, and about three more fell 
venrnear him; £uch unlucky mar ksmeujthey were!. 
I waa so enraged at the loss of my old trusty ser- 
vant and companion, that I immediately ordered 
tve guns to be loaded with small-shot, and four 
with great, and eave them such a hroadaide as they 
had never heard in their lives before, t9 be sure. 
They were not above half a cable length off when 
tre Bred ; and our guiuiers took their aim so well 
(that tiiree or four of their canoes were over«et, w 
we had reason to believe, by one shot only. 

The iV mauaera t^ turning up their bare hack- 
miet to ws gave u# no great ofience ; neither did X 
liAPw for certain whether that which would pass 
fyr the gneateat contempt among u^ jo^ht be un^ 
difratoodso by thepi oj-not; therefore, ju return, J 
. jb»d o«Jy rosolred to have fired four or five guns at 
j^m wi£h ^wder only, which I knew would ^^hten 
^esa aufficieiitly ; but when ijiey shot at us directly^ 
.with all the fury they were capable of, and cspe- 
lOaJly w they had kiUed my poor Friday, whom I 
•0 .(otirely loved and valued, and who, mdeed, so 
well deserved it, I thought myself not only justifi- 
ftWeJaefore God and man, but would have been very 
^adif I could have overset eveiy canoe there, and 
AnMB'oed every one of them. 

I cAn (teither toll how many we killed, nor hov 
iftaey ye wounded, at this broadside, but sute sudx 
» &igbt and hurry never was ^cen .among such a 



180 ASVENTUSEa O? 

multitude; there were thirteen or fourteen of their 
canoes Bplit and overBet in all, and the men all set 
a-fcwimming : the rest, frightened out of their witff, 
BCoured away as fast as they could, taking but little 
care to save those whoBe boats were split or spoiled 
with our shot ; so I suppose' that many of them were 
lost; and our men took up one poor fellow swimaiinj 
for his life, above an hour after they were all gone. 

The BHiaU-ahot from our cannon niu£t needs kiH 
and wound a great many ; but, in short, we never 
knew any thing how it irent with them, for they 
6ed so fast, that in three hovirg, or thereabouts, wC 
could not see above three or four straggling canoes 
nor did we ever see the rest any more ; for a breeze 
of wind Bpringin? up the same evening, we weighed, 
and set sail for tne Brazils. 

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was 
so sullen that he would neither eat nor speak, and 
we all fancied he would starve himself to death: but 
I took a way to cure him; for I made them take 
him and turn him into the long-boat, and make him 
believe they would toss him into the sea again, and 
BO leave hun where they found him, if he would 
not speak : nor would that do, but they really did 
throw him into the sea, and came away from him; 
and then he followed them, for he swam like a 
cork, and called to them, in his tongue, though 
they knew not one word of what he said : however, 
at last they took him in again, and then he began 
to be more tractable ; nor did I ever design they 
should drown him. 

We were now under sail again; but I was the 
most disconsolate creature alive for want of my man 
Friday, and would have been very glad to have gone 
back to the island to have taken one of the rest frtHu 
thence for myoccasion ; but it could not be; sowe 
went on. We had one prisoner, as I have said, and 



KOBIKBOIT CRUSOfc. l(ti 

k wu a long time before we could atake him un- 
d^Etand any thing ; but, in time, our men tauf^ht 
him some English, and he be^n to be t KttiA trac- 
{■ble. AfVerwardi, we iaquired what tiountrj' h« 
came from, hot could make nothing at what he 
said ; for his speech was so odd, all gotturals, aiid 
bespoke in the throat in sndt a hollow, odd man-' 
ner, thftt we could nerer fona a word after hitaj 
and we were all of opinion that they might speidE 
ibat }aagixtfn as well if they were ea^ed as other- 
wiae ; nm" could we perceive that tliey had any oc- 
CMMon either- for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate, but 
formed rtieir wmrds ju«t as a hnnting-horn forma s 
tune, with on open llvoat. He told us, however, 
some time after, when we had taught him to speak 
a littte Engli^, that they were going with ttieh^ . 
kings to fight a great battle. When he said kings, 
w» asked him how many kings P He said they were 
liTV nadon, (we could not make him understand the 
|daral t), and that th^ all joined to go against two 
natioD. We asked him what made them come up < 
tons? He said, " To makeete great wonder look." 
Here it is to be ob*«rted> that all those natives, a» 
alae these of Alrica, when they team English, 
always add two e's at the end of the words where 
we use one ; and they [Jaee the accent ujion them, 
aa laakee, takee, and the tike ; and we could not 
, break them of it ; nay, 1 could hardly make Friday 
leave it off, though at last be did. 

And now I name the poor fellow once more, t 
moet take my last leave of him : Poor honest FVi- 
day 1 We buried him with all the decency and so- 
lemnity poBsiUe, by putting him into a coffin, and 
dwowing him into the sea; and 1 caused tliem to 
Gre eleven guns for him : and so «ided the life of 
the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most afiec 
tionate servant, that ever nun had. 

VOL. XVII. R 



182 ASVEHTUKES OF 

. We went now away with a &ir wind for Brazil ; 
tmd in about twelve days' time we tnade land, in the 
latitude of five degrees south of the line, being the 
north-eaatermoet land of all that part of Amerii^a. 
We kept on S.bjrE.in sight of the shore four days, 
when we made Cape St. Augustine, and in three 
days came to an anchor off tfae.bay of All Saints, 
the old place of my deliverance, from, whence came 
both my good and evil fate. 
. Never ship came to this port that had less busi- 
ness than I had, and yet it was with great difficulty 
that we were admitted to hold the least correspond- 
ence on shore : nbt my partner himself, who was 
alive, and made a great figure among them, not my 
twom«vhant<trustees, not the fame ofmjwooder- 
ttil preservation in the island, could obtain me that 
fovor; but my partner remembering that 1 bad 
given five hundred moidores to the prior of the 
. monastery of the Augustines.anld two Hundred and 
seventy-two to the poor, went to the monasteryi 
and obliged the prior that then was, to go to the 
governor, and get leave for me personalty, with the 
captain and one more, besides eight seamen, to 
come on shore, and no more ; and this upon coo- 
dilJon absolutely capitulated for, that we should 
not ofier to land any goods out of the ship, or to 
carry any perfion away without licence. They were 
so fitrict with us as to landing any goods, that it . 
was with extreme difficulty that 1 got on shore three 
bales of English goods, such as fine broad-cloUis, 
■tuffit, and some linen, which I had brought for a 
present to my partner. 

He was a very generous, open-hearted tnan; 
though, like me, he came frimi little at first ; and 
tfaough he knew not that I had the least design of 
giving him any thing, he sent me on i>oard a pre- 
seot of fresh provisions, wine, and sweetmeats, worth 



ROBINSON CRVSOK. |8S 

above thirty moidores, including lome tobacco, and 
three or four fine medals of gold : but I was even 
with him in my present, which, as I hare said, con- 
sisted of fine DToad-cloth, English Btu&, lace, and 
fine hollands ; also I delivered faim about the value 
of one hundred pounds sterling, in the same goods, 
tar other uses; and I obliged him to set up the 
bIdop, which I had brought withmefrom Euglaod, * 
as 1 have said, for the use of my colony, in order to 
send the refreshments I intended to my plantation. 

Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop 
in a very few days, for she was already framed; and 
. I gave the master of her such instructions as that 
he could not miss the place ; nor did he misa them, 
as I had an account from my partner afterwards. I 
eot him soon loaded with the small cargo 1 aent 
Uiem ; and one of our seamen, that had been on 
■hore with me there, ofiered to go with the sloop 
and settle there, upon my letter to the governor 
Spaniard to allot him a sufficient quanUty of land 
tor a plauMtion, and giving him some clothes and 
tools for his planting-work, which he said he un- 
derstood, having been an old planter at MaiyJaiMl, 
and a buccaneer into the bargain. I encouraged the 
fellow, by granting all he desired ; and, as la con- 
didon, 1 gave him the savage whom we had taken 
prisoner of war to be his slave, and ordered the go- 
vernor Spaniard to give him his share of every thmg 
he wanted with the re«t. 

When we came to fit this man out, my old part- 
ner told me there was a certam very honest fellow, 
a Brazil planter of his acquaintance, who had &llen 
into the displeasure of the churdi. I know not 
what the matter is with him, says he, but on my 
conscience I think he is a heretic in his heart, and 
he has been obliged to conceal himself for fear of 
the lnqu)siti<»i ; that he woiUd be very glad of such 
»2 



184 ASvasTUBB* or 

an opportiinitf to make hii escape, witti his wife 
and two deugnters; and if I w&aid let them go to 
my island, and allot tliena a pluitatian, be would 
give tiiem a small stock to bi^n with ; for the o^ 
(ters of the lDC|uisition had seized all his effects and 
estate^ and he had nothing left hot a little house* 
hoid stu^ and two slave* i and, adds he, though I 
- hate hia principles, yet I would not have him ftU 
into their hands, for he will be assuredly burned 
alive i£ he does. 

I granted this presently, and joined niy English- 
man with them; and wc concealed the man, and 
hii wife and daughters, on board our ship, till die 
aloop put out to go to sea ; and then having put all 
their goods on board some time bdbre, we put them 
on board the sloop after she was got out of the bay. 

Our seaman was mishtily pleased with this new 
partner ; and their stods, indeed, were much alike 
rich in tools, in preparations, and a iarm ; but no- 
thing to bMin with, except as above t however, 
they carrieo ov» with them, which was worth all 
the rest, some materials for planting sugar-canes, 
wiU) some plants of canes, which he, I mean the 
Portugal man, understood very well. 

Among the rest of the supplies sent to ray tenants 
in the island, I sent diem by the slo<^ three milch 
cows and five calves, about twenty-two hogs among 
tfaem, three sows big with pig, two mares, and a 
stone-horse. For my Spaniards, according to my 
promise, I engaged three Portugal women to go, 
and recommended it to them to marry them, and 
use them kindiy. I could have [wocured more wo- 
men, but I remembered that the poor prosecuted 
man had two daughters, and that there were but 
five of the ^aniatds that wanted) the rest had 
wives of their own, though in another oountry. 

All this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may ea> 



sily Buppoae, was very welcome t« tay old inlubit- 
antfl, who were now, with this addition, between 
sixty and seventy people, besides little children, of 
which there were a. great many. I found letters at 
IiondoD from them all, by way of Lisbon, when I 
came back to England, of which I shall also take 
some notice immemately. 

I have now done with the island, and all manner 
of discourse about it ; and whoever reads the rest of 
mymemorandums would do well to turn his thoughts 
entirely from it, and expect to read of the follies of 
an old man, not warned by his own harms, mucb 
less by those of other men, to beware of the like ; 
not cooled by almost forty years' miseries and dis- 
appotntments ; not satisfied with prosperity beyond 
expectaUon, nor made cautious by afflictions and 
distress beyond imitation. 

I had no more business to go to the East Indies 
than a man at full Ubertv has to go to the turnkey 
at Newgate, and desire him to lock hun up among 
the prisoners there, and starve him. Had I taken 
a small vessel from England, and gone directly to 
the island ; had I loaded her, as I did the other 
vessel, with ail the necessaries for the plantation,, 
and for my people; taken a patent from the govern- 
ment here to have secured my property, in subjec- 
tion only to that of England; had I earned over can- 
non and ammunition, servants, and people to plant, 
and taken possession of the place, fortified and 
strengthened it in the name of England, and in- 
creased it with people, as 1 might easily have done ; 
had I then settled myself there, and sent the ship 
back laden with good rice, as I might also have done 
in six months' time, and ordered my iriends to have 
fitted her out again for our supply ; had I done this, 
and staid there myself, I had at least acted with a 
man of common seDse: but 1 was possessed like a 
B 3 



166 ADVBHTDRES -OF 

wandenng ipirit, And scorned all advanU^; I 

r leased myself with being the patron of the people 
placed there, and doing for ihcm in a kind of 
haughty, majestic way,ilike an old pstriarchel mo- 
narch, providing for them as if 1 liad been father 
(rf the whole family, as welt aa of the plantation i 
but I never so much as pretended to plant in the 
Dame of any government or nation, or to acknow- 
ledge any prince, or to call my people subject* to 
any one nation more than another : nay, 1 never so 
much as gave the place a name, but left it, as I 
found it, belonging to nobody, and the people under 
no discipline or government but my own ; who, 
though 1 had influ^ice over them as a &ther and 
benefactor, had no authotity or power to act or 
command one way or other, farther than voluntary 
consent moved them to comply ; yet even this, h^ 
1 staid there, would have done well enough ; but 
as I rambled from them, and came thefe no more, 
the last letters I had f^om any of them were by my 
partner's means, who afterwards sent another aloop 
to the place, aiid who sent me word, though I had 
not the letter till I got to London, several years 
after it was written, that they w«it on but poorly, 
were malcontent with their long stay there ; that 
Will Atkins was dead ; that five of the Spaniards 
were ':oine away ; and though they had not been 
much molested by the savages, yet they had some 
skirmishes with them ; and that they begged of him 
to write to me to think of the promise i had made 
to tetah them away, that they might see their coua> 
Ky Bgaiti before tney died. 

But I was gone a wildgoose chase, indeed ! anA 
they that will nave any more of me must be content 
to follow me into a new variety of follies, hardships, 
and wild adventures, wherein the justice of Provi- 
dence may be duly obaerved; and we may see kov 



\ 



18T 

fflwly Heaven can goi^ us with "our own desiree, 
miike the strongest of our vbheg to be our affliction, 
end punish ub most EeTerelj with those very things 
which we think it would be our uttnost happiness to 
be allowed in. Whether 1 had business or no busi- 
nesi, away I went : it is no time now to enlarge 
upon the reason or absurdity of ray own conduct, 
but to come to the history ; I was embarked for the 
voyage, and the voyage I went. 

I shall only add a word or two concerning my 
honest popish clergyman ; for let their opinion of 
us, and all other heretics in general, as they call us, 
be as unchaiitable as it may, I verily believe thia 
man was very sincere, and wished the good of all 
men; yet I believe he was upon the reserve in 
many of his expressions, to prevent giving me 
offence : for I scarce heard him once rail on the 
blessed Vii^n, or mention St. Jago or his guardian 
angel, though so common with the rest of them: 
however, 1 say, I had not the least doubt of his sin- 
cerity and pious intentions on his own part ; and I 
am firmly o(^ opinion, if the rest of the popish mis- 
sionaries were tike bim, they would strive to visit 
even the poor Tartars and Laplanders, where they 
have nothing to give them, as well as covet to flock 
to India, Persia, China, ftc. the most wealthy of ' 
the heathen countries ; for if they expected to bring 
DO gains to their church by it, it may well be ad- 
mired how they came to admit the Chinese Confb- 
ciuB into the calendar of the Christian saiats. But 
this by the bye> 

A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon, my pious 

Eriest asked me leave to go thither; being still, ■■ 
e observed, bound never to finish any voyi^ he 
began. How happy had it been for me if 1 had gone 
with him ! But it was too late itow : all things Hea- 
^«a appoints 'for the best; bad J gone with bim, I 



1S8 ADVKNTUKES OF 

had never had ao many d)ing» to be thankful Tor, 
and the reader had never heu^ of the Secand part 
of the travels and adventures of Robinson Crusoe ; 
■o I must here leave exclaiming at myself^ and go 
on with my voyage. From the Brazils we made 
directly over the Atlantic Sea to the Cape of Good 
Hope, and had a tolerable good voyage, our course 
generally south-east, now and then a storm, and 
some contrary winds, but my disasters at sea were 
at an end ; my future rubs and crou events were 
to befall me on shore, that it might appear the 
land was as well prepared to be our scourge as the 
sea. 

Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had asu- 
jiercargo on board, who was to direct all her mo- 
tions after she arrived at the Cape, only being li- 
mited to a certain number of days for stay, by 
charter-party, at the several ports sne was to go to. 
This was none of my business, neither did I meddle 
with it; my nephew, the captain, and the super- 
cargo, adjusting all those things between than as 
they thought fit. 

We stud at the Cape no longer than was needful 
to take in fresh water, but made the best of our way 
for the coast of Coromandel. We were indeed in- 
formed that a French man of war of fifty guns', and 
two targe merchant-ships, were gone for the Indies; 
and as I knew we were at war with France, I had 
some apprehensions of them ; but they went their 
own way, and we heard no more of them. 

f shall not pester the reader with a tedious de- 
scription of places, journals of our voyages, varia- 
tions of the compass, latitudes, trade-wmds, Ac; 
it is enough to Dame (he ports and places which we 
touched at, and what occmred to us upon our paas- 
ine irom one to another. We touched first at the 
iuand of Madagai^, where, though the people are 



KOIIKIOV CBtnoE. 189 

fierce Bnd Ureaehnmie, and very well anned with 
lances aod bowe, which they uie with tacanoeivable 
dexterity, yet we fared very well with them awhile ; 
ihey treated us Tery civilly ; and for tome trifles 
wmcb we sate them, itich as knives, loiwan, Ac. 
they brought ug eleven good fat bullocks of a mid- 
dling aize, which we took in, partly for freeh pro- 
visions for our present spending, and the rest to salt 
for the ihip'a nae. 

We ' were obliged to stay here some time after we 
hadfumishedourselveswithproritions; and I, who 
was alwayi too curious to look into every nook of 
the world wherever 1 came, was for going on shore 
M often as I could. It was on the east aide of the 
island that we went on shore one evening: and the 
pet^le, who, by the way, are very numerous, came 
thronging about us, iuid stood gazing at us at S 
distance; but as we had traded freely with them, 
and had been kindly uaed, we thought ourselves in 
no danger ; but when we saw the people, we cut 
three bouehs out of a tree, and stuck them up at a 
distance trom us ; which, it seems, ia a mark in 
that country, i^ot only of a truce and fViendship, but 
when it is accepted, the other side ^ets up three polea 
or boughs, which is a signal that they accept the 
truce too ; but then this is a known condition of 
the truce, that you are not to pass beyond their tliree 
poles, towards them', nor they to ccme past your 
three poles, or boughs, towards you ; so that you 
are perfectly secure within the three poles, and alt 
the space between your poles and theirt is allowed 
like a market for free converse, traffic, and com7 
merce. When you go there, you muet not carry 
your weapons with you ; and if they come into that 
apace, they stick up their javelins and lances all at 
the first polea, and come on unarmed; but if any 
violence u offbred them, aud the truce thereby broken 



190 ADVENTURia OF 

away they run to the poles, aod lay hold of their 
weapons, »id the truce ia at «n end. 

It happened one evening when we went on shore, 
that a greater number of their people came down 
than usual, but alt very friendly and civil; and they 
brought several kinds of provisions, for which we 
■atisfied them with auch toys as we had; their wo- 
men also brought us milk and root«, and several 
things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet; and 
we made us a Uttle tent or hut of some boughs of 
trees, and lay on shore all night. 

I know not what was the occasion, but I was not 
so well satisfied to lie on shore as the rest; and the 
boat riding at an anchor about a stone's cast from 
the land, with two men in her to take care of her, 
I made one of them come on shore ; and getting 
some boughs of trees to cover us also in the boat, 
I spread &e sail on the bottom of the boat, and 
lay under the cover of the branches of the trees all 
mght in the boat. 

About two o'clock in the morning we heard one 
of our men make a terrible noise on the shore, call- 
ing out, for God's sake, bring the boat in, and 
come and help them, for they were all like to he 
murdered; at the same time Iheard the fire of five 
muskets, which was the number of the guns they 
had, and that three times over ; for, it seems, the 
natives here were not so easily frightened with guns 
as the savages were in Amenca, where 1 had to do 
with them. All this while 1 knew not what was 
the matter, but rousins immediately from sleep 
wiA the noise, I caused the boat to be thrust in, 
and resolved with three fiisees we had an board, to 
land and assist our men. 

We got the boat soon to the shore, but our men 
were in too much haste; far being come to the 
shore, they plunged into the water, to get to the 



ISOE. 191 

boat with all the expedition thev coidd, being pur- 
sued by between three and four hundred men. Our 
men were but nine in all, and only five of them had 
Aitees with them; the rest had pistols and Bwordst 
indeed, but they were of small use to them. 

We took up seven of our men, and with difficulty 
enough too, three of them being very ill wounded ; 
and mat which was still worse was, that while we 
stood in the boat to take our mea in, we were in ss 
much danger as they were in on ^ore; for they 
poured their arrows in upon us so thick, iJiat we 
were glad to barricade the side of the boat up with 
the baches, and two or three loose boards, which, 
to our great satisfaction, we had by mere accident 
in the boat. And yet, had it been day-light, they 
are, it ^leems, such exact marksmen, that if they 
could have seen but the least part of any of us, they 
would have been sure of us. We had, by the light 
<of the moon, a little sight of them, as they stood 
pelting us from the shore with darts and arrows; and 
having cot ready our fire-arms, we gave them a 
volley, Uiat we could hear, by the cries of some of 
them, had wounded several ; however, they stood 
thus in battle-array on the shore till break of day, 
which we suppose was that they might see the bet- 
ter to take their aim at us. 

Id this condition we lay, and could not tdl how 
to weigh our anchor or set up our sail, because we 
must needs stand up in the boat, and they were as 
sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a tree with 
small shot. We made signals of distress to the ship, 
which (hough she rode a league off, yet my nephew 
the captain, hearing our firing, and by glasses per- 
ceiving the posture we lay in, and that we fired to- 
wards the shore, pret^ well understood us; and 
weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as new the 
shore as he durst with the ship, and then senC an- 



193 ADVENTBKU OF 

elher boat, vilh ten hands in b^i to awist u>: bul 
we called to them not to come too near, telling thetn 
what Goaditioa we were in ; however they stood in 
near to us, and one of tl)« men taking the end oia 
tow-line in hia hand, and keeping one boat between 
him and the enemy, bo that they could not perfectly 
see him, >wam on board u>, and made fast the line 
to the boat; upon which we slipped out a little 
cable, and leaving our anchor behind, they towed in 
out of reach trf the arrowi; we all the wliile lying 
doBe behind the barricado we bad made. 

As Roon as we were got from between tbe ship and 
the chore, that we could lay her side to ilfe shore, 
she ran aloi^ jutt by them, and poured in a broad- 
side among them loaded with pieoes of iron and 
lead, small bullets, and sucib stul^ besides the great 
■hot, which made a terrible havoc among tbem. 

When we were got on board and out of danger, 
we had time to examine inU> the occasion of this 
fray; and, iadeedr eur supercargo, who had been 
^ea in those parts, put me upon it ; for be said be 
was sure the inhabitants would not have touched ua 
af^ we had made a truce, if we had not done some- 
thing to provoke tbem to it. At length it came owt 
that as old wnaan, who bad come to sell us mom 
milk, had brought it within our poles, and a youig 
woDian with her, who also brought some roots or 
barbs; and while tbe old woman (whether the waa 
mother te the young woman or no tbey eeuld not 
tdl) was selling ui the milk, one of our men offered 
fiocoe rudeness to the wencb t^t wM with ber, at 
whidt the old woitan made a great noise : however, 
the seaman would not quit biit prixe, but carried her 
out of the old woman's sight atoong the trees, it 
being aloioet dark ; the old woman went away with- 
•wt her, aad, as wc may suppose, made an outcry 
SBong the people she come from : vnko, upon B0ttc«^ 



ROBISSOK CKUIOB. 195 

fused tbu great mnmy npoo us iif three or four 
houn ; and it was ^Kat odds but we bad all b^en. 
destroyed. 

One o£ our men was killed with a lance thrown at 
hbn just at the b^inning of dte attack, as he sallied 
oat of the tent they had made: the rest came off 
free, all but the fellow who wtu the occasion t^all 
the miBchief, who paid dear plough for his black 
raatreu, for we could not hear what became of him 
a great while. We lay upon the diore two dayi after, 
thou^ the wind presented, and made ugnala.for 
Jam, and made our boat sail up shore and down 
■bore teversi leagues, but in Tun, so wewere obliged 
to give hhn o*er; and if he alone had su&red for 
it, UM loss had been less. 

I could not satisfy mysd^ however, without ven- 
turing on dure once laare, to try if I could lean) 
any rakig of him or ihem ; it was the third night 
after the action that I had a great mind to learn, i£ 
J could by any means, what mischief we bad done, 
and bow the game SMod on the Indians' side. I was 
careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be at- 
tacked again ; but I ought, indeed, to have been 
Mire that the men I weot with had been under my 
commaod, before I engaged in a thing bo hazardous 
and mischievoas as I was brought into by it, with- 
out design. 

We took tventv as stout fellowB with us as any ia 
the Aip, besides the siqiercargo and myself, and we 
landed two hoars beJore midn^it, at the same place 
whvre the Indians stdod drawn im in the evening^ 
before : I landed here becatue my design, as I have 
■aid, was chiefly toace if tbeyhaid(|8tciedthefidd, 
Kid if they had left aoy marks behmd them of the 
mischief we had done them; and I thoi^ht if we . 
could snrpiise aacor two of tlieni, ficrhaps we might 
get aiB->a9BiLagai% by way of excbaage. 

9 



IM ADVENTURES OF 

We landed without any noise, snd divided oiir 
mm into two bodies, whereof the boatawaia com' 
manded one, and I the other. We neither saw nor 
heard any body stir when we landed: and we nsareb- 
ed up, one body at a distance from the other, to the 

Slace; but at ant could see nothing, it being very 
arli; till by and by our boatswam, who led the 
first party, stumbled and fell over adead body. This 
made them halt awhile: for knowing by the circum- 
stances that they were at the place where the Indians 
had stood, they waited for my coming up there. We 
concluded to bait till the moon began to rise, which 
we knew would be in iess than an hour, when we 
could easily discern the havoc we had made among 
them. We told thirty-two bodies vpon the ground, 
whereof two were not quite dead ; some had an arm, 
and some a leg shot off, and one his head; those 
diat were wounded, we suppose, they had carried 
away, 

When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery 
ofallwecouldcome to theknomedgeof, I waare- 
. solved for going on board ; but the boatswain and 
his party sent me word that they were resolved to 
make a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, 
as they called them, dwek, and a«ked me to go aions 
with them; and if they could find them, as Uiey still 
fancied they should, they did not doubt of gettinga 
good booty; and it mignt be tiiey might find Tom 
JeSry there; that was the man's name we had losL 

Had they sentto ask my leave to go, I knew well 
enough wnat answer to have given them; for 1 
should have commanded them iqstantly on board, 
knowing it was not a hazard fit fpr us to run, who 
had a ship, and ship-loading in our charge, and a 
voyage to make which depended very much, upon 
the lives of the men; but as they sent me word toey 
were resolved to go, and only asked me and my com- 



ROBIMSOM CRCaOE. 195 

pany to go along with them, I positively refused it, 
and rose up, for I was Bitting on the ground, in order 
to ^ to the boat. One or two of the men began 
to importune me to go; and when I refiued, began 
to grumble, and «ay that they were not under my 
command, and they would go. Come, Jack, uiyiODa 
ofthemen, will you go with me? I'll go for one. 
Jack Baid he would, — and then another, — and, in a 
word, they all left me but one, whom 1 persuaded to 
Btay, and ahoy left in tiie boat. So the supercargo 
and 1, with the third man, went back to the boat, 
where we told them we would itay for them, and 
take care to take in as many of them bb should be 
left ; for I told them it was a mad thing they were 
going about, and supposed most of tbem would 
run the fate of Tom Jefliy. 

They told me, like Beamen, they would warrant 
it they would come off again, and they would take 
care, Ac; bo away they went. Z entreated them to 
consider the ship and the voyage, that their lives 
were not their own, and that they were entrusted 
with the voyage, in some measure ; that if they mis- 
carried, the ship might be lost for want of their 
help, and that the; could not answer for it to God or 
man. But I might as well have talked to the m^n- 
mast of the ship; they were mad upon their jour- 
ney, only they gave me good words, and begged I 
would not be angry ; that they did not doiibt but 
they would be back again in ^out an hour at far- 
thest; for the Indian town, they said, was not 
above balfa mile off, though they found it abov% 
two miles before they got to it. 

Well,. they all went away ; and though the attempt 
was desperate, and such as none but madmen would 
have gone about, yet to give them their due, thev 
went about it as warily as boldly : they were gal- 
lantly armed, for they had every wan a fusee or 



196 ADVBNTDRU OT 

TMMket, s bayonet, mid a pistol ; gome of them bad 
faroad cutlawu, gome of them had hangers, and the 
boatswain and two more had pole-axes ; bEsidea all 
which, they had among them thirteen hand^grena* 
does ; b<dder fellows, and better provided, never 
went about any wicked woHc in the worid. 

When they went out, theii chief deaisn was plun- 
der, and they were in mighty hopes of finding gold 
there; but a circumstance, which none of them were 
aware of, iet them on fire with revenge^ and niad* 
derilfi of them ali. When they came to the few In- 
dian houses which they thought hod been the town, 
whichwasnotaborehalf amileoff, they were under 
a great disa{^aintment, for there were not above 
twelve or thirteen houses ; and where the town waSt 
or how big, they knew not. They consulted, there- 
fore, what to do, and were some time before they 
could resolve ; for If they fell upon these, they must 
cut all their throat*, and it was ten to one but aom* 
of them might escape, it beingin the night, du>ugh 
the moon was up ; and if one oKaped, he would run 
and raise all the town, so they ^ould have a whole 
army upon tliem: again, on Uie other hand, if they 
Went away and left those untouched, for the people 
were all asleep, they could not tell which way to look 
for the town i however, the last was the beet adrico; 
so they resolved to leave them, and took for the 
town as well as diey could. They went on a little 
way and found a cow tied to a tree ; this they pre- 
sently concluded, would be a good guide to them ; 
for, they said, the cow certainly belonged to tbe 
town before them, or the town behind them ; andif 
they untied her, theyshouidsee which way she went; 
if she went back, they had nothing to say to her; 
but, if ^e went forward, they would follow her: a* 
they cut the cord, which was made of twisted llact. 
and the cow went on before them, directiy 19 tu 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 197 

fovn; which, as they reported, consisted of above 
two hundred houses or huts, and in some of these 
they found several families living together. 

Here they found all io silence, as profoundly se- 
cure as sleep couldmakethem: and, first, they called 
aaother council, to consider what they had to doj 
and, in a word, they resolved to divide themselves 
into three bodies, and so set three houses on fire in 
three parts of the town ; and as the men come out, 
to seize them and bind them (if any resisted, they 
neednotbe asked what to do then), and so to search 
the rest of the houses for plunder : but they resolved 
to march silently first through the town, and see 
what dimensions it was of, and if they might venture 
upon it or do. 

They did so, and desperately resolved that they 
would venture upon them : but while they were ani- 
mating one another to the work, three of them, who 
were a little before the rest, called outaloud to them, 
and told them tliat they had found Tomjefiry: they 
all ran up to the place, where they found the poor 
fellow hanging up naked by one arm, and his throat 
cut. There was an Indian house just by the tree, 
where they found sixteen or seventeen of the prin- 
cipal Indians, who had been concerned in the fray 
with us before, and two or three of them wounded 
with our shot ; and our men found they were awake, 
and talking one to another ip that house, but knew 
not their number, ' 

The sight of their poor mangled comrade so en- 
raged them, as before, that they swore to one an- 
other they would be revenged, and that not an Indian 
that came into their hands should have any quarter; 
and to work they went immediately, and yet not so 
madly as might be expected from the rage and fury 
they were in. Their first care was to get something 
that would iooo take fire, but, after a little search, 



198 ADVEKTtfllBS OF 

they found that would be to no purpose ; for moat 
of the liouses were low, and thatched with flags and 
rushes, of which the country is full ; so they pre- 
Beritly made some-witd fire, aa we call it, by wetting 
B little powder in the palm of thdr hands ; and in a 
quarter of an hour they set the town on fire in four 
or five places, and particularly diat house where the 
Indians were not gone to bed. 

As soon as tl^ fire began to blaze, the poor 
frightened creatures began to rush out to save their 
lives, but met with their fate in the attenipt ; and 
especially at the door, where they drove them back, 
the boatswain himself killing one or two with his 
pole-axe; thehousebeingtarge, andmanyinit.hedid 
not care to go in, but called forahand-grenado, and 
threw it among them, which at first frightened them, 
but, when it burst, made such havoc among them, 
that they cried out in a hideous manner. In short, 
most of the Indians who were in the open part of 
the house were killed or hurt with the grenado, ex- 
cept two or three more who pressed to the door, 
which the boatswain and two more kept, with their 
bayonets on the muzzles of their pieces, and dis- 
patched all that came in lh«r way ; but there was 
another apartment in the house, where the prince or 
king, or whatever he was, and several others were; 
and these were kept in till the house, which was by 
this time all in a light flame, fell in upon them, and 
th^y were smothered together. 

ATI this while they fired not a gun, becsuse they 
would not waken the people faster than they couid 
master them ; but the tare began to waken them fast 
enough, and our fellows were glad to keep a little 
together in bodies ; for the fire grew so raging, all 
Ibe houses being made of light combustible stuff, 
th^theycould hardly bear the street between them; 
and theur business was to follow the fire, for the surer 



ROSIRSOir CRUSOE. 199 

exeCDtion : is &st as fbe 6re either forced the people 
out of those houses which were burning, or frighten- 
ed them out of others, our people were ready at their 
doors to knock them on the head, stilt calling and 
hollowing one to another to rememher Tom Jeffiy. 

While this was doing, I must confess I was ver^ 
uneasy, and eipeciaily when 1 taw the flames. of the 
lovn, which, it being night, seemed to be just by me. 
My nephew, the captain, who was roused by his men, 
seeing such a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing' 
what the matter was, or what danger I was in, espe- 
cially hearing the guns too, for by this time tiiey 
began to use their fire-arms j a thousand tboughi« 
oppressed bis mind concerning me and the super- 
cargo, what would become of us; and, at last, though 
he could ill spare any more men, yet not knowing 
what exigence we might be in, he takes another 
boat, and with thirteen men and himself comes on 
■bore to tne. 

He was surprised to see me and the supercargo iu 
the boat, with nn more than two men ; and tfaoneh 
he was glad that we were well, , yet be was in tne 
same impatience with us to know what was doing ; 
for the noise continued, and the flame increased ; in 
short, it was uext to an impassibility for any man iu 
the world to restrain their curiosity to know what 
had happened, or their concern for Uie safety of the 
men : in a word, the captain told me he would go ' 
mi4 help his men, let what would come. I argued 
with him, ss 1 did befiire with the men, the safety of 
the ship, the danger of the voy^e, the interest of 
the owners and mendunCs, &c. and told him I and 
the two men would go, and only see if we could 
U a distance learn what was like to be the event, 
and come back and tell him. It was all one to talk 
to my nephew, as it was to talk to the rest before; 
he would go, he said ; and he only wished he had 



SOO ADVIKTORU OT 

left but ten men in the ship ; for he could not think 
of having his men lost for want of help; be had 
rather lose the ship, the voyage, and his life and all ; 
and atray be went. 

I wa§ no more able to stay behind now than I waa 
to persuade them not to go ; so, in thort, the cap- 
tain ordered two men to row back the pionape, and' 
fetch twelve men more, leaving the long-boat at an 
anchor ; and that when they came back, six men 
should keep the two boats, and six more come after 
ns: 80 that he left only sixteen men in die ship; for 
the whole ship's company consisted of sixty-five men, 
whereof two were lost in the late quarrel tidiicfa 
brought this mischief on. 

Bemg now on the march, you may be sure we felt 
little of the ground we trod on ; and being guided 
by the fire, we kept no patii, but went directly to 
the place of the flame. If the noise of the guns was 
surprising to us before, the cries of the poor people 
were now quite of another nature, and filled us with 
horror. I most confess I was never at the sacking 
a city, or at the taking a town by storm. I had 
heard of Oliver Cromwdl taking Drogheda, in Iie- 
Und, and kilting man, woman, and chUd ; and I had 
read of Count Tilly sacking the city of Magdebourg, 
bd9 cutting the throats of twenty-two thousand of 
all sexeg ; but I never bad an idea of the thing itself 
before, nor is it possible to describe it, or the horror 
tha^ was upon our mindsat hearing it. Howeveri 
we went on, and at length came to the town, though 
there was no entering the streets of It for the fire. 
Hie first object we met with was the ruins of a hut 
or house, or rather the ashes of it, for the house was 
consumed ; and just before it, plain now to be se«i 
by the light of the fire, lay four men and three women 
killed, and, as we thought, one or two more lay in 
the heap among the fire ; in short, there were such 



ROKIRSOX CRirtOE. 201 

wofrngealtogeOwrbarfaoroiu, aodofsfury 
Mmethia^ bej'ODd what wss humtui, tlitit we thciught 
it impoMible our men couid be guilty of it; or if 
they were the authcws of it, we thought they ought 
to be every one of them put to the worst of deatn. 
But this wat not all: we saw the fire increased for- 
witrd, and the cr^ went on juat as the fire weqt on ; 
•o that we were lu the utmoBt coniiiBien. We ad- 
vanced a little way farther; and, behold, to our 
astDDishment, three naked women, and crying in m 
moat dreadful maimer, came flying as if they had 
wiage, and afler them Mxleen w seventeen men, na- 
tives, in the same terror and conatemation, with 
fbiee of our English batchera in the rear ; wb» 
«rben tliey could not overtake them, fired in amontt 
them, and one that was killed by their thot SM 
down in' our sight. When the rest saw us, believ- 
ing us to be their enemies, and that we would mur- 
der them as well as those that pursued them, thejr 
let up a most dreadful shriek, CE^ciallv the women, 
and two of them fell down, as if already dead, witli 
the fright. 

My very sool shrunk within me, and my blood ran 
chill in my veins, when 1 saw this : and I believe, 
had the three English sailors that pursued them 
conie on, 1 had made our men kill them alt : how- 
ever, we took some ways to let the poor fiyiog crea- 
tures know that we would not hurt them; and im- 
mediately they came up to us, and kneeling down, 
with their hands lifted up, made piteous lamenta- 
tions to us to gave them, which we let them know we 
would ; whereupon they crept all together in a hud- 
dle close behind us, as for protection. 1 left my 
men drawn up together, and charging them to hurC 
Bobody, but, if possible, to get at some of our people, 
and see what dttvil it was possessed them, and whai 
they intended to do, ana to command them off; 
asauring Uiem tiiat if they staid till daylight, tlwj 



202 ADVRtrrDRES OF 

would bare a hundred thousand men about dielr 
ears: I say, I left them, and went among those fly- 
ing people, taking ooly two of our men with me ; 
and there was indeed a piteous spectacle among 
them; some of them had their feet terribly bum- 
ed, with trampling and running through me fire, 
others their hands bumed ; one of the wotneo bod 
fallen down in the fire, and was very much bumed 
before she could get out again ; and two or three 
of the men had cuts in their backs and thighs, from 
our men pursuing ; and another was shot through 
the body, and died while I was there. 

I would &in have learned what the occasion of 
all this was, but < I could not understand one word 
they said ; though, by signs, I perceived some of 
them knew not what was the occasion themselves. 
I was BO terrified in my thoughts at this outrageous 
attempt, that I could not ttay there, but went back 
to my own men, and resolved to go into the middle 
of the town, through the fire, or whatever naight 
be in the way, and put an end to it, cost what it 
would ; accordmgly, as I came back to my men, I 
told them my resolution, and commanded them to 
follow me ; when at the very moment came four 
of our men; with the boatswain at their head, rov- 
ing over heaps of bodies they had killed, all covered 
with blood and dust, as if they wanted more people 
to massacre, when our men hollowed to them as 
loud as they could hollow ; and with much ado ono 
of them made them hear, so that they knew who 
we were, and came up to us. 

As soon as the boatawain s&w us, he set up a hol- 
low like a shout of triumph, for having, as ho 
thouglvt, more help come; and without waiting to 
hear me, Captain, says he, noble captain! lam 
glad you are come ; we are not half done yet : vil* 
uukoua hell-hound da^ ! I'll kill as many ot them as 
poor Tom has hairs upon his head : we have uvoro 



AOBlMgOH CKtISOE. SOS 

to fipare none of them ; we'll root out the rery ns- 
tion of them from the earth : oud thiu he ran on, 
out of.breath too with action, and would not give 
UB leave to speak a word. 

At last, raiding my voice, that I might silence 
him a little, Barbarous dog ! aaid I, what are you 
doing ? I won't have one creature touched moret 
upon pain of death : I charge you, upon your life, 
to stop your hands, and stand still here, or you are 
a dead man this minute. — Why, sir, says he, do you 
know what you do, or what they have done? if you 
want a reason for wliat we have done, come hi- 
ther ; and with that he showed me the poor fellow 
banging, with his throat cut. 
' I canfess X was urged then myself, and at another 
dme would have been forward enough : but I 
thought they had carried their rage too far, and re- 
membered Jacob'swords to his sods Simeon and Levi 
— " Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce ; and 
tbeir wrath, for it was cruel." But I had now a new 
task upon my hands; for when the men I carried 
with me saw the sight, as I had done, I had as 
' much to do to restrain them as I should have had 
with the others ; nay, my nephew himself fell in 
with them, and told me, m their hearing, that he 
was only concerned for fear of the men being over- 
powered ; and as to the people, he thought not one 
of them ought to live ; for they had all glutted 
themselves with the murder of Ue poor man, and 
that they ought to be used like murderers ; upon 
these words, away ran eight of my men, with die 
boatswain and his crew, to complete their, bloody 
work ; and I, seeing it quite out of jny power to 
restrain them, came away pensive and sad ; for I 
could not bear the sight, muui less the horrible noise 
and cries of the poor wretches that fell into their 



iOi advbntdhes or 

1 ^t Dobodv to come back with me bnt the 
wpercargo and two men, aud with thece walked 
bock to Uie boat. It wtu a very great piece of fcdly 
in me, I confess, to venture back ai it were alone ; 
for aa it began now to be slmost Aaj, and the alarm 
had run over the countiy, tliere stood about forty 
mea, armed with Isncee and bows, at the tittle place 
where the twelve or thirteen hoaaes stood, mentioD- 
ed before ; but by accideiU I miaaed the place, and 
came directly to the sea-eide ; and by the time I got 
to the sea-side it waa broad day: iminediately I took 
the pinnace and went on board, and sent her back 
ta assist the men in what might happen. 

I observed, about Che time that I came to the 
boat-aide, that the fire was pretty veil out, and the 
aoiae abated; but in about h^an hour after I got 
on board I heard a volley of our tnea's fire-arms, 
and saw a great soh^ : this, as I understood af- 
terwards, was our men falling upon the men who, 
as I said, stood at the few houees on the way, of 
whom tlicy killed sixteen of seventeen, and aet all 
the bouses on fire, but did not meddle with the wo- 
men or children. 

By the time tke men got to the shore again with 
the pinnace, our men began to appear; they cara« 
dropping in, not in two bodies aa they went, bnt 
straggling here and there in such a manner, that 
a noaij force of resohiie men might have cut them 
aU off. But the dread of them was upon the whole 
oouDtiy ; aitdthe men were surprised, andso/right- 
ened, that I believe a hundred of them would hare 
fled at the sight <^ but five of our men ; nor id aH 
tills terrible action was there a man that made aajr 
considerable defence ; they were so surprised be- 
tween the terror of the fire and the sudden attadt 
of our men in the dark, that they knew not which 
way to turn themselves ; for if they fled one way 



305 

tfaey vere met by one ^rtj; ifliact acun, bj 
aiu>d>er j so that they were erery where knocked 
down: nor did any of our .men receive the leaat 
hart, except one that sprained his fuot, and anothn' 
that had one of his hands burned. 

I was very angry with my nephew, the captain, 
■ad, indeed, with all the meu, in my mind, but 
with Jiim in particular, as wdl for his acting so out 
of his duty, as coramaader of tbe ship, and having 
the charge of the voyage upoo him, as id liiv 

Erompbng, rather than cooling, the rage of his 
lind men, iu so bloody and cruel an <mterpri«e. 
My nephew answered me very reapect&Ily) but told 
me tbat wb^i lie saw the body ol' die poor seamai) 
whom they had murdered in bo cruel and b«ri»rous 
B manner, he was not nuster of faimBelf, neither 
could he govern hie passion ; he owned he should 
not have done so, a« he waa«aiamaader of tfaeiliip: 
but as he was a man, Hid Bsture mov^ hou, he 
could Dot bear iL As for the rest n( the neo, thes 
were not subject Co oe at ^ simI they koeiv it vieii 
enough; so t^ey took DOBotioe of my dtsUke. 

The neat day we aet sail, ao we never heard any 
more of it. Onr men dtfib'ad in the account of the 
number they had killed ; but accordjug to the best 
of their accounts, put tH together, they killed or 
dettroyed about one kundnGd and fi0.y people, men, 
women, and chihken, and left not a ifiouie standing 
in the town. Ai for the ^oor fellow Tom Jeflry, as 
he was qwtie dead (for his throat was so cut tiiM 
lus head was half off), it would do him no service 
to bring him away; so they only took him dowa 
from the tree, where he was hanging by one band. 
However just our men dtought this action, I was 
against them in it, and I always, afier that time, 
told then Uod would blast the voyage ; for I look- 
ed upon aU die blood they abed that u^;ht Co bi 



306 ADVEMTURES OF 

murder in them i for though it is trae that they 
had killed Tom Jefiry, yet Jd&j- was the aegressor, 
had broken the truee, and had violatedor debauch- 
ed a young woman of theirs, who came down to 
them innocently, and on the laith of the public ca- 
pitulation. 

The boatswain defended this quarrel when we 
were afterwards on board. He said it waa true that 
we seemed to break the truce, but really had not ; 
and that the war was begun the night before by the 
natives themselves, who bad shot at us, and killed 
one of oar men without any juat provocation ; so 
that as we were in a capacity to fight them now, 
we might also be in a capacity to do ourselves jus- 
tice upon them in an extraordinary manner ; that 
ttaougn the poor man had taken a bttle liberty with 
the wench, he ought not to have been murdered, 
and that in such a villanoua manner ; and that they 
did nothing but what was just, and what the laws 
of God allowed to be done to murderers. 

One would think this should have been enough 
to have warned us ^unat going on diore amongst 
heathens and barbanana; but it is imposuble to 
make manlcind wise but at their own expense ; and 
.their experience seems to be always of roost use to 
them when it is dearest bought. 

We were now bound to Ute gulf of Persia, and 
from thence to the coast of Coromandel, only to 
touch at Surat : but the chief of the supercar^'a 
design lay at the hay of Bengal ; where if he miss- 
ed his business outward-bouud, be was - to go 
up to China, and return to the coast as he came 

The first disaster that befel ns was in the gulf 
of Persia, where five of our men venturingon shore 
on the Arabian side of the sulf, were sunoonded 
by the Arabians, and either allkilled or carried away 



ROBIHBON CBDSOK. SOT 

uto Blaveiy; the rest of the boat'i.creir were not 
able to rescue them, and had but just tiine to 'get 
off their boat. I b^au to upbraid them with the 
just retribution of Heaven in this case : but the 
boatswain very warmly told me, he thought I went 
fitrther in raj censures than 1 could show any war- 
rant for in Scripture ; and referred to Luke xiii. 4. 
Where our Saviour intimateB that those . men on 
whom the tower of Siloam fell were not sinners 
above all the Galileans ; but that which put me to 
silence in the case was, that not one of these five 
men who were now lost were of those who went> on 
shore to thewatusacre of Madagascar, so I always 
called it, though our men could not bear to hear 
the word maiiaere with any patience. 

But my frequent preaching to them on the sub- 
ject had worse consequences than I expected ; and 
the boatswain, who had been the head of the at- 
tempt, came up boMly to me one time, and told me 
he found that 1 brougnt that a&ir continually upon 
the stage ; that I made unjust reflections upon it, 
and had used the men very ill on that account, and 
himself in particular; that as I was but a passen- 
ger, and had no command in the ship, or concern 
in the voyage, they were not obliged to bear it ; 
that they' did not know but I might have some ill 
design in my head, and perhaps to call them to an 
account for it when they came to England ; and 
that, therefore, unless I would resolve to have done 
with it, and also not to concern myself any farther 
with him, or any of his affairs, he would leave the 
ship ; for he did not think it was safe to sail with 
me among them. 

I heard him patiently enough till he had done^ 

and then told him, that 1 confessed 1 had all alopg 

opposed the massacre of Madagascar, and that I had, 

on all occasions, spoken my mind freely about it, 

t2 



S06 ADVBMT0SE8 Off 

tlteugli not QHtre upon biin than aay of the rest; 
that IB to baring no command in the ^p, tlut was 
true : nor did I eaxtatc any nntbority, only took 
the liberty of speaking my mind in things which 
nuhlicty coDCemed ua all ; snd what concern I had 
in the voyi^ was none oTbis buuness ; that I was 
a canuderkble owner in the ship ; in that claim, I 
conceived 1 had a right to-speak even farther than I 
had done, and would not be accountable to him or 
any one dne ; and hegan to be a little wanu with 
. him. He made but little reply to me at that time, 
and 1 thought the a&ir had been over. We were 
at this time in the load at Bengal; ansl being will- 
ing to see the place, I went on shore with the au- 
percargOrin thie ship's boat, to divert myself; and 
towards evening was peparing to go on board, 
when one 06 the men came to me, and told me he 
would not have me trouble myself to come down to 
the boat, for they had orders not to carry me oa 
board any more. Any one may guees what a tnir- 
prise I waa in at so insolent a message; andl asked 
the man, who bade him deliver that message to me ? 
He told me, the cocktwain. I said no more to tha 
fellow, hut bade him let them know he had de- 
liTerei) his message, and that I had given bim no 

I immediately went and found out the supercargo^ 
and told htm the 8tory; adding, what I presently 
foresaw, that there would be a mutiny in the ship ; 
and entreated him to go immediately on board the 
■hip in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of 
it. But 1 might have spared this intelligence, for 
befbre I had spoken to him on shore the matter wa> 
efected on board. The boatswain, the gunner, the 
carpenter, and all the. inferior officers, as soon as I 
was gone off in the boatt came up, and desired to 
speak with the coptaint and there the boatswain. 



ROBIHBON CRTTSOX. 309 

making a long harangue, and repeating all he had 
said to me, told the captain, in a iew words, that aa 
I was now ^ne peaceably on shoret they vere loath 
to use any violence with me, which, if I had not 
gone on shore, they would otherways have done, 
to (^lige me to have gone ; they therefore thought 
fit to tell him, that as they shipped themselveg to 
serve in the ship under his command, they would 
perform it well and faithfully ; but if I would not 

Suit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it, 
lev would alMeaye the ship, and sail no nrther 
with him; and at that word aU, he turned his face 
toward the mainmast, which was, it seems, the sig- 
nal agreed on between them, at which all the sea- 
men, being got together, th«« cried out. One and 
all! oneandall! 

My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, tUid 
of great presence of mind ; and though he was sur- 
prised, you may be sure, at the thing, yet he told 
them calmly that he would consider of Uie matter ; 
but that he could do nothing iu it tall he had spo- 
ken to me about it. -He used some arguments with 
them to show them the unreasonableness and injus^ 
ticc of the thing : but it was all in vain ; they swore, 
and shook hands round before bis fece, that they ■ 
would all go on shore, unless be would engage to 
them not to eiiSer me to come any more on board 
the ship. 

Hiis was a hard article upon him, who knew his 
obligation to me, and did not know bow I might 
take it : so he began to talk smartly to them ; told 
them that I was a very considerable owner of the 
ship, and that, in justice, he could not put me out 
of my own house ; that this was next door to serv- 
ing me as the fkmous pirate Kidd had done, who 
made a muthty in the ^ip, set the captain on shore 
on an uninhabited istEmd, and ran 8i?ay with the 
t3 



310 ADTKHTUKES OF 

Aip : that let ^lem m into what ship they woidd, 
if ever they came to England again it would cost 
them very dear ; that the ship was mine, and that 
he could not put me out of it; and that he would 
rather lose the ship and the voyage too than dis- 
oblige me so much ; so they might do as they pleas- 
ed: however, he would go on shore and talk with 
me, and invited die boatswain to go with him and 
perhaps (hey might accommodate the matter with 
me. But they all rejected the proposal, and aaid 
they would have nothing to do with me any more; 
and if I came on board, they woiild all go on shore. 
Well, said the captain, if you are all of this mind, 
let me go on shore and talk with him. So away he 
came to me with this account, a little aHer the 
message had been brought to me from the cock- 
swain , 

I waa very glad to see my nephew, I must confess ; 
fi}r I RBs not without apprehensioas that they 
would confine him by viweace, set sail, and run 
away with the ship ; and then I had been stripped 
naked io a remote country, having nothing to help 
myself; in short, 1 bad been in a worae case than 
When I was alone in the island. But they had not 
come that length, it seems, to my satisfaction ; and 
when my ne^new told me what they bad said to 
him, and how they had sworn and ebook hands that 
they would, one and all, leave the ship if I was suf- 
fered to come oa board, I told him he should not 
be conceroed at it at all, for I would stay on shore : 
I only desired be would take care and send me all 
my necessary things on shore, and leave me asuffi- 
cient sum ot money, and I would find my way to 
£Dgland as well as I could. 

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, 
but there was no way to help it but to comply ; so, 
in short, he went on board the ship agaia, and sa- 



ROBINBON CRUSOE. Sll 

dgfied the men that hii uncle had ytelile4 to their 
importunity, and had sent for his goods from on 
board the ship : so that the matter was over in a 
few hours, the men returned to their duty, and I 
began to consider what course I should steer. 

I was now alone in the most remote part of the 
world, as I think I may c^l it, for I was near three 
thousand leagues by sea larther off from England - 
than I was at my island i only, it is true, I might 
travel here by land orer the great Mogul's country 
to Surat, might go from thence to Bassora by sea, 
up the gulf of Persia, and take the way of the ca- 
ravans, over the Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and 
Scanderoon ; trom thence by sea again to ltaly,and 
so over-land Into France; and this put togetb^ 
might at least be a full diameter of the globe, or 

1 had another way before me, which was to wait 
for some Engli^ ships, which were coming to Ben- 
gal from Acnin, on the island of Sumatra, and gei 
Eassage on board tliem for England. But as I cams 
ither without any concern with the English East 
India Company, so it would be ditGcuIt to go frooi 
hence without their licence, unless with great fitvour 
of the captains of the ships, or the Company's fac- 
tors, and to both I was an utter stranger. 

Here I had the mortification to see the ship set 



sail without me ; a treatment I think a nian ii 



circumstances scarce ever met with, except when pi- 
rates running away with the ship, ahd setting those 
that would not agree with their villainy on shore. 
Indeed, this was next door to it, both ways j how- 
ever, my nephetr left 'me two servants, or rather 
one companion and one servant ; the first was clerk 
to the purser, whom he engaged to go with me, 
and the other was his own servant. I took me also 
a good lodging in the house of an Eiigiishwoaiaa« 



^12 ADVBMTORGS Ot 

where several merchants lodged, some French, two 
Italians, or rather Jews, and one Englishman ; here 
1 was handsomely enough entertmned : and that 1 
miehc not be said to run rashly upon any thin^, I 
staid here above nine montlii considering what 
course to take, and how to manage myself. I had 
some English goods with me of value, and a cod- 
eiderable sum of money ; my nephew furnishing me 
with a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of cre- 
dit for more, if r had occasion, that I mi^t not be 
straitened, whatever might happen, 

I quickly disposed of my goods to advantage, and, 
as I originally mtended, I bought here some very 
good dianiODds, which, of alt other things, were the 
most proper for me, in my present circumstances; 
because I could always carry my whole estate about 
me. 

AfteraloDgstmr here, and many proposals made 
fbr my return to England, bat ncme ^ling out to 
my mind, the English merchant who lodged with 
me, and whom I had contracted an intimate ac- 
quaintance with, came to me one morning. Coun- 
tryman, says he, 1 have a project to commlwicate 
to you, which, as it suits with my thougbts, may, 
for aught I know, suit with yours also, when you 
shall have thoroughly consiaered it. Here we are 
posted, you by accident, and I by my own choice, 
m a part of the world very remote from our own 
country; but it is in a country where, by us who 
understand trade and business, a great deal of mo- 
ney is to be got. If you will put one thousand 
pounds to my one thousand pounds, we will hire a 
ship here, the first we can get to our minds ; you 
shall be captam, I'll be merchant, and well go a 
trading voyage to China : for what should we stand 
still for? The whole world is in a motion, rolling 
roOnd and round; all the creatures of God, hea- 



KOSINSOH CK080B. SIS 

venlybodiesand esnhly, are busy and dSi^entt 
why should we be idle ? There are no drones in the 
world but men ; why should we be of thitt number ? 

I liked this propotal very well, and the more be- 
cause it seemed to be expressed with so much gvod 
will, and in SO fneodly a manaer. I will not say 
but that I might, by my loose unhinged circum- 
sUDces, be the fitter to embrace a proposal for 
trade, or indeed any thing else ; whereas,' <^erwisei 
trade wu none of my element. However, I might 
perhaps say with some truth, that if trade was not 
mj element, rambling was, andno proposal for see* 
ing any part of the world which X had nevec seen 
bnore could possibly come amiss to me. 

It was, however, sometiLne before we could get 
a ship to our minds, and when we had got a vessel, 
it was not easy to get English sailors ; that is to 
say, BO many as were neceuary to govern the voy> 
age and manage the sailors which we should pick ' 
up there. After some time we got a mate, a boat- 
swain, and a gunner, English ; a Dutch carpenter, 
and three foremast-men. With these we found wa 
could do well enough, having Indian aeaaten, such 
as they were, to nuute up. 

There are so many travellers who have wrote th9 
history of their voyages and travels this way, that it 
would be very little diversion to any body to give a 
long account of the places we went to, and th« 
people who inhabit there ; these things X leave to 
others, and refer the reader to those journals and 
travels of Englishmoi of which many X find are 
published and more promised every day ; it it 
enough for me to tell you that we made this voyage 
to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and from thent* 
toSiam,whereweexchangedsa>neofour wares tor 
opium and some airack ; the fiiat a coaunodity 



214 ADVENTUHES OF 

which bears a great price among the Chinese, and 
which, at that time, was much waited there. ]n a 
word, we went up to Suskan, made a very great 
voyage, were eight months out, and returned to 
Bengal ; and I was very well eatisfied with my ad- 
venture, lobaerve that our people in Englandoften 
admire how officers which the Company send into 
India, and the merchants which generally stay there, 
get such very great estates as they do, and sometimes 
come home worth sixty or seventy thousand pounds 
at a time ; but it is no wonder„ or at least we shall 
see so much farther into it, when we consider the 
innumerable ports and places where they have a free 
commerce, that it will be none ; and much less ii 
will be BO when we consider that at those places and 
ports where the English ships come, there is such 
great and constant demand for the growth of all 
other countries, that there is a certain vent for the 
returns, as wellas a market ^road for the goods 
cOiried out. 

In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got 
so much money by my first adventure, end such an 
insight into the method of getting more, that had I 
beentweDtyyearsyounger,IghouUI have been tempt- 
ed to have staid here, and sought no farther for mak- 
ing any fbrtune ; but what was all this to a man up- 
wards of threescore, that was rich enoueh, and came 
abroad more in obedience to a restless desire of see- 
ing the world than a covetous desire of gaining by 
it r And, indeed, 1 think it is with great justice 1 
now call it restless desire, for it was so. When I was 
at home, I was restless to go abroad ; and when I 
was abroad, I was restless to be at home. I say, 
what was this gain to me ? 1 was rich enough al- 
ready, nor had I any uneasy desires about getting 
more money ; and therefore the profit of the voyage 



ROBINSON buvaoB. 215 

to me was of do great force for the prompting me 
forward to farther uDdertakiogi ; hence 1 thought 
that by this voyage I had made no progress at all, 
because I was come back, as I might c^l it, to the 
place from whence 1 came, as to a home : whereat 
my eye, which, lilie that which Solomon speaks of, 
w^ never satisfied with seeing, was still more de- 
sirous of wandering and seeing, I was come into a 
part of the world which I was never in before, and 
that part, in iiarticular, which L had heard much of, 
and was resolved to see as much of it as I could ; 
and then I thought I miglit say I had seen all the 
world that was worth seeing. 

But my fellow-traveller and I had difierent no- 
tions : I do not name this to insist on my own, fta 
I acknowledge his were the most just, and the most 
suited to the end of a merchant's life { who, when 
he is abroad upon adventures, it is his wisdom to 
stick to that, as the best thing for him, which he is 
like to get the most moqey by. My oew friend 
.kept hiioi^elf to the nature of the thing, and would 
have beeit content to have gone like a carrier's 
horse, always to the same inn, backward and for- 
ward, provided he could, as he called it, find his 
account in it. On the other hand, mine was the 
notion of a mad rambling boy, that never cares to 
.see a thing twice over. But this was not all : I had 
a land of impatience upon me to be nearer home, 
and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable 
which way to so. In the interval of these consulta- 
tions, my friraict, who was always upon the search for 
business, proposed another vt^age to me amone the 
-Spice Islands, and to bring home a loading of cloves 
from the Manillas, or thereabouts ; places, indeed, 
where the Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly 
to the Spaniards ; though we went not so &r, but 



916 AOVBHTttXES Ot 

W BOme other, where ihej have not the whfde power, 
M they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c. 

We were not long in preparing for thn voyage; 
the chief difficulty was in bringing me tti come into 
H : however, at la^t, nothing else offering, and find- 
ing that really stirring about and trading, the profit 
bemg so great, and, ae I may lay, certain, bad more 
pleasure in it, and had more aati^BcUon to my mind, 
than Bitting Btill, which, to me ewecially, was the 
unboppieM part of life, 1 reeolvea <hi ^Ib voyage 
too, which we aiade very sBccesB^ly, toucbiog at 
Borneo, and several islands wbose aatnes 1 do not 
remember, and came home in about five months. 
We sold our epice, which waschiefly cloves and some 
nutmegs, tothe Persian merolianta, who carried them 
way to die gtdf; and making near five of one, 
we really got a great deal of moaey. 

Aly friend, when we made op this account, smiled 
at me : Well now, said he, with a sort of agreeable 
nwuk upon my indolent temper, is not this better 
than walking about here,' like a man of nothing M 
do, and spoiding our time in staring at the noa- 
sense and ignorance of the Pagans? — Why, truly. 
Bays I, my mend, I think it is, and 1 begin to be a. 
otmveitto tho principles of merchandising; but I 
nuflt t«ll you, said 1, by the way, you do not kaow 
what 1 am doing; for if I once conquer my back- 
wardness; and embark heartily, as old ae I ani 1 shidl 
harass you up and down the world till I tire y«ii; 
for I dull pursue it so eagerly, I Bhall never let ywx 
lie still. 

But, to be ^loit with my specuhitions, a litUe 
while after this there came in a Dutch ship fr<mi Ba- 
tovia ; she was a coaster, not an European trader, 
of about two hundred tons burthen ; the men, as 
Ihey pretended, having been so fii<^ly, that the 



ISOE. 217 

caplun had not handa enough U go to tea with, he 
lay by at Bengal ; and having, it seems, got money 
enough, or being willing, for other reasons, to go 
for Europe, he gave public notice he would sell his 
ship. This came to my ears before my new partner 
heard of it, and I had a great mind to buy it ; so I 
went to him, and told him of it. He considered 
awhile, for he was no rash man neither; but musing 
some time, he replied. She is a little too big ; but, 
however, we will have her. Accordingly, we bought 
the ship, and agreeing with the master, we paid for 
her, and took possession. When we had done soi 
we resolved to entertain the men, if we could, to 
join them with those we liad, for the pursuing our 
business ; but on a sudden, they having received, not 
their wages, but their share of the money, as we 
afterwards learnt, not one of them was to be found ; 
we enquired much about them, and at length were 
told that they were all gone toeether by land to 
Agra, the great city of the Mogul's residence, an'd 
from thence to travel to Sural, and go by sea to the 
gulf of Penia. 

Notbing had so much troubled me a good while 
as that I mould nuss the opportunity of going with 
them ; for such a ramble, I thought, and in such 
company as would both have guarded and diverted 
me, would have suited mightily with my great de- 
sign ; and 1 should have both seen the world and 
eone homewards too : hut I was much better satis* 
fied a few days after, when I came to know what 
sort of fellows they were ; for, in short, their history 
was, that this man they called captain was the gun- 
ner only, not the commander; that they had been 
a trading voyage, in which they had been attacked 
on shore by some of the Malays, who had killed the 
captain and three of his men ; and that after the 
captain was killed, these men, eleven in number, 

VOL, XVII. ' u 



318 ADVKKTURM OF 

had resolved to run away with the ihip, which the^ 
did, and brought her to Bengal, teevin); th6 mate 
and five men more on shore ; of whom hereafter. . 
Well, let them get the ship how they would, we 
came honestly by her, as we thought, though we did 
not, I confess, examine iuto things so exactly as we 
ought; for we never inquired any thing of tne tea- 
■ men, who would certainly have faltered ih their ac- 
count, contradicted one another, and perhaps con- 
tradicted themselves; or one how or other we should 
have had reason to hkve suspected them ; but the 
mau showed us a bill of sale for the ship, to one 
Emanuel Clostershoven, or some Such name, for I 
aupposeit was all a foivery, and called himself by 
diat name, and we comd not contradict hun ; and 
withal having no suspicion of the thing, we went 
dirough with our bargain. 

We picked up some raort EngUsh sailors here 
after this, and some Dutch; and now we resolved 
for a second voyage to the south-eaist for cloves, Ac. 
that is to say, among the Philippine and Molucca 
isles ; and, lo short, not to fill up this ^art of my 
story with trifles, when what is to come is so re- 
marlcable, I spent, from first to last, six yeara in this 
country, trading from port to port, backward and 
forward, and with very good success, and was now 
the last year with my new partner, going in tJie ship 
above mentioned, on a voyage to China, but deaign- 
ing first to Siam, to buy rice. 

in t^is voyage, being by contrary winds obliged 
to beat up and down a great while in the itraita of 
Malacca, and amone the islands, we were no sooner 
got clear of those difficult seas than we found our 
Uiiphadsprungalcah, rnidwewerenotable, by all 
our industry, to find out where it was. This forced 
us to make some port, and my partner, who knew 
the country better than I -iii, lErected the captain 



ROBIIlSOtl CKOSOI. 91d 

to put iiUa the river of Cambodia; for I had made 
the English mate, oae Mr. Thompum, captain, not 
being willing to take the charge of the snip upon 
. myaclf. Thisriver liesonthenorthsideof thegreat 
ba; or gulf which goes up to Siam. While we were 
bere, and going often on shore for refreshment, 
there comes to me one day sn Englishman, and he 
was, it seems, a gUDner's-mate on board an English 
East India ship which rode in the same river, up at 
or near the city of Compodia; what brought him 
hither we knew not; but he comes to me, and 
speaking English, Sir, says he, you are a stranger 
to me, and I to you, but I have something Uf teU 
you that very nearly concerns you. 

1 looked steadfastly at him a gopd f^e, and 
thought at first I had known him, but I did not : If 
it very nearly concerns me, said I, and not yourself, 
what moves you to tell it to me P—I am moved, saya 
be, by the inuninent danger you are iii, and, for 
aught I see, you have no Koowledge of it- — I knoir 
no danger I,am in, says I, but that my ship is leaky, 
and I canuot find it out ; but I intend to lay her 
t^Toond to-monrow, to see if I can find it. — But, 
sir, says he, leaky or not leaky, find it or not find 
it, you will be wisa than to lay your ship on shore 
to-morrow, when you bear what I have to say to 
you : do you know, sir, said he, the town of Cam- 
bodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river? and 
there are two large English ships about five league^ 
on this side, and three Dutch. — Welj, said 1, and 
what is that to me ? — Why, sir, said he, is it for a 
man that is upon such adventures as you ore, to come 
into a port and not examine first what ships there 
are there, and whether he is able to deal with them? 
I suppose you do not think you are a match fgr them? 
I was amused very much at his discourse, but not 
amazed at it, fori could not conceive what he meant; 
u2 



320 ADTZNTURBS or 

nod I turned ihort upon him, and sud, ^r, 1 wish 
you would explain yourself; I cannot imagiae what 
reason I have to be afraid of any of the Company's 
ships, or Dutch ahipB! lam no interloper; what can 
they have to Bay to me 7 He looked like a man half 
angry and halt pleased, and pausine awhile, but 
■miling. Well, sir, gays he, if you think yourself se- 
cure, you must take your chance ; I am sorry your 
fate should blind you against good advice ; but as- 
sure yourself, if you do not put to sea immediately, 
you will the very next tide be attacked by five long- 
boats tull of men, and perhaps, if you are taken, you 
will be hanged for a pirate, and the particulars be 
examined aiterwards. I thou^t, sir, added he, I 
should . have met with a better reception than this, 
for doing you a piece of service of such importance. 
—I can never be ungrateful, said I, for any service, 
or to any man that oners me any kindness ; but it is 
past my comprehension what they should have such 
a design upon me for : however, since you say there 
is no time' to be lost, and that there tg some villan- 
008 design on hand against me, I will go on board 
this minute, and put to sea immediately, if my men 
can stop the leak, or if we can swim wiUiout stop- 
ping it : but, sir, said I, shall I go away ignoruit of 
the cause of all this ? Can you give me no further 
light into it?— I can tell you but part of the story, 
«r, says he ; but I have a Dutch seaman here with 
me, and I believe I could persuade him to tell you 
the rest; but there is scarce time for it: but the 
short of the story is this, the first yait of which, I 
suppose, you know well enough, viz. that you was 
with this ship at Sumatra ; that there your captain 
was murdered by the Malavs, with three of his men; 
and that you, or some of those that were on board 
with vou, ran away with the ship, and are since 
turned pirates. This is the sum of the story, and 



itOBiHSON cnusor. 221 

you will all be seiaed aa sirateB,! can aware you, an<^ 
executed vUh very littl^ ceremony; for you luiow 
merchant shipg show but little law to pirates, if they 

fet them into their power. — Now you speak plain 
nglifb, said 1, and I thank you; and though I 
know nothing that we have done like what you talk 
of, for I am sure we came honestly and fairly by the 
■hip ; yet seeing such a work is doing, as you say, 
and that you Heem to mean honestly, I will be upon 
my guard.~Nay, sir, saya he, do not talk of being' 
upon your guaid; the befit defence is, to be out m 
the danger; if you have any regard for your life, 
and the hves of all your men, put to sea, without 
fail, at high water; and ai you have a whole tide 
before you, you will be gone too far out before they 
can come down ; for they will come away at high 
water, ai>d as they have twenty miles to come, you 
will get near two nours of them by the difference of 
the tide, not reckoning the lengtii of the way ; be- 
tideu, OS they are only boats, and not ships, they will 
not venture to follow you far out to sea, especially 
if it blows. — Well, said ^, you have been very kind 
in this : what shall I do for you to make you amends? 
—Sir, says he, you may not be willing to make me 
any amends, because you may not be convinced of 
the truth of it : I will make an offer to you ; 1 have 
nineteen month's pay due to me on branl the 
ship * * *, which 1 came out of England in ; and 
the Dutchman that i& with me has seven montha' 
pay due to him ; if you will make good our pay tv 
us, we will go along with you : if you find notaiog 
more in it, we will desire no more ; but if we do 
convince you that we have saved your lives, aud 
the ship, and tlie lives of ail the men in her, we will 
leave tne rest to you. 

Icousai)ted to this readily, and went immediately 
<n> ^owd( and the two Qien with me. As soon as 



2S3 AD VBN TUBES OP 

I came to the ship's side, my partner, who was on 
board, came out on the quarter-deck, and called to 
me, with a great deal of joy, O ho ! O ho ! we have 
atopped the leak ! we have stopped the leak ! — Say 
you BO ? said I, thank God ; but weigh anchor then 
immediately- — Weighl sayshe: what doyoumean 
by that? What is the matter? — Ask no questions, 
said 1 ; but all hands to work, and wei^ without 
losing a minute. He was surprised, but, however, 
he cdled the captaiu, and he immediately ordered 
the anchor to be got up ; and though the tide was 
not quite down, yet a little land-breeze blowing, we 
stood out to sea. Then I called him into the cabin, 
and told him the story; and we called in the men, 
and they told us the rest of it; but as it took up a 
great deal of time, before we had done a seaman 
comes to the cabin-door, and called out to us that 
the captain bade him tell usweweretfhased. Chased! 
says I; by what? — By five sloops, or boats, says 
the feUow, full of men. — Very well, said I; then it 
is apparent there is something in it. In the next 
place I ordered all our men to be called up, and told 
them there was a desien to seize the ship, and to 
take IIS for pirates, and asked them if they would 
stand bv us, and by one another; the men answered 
cheerily, one and all, that they would live and die 
with us. Then I asked die captain what way he 
tiiought beet for us to manage a fight with them ; 
for resist them I was resolved we would, and that 
to the last drop. He said readily that the way was 
to keep them off with our great shot as long as we 
could, and then to fire at them with our smeJl arms, 
to keep them from boarding us ; but when neither of 
these would do any longer, we should retire to our 
close quarters ; perhaps they had not materials to 
break open our bulkheads, or get in upon us. 
The gunner had, in the mean time, orden to 



ROBINSOM CRUSOB. S23 

bring two gum to bear fore and aft, out of the 
tteerage, to c\eei the deck, and load them vith 
musket-bullets uid noall pieces of old iron, and 
what came next to hand; and thus we made ready 
for fight ; but all this while we kept out to sea, with 
wind enough, and could see the boats at a distance* 
being five large long-boats, following ug with all the 
sail they could make. 

Two of those boats (which by our glasses we could 
see were English) out-sailed the rest, were near two 
leagues a-head of them, and gained upon us con- 
siderably, so that we found they would come up 
with us ; upon which we fired a gun without ball, 
to intimate that they should bring to; and we put 
out a flag of truce, as a signal for parley ; but they 
came crowding after us, tUl they came within shot, 
when we took in our white flag, they having made 
no answer to it, and hung out a red flag, and fired 
at them with a shot. Notwithstanding this, they 
came on till they were near enough to call to them 
with a speaking-trumpet which we had on board; 
so we called to them, and bade them keep off, at 
their peril. 

It was all one ; they crowded afl^r us, and en- 
deavoured to come under our stem, so as to board 
us on our quarter ; upon which, seeing they were re- 
solute for mischief, and depended upon the strength 
that followed them, I ordered to bring the ship to, 



o that they lay upon our broadside; when imme- 
Oiately we fired five guns at them, one of which hac' 
been levelled so true as to carry away the stem o 



the hindermost boat, and bnng them to the neces- 
sity of taking down their sail, and running all to 
the head of the boat to keep her from sinking ; so 
she lay by, and had enough of it; but seeing the 
foremost boat crowd on after us, we made ready to 
fire at her in particular. While this was doing, one 



fiSl ADVXKTDREB OF 

of the thre^ boats that was bekind, being fbrwaisder 
than the other two, made up to the boat which we 
had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see her 
take out the mea : we called agaiil to the foremoat 
boat, and o&red a truce, to parley again, and to 
^ow what her business Was with us : but had no 
answer, only she crowded close under our ateni. 
Upon this our gunner, who was a very desterous 
feftow, run out his two chase-guns, and fired again 
at her, but the shot missing, the men in the boat 
shouted, waved their caps, and canie on ; but the 
ounner, ^^etting quickly ready again, fired amone 
Uiem a second time, one shot of which, though it 
missed the boat itself, yet fell in among the mea, 
and we could easily see had done a ^reat deal of 
mischief among them ; but we took no notice of 
that, wore the ship agam, and brought our quarter 
to bear upon them, and filing three guns more, we 
found the boat was almost split to pieces ; in par- 
ticular, a rudder and a piece of her stem was shot 
quite away ; so they handed her sail immediately, 
and were m great disorder. But to complete their 
misfortune, our gunner let fly two gimi at theai 
again ; where he hit them we could not tell, but 
we found the boat was smking, and some of tbe 
men already in the water : upon this I immediately 
manned out our [unnace, which we had kept dose 
bv our side, with ordem to pick up some of the men, 
if they could, and save them from drowning, and 
immediately come on board the ship vith them, be- 
cause we saw the rest of the boats began to come 
up. Our men in the pinnace followed their orders 
and took up three men, one of whom was just 
drowning, and it was a good while before we could 
recover him. As soon as they were on board, we 
.crowded all the sail we could make, and stood ^- 
thar out to sea; and we found that whence other 



soBiNaoN cnuaoB. 225 

three btwU came up to the fint, they gave over then- 
chase. 

Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though 
I knew not the reason of it, yet seemed to be much 
greater than I apprehended, I resolved that we 
^ould change our course, and not let any one know 
whither we were going : so we stood out to sea east- 
ward, quite out of the course of all European ships, 
whether they were bound to China or any where else, 
within the commerce of the European Dations. 

When we were at sea, we began to consult with 
the two seamen, and inquire what the meaning of 
all this should be ; and the Dutchman let us mto 
the secret at once, telling us that the fellow that sold 
us the ship, as we said, was no more than a thief, 
that had run away with her. Then he told us how 
the capt^n, whose name too he told us, though I 
do not remember it now, was treacherously mur- 
dered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with 
three of his men ; and that he, this Dutchman, and 
four more, got into the woods, where they wan- 
dered about a ^reat while, till at length he, m par- 
dcular, in a muraculous manner, made his escape, 
and swam off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near 
die shore in its way from Chma, had sent their boat 
on shore for fresh water ; that he durst not come to 
that part of the shore where the boat was, but made 
shifl m the night to take the water farther off, and 
swimming a great while, at last the ship's boat took 
him up. 

He then told us that he went to Batavia, where 
two of the seamen belonging to the ship arrived, 
having deserted the rest in their travels, and gave 
an account that the fellow who had run away with 
the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which 
were gone a cruising ia her; and that they had aU 



SSb ADVXNTURSS OM 

EfwdjT takeq an Englidi ihip mi two t>utcb 4up«- 
very richly laden. 

Thi« latter part waa found to concern ua directly, 
though we knew it to be false : yet, as ray partner 
aaid very justlvr if we had fallen into their hands, 
and they had had such a prepossession against us 
beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have der 
fended ourselves, «r to hope for anv good quarter, 
at their hands; and especially consioering that oui 
accusers had been our judges, and that we could 
have expected nothing from them but what rage 
would have dictated, and an ungovemed. passion 
have executed ; and tberefore it was faia opinion we 
should go directly back to Bengal, from whence we 
came, without putting in at any port whatever ; be- 
cause there we could give a good account of our- 
selves, could prove where we were when the ship 
put in, of whom wo bought her, and the like ; and, 
which waa more than aU the rest, if we were put 
Upon the necessity of bringing it before the proper 
• judges, we should be sure to have some justice, and 
not to be hanged first and judged afterwards. 

I was some time of my partner's opinion; but 
«fter a little more serious thinking, I told him I 
tiiought it was a very great hazard for us to attempt 
returning to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong 
side of ute Straits of Malacca, and that if the alarm 
was given, we should be sure to be way 'laid on every 
side, as well by the Dutch of Batavia as the EnglisL 
elsewhere ; that if we should be taken, as it were, 
running away, we should even condemn ourselves, 
and there would want no more evidence to destroy 
us. I also asked the English sailor's opininn, who 
aaid he was of my mind, and that we should cer- 
tainly be taken. This danger a little ^tarded my 
partner, and all the ship's company, and we imme- 



kobinroW cRDsOfl. . 227 

Stately teulved to g(> air^ to the cout of Toaquio, 
and flo on to die coaet of China; and, punuing die 
fint design as to trade, find gome way or other to 
dispose of the ship, and come back m some of the 
ve^els of the cbuntty, such as we could get. This 
was approved of as the best method for our security ; 
and accordingly we steered away N. N. E. keeping 
above fifty leagues o0 from tlie.usmil course to the 
eastward. This, however, put us tosmne locoave- 
nience ; fbr, first, the winds, when we came to that 
distance from the shore, seemed to be more steadily 

rinst iu, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from 
E. and E. N. E. so that we were a long while 
upon our voyage, and we were but ill provided with 
Yictuals fbr so long a run; and, which was stjll 
worse, there was some danger that those English 
and Duu;h ships, whose boats pursued us, whereof 
some were bound that way, might be got in before 
us, and if not, some other ship bound to China 
might have information ofus,irOm them, and pursue 
us with the same vigour. 

I must confess, I was now very nneasy, and 
tiiought myself, including the late escape from the 
long-boats, to have been in the most dangerous 
condi^on that ever I was through my past life ; for 
whatever ill circumstances I had been in, I was 
never pursued for a thief before ; nor had I ever 
done any thing that merited the name of dishonest 
or fraudulent, much less thievish ; I had chiefly 
been my own enemy, or, as I may rt^tly say, I 
'had been nobody's enemy but my own : but now I 
was embarrassed in the worst condition imaginable ; 
for though I was perfectly innocent, I was in no 
condition to make that innocence appear ; and if I 
had been taken, it had been under a supposed guilt 
of the worst kind. Iliis made me very anxious to 
make an escape, tbongh which my to do it I knew 



238 ADVEHTURSa OV 

not, or what port or plac^ we could go to. My 
partner seeing me thus dejected, though he was 
the moBt concemed at first, began to. encourage 
me, and deecribing to me the several porta of that 
coast, told me he would put in on the coast of Co< 
chin China, or the bay of Tonquin, intending to go 
afterwards to Macao, a town once in possession of 
the Portuguese, and where still a great many Eu- 
ropean families resided ; and particularly the mis- 
Aionary priests usually went thither, in order to 
their goiDg forward to China. 

HiUier Uien we resolved to go ; and accordingly, 
though after a tedious and irregular course, and 
veiy much straitened for provisions, we came within 
sight of the coast very early in the morning ; and 
upon reflection od the past circumstances we were 
in, and the danger if we had not escaped, we re- 
solved to put into a small river, which, however, 
had depth enough of water for us, aud to see if we 
«ould, either overland or by the ship's pinnace, come 
to know what ships were m any port there^outs. 
This happy step was, indeed, our deliverance ; for 
though we did not immediately see any European 
ahips in the bay of Tonquin, yet the next morning 
there came into the bay two Dutch ships ; and a 
third, without any colours spread out, but which we 
believed to be a Dutchman, passed fay at about two 
leagues' distance, steering lor the coast of China ; 
and in the afternoon went by two Enelish ships 
steering the same course; and thus we thought we 
saw ourselves beset with enemies both one way and 
the other. The place we were in was wild and bar- 
barous : the people thieves, even by occupation or 
professioQi and thoueb, it is true, we had not much 
to seek of them, and, except getting a few provi- 
sions, cared not bow little we had to do with them, 
yet it was with much difficulty that we kept our- 



K0BIN8OH CRUSOB. 2S9 

mItcs from being ineulted by them, Bevera) (raya. 
We were in a small river of this country, within a 
few leBguesof iu utmost limits northward ; and by 
our boat we coasted north-east, to the point of lanci 
which opens the great bay of Tonquin ; and it was 
in this beating up along the shore that we discovered 
we were surrounded with eueniies. The people we 
were among were the most barbarous of all the inha- 
bitants of the coast, having no correspondence with 
any other stftion, and dealing only m fish and oil, 
and such grosi g<»ii modi ties; and it may be parti- 
cularly seen that they are the most barbarous of 
any of the inhabitants. Among other customs, 
they have this one, viz. that if 'any vessel has the 
misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their coast, they 
presently make the men all prisoners or slaves; and 
It was not long before we found apieceofthdr 
kindness this way, on the occasion following. 

I have observed above, that our ship sprung a 
lealc at sea, and that we could not find it out; and 
it happened that, as I have said, it was stopped un- 
expectedly in the happy minute of our bemg to be 
seized by the Dutch and English shi^ in the bay of 
Siam ; yet, as we did not find the ship so perfectly 
tight and sound as we desired, we resolved, while 
we were at this place, to lay her on shore, and take 
out what heavy things we had on hoard, and clean 
her bottom ; and, if posuble, to find out where the 
leaks were. Acctrdingly, having lightened the ship, 
and brought all cur guns and other moveables to 
one side, we tried to bring her down, that we mi^t 
come at her bottom; but, on second thoughts, we 
did not care to lay her on dry ground, neither could 
we find out a proper place for it. 

I^e inhabitants, who had never been acquainted 
with such a sight, came wondering down the shore 
to look at uaj and seeing the ship lie down on one 



9S0 AOVBNTDRES OF 

lide in mch a nwnBer, and heeling in towards the 
shore, and not seeing our men, who were at work 
on her bottom with atagea, and widi th^ boats on 
the off aide, they presently concluded that the ship 
waa cast aww, and lay ao fast on the ground. On 
this supposition, they all came about us in two or 
three hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats, 
baYingaome of them eight, aome ten meninaboat, 
intending, no doubt, to have come on board and 
plundered the ship ; and if they had fbUnd us there, 
to have cwrted us away for slaves to their king, or 
whatever they call hiro, for we knew nothing of 
their governor. 

WhcD tbev came up to the ship and began to row 
ronnd h«-, they discovered ns ^1 hard at work on 
the outside of the riiip's bottom and side, washing, 
aod graving, and stopph^, as every seafkring man 
knows how. They atooa for a whde gazing at ua, 
and we, who were a little surpriaed, could not ima- 
gine what tb«r design was; but being willing to 
be sure, we took this opportunity to get some of us 
into the ship, and oOiers to hand down amia and 
ammunition to those that were at work to defend 
themselves with, if there should be occasion ; end it 
was no more than need ; for in less than a quarter 
of an hour's ctmaultation, they a^eed, it seems, that 
the ship was really a wreck ; and that we were all at 
worl( endeavouring to save her, or to save our lives 
by the help of our boats ; and irfien we handed our 
aims into tiie boats, they concluded, by that motion, 
that we were endeavouring to save aome of our 
goods; upon this they took it for granted we all bfr- 
uinged to them, and away they came directly upon 
our men, as if it had been in a line of battle. 

Oar men, seeiDg so many of them, began to be 
' frightened, for we lay but in an ill posture to figbt, 
and cried out to us to know what they ^OUld do. 



B0BIirsON CRUSOK. S91 

I immediWely called to the mm that woHced npoa 
the McgeSi to ilip them down, and gel up the side 
into the at^; and bade thoee in uie boat to row 
loundi and coiDe on board ; and those few <^iu who 
were on board worked with all the strength and 
hands we had to bring the ship to rights ; but, how- 
ever, neither the men upon die stages nor those in 
the boats could do as they were ordered, before the 
Cochin Chinese were upon them ; and two of th«r 
boats boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold 
•a the men as their prtsoners. 

The first man they laid bold on was an English 
seaman, a stout, strong fellow, who having a mus« 
htA in his hand, never offered to fire it, but laid it 
down in the boat, like a fool, as I thought ; but he 
WKl»stood his business better than I could teach him, 
&r he grappled the p^an, and draped him by 
main force out of their boat into ours, whne taking 
him by the eara, he beat his head so a^nat die 
boat's gunnel, that the fellow died in his hands ; 
and, in the mean time a Dutchman, who stood 
next, took up the musket, and with the butt-end 
of it BO laid aboitt him, that he knocked down five 
of them who attempted to enter the boat. But this 
was doiDg litde towards resisting thirt;^ <>' ^'^'^y ''X^i 
who fearless, because ignorant of their danger, be- 
gan to throw themselves into the long-boat, where 
we had but five men in all to defend it : but the fol- 
lowing accident, which deserved our laughtn, gave 
our mai acomplete victory. 

Our carpenter being prepared to grave the out- 
Kde of the ship, as well as to pay the seams where 
he had calked her to stop the leaks, had got two 
ketdes just let down into the boat, one filled with 
b(»ling pitdi, and the other with rosin, tallow, and 
oil, ana such stuff as the shipwrights use for that 
mrk ; and die man tbtt attea&d t£e carpenter had 



S33 ADVEMTORES OP 

a great iron ladle in his hand, with vhicli he rap- 
plied the men that were at work with the hot stuff; 
two of the enemies men entered the boat just where 
ihig fellow stood, being in the fore-sheets ; he im- 
mediatelj' saluted cheni with a ladle full of the stuff, 
boiling-hot, which so burned tud scalded them, be- 
ing half'naked, that they roared out like bulls, and, 
enragedwiththe6re, leaped both into the sea. The 
carpenter saw it, and cned out, Well done. Jack ! 

S'tc them some more of it : and stepping forward 
msetf, takes one of the mops, and dipping it in 
the pitch-pot, he and his man threw it among them 
so plentifully, that, in short, of all the men in the 
three boats there was not one that escaped bein^ 
scalded and burned with it, in a most frightful, piti- 
ful manner, and made such a howling and crymg, 
that I never heard a worse noise ; for it is worth ob- 
•erving, that though pain naturally makes all people 
cry out, yet every uationhas a particular way oFez- 
clamation, and makes noises as difierent from one 
another as their speech. I cannot give the noise 
these creatures made a better name than howling, 
nor a name more proper to the tone of it ; for I ne- 
ver heard any thing moreliketbe noise of the wolves, 
which, as I have said, I heard howl in the forest on 
the frontiers of Languedoc 

I was never better pleased with a victory in my 
life; not only as it was a perfect surprise to me, and 
Uiat OUT danger was ioiminent before, hut, as w 



and which I was very much concerned at, for I waa 
■ick of kilting such poor savage wretches, even 
though it was in my own defence, knowing they 



came on enande which ther thought just, and knew 
no better; and that though it may be a just thine, 
because necessary (for ther^is no necesiory wicE- 



■cdneM iD'natiue), vet I thtm^t it was a sad lift, 
when we must be uira}'i obliged to be killiDs our 
feDoiT'CTeBtum to pneaerve outmIvm; and, iodeed, 
I think so still, and I would even now suffer a great 
deal, rather thaa I would take away the life even of 
the worst person injuring me; and 1 believe all 
considering people who know the value of life would 
be uf my opinion, if they entered seriously into the 
consideration of it. 

But to return to my BtOTy>— All the while this 
was doing, my [wrtner and I, who managed the rest 
of the men on board, had with great dexterity 
brought the ship almost to rights, a^d having got 
the guns into their places again, the gunner called 
to me to bid our boat get out of the way, for he 
would let fly among them. I called back again to 
him, and bid him not o&c to fire, for the carpenter 
would do the work without him ; but bid him heat 
another pitch-kettle, which our cook, who ivas on 
board, took care of: but the enemy wm so terrified 
with what they had met with. in their first altadE, 
that they would not come on again ; and some of 
them who were farthest off, seeing tJie ship swim, 
as it were, upright, began, as we suppose, to see 
their mistake, and give over the enterprise, finding 
it was not as they expected. Thus we gat clear of 
this merry fight, and having got some rice, and 
■ocoe roots and bread, with d>out sixteen hogs, on 
board, two days before, we resolved to stay here no 
longer, but go forward, whatever came of it; for 
we made no doubt but we should be surrounded the 
next day with rogues enough, perhaps more than 
OUT pitch-kettle would dispose of for.us. We there- 
fore got all our things on board the same evening, 
and the next morning were ready to sail: in the 
mean time, lying at anchor at some distance from 
the shore, sre were not so mudt concerned, being 



234 ADVEMTDBKS Or 

now In a fighting posture, as wel] a> la a sailing po- 
sture, if any enemy had presented. The next day, 
having fini^ed our work within board, and finding 
our ship was perfectly healedof allher ledu, we set 
Bail. We would have gone into the bay of Tonquin, 
for we wanted to inform ourselves of what was to be 
known concerning the Dutch ships that had been 
there; but we durst not stand in there, because we 
had seen several ships go in, as we supposed, but a 
little before; so we kept on N.E. towards the island 
of Formosa, as much atrwd of being seen by a Dutch 
or English merchant ship, as a Dutch or English 
merchant ship in the Mediterranean is of an Alger- 

Whea we were thus got to sea^ we kept on N. E. 
as if we would go- to the Manilla* or.the Philippine 
islands, and this we did that we m^ht not fall into 
the war of any of the European ships ; and then we 
steered north, till we came to the latitude of 22 deg. 
SO min. by which means we made the island Formo- 
sa directly, where we came to an anchor, in order 
to get water and fresh provisions, which the people 
there, tfho are very courteous and civil in their man- 
ners, supplied us with willingly, and dealt very fairly 
and punctually with us in all their agreements and 
bargains, which is what we did not find among 
other people, and may be owing to the remains of 
Christianity which was once planted here by a Dutch 
missionaiT of protestants, and is a testimony of what 
I have often observed, viz. that the Christian reli- 
gion always civilises the people and reforms their 
manners, where it is received, whether it works 
saving effects upon them or no. 

From thence we sailed still north, keeping the 
coast of China at an equal distance, till we knew 
we were beyond all the ports of China where our 
European ships usually come; being resolved, if pot- 



■OBlNtOM CKDSOB. 285 

nble. not to full into any of tbeir hands, etpeaaHj 
in this country ; where, aa our circumstancee were, 
we could not fail of being entirely ruined. 

Being now come to the latitude of thiny degrees, 
we reBolved to put into the first trading port we 
■hould come at ; and standing in for the shore, a 
boat came off two leagues to us, with an old Portu- 
guese pilot on board, who knowing ub to be an Eu- 
ropean ship, came to ofier his service, whichf in- 
deed, we were glad of, and took him on board ; 
upon which, without asking us whither we would 
go, he dismissed the boat he came in, and sent it 
back. 

1 thought it was now BO much in our choice to 
make the old man carry us whither he would, that 
I began to talk to him about carrying us to the 
gulf of Nanquin, which is the most northern part 
of the coast of China. The old man said he knew 
the gulf of Nanquin very well, but smiling, asked 
us what we would do there ! 1 told him we would 
sell our cargo and purchase China wares, callicoes, 
raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c. and so would re- 
turn by the same course we came. He told us our 
best port had been to have put in at Macao, where 
we could not haye foiled of a market for our opium 
to our satisfaction, and might for our money oave 
purchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as we 
could at Nanquin. 

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, 
of which he was very opinionated or conceited, 1 
told him we were gentlemen as well as merchants, 
and that we had a mind to go and see the great city 
of Peking, and the famous court of the monarch of 
China. Why then, says the old man, you should 
go to Ningpo, where, by the river whidi runs into 
Uie sea there, rou may go up within five leagues of 
the great canal. This canal is a navigable stream. 



which goei tfarou^ the heart of that vaat flni|Hn of 
Chine, croswa all the riven, panes aone cooaider- 
able hills by the help of sluices and gates, and goes 
up to the city of Peking, being in length -near two 
hundred and Beventj leagues. 

Well, said I, seignior Portuguese, but 'that is not 
our business now ; the great question is, if you ixa 
carry us up to the city of Nanquin, lrc»)i whence we 
can travel to Peking a^rwanu F He said we could 
do BO very well, ana that there was a great Dutch 
■hip gone up that way just before. This gave me a 
little shock, for a Dutch ship was now mir terror, 
and we had much rather have met the devil, at least 
if he had not crane in too frightful a figure; and we 
depended upon k tiliat a Dutch ship would be oar 
destruction, for we were in no condition to fi^t 
them ; all the ships they trade with into those parts 
being of great burden, and of much greater force 
than we were. 

The old man found me a little confused, and under 
aome concern, when he named a Dutch ship; and 
said to me, sir, you need be under no apprehenaiona 
of the Dutch ; 1 suppose ther are not now at war 
with your nation? — No, said I; that's true; but I 
know not vrtiat liberties men may fake when they 
are out of the reach of the laws of their own coun- 
try. — Why, says he, you are no pirates ; what need 
you fear ? They will not meddle with peaceable mer- 
chants, sure. 

If I had any blood in my body that did not ^ up 
into my face at that word, it was hindered by some 
stop in the ressels appointed by nature to circulate 
it, for it put me into the greatest disorder and con- 
fusion imaginable : nor was it possible for me to 
conceal it so, but the old man ea«ly perceived it. 

Sir, says he, I find you are in some disordar in 
your thougfauat my talk ; pray be pleaaed to go 



HOBINSOK cxvaoE. 2SJ 

which way yau think fiti and depend upon it, I'll do 
^ou all the service I can. — Why, seignior, said I, it 
u true; I am a little unaettled in my resolution at thia 
time, whither to go in particular; and I am some- 
thing more bo for what you laid about pirates, I 
hope there are no pirates in these aeas ; we are but 
in an ill condition to meet with them, for you see 
we have but a small force, and are but very weakly 
manned. — O, sir, says he, don't be concerned, I do 
not know that there have been any pirates in these 
•eas these fifteen years, except one, which was seen, 
as I hear, in the bay of Sism,,&bout a month since; 
but vou may be assured she is gone to the south- 
ward ; nor was she a ship of any great force, or fit 
for the work : she was not built for a privateer, but 
was run away with by a reprobate crew that was on 
board, after the captain and some of his men had 
been murdered by the Malayans, at or near the island 
of Sumatra. — What ! said I, seeming to know no- 
thing of the matter, did they murder the captain? — 
No, said he, I don't understand that they murdered 
Urn ; bat as they afterwards ran away with the ship, 
it is generally believed that they betrayed him into 
t^e hands of the Malayans, who did murder him ; 
and perhaps they procured them to doit. — Why then, 
said I, they deserve death as much as if they had 
done it th^oselveB. — Nay, says the old man, they do 
deserve it ; and thev wiU certainly have it, if they 
light upon any English or Dutch snip; for they have 
afl agreed together, that if they meet that rogue 
they 11 give him no quarter. — But, said I to him, you 
say the pirate is gone out of these seas; howcantney 
meet with him, uien ? — Why, that's true, says he, 
they do say so ; but he was, as I tell you, in tne bay 
of tJiam, in the river Cambodiai and was discovered 
there by some Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, 
and who were 1^ on shore when they ran away with 



ADVEMTURBS OF 



her ; and «oiiie English and Dutch tnden beio^ in 
the river, tbe^ wene within a Uttle of taUng him : 
nxy, said he, if the foremwrt boats had been wsH se- 
conded by the rest, they had ctatainlj' taten faiin, 
but be, finding only two boats wilinn reacli of him, 
tacked about, and fired at thoae two, and <r ' ' ' 



o sea, the others were not lAile to follow, : 
M he got away ; but they have all so enact a de- 
soiptioa of the ship, that they will be sure to Icnow 
her ; and wherever they find her they have vowed to 
give no quarter eithec to the captain or seamen, but 
to hang them all up at the yard-arm. — What ! aaid 
£, will diey execute them right or wrong ; hang them 
first, and judge them afterwards F — O sir, says the 
old pilot, there is no need to make a formal busiaen 
of it with auch rogues as those ; let thrau tie tfaem 
back to back, and >et them a-diring, 'tiaav moae 
than they deserve. 

1 knew 1 had my old man &st on board, and that 
he could do no harm, so that 1 tnmed shont upon 
him: Well now, seieniw, said I, this is the very 
teason wby I would nave you carry us up to Nan- 
quia, and not put back to Macao, or to any other 
part of the country where the English or Dutdi 
■hips come; fiir be it Juiewn to you, seignior, thoae ' 
captains of the English and Dutch ships are a pared 
of rash, proud, insolent fellows, that neither know 
what belongs to joatice, or how to ^>eha«e tbem- 
aelves as the laws of God and nature direct ; but 
being proud of their offices, and not understandinff 
their power, they would act the murderers to punial 
robb^; would take upon them to insult men 
lidaely accmed, and determine them guiltywithaat 
due inquiry : and pedupa t may live to bnng some 
of them to account for it, when they may be taoght 
how justice is to be executed ; and mat no nan 



ought to be treated aa 8 criminal (ill Rome evidence 
mffv be had of the crime, and that he iB the man. 

With this I told him that this was the very ship 
they attacked, and gave him a fiiJl account of tM 
■kirmish we had with their boal«, and how Foolishly 
and cowardly tb«y behaved. I told him all the story 
of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmao 
■erved ui. Itold him liie reasons I had to believe 
the Btory of killing the master by the Malayans was 
true, as also the running away with, the ship ; but 
it waa all a ficdon of their own to suggest that the 
men had turned pirUes, aad they ought to have bees 
sure it waa so bdbce they had ventured to attack at 
by lurprieeT and oblige us to rewst them ; adding, 
that they would have the blood of those men, whom 
we kill^ there is just defence, to answer for. 

The old man was amazed at this relation, and 
told us we were very much in the right to go away 
to the mxlh; and that if he might advise us, it 
should be to s^ the ^p in China, which we wight 
very well do, and buy or build another in the coun- 
try ; aad, said he, thou^ you will not get so good 
a ship, yet you may get oae able eooi^ to cany 
you and all your goods back again to Bengal, or any 
where else. I told him I would take his advice 
when I came to any port where I could find a ship 
for my turn, or get any customer to buy this. He 
replied, 1 should meet with customers enough for 
the ^ip at Napqain, and that a Chinese junk would 
•erve me very well to go back again ; ^d that he 
would procure me people both to buy one and sell 
the other. Well but, seignior, said I, as you say 
ibey know the riiip so well, I may, perhaps, if I f<M- 
low your measurea, be inatnmientid to bring some 
honest innocent men into a terhUe broil, aod per- 
bi^ lo< be murdered in cold blood ; for wherever 
they fisd the ship,, tkey will prove the guilt upen 



240 

the men, by pravins this was the ihip, and so inno- 
cent men may probably be overpowered aad mur- 
dered. — Why, seya the old nan, I'll find out a way 
to prevent that also; for as I know all thoge com- 
manders you speak of very well, and shall see them 
all as they pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights 
in the thmg, and let them know that they had been 
so much in the wrong ; that though the people who 
were on board at first might run away with the 
ship, yet it was not true that they nad turned 
pirates; and that, in particular, these were not the 
men that first went off with the ship, but innocently 
bought her for their trade; and I am persuaded 
they wilt so tar believe me, as at least to act more 
cautiously for the time to come. 

While these things were passing between us, hy 
way of discourse, we went forward directly for 'Sbm- 
qma, and in about thirteen days' sail came to. an 
anchor at the south-west point of the great gait 
of Nanquin ; where, by the way, I came by acci&nt 
to understand that two Dutch ships were gone the 
length before me, and that I should certainly fall 
into their hands. . I consulted my partner again in 
this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as 1 was, 
and would very gladlyhave been safeon shore almost 
any where : however, I was not in such po^tlexity 
neither, but I asked the old pilot if there was do 
creek or harbour which I might put into and pursue 
my business with the Chinese privately, and be in 
no danger i)f the enemy. He told me, if I would sail 
to the southward about forty-two leagues, there was 
a little port called Quiachbng, where the fathers of 
the mission usually landed from Macao, on their 
progress to teach the Christian religion to the Chi- 
nese, and where no European ships ever put in; and 
if 1 thought to put in there, I might consider what 
&rther course to take when I was on shore. . He 



ROBINSON CRUSOI. S41 

Gonfeued, he laid, it wu not a place fbr merchants, 
except that at some certain times the; had a kind 
of a fair there, when the merchants from Japan 
came over thither to buy the Chinese merchandises. 

We all agreed to go bade to this place ; the name 
of the port, as he called it, 1 may perhaps spell 
wrone, for I do not particularly remember it, having 
lost Uiis, together with the names of man^ other 
places set down in a little pocket-book, which was 
spoiled by the water by an accident; but this I re- 
m«nber, that the Chinese or Japanese merchants we 
correspondedwithcalledit by adiflerent namefrom 
that which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pro- 
nounced it as above, Quinchang. 

As we were unanunous in our resolution to go to 
this place, we weighed the next day, having onlv 
gone twice on shore where we were to get fresh 
water; on both which occasions the people of the 
country were very civil to us, and brought us 
abundance of things to sell to us, I mean of provi- 
sions pluits, roots, tea, rice, and some fowls, but 
nothing without money. 

We came to the other port [the wind being con- 
trary) not till five days, but it was very much to our 
satis&ction; and 1 wasjoyful, and I may say thank- 
ful, when I set my foot on shore, resolving, and my 
partner too, that if it was possible to diroose of our- 
selves and effects any other way, though, not every 
way to oui sotisbction, we would never set one foot 
on board that unhappy veaael more; and, indeed, I' 
must acknowledge, tHat of all the circumstances of 
life that ever I had anvexperience of, nothing makes 
mankind so completely miserable as that of being in 
coDstantfear. Well does the Scripture say, " The 
fear of man brings a snare;" it ia a life of death, 
and the mind is so entirely oppressed by it, that it 
ii capable of no relieC 



m ADVENTURES OF 

Nor did it fiUl of Ito' usual operations upoo the 
&iicy> by haghteniDK every danzer, representing 
the English ai^Dittch captaiDs to be men iucapable 
of hearing lenaon, ot M dUtinguiBhing between 
honest men and rogues ; or between a etory calcu- 
lated for our own turn, made out of nothing, on 
purpose to deceive, and a true genuine account of 
our whole voyage, progress, and design ; for we might 
many ways have coDUDced any reasonable creaturs 
tbst we were not pirWes; the goods we had on 
board, th« course we steered, our frankly showing 
ourselves, and entering into sudl and such ports ; 
and even our very manner, the force we had, the 
number of men, the few arms, little anunuAition, 
diort provisions ; all these would have sffi-ved to con- 
viiice any men that we were no pirates. The opium 
and odin^oods we had on board would make it ap- 
pear the slup had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen, 
who, k was SMd, had the names of all the men that 
were in the ship, m^t easily see that we were a 
Boixture of English, Portuguese, and Indians, and 
but two Dutchmen on board, 'lliese, and many 
other particular circumstances, might have made it 
evident to the understanding of any commandei, 
whose haods we might fall into, ttiat we were no 
pirates. But fear, tl»t blind, useless passion, work- 
ed another way, and threw us into the vapoms ; it 
bewildered our undmtandingm and set the imagi- 
nation at work to frnm a thousand terrible thii^ 
that perhaps might nevot happen. We first aap- 
posed, as indeed every body had related to us, that 
the seamen on board the English and Dutck skips, 
but especially the Dutch, were lo enraged at ua 
name of a pirate, and especiallv at our beating off 
Ifaeii boats and etching, that th^ would not giva 
themselves leave to mquire whether we win finUa 
or no ; but would execute us offhand, as we call il) 



ROBINMIN CXCBOB, S49 

whhoDt giving ui any room for k defentW. We re- 
flected that there really was lo inuoh ItppvcDt evi- 
dence before tltem, that they would scarce inquire 
after any more ; as, firM, that the ebtp wa« certainly 
the same, and ttiat Gome of tiie seamen among them 
knew her, and had been on board her ; and, se- 
condly, that when we had intelHgence at the river 
ofCambodia that they were coming down to examine 
UB, we fought Uieir boats and fled ; so that we made 
no doubt bnt they were ffl fully BBtisfied of our being 
pirates, as we were satisfied of the contrary ; ana, 
as I oAen said, 1 know not bat 1 shontd b«*e been 

?t to have taken tliose eircursstances for evidence, 
the tables were turned, and my case was thrirs ; 
and have made no scrapie of cutting all the crew to 
pieces, without believing, or perhaps considering, 
what they might have to ofer m their defence. 

Bm let d)at be haw it will, these were our appre- 
heneiOns ; and both my partner and I scarce slejA 
-a oigbt without dreaming of haters and yard-arms, 
tiiat is to say, ^bbets; 'of fighting, and being taken ; 
of killiiw, and bme killed : and one night I was in 
wtdi a 'nnr in my erream, fencying the Dutchmen 
had boarded us, and 1 wm knocking one of their 
seamen down, that I struck my double fist agarnst 
the side of the cabin I lay in with snch a force, as 
wounded my hand grievously, broke my knuckles, 
and cut and bruised the flesh, so that it awaked me 
out of my sleep. 

Another apprehension I had was, the cruel usage 
we might meet with from them if we fell into thehr 
hands; then the story of Amboyna came into my head, 
and how the Dutch might perhaps torture us, as 
they did our countrymen thne, and make sonte of 
our men, by extremity of tortsre, confess those 
crimes they never Were guilty of, or own themselves 
and all of us to be pirates, and so Ihey would put 
tS 



S44 ADVBNTDKM Ur 

na to death with a fbrmal appearance of justice ; 
snd that they might be tempted to do this for the 
gain of our ship and cai^o, which was worth four 
or five tbou«and pounds, put all together. 

These things tonnentea me and my partner too, 
ni^ht and day ; nor did we consider that the cap- 
tains of shipi have no authority to act thus ; and if 
we had surrendered prisoners to them, they could 
not answer the destroying us, or torturing us, but 
would be accountable for it when thej' canae to their 
own country ; this, I say, gave me no satisfaction ; 
for if they were to acLthus with us, what advantage 
would it be to us that they should be called to an 
account for iti or if we were first to be murdered, 
what satisfaction would it be to us to have them 
punished when they came home ? 

I cannot refrain taking notice here what re- 
flections I now had upon the vast variety of my par- 
ticular circumstances ; how hard I thought it was, 
th^ I, who had spent forty years in a life of con- 
tinual difficulties, and was at last come, as it were, 
to the port or haven irhich all men drive at, vis. to 
have rest and plenty, should be a volunteer in new 
sorrows by my own unhappy choice; and that I, 
who had escaped so many dangers in my youtb, 
should now come to be hanged in my old age, and 
in so remote a place, for a crime which I was not in 
the least inclined to, much less guilty of. 

Afler these thoughts, something of religion would 
come in ; and I saould be considering that this 
seemed to me to be a disposition of immediate Pro- 
vidence, and I ought to look upon it and subuiit to 
it as such ; that although 1 was innocent as to men, 
J was fat from being innocent as to my Maker ; and 
I ought to look in and examine what other crimes 
in my life were most obvious to me, uid for which 
Providence might justly inflict this pui 



ROBmBON onvMos. US 

« relnbutiou ; and that I ought to sobimt to this, 
jnBt w I would to B shipwreck, if it had pleaaed God 
to have brought such a disaster upon me. 

In its turn, natsral conrage would MmetimM take 
ka place, and then I woidd be talking myidf up to 
Tigorons resolutions : that I would not be taken to 
be barbarouelyused by a parcel of merciless wretches 
in cold blood ; that it were much better to have 
fallen into the hands of the tavagee, though I was 
sure they would feast upon me when they had taken 
me, than those who would perliapS glut their rage 
upon me by inhuman tortures and bubarities ; that 
in the case of the savages I alwaja resolved to die 
fighting to the last gasp, and why should I not do 
■o now, seeing it was much mere dreadful, to me 
at least, to think of falling into these men's hands, 
than erer it was to think of being eaten by men ? for 
' the ssrvaeea, give them their due, would not eat a 
man till ne was killed and dead, but that these men 
had many arts beyond the cruelty of death. When- 
ever these thoughts prevailed, X was sure to put 
myself into a kind of fever with "die agitation <n a 
■opposed fight : my blood would boil, and my eyes 
sparkle, as if I was engaged, and 1 always resolved 
to take no qdarter-at uieir hands ; but, even at last, 
if 1 could resist no longer, 1 would blow up the ship 
and all that was in her, and leave them but little 
booty to boast of. 

The greater weight the anxieties and perplexities 
of these things were to our thoughts while we were 
at sea, the greater was our satisfaction when we saw 
ourselves on shore ; and my partner told me he 
dreamed that he had a very heavy load upon his 
back, which he was to carry up a hill, and found 
that he was cot able to stand longer under it ; but 
that the Portuguese pilot came and took it off his 
back, and the hill disa|^>eared, the ground before 
y 3 



246 ADVBNTURU 0> 

bim spearing all unooth and plain ; and trulv it 
ira§so; they were all like men wno had a load taken 
off their backa. For my part, I had a weight taken 
off from my heart that it was not able any longer 
to bear; and, a« I said above, we resolved to go no 
more to aea in that ship. When we came on shore, 
the old pilot, who was now our friend, got us a 
lod^ng and a warehouse for our goods, which, by 
the way, was much the same % it was a little house, 
or hut, with a larger house adjoinine to it, all built 
with canes, and palisadoed round with lar^e canes, 
to keep out pilfering thieves, of which, it seems, 
there were not a few in that country ; however, the 
magistrates allowed us s little guard, and we had a 
soldier with a kind of halberd, or half-pike, who 
stood centinet at our door ; to whom we allowed a 
pint of rice, and a little piece of money, about the 
value of threepence, per day, so that our goods were 
kept ver)^ safe. 

The fair, or mart, usually kept in this place, had 
been over some time ; however, we found that there 
were three or four junks in the river, and two Ja- 
paners, I mean ships fnun Japan, with gooils which 
they had bought in China, and were not gone away, 
having some Japanese merchants on shore. 
. The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us 
was, to get us acquainted with three missionary Ro- 
mish priests who were in town, and who had been 
there some time converting the people to Chris- 
tianity ; but we thought they maae but poor work 
of it, and made them but sorry Christians v^en tfaey 
bad done ; however, that was nous of our business. 
One of these was a Frenchman, wbiHn tbcy called 
Father Simon ; another was a Pottagocse^ and the 
third a Genoese ; but Father SinMn wai coarteopa, 
easy in his iuaouer, and very agreeable ctunpaoy; 
the other two were more reaerved) seemed rigid and 



KOBIRSON CRUtOE. 247 

atutere, and applied leriously to the work they came 
about, viz. to talk vith, and inunuate themselves 
among, the iohabitanta, wherever they had oppor- 
tunity. We ottea ate and drank with those men; 
and though, I must confeM. the conversion, as they 
call it, of the Chinese to Christianity is so far irom 
the true conversion required to bring heathen people 
to the faith of Christ, that it seema to amount to 
little more than letting them know the name of 
Christ, and say some prayers to the Virgio Mary and 
her Son, in a tongue which they understand not, 
and to cross themselves, and the like ; yet it must 
be confessed that the reli^onists, whom we call 
missionaries, have a firm belief that these people will 
be saved, and that they are the instruments of it ; 
and, on this account, they undergo not only the fa- 
tigue of the voyage, and the hazards of living in 
such places, but oftentimes death itself, with the 
most violent tortures, for the sake of this work- 
But to return to my story : This French priest, 
Father Simon, was appointea, it seems, by order of 
the chief of the mission, to go up to Peking, the 
royal seat of the Chinese emperor, and waited only 
for another priest, who was ordered to come to hfrn 
from Macao, to go along with him : and we scarce 
ever met together but he was inviting me to go that 
journey ; telling me how he would show me all the 
glorious things of that mighty empire, and, among 
the rest, the greatest city Id the world; a city, said 
he, that your London and our Paris put tc^ether, 
cannot be equal to. This was the citjr of Peking, 
which, I confess, is very great, and infinitely full of 
people ; but as 1 looked on those things with dif- 
ferent eyes from other mMi, so I sh^ give my 
opinion of them in a few words, when 1 come in the 
course of my travels to speek more particularly of 
them. 



' 846 ADVKMTUBXS OM 

But, firBC, 1 come to my friar or miisicmary. 
. Dining with him one day, and being very merry to- 
gether, I showed some little inclination to go with 
nim ; and he pressed me end my partner very bard, 
and with a great many persuasiooa, to consmt. 
Why, Father Simon, aays my partner, should you 
desire our company so much ? you know we are 
heretics, and you do not love us, sor cannot keep 
us company with any pleasure.— O, says he, you may 
perhaps be good catholics- in time ; my business here 
is to convert heathens, and who knows but I may 
convert you too? — Very well, Father, said I, so you 
will preach to us all the way ? — 1 will not be double- 
some to you, says he; ourreligion does not diveet us 
of good manners; besides, we are here like country' 
men ; and so we are, compared to the place we are 
in; and if you are huguenots, and I a catholic,, we. 
may all be Christians at last ; at least, we are all 
gentlemen, and we may converse so, without being 
uneasy to one another. I liked this part of his dis- 
course very well, and it began to put me io mind of 
my priest that I had left in the Brazils ; but this 
Father Simon did not come up to his character by 
K great deal ; for thoiwh &tfaer Simon had no ap- 
pearance of a criminal levity in him neither, yet he 
nadnot that fiind of Christian zeal, strict piety, and 
nncere afiection to religion, that my other good ec- 
clesiastic had. 

But to leave him a little, though he never left ui, 
nor soliciting us to go with him ; we had soiaething 
else before us at first, for he had all this while our 
ship and our merchandise to dispose of, and we be- 
gan to be very doubtful what we should do, for we 
were now in a place of very tittle business ; and once 
I was about to venture to sail for the river of Kilam, 
and the city of Nanquin ; but Providence seemed 
now more visibly, as 1 thought, than ever, to oen- 



xoBiMaoN cRuaoB. 849 

cem itaelf in our aSain ; tmd I was encouraged, 
from this very time, to think I should one way or 
other get out of this entangled circumstance, aad 
be brought home to my own country again, though 
Ihadnotthe least view of the tDsnner. Providence, 
I aay, began here to clear up our way a iittle : and 
the first thins that offered was, that our old Portu- 
guese pilot brought a Japan merchant to ua, who 
uiquired what goods we had ; and, in the first place, 
he bought all our opium, and gave ua a very good 
price for it, paying us in gold by weight, Bome in 
small pieces of their own coin, and some in smalt 
wedges, of about ten or eleven ounces each. While 
we were dealing with him for our opium, it came 
into my head that, he might perhaps deal for the 
ship too, and I ordered the mterpreter to propose it 
to aim ; he shrunk up his shoulders at it, when 
it was first proposed to him; but in a few days afl£r 
he came to me, with one of the misHonary priests 
for his interpreter, and told me he had a proposal 
to make to me, which was this : — he had bought a 

Seat quantity of goods of us, when he had no 
oughts of proposals made to him of buying the 
ship ; and that, therefore, he had not money enough 
to pay for the eJiip ; but if I would let the same men 
who were in the ship navigate her, he would hire 
the ship to gotoJapan; and would send them from 
thence to the Philippine islands with another load- 
ing, which he would pay the freight of before they 
went from Japan ; and that at their return he would 
buy the ship. I began to listen to his proposal, and 
so eager did my head still run upon rambling, that 
I coiud not but begin to entertain a notion of going 
myself with him, and so to sail from the Philippine 
islands away to the South Seas ; accordingly 1 asked 
the Japanese merchant if he would not Hire us to 
the Philippine islands, and dischai^ us there. He 



SflO ADVKMTURB8 OV 

■aid, No, he could not do that, for then he oould not 
have the return of his cargo; bat he would di>* 
charge m in Japan, at the ariip'f return. Well, atill 
i woa for taking him at that proposal, and going 
BtyBelf; but my paitner, wiser oian myself, per- 
suaded me irom it, representing the dangers, as 
weU of the seas as of the Japanese, who are a 
false, cruel, and treacherous pet^le ; likewise those 
of the Spaniards at the Philippines, more false, 
cruel, and treaciierous, than they. 

But to bring this long turn of onr a&irs to « 
conclusion : the first ttung we had to do was, to 
consult with the captain of the ship, and with ini 
men, and know if they were willing to go to Jwan : 
end while I was doing this, the young man wnom 
my nephew had left with me as my companion &a 
my travels cane to me, and told me that fae thought 
that voyage promised verv fair, and that tbene 
was a great prospect of advantage, and he woidd 
be very ^ad if 1 undertook it ; but that if 1 wodd 
Dot, and would give him leave, he would ge as a 
merchant, or how I pleased to oider bin ; that H 
ever he came to England, and I wat there and aUve, 
he would render me a fiutbiiit account of km mac- 
cess, which should be as much mine as 1 pleased; 
I was really loth to part with him ; but consider- 
ing the prospect of advantage, which leallv was 
considerable, and that he was a young fellow as 
likeljr to do well in it as anv I knew, I mclined to 
let him goj but I told him I would coiuult my 
partner, and give him an answer the next day. My 
partner and I discoursed about it, and my partner 
made a most generous aSer : You know it has been 
an unlucky ship, said he, and we both resolve not 
to go to sea init again ; if your steward (so he call- 
ed my roan) will venture the voysge, I will leave 
my share of die vessel to him, and Kt him make the 



251 

bat of it ; and if we live to meet in England, and 
he meets with luccess abroad, he ehall account for 
one half of the profits of the ship's freight to us; 
the other (halt be his own. 

If my partner, who was no way concerned with 
iny young man, made him such an ofler, I could do 
no less than ofier him the same: and all the ship's 
company being willins to go with him, we made 
over hau the snip to him is property, and took a 
writing from him, obliging him to account for the 
other ; trad away he went to Japan. The Japan 
merchant proved a very punctual honest man to 
bim ; protected him at Japan, and got him a licence 
to come on shore, which the Europeans in general, 
have not lately obtaiiKd ; paid him his freight verr 
punctually^ sent himtothe PhilippineSjloaaed witn 
Japan and China wares, and a supercargo of their 
own, who, traSckine with the iSpaniards, brought 
back Euiopeaa goods again, and a great quantity 
of cloves and other spices; end there he was not 
only paid his freight very well, and at a very good 
price, but not being willing to sell the ship then, 
the merchant furnished him goods on his own ac- 
count; and with some money, and some spices of 
his own which he brought with hira, he went back 
to the Manillas to the Spaniards, where he sold his 
c:argo very well. Here, having got a good acquaint- 
ance at Manilla, he got his ship made a free ship ; 
and the governor of Manilla hired him to go to 
Acapulco in America, on the coast of Mexico, and 

Sve him a licence to land there, and to travel to 
exico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe 
with all hia men. He made the voyage to Acapulco 
Ttry happily, and there he sold his snip ; and hav- 
ing there auo obtuned allowance to travel by land 
to Porto Bello, he found means, somehow or other, 
to get to Jamaica, with all his treasure ; and abdut 



25t ADVENTURES OB 

eight years after came to Englaod exceeding rich, 
of which 1 shall take notice in its place; in the 
mean time, I return to our particular afiairs. 

Being oqir to part with the ship and ship's com- 
pany, it came before us, of course, to consider what 
recompence we should give to the two men that 
eave us such timely notice of the desien against us 
m the river Cambodia. The truth was, uiey nad done 
us a very considerate service, and deserved well at 
our hands ; though, by the way,, they were a couple 
of rogues too ; for as they believed the story of our 
being pirates, and that we had really run away with 
the a»^, they came down to us not only to betray 
the design that was formed against us, but to go to 
sea with UB as pirates ; and one of them confessed 
afterwards that nothing else but the hopes of going 
a roguing brought him to do it : however, the ser- 
vice they did us was not the less ; and, therefore, as 
I had promised to be grateful to them, I first or- 
dered the money to be paid them which they eaid 
was due to them on board their respective ships; 
over and ^ove that, I gave each of them s sniaU 
sum of money in gold, which contented them very 
well ; then I made the Englishman gmmer is the 
ship, the gunner being now made second mate and 
purser ; the Dutchman I made boatswain ; so they 
were both very well pleased, and proved very ser- 
viceable, being both able seamen, and very stout 
fellows. 

We were now on shore in China: if I thought 
myself banished and remote from my own country 
at Bengal, where 1 had many ways to get home for 
my money, what could I thii^ of myself now, when 
I was got about a thousand leagues farther off from 
home, and perfectly destitute of all manner of pro- 
spect of return ? All we had for it was this, that in 
aoout four mtmths' time there was to be another 



fiur at the place where we were, and then we might 
be able to purchase all Borts of the manu&ctures of 
the country, and withal might possibly find aomo' 
Chinese junke or resBels from Tonquin, that would 
be to be Bold, Emd would cany ua and our goods 
whither we pleased. This I liked very well, and 
resolved to wait: besides, as our particular peraons 
were not obnoxious, go if any English or Dutdi 
ships came thither, perhaps we might have an op- 
portuoity to load our goods, and get pasgaf e to 
some ouier place in India, nearer home. Upon 
these hopes we resolved to continue here ; but, to- 
divert ourselves, we took two or three journeys into 
the country. First, we went ten days journey, to 
the city of Nanquin, a city well worth seeing, in- 
deed : they say it has a million of people in it : it la 
regularly built, the streets all exactly straight, and 
cross one. another in direct hues, which gives the 
figure of it great advantage. But when ! come to 
compare the miserable people of these countries 
with ours, their &brics, their manner of living, 
their government, their religion, their wealth, and 
their glory, as some call !c, X must confess that I 
scarcely think it worth my while to mention them 
here. It is very observable, that we wonder at the 
grandeur, the riches, the pomp, the ceremonies, 
the government, the manufactures, the commerce, 
and iconduct of these people ; not that it is to be 
wondered at, or, indeed, in the least to be regarded, 
but because having a true notion of the barbarity 
of those countries, the rudeness and the ignorance 
that prevails there, we do not expect to find any 
such thing so far off. Otherwise, what are their 
buildings to the palaces and royal buildings of Eu- 
ri^e ? What their trade to the universal commerce 
of England, Holland, France, and Spain i' ' What 
are their cities to ours, for w^tltb, strength, gaietj 

VOL. XVII. g 



c 



S5i' ADVKSTURBS 0> 

at appuci, rich iumiture, and infinite variety ^ 
What are their ports, supplied with ft few junks and 
bariu, to our navig&dan, our merchant fleets, our 
Uvge and powerful oaviei ? Our city ot' Londoa 
has mare trade than half their mighty empire : one 
English, Dutch, or French man of war of eighty 
ins, would be able to fight almost all the shipping 
ilonRinff.to China; but tbe greatness of uieir 
wealth their trade, (he power of their gOTeminent, 
and the strength of their armies, ms^ be a little 
Borptising to us, because, as 1 have said, consider- 
ing them as a barbarous uation of pagsbs, little 
bett» than savages, we did not expect such things 
among them : and this, indeed, is the advantage 
withwhichall their greatness and power ii represent- 
ed to us ; otherwise, it is in itself nothing at all ; 
S>r what I have said of their shipR may be said of 
their armies and troops; alt the forces of their em- 
pire, tboi^h they were to bring two millions of 
men into the field together, would be able to do 
nothing but ruin the country, and starve themselves, 
S they were to besiege a strong town io Flan- 
ders, or to fight a disciplined army ; one good line 
of German cuirassiers, or of French cavalry, might 
withstand all the horse of China ; a million of their 
foot could not stand before one embattled body of 
our infantry, posted bo as not to be surrounded, 
though they were not to be one to twenty in som- 
ber ; nay, 1 do not boast if I say that thirty thoo 
■and German or English foot, and ten thousand 
horse, well manwd, could defeat all the forces of 
China ; and so otour fortified towns, and of the art 
of our engineers in assaulting dnd defending towns ; 
there a not a fortified town in China could hold out 
one month against the. batteries and attacks of an 
European army ; aqd, at the same time, ail the armie* 
*f China could Jtever take such a town as Dunkirk 



jnorided it wu Bot ftwrved ; do, not in a leo jrean 
liege. They hftve fire-arms, it ia true, but they an 
ilWkward and uncertain in their going off; and 
their powder ha« but little itrength. Their anniet 
are badly discipliaed, and want akill to attack, or 
temper to retreat; and, therefore, I muit <soa(a»t >t 
leemed strange to me, when I came bonte, and beard 
(Kir people lay such fiae thingiof the power, glory, 

nnificence, and trade of the Chinese ; became, 
a aai &aw, they appeared to be a contemptible 
herd or crowd of ignorant sordid slaves, subjected - 
to 8 government qualified only to rule luch a peo- 
ple : and were not its distance inconceivably great 
mta Muscovy, and tbQ Muscovite empire in a nuuii 
n^ as rude, impotent, and ill-gov emed as they, tbt 
Czar of Muscovy nu^t with ease drive them all out 
of their country, and conquer them in one cam- 
paign : and bod the Csar (who is now -a growing 
prince) fallen this way, instead of attacking the 
wariike Swedes, and equally improved himself in 
the art of war, as they say he has.done ; and if none 
(if the powers of Europe had envied or interrupted 
him, he might by this time bare been emperot (NT 
China, inst^ of being beaten by the king of Swer 
den at Narva, when the latter was not one to six in 
number. As their strength and their grandevr, so 
tbeir navigation, commerce and husbandir is very 
imperfect, compared to the same things in Europe; 
also in their knowledge, tbeir learning, and in their 
skill in the sciences, they are either very awkward 
or defective, though they have globes and spheres, 
and a smattering of the mathematics, and think 
they know more than all the world besides ; but 
they know little of the motions of the heavenly bo; 
dies : and so grossly and absurdly ignorant are their 
common people, that when the sun is eclipsed, titej 
think a great dragon has assaulted it, and ii going 
x2 



S56 ADTBMTIJRIS or 

to run away with it t and they &U a clattering with 
all the drums and kettles in the country, to fright 
the monater away, just ai we do to hive a awann of 
bees. 

As this is the only excursion of the kind which I 
have made in all the accounts I have given of my 
travels, so 1 shall make no more tucn ; it is none 
of my business, nor any part of my design; but to 

t'ive an account of my own adventures through a 
ife of inimitable wanderings, and a long variety of 
chai'ses, which, perhaps, few that come aiier me 
will have heard the like of: I shall therefore say 
veiT little of all the mighty places, desert countrieSf 
and numerous people I have yet to pass through, 
more than relates to my own story, and which my 
concern among them will make necessary. 

] was now, as near as I cau compute, in the heart 
of China, about thirty degrees north of the line, for 
we were returned from Nanquin i I had, indeed, a 
mind to see the city of Peking, which I had heard 
so much of, and Father Pimon importuned me daily 
to do it. At length his time of going away being 
set, and the other missionary who was to go wim 
him being arrived from Macao, it was necessary 
that we should resolve either to go or not ; so 1 re- 
ferred it wholly to my partn.er, and left it wholly to 
his choice, who at leneth resolved it in the aflirma' 
tive, and we prepared for our journey- We set out 
with very good advantage, as to nnding the way, 
for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one of 
their Mandarins, a kind of viceroy or principal ma? 
gistrate in tlie province where they reside, and who 
take great state upon them, travelling with great 
attendance, and with great homage from the peo' 
pie, who are sometimes gieatly impoverished by 
them, being obliged to furnish provisions for them 
and ^ their attendants in their jourpeys. That 



■«-b!cfa I partimlariy obienred, aa to our travelling 
with his baggage, was this, that though we receiv- 
ed Bu£cie&t provigiona both for ourselTes and our 
borsea from the country, a« beloDging to the Man- 
darin, yet we were obliged to pay for every thine 
-ve had, after the market price of the country, and 
the Maadaiin'i steward collected it duly from ua ; 
80 that our travellitig in the retinue of the Man- 
darin, though it was a very great kindness to ui, 
was not such a mighty &vour in him, but was a 
greatadvantage to um, considering therewere above 
thitty other people travelled in the same manner 
besidea us, under the protection of his retinue ; for 
the country liimiidied all the provision! for D(rthing 
to him, and yet he took our money for them. 

We were twenty-five days travelling to Peking, 
through a country infinitely populous, but 1 thii3c 
badly cultivated; uie huebaniby, the economy, and 
the way of living miserable, though they boast so 
much of the industry (^ the peofde ; I say miserable, 
if compared with our own, but not so to these poor 
wretches, who know no other. The pride ot the 
people is infinitely great, and exceeded by nothing 
but their poverty, in some parts, wfaiui adds to 
that which I call their misery ; and I must needs 
think the naked savages of America live miich more 
happy than the poorer sort of these, because as they 
have nothing, so they desire nothins; whereas 
these are proud and bsolent, and in the main are 
in manypartsmere beggars and drudges; their os- 
tentation is inexpresoble ; and, if they can, thev 
love to keep multitudes of servants or slaves, which 
ia to the last degree ridiculous, as well as the coo- 
tempt of all the world but themselves. 

1 must ctmfess, I travelled more pleasantly aftar- 

wards in the deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand 

Tartary than horn; and yet the reeds hcr« are well 

Z 3 



S58 ADTBMTOBKS OF 

paved and well kept, and very conveiiieDt for trsn 
vellen ; but notliine was more awkward to me than 
to 5ee such a hausnty, imperious, insolent people, 
in the midst of tae grossest simplicity and igno- 
lance ; and my friend Father Simon and I used to 
be very merry upon these occauone, to see the beg- 

farlv pride of these people: for example, coming 
y the house of a country gentleman, as Father Si- 
mon called him, about ten leaeues off the city of 
Naiiquin, we had first of all the honour to ride 
with the master of the house about two miles ; the 
state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being 
a mixture of pomp and poverty. His babit was 
very proper for a scaramouch, or meny-andrew, 
being a dirty calico, with hanging-sleeves, tasseU, 
and cuts and slashes almost on every side ; it cover- 
ed a taffety vest, as greasy as a butcher's, and which 
testified that his honour must be a most exquisite 
sloveo. His horse was but apoor, starved, hobbling 
creature, and he had two slaves followed him cm 
foot to drive the poor creature along ; he had a 
whip in his hand, and he belaboured the beast at 
&st about the head as his slaves did about the tail ; 
and thus he rode by us, with about ten or twelve 
servants going from the city to his countrv seat, 
about haU a league before us. We travelled on 
gently, hut this %ure of a gentleman rode away 
before us, and as we stoppea at a village about an 
hour to refresh us, when we came by the country 
aeat of this great man, we saw him jn a little 
place before his door, eating his repast. It was a 
Icind of a garden, but he was easy to be seen ; 
and we were given to understand that the more 
we looked at him the better he would be pleased. 
He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto, 
which efiectually shaded him over the head, and on 
^ loutb side; but under the'lree was also placed 



ROBIMSOK C RUB BE. 



-k large umbrella, which made that part look well 
GDOUgh ; he Bat lolling back id a great el bow-choiF, 
being a heavy corpulent mau, and bad bis meat 
brought him by two women alavei ; he had two 
more, one of which fed the squire with a spoon, and 
the other held the dieh with one hand, and scraped 
off what he let fall upon his worship's beard and 
taSiety vest. 

Thus leaving the poor wretch to pleaBe himself 
with our looking at him, as if we adnured his pomp, 
though we reaUy pitied and contemned him, we 
pursued our journey ; only Father Simon had the 
curiosity to stay to ioform himself what dainties the 
country justice had to feed on in all his state, which 
he had die honour to taste of, and which waa, I 
think, a mess of boiled rice, with a ^at piece of 

' garlic in it, and a little bag filled with green pep- 
per, and another plant which they have there, some- 
thing like our ginger, but smelling like musk, and 
tasting like mustard ; all this was put together, and 
a smd^l piece of lean mutton boiled in it, and this 
was his worship's repast ; four or 6ve servants more 
attended at a aistance, who, we supposed, were to 
eat of the same afier their master. 

As for our Mandarin with whom we travelled, he 
was respected as ft king, surrounded always with his 
gentleman, and attended in all his appearances with 
such pomp, that I tour little of him hut at a distance; 
but this I (^served, that there was not a horse io 
his retinue but that our carriers' pack-horsea in En- 
gland seemed to me to look much better ; though 
it was hard to judge rightly, for they were so cover- 
ed with equipage, mantles, trappings, &c. that we 
could scarce see any thing but their feet and their 
heads as they went along. 

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and 
perplexity that 1 ^We giyen an accoi)nt of being 



'S60 ADVEVTURsa or 

!over, f had no Mixioas Aou^t about be, wImgIi 
nude this journ^ the pleasaster to me ; nor had I 
any ill accident attended me, only in paaaing or 
fordine a •mall river, my bone fell, and made me 
iree of the country, as they call it, that ia to aaf 
tiaew me in ; the place waa'nnt deep, but it wetted 
me all over. I mention it, because it sp'oiled my 
pocket-book, wherein I had set down the names of 
' sereral people and places which I bad occaaioQ to 
remember, and wliic^, not taking due care of, tbe 
leaves rotted, and the words were never after to be 
read, to my great loss at to the namw of some 
places I touched at in this journey. 

At length we arrived at Peking ; 1 had nobody 
with me but the youth whom my nephew the cap' 
tain had given me to attend me as a servant, and 
who proved very trusty and dihgent ; and my part- 
-ner had nobody with him but one snvant, who was 
a kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, be being 
desirous to see the court, we Dore his charges for 
bis company, and to use him as an interpreter, for 
be understood the language of the country, and 
spoke good French, and a uttle Englisb ; and, iiv< 
deed, this old man was a most useful implement to 
us every where ; for we had not been above a week 
at Peking, when he came laughing. Ah, seignior la- 
glese, says he, I have something to tell you will 
make your heart glad. — My heart glad i says I ; 
what can that be ? I don't know any thing in this 
connlry can either give mejoy or grief, to any great 
degree. — Yes, yes, said the old man, in broken tiua^ 
lish, make you glad, me sorry. — Why, saidi, wul 
it make you sorry? — Because, said be, yon have 
brought me here twenty>five days' joum^, and will 
leave me to go back alone, and which way shall I 
get to my port at^rwards without a diip, without 
» hone, without /McwiM.- aohe cidled mop^, faiei^ 



ROBIHaOIt ORUSOE. 381 

lui broken 'I^atin, of which he had abundance to 
make us merry with. In short, he told us there 
was a great caravan of Muscovite and PoliBh mer* 
chants in the citj, preparing to set out on their 
journey by land to Muscovy, within four or five 
weeks, and he was sure we would take Uie op- 
portunity to go with them, and leave him behind, 
to go back alone. 

1 confess I was greatly surprised with this good 
news, and had scarce power to speak to him for 
some time ; but at last I turned to him, How do 

?iu know this f" said I. Are you sure it is true ?— 
es, says he ; I met this morning in the street ui 
old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, who ia 
among them ; he came last from Astracan, and was 
designing to go to Tooquin, where 1 formerly knew 
him, but nag altered his mind, and is now resolved 
to go with the caravan to Moscow, and so down 
the river Wolga to Astracan,— Well, seigniw, 
says 1, do not be uneasy about being left to go 
back alone ; if this be a method for my return 
to England, it shall be your fault if you go back to 
Macao at all. We then went to consult together 
what was to be done ; and I asked my partner what 
he thought of the pilot's news, and whether it would 
suit with his al^rs ? He told me he would do just 
as I would ; for he had settled all his atfairs so well 
at Bengal, and left bis effects in such good handsi 
that as we had made a good voyage here, if he could 
vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as 
might be worth the carriage, he would be content 
to go to England, and then make his voyage bac^ 
to Bengal by the Company's ships. 

Havmgresolved upon this, we agreed that if our 
Portuguese pilot would go with us we would bear 
fab charges to Moscow, or to England, if he pleas> 
ed ; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed over ge* 
^rous in that neither, if we had not rewarded &n 



989 -ADViMTtiBH or 

ftnher, the MTTice be had done u> being really 
worth more than that ; for he had not only been a 
pilot to IK at sea, but he had been like a broker for 
ii> on shore ; and his procuring for us the Japan 
merchant was tone hundreds of pounds in our 
pockets. So we consulted together about it, and 
peins willing to gratiiy him, nliich was but doing 
him justice, and very willing also to have him with 
As besidesi for he was a most necessary man on all 
occasions, we agreed to give him a (juaotity of coin- 
ed gold, which, as I compute it, came to about out 
hundred and seventy-five pounds sterling, between 
iw, and to bear all his charges, both for himself 
and horse, except only a horse to carry his goods. 
Having settled this between ourselves, we called him 
to let mm know what we had resolved. I told him 
be had complained of our being to let him go back 
•lone, Bod 1 was now to tell him we were resolved 
he should not go back at all ; that aswe had resolved 
to go to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also 
he should go with us ; and that we called him to 
know his mind- He shook his head, and said, it 
was a long journey, fmd he had no pecune to carry 
him thither, or to subsist himself when fae came 
there. We told him we believed it was so, and 
therefore we had resolved to do something for him 
that should let him see how sensible we were of the 
service he bad done us, and also bow agreeable he 
was to us ; and then I told him what we had re- 
solved to give him here, which he might lay outas 
we would do our own ; and that as for his charges, 
if he would go with us we would set him safe on 
riiore (life and casualties excepted) either in Mus- 
covy or England, which he would, at our own 
fifaar^i except only the carriage of his goods. He 
received the pnmosal like a man transported, and 
lold us he would go with us over the wnole world ; 
*ni so we oU prepared for our journey. Howeret, 



KoBiNson cBtmox. 969 

u it wu with oa, to It wm with the other mer- 
choDts ; they hod many thingi to do ; and instead 
of being ready in fire weeks, .it waa four tnonthi 
and some day» before all things were got together. 

It was the beginning of February, our style, when 
we set out from Peking. IMy partner and the old' 
pilot had gone express back to the port where we 
had first pat in, to dispose of some goods which we 
had leh there; and I, with a Chm^ merchant 
whom I had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and 
who came to Peking on his own a&irs, went to 
Nantjuin, where I bought ninety pieces of fine da- 
TDMAa, with about two hundred pieces of other veir 
fioe silks of several sorts, some mixed with gold, 
and had all these brought to Peking against my 
tiartoer'B retnm ;, besides this, we bought a very 
leige quantity of raw silk, and some other goods, 
o«ir cargo amounting, in these goods only, to about 
three thousand five hundred pounds slerting; which, 
together with tea, and some fine calicoes, and three 
camels' loads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all 
eighteen camels tiw our share, besides thoee we 
rode upon; which, with two or three spare horses, 
and two horses loaded with provisions, made us, 
\a short, twenty-six camels and horses in our 
retinue. 

The company was very great, and, as near as I 
can remember, made between three and four hun- 
dred horse, and upwards of one hundred and twenty 
men, very well armed, and pi^vided for all events : 
for as the eastern caravans aresubject to be attack- 
ed by the Arabs, so are these by the Tartars; but 
they are not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs, 
nor BO barbarous, when they prevail. 
. The c<Hiq»ny consisted of people of several na- 
tions ; but there were above uxty of them mer- 
ohants or inliabitanU of Moscow, though of them 



96i ADVEKTURES OS 

some were Livonians ; and, to our particular latia-' 
ikctiOD, fire of them were Scots, who appeared also 
to be men of great experience in business, and of 
very good substance. 

When we had travelled one day's journey, the 
guides, who were five in number, c^led all the gen- 
- Uemea and merchants, that is to say, all the pas- 
sengers except the servants, to a great council, as 
they called it. At this council every one deposited 
a certain quantity of money to a common etock, for 
the necessary expence ofbuyingforageon the way, 
where it was not otlierwise to be had, and for sa- 
tis^ing the guides, getting horses, and the like : 
and here they constituted the journey, as they call: 
i(, viz. they named captains and officers to draw ua 
all up, and give the word of command, in case, of 
an attack, and give every one their turn of com- 
mand ; nor was this forming us into order any more 
tlian what we' found needful upon the way, as shall- 
be observed. 

The road all on this side of the country is very 
populous, and is full of potters and earth makers, 
that is to say, people that temper the earth for the 
China-ware ; and as I was coming along, our Por- 
tugal pilot, who had always something nr other to 
sav to make us merry, came sneering to me, and 
told me he would show me the greatest rarity in all 
the country, and that I should have this to say of 
China, after all the ill-humoured things I had said 
of it, that 1 had seen one thing which was not to 
be seen in all the world beside. I was very impor- 
tunate to know what it was : at last he told me it 
was a gentleman's house built with China-ware. 
Well, says I, are not the materials of their buildings 
the product of their own country, and so it is all 
China ware, is it not? — No, no, says he, 1 mean it 
is a house ^ made of China-ware, such as you call 



SOKKSOH CRDBOE. 265 

il Id England, or as it is called in our country, 
porcelain. — Well, gays I, such a tiling maybe ; how 
fiig is iti Can we carry it in a box upon a canwl? 
If w« can, we will buy it. — Upon a camel ! says the 
old pilot, holding up both his hands ; why there ift' 
sfamily of thirty people lives in it. 

I was then curious, indeed, to see it ; and when 
1 came to it, it was nothing but this : it was a'. 
timber house, or a house built, as we call it in Eng- 
land, -with lath and plaster ; but all this plastering 
was really China-ware, that is to say, it was plastered 
with the earth that makes china-ware. The outside, 
which the bud shone hot upon, was glazed, and' 
looked very well, perfectly white; and painted with 
blue fieures, as the large China-ware in England is 
painted, and hard as if it had been burned. As to- 
ihe inside, all the walls, instead of wainscot, were 
fined with hardened and painted tiles, like the little 

3 uare tiles we call galley-tiles in England, all made< 
the finest China, and the figures exceeding fine, 
indeed, with extraordinary variety of colours, mixed' 
with gold; many tiles making but one figure, but 
joined so artificially, the mortar being made of the 
same earth, that it was very hard to Ke where the 
tiles met. The floors of the rooms were of the 
same composition, and as hard as the earthen floon 
we have in use in several parts of England ; as hard 
as stone, and smooth, but nut burned and painted, 
except some smaller rooms, like closets, which were' 
all as ii were paved with the same tile : the ceiling, 
and all the plastering work in the whole house, 
were of the same earth ; and, after all, the roof 
was covered with tiles of the same, but of a deep' 
shining black. This was a China-warehouse, ia-- 
deed, truly and literally to be called so, and had I 
not been upon the Journey, Icould bavestaidsome' 
days to see and examine the particulars of it. They : 



266 ADVBHTUMl OW 

told me theie were fountains and flsb-poiid* m tbe 
garden, ftfi paved on. the bottom aod siaei with the 
■amevsnd fine statues »et up in rews on tha walks, 
entirely formed of the porcelain eartk, sod burned ' 

Ab this i« one of the MD^ulari ties of China, so they : 
may be allowed to excel m it ; but i am Tery svre 
they excel in tkeir accooots of it ; for they t<^ me* 
such incredible things of timr perfbrmance in 
CTockeiy-ware, for such it is, that i cm% not to re- 
late, as knowing it could not be true. Iliey told 
me, in particular, of oee workman that made aship 
with all it« tackle, and masts and sails, in earthen- 
ware, big enough to cwry fifty men. If tbey bad 
told me he launched it, and made a voyage to Japan 
ia it, I might have said something to it, ind^d; 
Intt as it was, I knew the Mrhole of the story, which 
was, in short, asking pardon for the wind, that the 
t^ow lied ; so I smiled, and said oothiiw to if. 

This odd si^ht kept me two hours b^ind the ca- 
nrron, for which the leader of it for the day fined 
me about the value of dtree shillings; and told me, 
if it had been three days journey without the wall, 
as it was three days within, he must have fined me 
four times as much, and made me ask pardon the 
next coimdl day : I promised 10 be more orderly ; 
and, indeed, I found afterwards the orders made 
for keeping all tc^ther were absolutely necessary 
far our common w&ty. 

In two days more we passed the great China wall, 
made for a nntification against the Tartars ; and a 
very great work it is, gomg orer hilts and moun- 
Uins m a needless track, where the rocks are im- 
passable, and the |iTecipices suidt as no enemy could 
possibly enta, ormdeeddirabup, erwhere, if they 
aid, no wall could hinder them. Tbey tell us its 
l^igth is near a thousand &ig)kh miles, but that 



* ROBINSON OSUSOK. S6T 

die country U five hundred in a MniglU measured 
line, which the wall bounds, without measuring the 
windinM and turnings it takes ; it is about four fa- 
thoms nigh, and sa many thick in some places. 

I stood itill an hour, or thereabout, without tres- 
passing our orders (for so Iraig the caravan was in 
possing the gale) to look at it on every side, nev 
and ftr off, I mean that was within my view ; and 
the euide of our caravan, who had been extolling it 
fix Uie wonder of the world, was mighty eager to 
bear my opinion of it. I told him it was a most ex> 
cellent thing to keep out the Tartars ; which he 
happened not to understand as I meant it, and so 
took it fiir a compliment: but the old pilot laughed: 
0| seignior In^lese, says be, you speak in colours— 
In colours ! said I ; what do you mean by that ?— 
Why you speak what looks white this way, and 
black that way : gay one way, aod dull another. 
You'tell him it ii a good wall to keep out Tartara ; 
Tou tell me by that it is good for notbirig but to 
keep out Tartars. I understand you, seignior In- 
«lese ; I understand you ; but seignior Chinese un- 
derstood you his own way. — Well, says I, seignior, 
.do you think it would stand out an arm^ of our 
country people, with a good train of arUllery, or 
our engmeers, with two companies of miners P 
Would not they batter it down in ten days, that an 
army might enter in battalia; or blow it up in the 
air, foundation and all, that there ehoula be i 



sign of it left ? — Aye, aye, says he, I know that. 
The Chinese wanted mightily to know what I said, 
and 1 gave him leave to tell him a few days after, 



for we woe then almost out of their country, and 
he was to leave us in a little time after this ; but 
when be knew wbat 1 said, be was dumb all the 
Test of the way, and we heard no more of his fine 
2 a2 



^68 ADVKHTUR&S OV 

story of the Chinese power and greatne§B while te 
«taia. 

After we poued thU migh^ nothing, called aw^ 
something like the Picta' wall, so &(I)oub in Nortb- 
umberland, built by the Bomans, we b^an to 
find the country thinly inhabited, and the people 
rather confined to live in fortified towns and cities* 
as being subject to the inroads and depredations cf 
the Tartars, who rob in great armies, and therefor* 
are not to be resisted by the naked inhabitants of aa 
open country. And here I began to find the Dece»- 
sity of keeping togetiier in a caravan as we trav^ 
ied, for we saw several troops of Tartars Tovinr 
:about ; but wlien 1 came to see them distinctly, I 
wondered more that the Chinese empire could b» 
conquered by such contemptible fellows ; for the^ 
ere a mere horde of wild fellows, keeping no order. 
aai understanding no discipline or manner of fi^hu 
Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, 
and fit for nothing ; and ^is we found the first daf 
we saw them, wluch was afler we entered the wilder 
»art of the country. Our leader for the day gave 
leave for about sixteen of us to go a-hunting, as 
they call it, and what was this but hunting of sneep; 
however, it may be called hunting too, for the crea- 
tures are the wildest and swiflestof foot thatererl 
saw of their kind ; only they will not run a great 
way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the 
chase, for thev appear generally thirty or forty in a 
Aock, and, like true sheep, always keep togettatr 
when they fly. 

In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was otf 
hap to meet with about forty Tartars; whether they 
iwere hunting mutton as we were, or whether they 
Jooked for another kind of prey, we knew not ; bat 
fit soon as they saw us, one of them blew a kiud'sf 



SOBIHBOM 

jioni Very hnid, but with * barbarous sound' that I 
had never heard before, and, by the vay , never 
care to hear acain e we all supposed this was to call 
' their friends about them, ana bo it was ; for in less 
than ten minutes a troop of forty or fifty more ap- 
peared at about a mile distance ; but our work was 
over first, as it happened. 

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened 
to be amonest tu, and as soon as be heard the horn 
he told us that we had nothing; to do but to charge 
them immediately, without loss of time ; and draw- 
ing us up in a line, he asked if we were resolved. 
We told him we were ready to follow him ; bo he 
rode directly towards them. They stood gazing «t 
,us like a mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor 
lowing the face of any order at all ; but as soon 
at they saw us advance, they let fly their arrows, 
whiuh, however, missed us very happily : It seema 
tiiey mistook not their aim, but their distance ; for 
- .^eir arrows all fell a little &hort of usi hut with so 
4rue an aim, that had we been about twenty yards 
nearer, we must have had several men wounded, if 
not killed. 

Immediately we halted, and though it was at a 
great distance, we fired, and sent them leaden bul- 
tets for wooden arrows, following our shot full gal- 
lop, to fall in among them sword in hand, for so 
our bold Scot that led us directed. He was, indeed, 
but a merchant, but he behaved with that vigour 
and bravery on this occasion, and yet with such 
cool courage too, that I never saw any man in ac- 
tion fitter tor command. As soon as we came up 
to them, we fired our pistols in their laces, and 
then drew ; but they flea in the greUeat ccmfosion 
imaginable. The only stand anv of them made was 
<Kt our right, where three <^ them stood, and, by 
■igaa. called tiie rest to eome hack to them, haidaig 
. 2a3 ■ 



■ero 

a kind of scimitar in their hands, and then bom 
hanging to their backs. Our brave commander, 
without asking anj bodv to follow him, galiops up 
close to them, and with his fusee knocks one of 
them off his horse, killed the second with his pistol, 
and the third nut away ; and thus ended our fight ; 
but we had this misfortune attending it, that all our 
mutton we had in chase got away. We had not a 
man killed or hurt; but as for the Tartars, there 
were about five of them killed ; how many were 
wounded we knew not ; but this we knew, that the 
.other party were so frightened with the noise of 
our guns, that they made off, and never made anj 
.attempt upon UB. 

We were all this while in the Chinese domint<Mu, 
sand tlierefore the Tartars were not so bold as after- 
wards ; but in about five da3rs we entered a vast, 
great, wild desert, which held us three days and 
nights' march ; and we were obliged to carry our 
'Water with us in great leathern bottles, and to en- 
camp all night, just as I have heard they do in the 
desert of Arabia. 

I asked our guides whose dominion this was in; 
and they told me this was a kind of border, that 
might be called no man's land, being a part of Great 
Karakathay, or Grand Tartary; but, however, it 
was all reckoaed as belonging to China, hut that 
there was no care taken here to preserve it from the 
inroads of thieves, and therefore it was reckoned 
the worst desert in the. whole march, though we 
were togo over some much larger. - 

In passing this wilderness, which . was at Grft 
ten frightful to me, we saw, two 'Or three time^ 
little parties of the Tartars, but they seemed to be 
upon their own affairs, and to have no design upon 
us;,andso, like the man who met the devil, if they 
)(ad nothing to say to la, we had nothing to say to 



BOBINSOK CBUSOE. .^71 

, them ; we let them go. Once, however, a party at 
.them came BO near as to stand and gaze atiu; wbe> 
tfaer it was to consider if they should attack us or 
.not, .we knew not; but when we were passed at 
Mcaae distance by thetn, we made a rear guard of 
forty meo, and stood ready for them, letting the 
caravan paM half a mile or thereabouts before us : 
but aAcT a while they marched off; only we found 
they saluted us with-five arrows at their parting, 
-one of which wounded a horse, so that it disabled 
him, and we left him the next day, poor creature, 
in great need of a .good ferrier: they might shoot 
,more arrows, which might fall abort of us, but we 
<saw no more arrows or Tartars that time. 

We travelled near a month after this, the way* 
not being so good as at first, though still in the do- 
miniona of the emperor of China, but lay for the 
most part in villages, some of which were fortified, 
because of the incursions of the Tartars. When we 
.were come to one of these towns (it was about two 
■ days and a half journey before we were to come to 
the city of Naum), I wanted to buy a camel, of 
which there are plenty to be wJd all the way upon 
that road, and horses also, such ae they are, because 
to many caravans coming that way they are often 
wanted. The person that 1 spolce to, to get me a 
.camel, would have gone and fetched one for me; 
but t, like a foot, must be oiBcious, and go myself 
along with him : the place was about two miles out 
of the village, where it seems they kept the camels 
and horses feeding under a guard. 

I walked it on foot, with ray old pilot and a Chi- 
nese, b«ng very desirous of a little variety. When 
we came to the place, it was a low marshy ground, 
walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry, with- 
,out mortar or earth among it, like a park, with a 
little-guar^of Chioesesoldieraatthedooi^ Having 



fiTTf - ADvniTOKBs or 

' bought a camel, mid agT>eed for the price, t caam 
BWB^, aad the Chioeaemui that weat with me led 
the camel, when on a auddeo came up five Tartan 
CD horseback ; two of them seized uie fellow aoA 
took the camd from him, while the other three 
stepped up to me and my old pilot, seeing us, as 
it were, unanaed, for 1 had no wet^Mu about me 
but my sword, which could but ill defend me agtuntt 
three horsemen. The first that came up stopped 
short upon my drawing my sword, for they are ar- 
rant cowards; but a secood coming upon my left, 
gsTc me a blow on the head, which 1 never felt tilt 
afterwards, and wondo^d, iriien I came to myself, 
what was the matter, and where I was, for be laid 
me flat oh the ground ; but my never-fkiling old 
pilot, the Portuguese (so Proridenoe, unlooked for, 
directs deliverances from dangers which to us are 
miforeseeo), had a pistol in his pocket, which I 
knew nothing of, nor the Tartars neither ; if they 
had, I BUfmose they would not have attacked us ; 
tat cowards are dways boldest when there is ne 
danger. The old man seeing me down, with a bold 
JmiuI stepped up to die fellow that had struck me, 
and laying hold of his arm with one hand, and ptdt- 
ing him down by main force a little towards htm 
with the othei', shot him in the head, and laid him 
dead upon the spot. He then immediately stuped 
up to him who had stopped us, aa I said, aiad beftwe 
he could come forward again, made a blow 'at hira 
with a scimitar which he always wore, but-aiissiog 
the man, cut his horse in the side of his head, cut 
one of the ean otf by the root, and a great slice 
down by the side of his face. The poor beast, en- 
raged with the wound, was no more to be governed 
by his rider, though the fellow sat well enough too, 
but away he flew, and canied h!in quite out of 1^ 
]^h>t^ reach ;. ami at some, distance nsing Ofipa hi* 



KOBIMSON CRUSOE. VTS 

.limd l^a, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon 

In this iaterval) the poor Chinese came in wh» 
had loat the came), but he had De weapon : how- 
erer, teeing the Tartar down, and his horse fallen 
■upon turn, away he rum to him, and seizing upoa 
ma 'i^ly ill-favoured weapon he had by his side, 
«»Mething like a pole-axe, but not a pole-ase nei- 
ther, he wrenched it from him, and made shift to 
..knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But my 
ojdmanhad the third Tartar to deal with still; and 
aeeins be did not fly, as he expected, nor come oa 
:to fight him, as be apprehended, but stand stock- 
. still, the old man stood still too, and fell to work 
with his tackle, to charge his pistol again; but as 
.M>OD as the Tartar saw Uie pistol, away he scoured, 
^and left my pilot, my champion I called him after- 
wards, a <n>mpkte victory. 

By this limel was a little recovered ; for I thought 
when 1 first began to wake, that 1 had been m m 
•weet sleep; but, as I said above, I wondered where 
.1 was, bow I came upon the ground, and what was 
the matter ; but a few moments after, as sense re- 
.Bumed, I felt pain, though I did not know where ; 
to I clapped my hand to my head, and took it away 
bloody ; then 1 felt my head ache ; and then, in a 
moment, memory returned, and every thing was 
preseiit to me again. 1 jumped upon my feet in- 
■tuitly, and get hold of my sword, out no enemies 
in view: 1 found a Tartar lie dead, and his horse 
: standing very quietly by him ; and, lookins farther, 
. I saw my chamnion and deliverer, who had been to 
' aee what the Chinese had done, coming back with 
his hanger in his hand : the old man, seeing me on 
iiiy.feet,>came running to me, and embraced me 
- with, a great deal of joy, being afraid before that 1 
-hsd.been killed; and seeing me bloody, would lee 



274 ADVBNTUHBS OV 

howlwu hurt; but it was- not much, only wbflc 
we call a broken head ; neither did I afterwaraa find 
.any great incunvenience from the blow, for it was 
.well again in two or three days. 

We made no ^eat gain, howerer, fay this vivttttj, 
/or we lost a came) and gained a hone; but that 
which was remarkable, when we came back to the 
Tillage, the man demanded tobe paid for the cameL; 
I disputed it, and it wm brought to a hearing be£i>ne 
the Chinese judge of the place. To give nim hU 
.-due, he acted with a great deal of [wudence and im- ' 
.partiality ; and, having heard both lidet, be gravely 
.asked the Chinese man that went with me to bu^ 
the camel, whose servant he was ? I am no aerraat, 
Maya he, but went with the stranger. — At whoK r«- 
, quest? says the justice. At the stranger's request, 
.■ays he. Why bfien, says the justice, you were the 
stranger's servant for the time ; and the camel being 
delivered to his eervant, it was delivered to him, 
and he must pay for it. 

1 confess tlie thing was so (daar.itbat I had tut 
,» word to say : hut, Admiring to see audi just res- 
jMwiiig iwon the consequence, and an accurate 
stating of the case, 1 paid willingly for the camej, 
and sent for another ; but, you may observe. I did 
not go to fetch it myself any more, for I had had 
enough of that. 

The city of Maum is a frontier of the Chinese 
empire ; they call it forti&ed, and so it ii, as forti- 
-fications go there ; for this I will venture to affirm, 
,that all uie Tartars in Karakathay, which. I be- 
.lieve, are some millions, could not batter down the 
.walls with their bows and arrows ; but to call it 
■troOK, if it were attacked with cannon, would be 
to make those who understand it laugh at yo«. 

We wanted, as I have said, above two daya' JDur- 
.j>ey of this city, when messengers were aent express 



RDBimoH cRvacff., C75 

to every put of the road to t^ all travellers and 
carenrani to halt tilt they had a guard gent for them ; 
fbr that an uniuual body of Tartan, making t«n 
tf>«Bumd in all, had appeared in the way, about 
thirty milieB beyond the city. 

This was yery bad news to trarellers ; howevei^ 
it was carefully done of the goverr»or, and we were 
Yery glad to hear we should hare a guard. Accord- 
ingly, two days after, we had two hundred soldier» 
■ent us irom a garrison ftf the Chineie, on our left, 
and three hundred more from the city of Naum, 
■ndwith theaewe advanced boldly; the three hun- 
dred H^diers from Naum marched in our front, the 
two hundred in our vear, and onr men on each side 
of our camels, with our baggage, and the whole 
caravan in the centre ; in this order, and well pre^ 
pered fur battle, we thought ourselTes a match for 
fhe whole ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had 
appeared ; but the next day, when they did ap- 
pear, it was quite another tiling. 

it was early in the morning, when, marching 
&om a well situated little town, called Changu, we 
bad a river to pass, which we were obliged to ferry; 
and, had the Tartars had any intelligence, then had 
been the time to have attacked us, when the cara- 
TOB being over, the rear guard was behind; fant 
they did not appear there. About three hours after, 
when we were entered upon a desert of about fifteen 
or sixteen miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust 
they raised, we saw an enemy was at hand ; and 
they were at hand, indeed, for they came on upon 

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had 
talked so bigtheday before, began to stagger; and 
the soldiers frequently looked behind them, which 
■ a certsb lien in a soldier that he is just ready to 
mm away. My old pilot vaa of my mind; end^ 



476 AOVENTURGS OF 

being near me, called out, Seignior Ineesi Bays be, 
those fellows must be encouraged, or l£ey will ruin' 
us all; for if the Tartars come on, they will nerer 
stand it. — I am of your mind, said I ; but what most' 
be done ? — Done ! says he, let fifty of our men ad- 
vance, and flank them on each wing, and mcourage 
them ; and they will fi^ht like brare fellows, in 
brave company ; but, without tlus, they will ererj 
man turn his back. Immediately I rode up to our 
leader, and told him, who was exactly of our mind; 
and accordingly fifty of us marched to the right 
wing, and fifty to the left, and the rest made s Itne 
<tf rescue; and bo we marched, leaving the last two 
hundred men to make a body by themselves, and to 
guard the camels ; only that, if need were, they 
should send a hundred men to assist the last fifty. 

In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innu- 
merable company they were: how many we could 
not tell, but ten thousand, we thought, was the 
least : a party of them came on first and viewed our. 
posture, traversing the ground in the front of our 
line; and, as we found them within gun-shot, our 
leader ordered the two wings to advance Bwiftly,and 
give them a salvo on each wmg with their shot, which 
was done; but they went ofi*, and I suppose back, 
to give an account of the reception they were like 
to meet with; and, indeed, that salute cloyed dieir 
stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood awhile 
to consider of it, and wheeling off tA the left, they 
gave over their design, and said no more to us for 
Uiat time ; which was very agreeable to our circum- 
stances, which were hut very indifferent for a battle 
vith such a number. 

Two days after we came to the city of Naun, or 
^aum; we thanked the governor forms care of us, 
and collected to the value of a hundred crowns, or 
Ib^eabouts, which we gaveto tJie soldiers s&iit ta. 



davs 



ROBIHSON CSUSOB. 277' 

guard lu ; and here we rested one day. This is a- 
garrison, iodeed, and there were nine hundred sol- 
diers kept here ; but the reEUon of it was, that for- 
merly the Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to them- 
than they now do, the Muscovites having aban- 
doned that part of the country, which lies from this 
city west for ^out two hundred miles, as desolate 
and unfit for use: and more especially bein^ so 
veiy remote, and so difficult to send troops thither 
for ilB defence : for we had yet above two thousand 
miles to Moscovy, properly so called. 

After this we passed several great rivers, and two 
dreadful deserts ; one of which we were sixteen 
i passing over ; and which, as I said, was to he 
' )o man's land ; and, on the 13th of April, we 
o the frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. 
I think the first town, or fortress, whichever it may 
be called, that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, 
was called Arguna, being on the west side of the 
river Arguna. 

I could Dot but discover an infinite satisfaction 
that I was so soon arrived in, as I called it, a Chris- 
tian country, or, at least, in a country governed by 
Christians; for though the Muscovites do, in my 
opinion, but just deserve the name of Christians, yet 
such they pretend to be, and are very devout in 
their way. It would certainly occur to any man 
who travels the world as I have done, and who had 
any power of reflection, what a blessing it is to be 
brought into the world where the name of God and 
a Redeemer is knbwn, adored, and worshipped; and 
Bot where the people, given Up by Heaven to strong 
delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate them- 
aelvea to stocks and stones ; worship monsters, ele- 
Bients, horrid-shaped animals, and statues or images 
- of monsters. Not a ttfm or city we passed through 
but had their pagods, their idols, and their templesi 
2b 



Us ADVEMTURIS OF 

and ignorant people worshipping even the works of ' 
their own hands. Now we came where, at least, 
a face of the Christian worship appeared ; where the 
knee was bowed to Jesus ; and whether ignorantly 
or not, yet the Christian religion was owned, and 
the name of the true God was called upon and 
adored, and it made ray soul rejoice to see it. I 
saluted the brave Scots merchant I mentioned 
above with my first acknowledgement of this; and 
taking^ him hj the hand, I said to him, Blessed be 
God, we are once again amongst Christians. He 
smiled, and answered. Do not rejoice too eoon, 
countryman ; these Muscovites are but an odd sort 
of Christians ; and but for the name of it, you may 
. see very little of the substance for some months far- 
ther of our journey. Well, says I, but still it is 
better than paeanism and worshipping of devils.— 
Why, I will tell you, says he, except the Russian 
Mldiers in the garrisans, and a few of the inhabit- 
ants of the cities upon the rood, all the rest of thia 
country, for above a thousand miles farther,' is in- 
habited by the worst and most ignorant of pagans : 
and so, indeed, we found it. 

We were now launched into the greatest piece of 
solid earth, if J understand any thing of the surface 
of tiie globe, that is to be found in any part of the 
world ; we had, at least, tn elve thousand miles to 
the sea, eastward; two thonsand to the bottom of 
the Baltic sea, westward ; and above three thousand, 
If we left that sea and went on west, to the British 
and French channels; we had full Bvs thousand 
miles to the Indian or Persian sea, south ; and abont 
eight hundred to the Frozen sea, nor^. Nay, if 
some people may be belieVed, there might be no sea; 
north-east, till we came round the pole, and con^ 
tequently into the north-west, and so had a continent 
•fund into America, the Lord knows vhei«; thou^ 



■OBfHSOK OHUBOE. ST9 

.1 could give lome reatona why I believe that to he 
a mittske. 

As we entered iDto the Muscovite domiaiong b 
^od while be fore we Cftmeto any coiuiderable towns, 
we had nothing to observe there but this; first, that 
all the rivero riu to the east: as I understood by 
the charts, which some to our caravan had wiui 
them, it was plain all those rivers ran into the great 
river Yamour, or Gamour ; which river, by the 
natural course of it, must run into the East sea, or 
Chinese Ocean. The story they tell us, that the 
-moutfa of this river is choked up with bulrushes of 
a monstrous growth, viz. three feet about, and 
twenty or thirty feet high, I must be allowed to aaf. 
I believe nothing of it ; but, as its nwigaiiwi is «f 
.House, because tbve is BBteade that way, Uie Tai- 
wan, to wliOBi it alone belongs, dealing in nothii^ 
but cattle, so nobody, that ever I heard of, has 
i>een curious enough either to go down to the mouth 
of it jn boats, or come up from the mouth of it in 
ships, as far as I can find : but this is certain, that 
this river running east, in the latitude of about fijW 
degrees, carries a vast concourse of riveri along wttfi 
it, and finds an ocean to empty itself in that latitude.; 
so we are sure of sea there. 

Some leagues to ^e north of this river there are 
several considerable rivers, whose streams run as 
due north as the gamour runs east, and these atp 
all found to join their waters with the great river 
Tartarus, named so from the northernmost nations 
of the Mogul Tartars; who, as the Chinese say, 
were the first Tartars in the world ; and, who, as 
our geogra[)hers all^e, are the Gog and Magog 
mentioned in sacred story. These riven runmng 
all northward, as well as all ^he other rivers I am 
yet to apeak of, make it evident that the nortbeni 
ocean bounds the laod also on ttwt side ; so tiMit 
2b2' 



'280 ADVKNTtTRES Ot 

does not seem rational in the least to think that the 
land can extend itself to join with America on that 
side, or that there is not a communication between 
the northern and eastern ocean : but of this I shall 
say no more ; it was mj observation at that time, 
aad therefore I take notice of it in this place. 

We now advanced from the river Arffuna by easy 
■and moderate journeys, and were very visiblyobliged 
to the care the Czu" of Muscovy has taken to have 
cities and towns built in as many places as it is pos- 
sible to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison, 
something like the stationary soldiers placed by the 
BomanB in the remotest countries of their empire; 
some of which that 1 had read of were placed in 
Britain, for the security of commerce, and for the 
lodging travellers : and thug it was h»% ; for where- 
ever we came, though at these towns and stations 
' the garrisoQs and governors were Russians and pro- 
■fessed Christians, yet the inhabitants were mere pft- 
gans ; sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun, 
moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven ; and not 
only BO, but were, of all the heathens and pagans 
that ever [ met with, the most barbarous, except 
only that they did noteat men's flesh, as our savages 
of America did. 

Someinstancesof this we met with in the country 
between Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite do- 
minions, and a city of Tartars And ilutsians to- 
£her, called Nortziousky, in which is a continued 
ert or forest, which coat us twenty days to travel 
over. In a village, near the last of these places, I 
4iad the curiosity to go and see their way of living, 
vbich is most brutish and unsufferable ; they had, 
,1 •U{^>ose, a great sacrifice that day : for there stood 
-OHti upon an old stump of a tree, an idol made of 
-wood, frightful as the devil ; at least, as any thing 
He can think of to represent the devil can be made; 



xoBiDKiii exviox. tSl 

it had a head Dot bo mac^ na rMembUo^ kaj creo* 
tvre that the world ever hw ; ean » big as gqett! 
horoB, and B8 high ; eyes at big m a crown-fHece; 
a noae like a crooked ram's horn, aad a mouth exr 
tended four-cornered, like that of a Hon, with her^ 
rible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under-bill : it Wm 
drewed up in the filthieM manner that ydu could 
■uppote ; Its upper garment was of sheep-skint, witk 
the wopl outward ; a great Twtar bonnet on tfa« 
head, with two honu growing Uirough it : it was 
about eight feet high, yet had ao feet or legs, nor 
anyother proportion of parts. 

This scarecrow was set up at the outn* side of the 
village ; and, when I came iteai to it, there were 
sixteen or sevente^i creatures, whether meii or 
women I could not tell, tor they made no distinction 
by their habits, all laying flat uiKHi the groundround 
this formidable block of Bhapeless wood : I saw oa 
motion among them any more than if they had been 
all logs of wood, like the idol, and at first I really 
thought they had been so ; but, whea I came a little 
nearer, they started up upon their ieet, and raised 
a howling cry a* if it had been so many deep*- 
mouthed tiounds, and walked away, ai if they were 
displeased at our disturbing them. A little way off 
from the idol, and at the door of a tent or hut, 
made all of sheep-flkins and cow-ekins dried, stood 
three butchers,— I thought they were such ; when 
I came nearer to them, 1 found they had long knivea 
in their hands ; and in the middle of die tent ap- 
peared three sheep killed, and one young bullock 
pr steer. These, it seems, were sacrifices to that 
•enseless log of an idol i the three men were prieatt 
)>eIongiog to it, and the seventeen prostrated wretches 
were the people who brought the o&ring, and were 
mi^iUDg tneir prayers to that stock. 
. .-I c<uAiB,.r mm more moved at thair eti^idU^ 
3q ft 



-fSZ ADVKNTDItES OY 

and brutiish vorship of a hobgoblin than ever I wav 
at any thing in my life ; to see God's most glorious 
and best creature, to whom he had grtuted so many 
advantages, even by creation above the rest of the 
works of bis hands, vested with a reasonable soul* 

.and that soul adorned with faculties and capacities 
adapted both to honour his Maker and be honoured 
by nira, sunk and degenerated to a degree so very 
stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing, a 
mere imaginair object, dressed up by themselves, 
and made terrible t« themselves by their own con- 
trivance, adorned only with clouts and rags; and 
that this should be the effect of mere isnorance, 
wrought up into hellish devotion by the devil him- 
self; who, envying to his Maker toe homage and 
adoration of his creatures, had deluded them into 
such sordid and brutish things as one would think 
should shock nature itself! 

B|it what Bigni6ed all the astoni^roent and re- 
flection of thoughts; thus it was, and I saw it be- 
fore mv eyes, and there was no room to wonder at 
it, or tniok it impossible : all my admiration turned 
to rage, and I rode up to the image or monster, 
call it what you will, and with my sword made a 
stroke at the bonnet that was on its head, and cut 
it in twoi and one of our men that was with me 
took hold of the sheep-skiD that covered it, and 
pulled at it ; when, beliold, a most hideous outcry 
and howling ran through the village, and two or 
three hundred people came about my ears, so that 
I was glad to scour for it, for we saw some bad 
bows and arrows ; but I resolved from that moment 
to vbit them again. 

Our caravan rested three nights at the towQ, 
which wa&about four miles off, in order to provide 
some hordes which they wanted, several of the horses 

.iMtving been lamed and jaded with the badness of 



BOBINSON CRCSOB. 28S 

'the vny, and long march over the last desert; sp 
.vehadsomeleisurehere to put my design in execu- 
tion. I communicated my design to the Scots mer- 
chant of Moscow, of whose courage I had sufficient 
teatiniony; I told him what I ht3 seen, and with 
what indignation I had nnce thought that human 
nature could be so degenerate; I told him, if I could 
get but four or five men well armed to go with me* 
1 was resolved to go and destroy that vile, abomina- 
ble idol, and let them see that it had do power to 
help itself, luid consequently could not be an ob- 
ject of worship, or to be prayed to, much less help 
them that ofered sacrifices to it. 

He laughed at me; — says he, Yonr zeal may be 
good, but what do you propose to yourself by it? — 
Propose 1 said I, to vindicate the honour of God, 
which is insulted by this devil-worship. — But how 
will it vindicate the' honour of God, said he, while 
the people will not be able to know what you mean 
by it, unless you could speak to them, and tell them 
so ? and then they will fight you. and beat you too, 
I'll assure you ; lor they are desperate lellows, and 
that especially in defence of their idolatry. — Can we 
not, said 1. do it in the night, and then leave them 
the reasons and the causes in writing in their own 
language ? — Writing ! said be ; why there is not a 
man in five nations of them that knows any thing 
of a letter, on how to read a word any way.— . 
Wretched ignorance! said 1 to him; however, I 
have a great mind to do it; perhaps nature may 
draw inferences from it to them, to let them see how 
brutish they are to worship such horrid things.— 
Look you. sir, said he, if your zeal prompts you to 
it so warmly, you must do it; but in the next 
place I would have you consider, these wild nations 
of people are subjected by force to the Czar of Mus> 
. eovy's dominions, and if you do this, it is ten to one 



W* ABVBNTUSSB Or 

but they wBl come by thoiuaocU to the govenioF of 
MertsinkHy, and demand BatisfkcUon; am if he can- 
not give them aatiafaction, it is ten to one but thej 
reToTt ; and it will occasion a new war with all tlte 
Tartars in the country. 

ThiB, I coafesB, put new thoughts into my bead 
for awhile, but I harped upon the eame siring still ; 
^d all that day I was uneasy to put my project jq 
execution. Towards the evening the Scots mer- 
chant met me by accident in our wat]£ about the 
town, and desired to speak with me; 1 believe, said 
he, I have put yuu off your good design ; I have 
been a little concerned about it since; for I abhor 
idolatry as mut^ as you can do. — Truly, stud I, you 
have put it off a littte, as to the execution of it, but 

Chave not put it out of my thou^ts; and I be- 
e I shall do it before I quit this place, though I 
were to be delivered up to them for satisfaotion.— 
No, no, said he, God forbid they should deliver yoQ 
up to such a crew of monsters 1 thev shall not do 
that, neither; that would be murdering you in- 
deed.^Why, said I, how would they use me ? — Use 
you ! said he, I'll tell you how the^ served a poor 
KuBsian, who afironted them in their worship, iust 
as you did, and whom they took prisoner, after tney - 
had lamed him with an arrow, that he could not 
runaway: they took him and stripped him stark- 
naked, and set him upon the top of ute idol^nonater, 
and stood all round oim, and shot as many arrows 
into him as would stick over his whole body ; and 
tihen they burnt him, and all the arrows sticking in 
him, as a sacrifice to the idol.— And was this the 
tome idol i said I. Yes, said he, the very same. — 
Well, said I, I will tell you a story. So I related 
the story of our m«i at Madagascar, aod how they 
burnt and sacked the village there, and killed man, 
Toman, and child, for their murderns poe of ojdi 



BOllKaoN 

neD, just as it is related before; and I added, that 
I thought we ought to do so to this village. 

He liitened very attentively to the stoiy; but 
when I talked of doing so to that village, said he. 
You mistake very much ; it was not this village, it 
was almost a hundred miles from this place ; but it 
was the sime idol, for they carry him aoout in pro- 
cession all over the country. — Well, said I, then that 
idol ought to be punighea for it ; and it shall, said 
I, if I live this night out. 

Iq a word, finding me resolute, he liked the de- 
sign, and told me I should not go alone, but he 
woiUd go with me, but he would go first and bring 
a Btout fellow, one of Iiis countrymen, to go also 
with ua ; aad one, aaid he, u famom for his zeal as 
you can desire any one to be agaiiist such duvilish 
things as these. In a word, ne brought me his 
comrade, aScotsman.whom he called captain Rich- 
ardson ; and 1 gave him a fuil account of what 1 had 
seen, and also what I intended ; and he told me 
readily, he would go with me if it cost him his life. 
So we agreed to go, only we three. I had, indeed, 
proposed it to my partner, but he declined it. He 
said, he was ready to assist me to the utmost, and 
upon all occasions, for my defence ; but this was an 
adventure quite out of Kis way ; so, I say, we re- 
aolved upon our work, only we three and my man- 
servant, and to put it in execution that night about 
midnight, with all the secrecy imaginable. 

However, upon second thoughts we were willing 
to delay !t till the next night, because, the caravan 
being to set forward in the morning, we supposed 
-the governor could not pretend to give them any 
satisfactian upon us when we were out of his 
power. The ScaAb merchant, as steady in his resolu- 
tion for the eoterprise, as bold in executing, brought 
Die 8 Taitai'i robe or gown of Eheep-skioa, and a 



S86 AOVEMTUBES Of 

bonnet, with a bow imd arrowa, and had provideil 
the same for himielf and hU countrynian, that the 
people) if they sew \a, should not detemune who 

All the first night we spent in mixing up gome 
combustible matter with aquavits, gunpowder, and 
luch other materials as we eould get ; and, having 
a go(>d quantity of tar in a little pot, aboiU an hour 
a&v night we set out upon our expedition. 

We came to the place about eleven o'clock 9f- 
jiight, and found that the people had not the least 
jealousy of danger attending their idol. The ni^it 
waa cloudy; yet the moon ^ave us l^t enough to 
■ee that the idol stood just m the same posture and 
.place that it did before. I'he people seemed to be 
all at their rest; only, that in the great hut, or teal, 
as we called it, where we saw the Sxree priests wh<nn 
we mistook for butchers, we sawalieht; andgflMg 
up close to the door, we heard people tallung as if 
there were five or six of them ; we concluded, there- 
fore, that if we set wildfire to the idol, these men 
^would come out immediately and run up to the 
place to rescue it from the destruction that we in- 
tended for Jt; and what to do with them we knew 
not. Once we thought of carrying it away and set- 
. ting fire to it at a distnnce, but when we came to 
handle it, we found it too bulky for our carriage ; 
so we were at a loss again. The second Scotsman 
was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and kaock- 
mg the creatures that were there on the head, when 
they came out ; but I could not join with that ; I 
was against killing them, if it were possible to avoid 
it. Well, then, said the Scots merchant, I will tell 
you what we will do : we will try to make them 
prisonera, tie their bands, and make them staitd 
and see their idol deebvyed- 

Af it happened, we had twine or psckthreail 



enough d>out tu, which we used to tie our firelocki 
togeoier with ; so we resolved to attacic theae peo- 

Sle first, and with as little noise as we could. The 
rst thing we did, we knocked at the door, when, 
doe of the priests coming to it, we immediately 
•eized upon him, stopped hts mouth and tied his 
hands behind him, and led him to the idol, where 
we gauged him that he might not make a noise, 
tied hu feet aiao together, and left him on the 
ground. 

Two of us then waited at the door, expecting' 
that another would come out, to see what the mat- 
ter was; but we waited so long till thi third man 
came track tous; andthen nobody coming out, we 
knocked again gently, and immediately out came 
two more, and we served them just m the same 
manner, but were obliged to go all with them, and 
lay them down by the idol some distance from one 
another; when going back we found two more 
irere come out to the door, and a third stood be- 
hind them wi^in the door. We seized the two, 
and immediately tied them, when the third step- 
^ng back, md crying out, my Scots merchant went 
m after him, and, taking out a composition we had 
made, that would only smoke and stink, he set fire 
to it and threw it in among them : by that time the 
other Scotsman and my man, taking charge of the 
two men already bound, and tied together also by 
the arm, led them away to the idol, and left them 
thereto eeeiftheiridol would relieve them, making 
haste back to as. 

When the furze we had thrown in had filled the 
hut with so much smoke that they were almost suf- 
focated, we then threw in a small leather bag of 
soother kind, which flamed like a candle, and fol- 
lowing it in, we found there were but four people, 
»nd, as we supposed, had been about S4»ne oftnetr 



£68 ADVKKTOBKS OF 

diabolic lacriGces. Tbeyappeared.inabortifHgliteD-' 
ed to death, at least lo as to ait trembling and Btupidr 
and not able to speak neither, for the smoke. 

In a word, ire took them, bound them as we had 
done the other, and all without any noise. 1 should 
have f«id we brought them out of the hotwe, or but, 
first; for indeed we -"ere not able to bear the smoke' 
any more than they were. When we had done this, 
we carried them all together to the idol : when we 
came there we felt to work with him; and first we- 
daubed him all aver, and his robes also, with tar, 
and such other stuff as we had, which was tallow 
mixed with brimstone: then ne stopped bis eyes 
and ears and mouth full of gunpowder; then we 
wrapped up a great piece of wild-fire in his bonnet ; 
and then sticking all the combustibles we had 
brought with us upon him, we looked about to see 
if we could find any thing else to help to bum him; 
when my Scotsman remembered that by the tent, 
or hut, where the men were, there lay a neap of dry 
forage, whether straw or rushes I do not remem- 
ber; away he and the other Scotsman ran and 
fetched their arms full of that. When we had done 
this, we took all our prisoners, and brought them, 
having untied their feet and ungagged their mouths, 
and made them stand up, and set Uiem before their 
monstrous idol, and then set fire to the whole. 

We staid by it a quarter of an hour, or there- 
abouts, till the powder in the eyes and moutli and 
ears of the idol blew up, and as we could perceive, 
had split and deformed the shape of it : and in a 
word, till we saw it burnt into a mere block or log 
of wood ; and setting dry forage to it, we found it 
-would be soon quit« consumed ; so we began to 
think of going away; but the Scotsman said. No, 
we must not go, for these poor deluded wretches 
will all throw themselves into (he fire, and bum 



ROBINSOK CRUSOE. 889 

thennelrM witli the idol. 80 we resolred to stay 
tiH the forage was burnt down too, and then came 
away aod]^ them. 

Afler the feat was performed, we appeared in the 
inorDing among our fellow-travellers, exceedingljr 
busy in gettiog ready for our journey ; nor could 
any man suggest that we had been any where but 
in our beds, as travellers might be suppoeed to be, 
to fit themselves for the fatigues of tne day's jour- 
ney. 

But the afiair did not end so ; the next day came 
a great number of the country people to the town- 
gates, and in a moBt outrageous manner demanded 
BBtisfaction of the Russian governor for the insult- 
ing their priests, and burning their great Cham Chi- 
Thaungu. The peo^e of Nertsinskay were at first 
in a great consternation, for they said the Tartars 
were already no less than thirty thousand strong. 
The Russian governor sent out messengers to ap- 
pease tliem, and gave them all the good words ima- 
ginable ; assuring them that he anew nothing of 
it, and that there had not a soul in his garrison 
been abroad, so that it could not be from any body 
there ; but if they could let him know who did it, 
they should be exemplarily punished. They return- 
ed haughtily that all the country reverenced the 
great Cham Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, 
and no morial would have dared to ofier violence to 
his image but some Christian miscreant; and they 
therefore resolved to denounce war against him and 
all the Russians, who, they said, were miscreants 
and Christians. 

The governor, still parent, and unwilling to make 
a bread), or to have any cause of war alleged to be 
given by him, the czar having strictly charged them 
to treat the conquered country with gentleness and 
civility, gave them still all the good words he could 

vouxvii. 2 c 



390 ASVKRTtJKM or 

At lost he told them there was a caravas- gone to* 
wards KossiB that moming, and perhaps it waa Bome 
of them who had doDe them this injury; and that 
if they would be latisfied with that, he would send 
after theio to inquire into it. This seemed to ap- 
pease them a little; and accordingly the governor 
sent after us, and )^ave us a particular account how 
the thing was ; intimating withal, that if aaj in our 
caravan had done it, they should make their escape; 
but that whether we had done it or no, we should 
make all the haste forward that was possible; and 
that, in the mean time, he would keep them in play 
as long as he could. 

ThiswasTery friendly in the go»ernor ; however, 
when it came to the caravan, there was nobody knew 
anything ofthe matter; and as for us that were guil- 
ty, we were least of all sospected. However, the cap- 
tain of the caravan for the time took the bint that 
the governor gave us, and we travelled two daya 
and two nights without any considerable stop, and 
then we lay at a villase called Flothus ; nor did we 
make any long stay here, but hastened on towarda 
Jarawena, another of the CzarofMuBcovy'scolmiieB, 
and where we expected we should he safe. But 
upon the second day's march from Plothus, by the 
clouds of dust behind us at a great distance, sonoe 
of our people began to be sensible we were pursued. 
We had entered a great desert, and had passed by 
a great lake called Schaka Oser, when we perceived 
a very great body of horse appear on the other side 
of the lake, to the north, we travelling west. We 
observed they went away west, as we dJd, but had 
supposed we would have taken that side of the lake, 
whereas we very happily took the south side ; and 
in two days more they disappeared again : for they 
believing we were still behire them, pushed on till 
they came to the river Udda, a very greatTiver when 



ROBINSON CRUSOB. 291 

it paseea further north, but when we came to it we 
found it nfOTow aad fordable. 
*- The third day, they had either found their mis' 
take, or had intelligence of us, and came pouring 
in upon us towards the dusk of the evening. We 
had, to our great aatisfaction, juat pitched upon a 
place for our camp, which was very convenient for 
the night; but as we were upoo a desert, though 
but at the beginning of it, that was above five hun- 
dred miles over, we had no towns to lodge at, and, 
indeed, expected none but the city Jarawena, which 
we had yet two days' march to ; the desert, how- 
ever, had some few woods in it on thia side, and 
little rivers, which ran all into the great river Udda ; 
it was in a najrow strait, between little, but very 
lhick,woods, that we pitched our little camp for that 
night, expecting to be attacked before moraing. 

Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pur- 
sued for : but as it was usual for the Mogul Tartars 
to go about in troops io that desert, so the caravang 
always fortify themselves every uight against them, 
•s against armies of robbers; and it was therefore 
no new thing to be pursued. 

But we had this night, of all the nights of our 
travels, a most advantageous camp ; for we lay be- 
tween two woods, with a little rivulet running just 
before our front, so that we could not be surround- 
ed, or attacked any wav but in our front or rear. 
We took care also to make ourfrontae strong as we 
could, by placing our packs, with our camels and 
horses, all in a line, on the inside of the river, and 
felling some trees in our rear. 

In this posture we encamped for the night; but 
the enemy was upon us before we had finished our 
situation. They did not come on us like thieves, as 
we expected, butsentthreemesseugera to us, to de- 
mand the men to be delivered to them that had 
2o2 



abused their priests, and burned their sod Chun 
Chi-Thaungu with fire, that the3rinight bum them 
with fire; and upon this, they said, they would go 
away, and do us no farther hann, otherwise they 
would destroy us all. Our men looked very blank 
at this message, and began to glare at one another, 
to see who looked with the roost guilt in their faces : 
but, nobody was the word; nobody did it. The 
leader of the caravan sent word he was well assured 
that it was not done by any of our camp; that we 
were peaceable merchants, travelling oo our busi- 
ness ; that we had done no harm to uiem or to any 
one else ; and that, therefore, they must look far- 
ther for their enemies who had injured them, for 
we were not the people ; so desired them not to 
disturb us, for, if they did, we should defend our- 
selves. 

They were far irom being satisfied with this for 
an answer ; and a great crowd of them came run- 
ning down in the morning, by break of day, to our 
camp; but seeing us in such an unaccountable si< 
tuation, they durst come no farther than the brook 
in our front, where they stood, and shewed us such 
a number that indeed terrified us very much ; for 
those that spoke least of them spoke often thoa- 
sand. Here they stood and looked at us a while, 
and then setting up a great howl, they let fiy a cloud 
of arrows among us ; btit we were well enough 
fortified for that, for we sheltered under our bag- 

fage, and I do not remember that one of us was 
urt. 
Some time after thiS; we saw them move a little 
to our right, and expected them on tl)e rear; when 
a cunning fcliow, a Cossack of Jarawena, in the 
pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader of the 
caravan, said to him, I'll go send all these people 
away to Siheilka ; this was a city four or five days' 



ROBIHSON CRUIOB. 



joomey at Isast to the rieht, and rather behind us. 
80 he takes his bow and arrows, and getting on 
boraeback, he rides awav from our rear directly, as it 
were back to Nertsiniicay ; after this, he takes a 
great circuit about, and comes directly on the army 
of the Tartars, aa if he had been sent expresa to tetl 
them a long story, that the people who had burnt 
the Cham Cni-Thaungu were gone to Siheilka, with 
a caravan of miscreants, as he called them, that is 
to say. Christians ; and that they had resolved to 
bum the god Schal-Isar, belonging to the Toq- 



perfectly spoke their language ; he counterfeited so 
well, that they all took it from him, and away they 
drove in a most violent hurry to Siheilka, wtiich, it 
seenM, was five days' journey to the north ; and in 
less than three hours they were entirely out of our 
flight, and we never heud any more of them, nor 
whether they went to Siheilka or no. So we passed 
away safely on to Jaraweno, where there was a gar- 
rison of Muscovites, and there we rested five days 
the caravan being exceedingly fatigued with the lait 
day's hard march, and with wiuit of rest in the 
ni^L 

From this city we had a frightful desert, which 
held us twenty-tliree days' march. We furnished 
ourselves with some tents here, for the better accom- 
modating ourselves in the night ; and the leader 
of the caravan procured sixteen carriages, or wag- 
gons of the country, for carrying our water or pro- 
visions ; and these carriages were our defence every 
ni^t, round our little camp ; so that had the Tar- 
tars appeared, unless they had been very numerous 
indeed, they would not have been able to hurt us. 

We may well be supposed to want rest again after 
2c3 



'29i ' ADVKMTURBB OP 

this long joiirney : for in tfau desert ve neitheruw 
house nor tree, and scarce a bush ; though we saw 
abundance of the sable hunters, who are all Tartars 
oF the Mogul Tartar}', of which this country is a 
part; and they frequently attack small caravans, 
biit we saw no numbers oi them together. 

AfWr we had passed this desert, we came into a 
country pretty well inhabited ; that is to say, we 
found townB and castles, settled by the Czar of Mus- 
covy, with garrisons of stationary soldiers, to pro- 
tect the caravans, and defend the country against 
the Tartars, who would otherwise make it very 
dangerous travelling ; and bis czarish majesty has - 
given such strict orders for the well guarding the 
caravans and merchants, that, if there are any Tar- 
tars heard of in the country, detachments of the 
garrisons are always sent to see the travellers safe 
from station to station. And thus the governor of 
AdinskoT, whom I had an opportunity to make a 
visit to, by means of the ScoU merchant, who was 
acquainted with hini,ofiered usaguardof fifty men, 
if we thought tiiere was any danger, to the Dext 
station. 

1 thought, long before this, that as we came 
nearer to Europe we should find the country better 
inhabited, and the people more civilised ; but I found 
myself mistaken in both ; for we had yet the nation 
of the Tongueses to pass through, where we saw the 
«ame tokens of paganism and barbarity as before ; 
only, as ihey were conquered by the Muscovites, 
they were not so dangerous ; but for rudeness of 
maiuiers, and idolatry, no people in the world ever 
went beyond them ; they are clothed all in skins of 
beasts, and their houses are built of the same ; you 
' know not a man from a woman, neither by the rug- 
-gedness of their countenances nor their clothes ; and 



ROBIKBOM CRVSOE. 295 

in the ninter, when the ground is covered irith 
enow, they live under-ground in vaults, which have 
cavitiea going irom one to another. 

If the TaitaTB had their Cham Chi-Thaungu for a 
whole village or countrvi these had idols in every 
hut and every cave; besides, tbey worship the stars, 
the Eun, the water, the snow, and, in a word, every 
thing they do not understand, and they underMand 
but very uttle ; so that every element, every nn^om- 
mon thing, sets them a'Sacrificing> I met with 
nothing peculiar toniyself in all this country, which 
1 reckon was, from the desert 1 spokeof last, at least 
four hundred miles, half of it being- another desert, 
which took us up twelve days severe travelling, with- 
out house or tree; and we were obliged again to 
carry our own provisions, as well water as bread. 
After we were out of ^is desert, and had travelled 
two days, we came to Janezay, a Muscovite city 
or station on the great river Janezay, which, they 
told us there, parted Europe from Asia. 

Herel observed ignorance and paganism still pre- 
vailed, except in the Muscovite garrisons; all the 
country between the riverObyand the river Janezay 
is as entiiely pagan, and the people as barbarous, 
as the remotest of the Tartars : nay, as any nation, - 
for aught 1 know, in Asia or America. I also found, 
which I observed to the Muscovite governors whom 
I had an opportunity to converse with, that the 
poor pagans are not much wiser, or nearer Chria* 
tianity, for being under the Muscovite government, 
which they acknowledged was true enough ; but 
that, as they said, was none of their business ; that 
ifthe czar ex pectedtoconverthia Siberian, Tonguese, 
or Tartar subjects, it should he done by sending 
-clergymen among ihem, not soldiers; and, they 
added, with more sincerity than 1 expected, that they 
found it was not so much the concern of their 



396 ADVKHTItBKa Of 

monarch to make the people Chrisdans as it ma to 
make them subjects. 

From this river to the great river Oby, we crossed 
a wild uncultivated country, barren of people and 
good maoaffemeot, otherwise it is in iuelf a nuwt 
pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable country. What in- 
habitants we found in it are all pagans, except such 
BB are sent among them from Hussia: for this is 
die country, I mean on both sides the river Oby, 
whither the Muscovite criminals that are not put 
to death are banished, and from whrace it is next 
to impossible they should ever come away. 

1 have nothing mt^rial to say of my particular 
«%irs tilt 1 came to Tobolsk;, the capital city of 
Siberia, where I continued some time on the follow- 
ing occasion. 

We had now been almost seven mouths on our 
journey, and winter begtu) to come on apace; where- 
upcm my partner and I called a council about our 
particular affairs, in which we found it proper, as 
we were bound for England, and not for Moscow, 
to consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told 
us of sledges end rein deer to carry us over the snow 
in the winter time ; and, indeed, they have such 
things that it would be incredible to relate the par- 
ticulars of, by which means the Russians Uavel 
more in the wmter than they can in summer, as in 
these sledges they are able to run night and day ; 
the snow being frosen, is one universal covering to 
nature, by which the hills, vales, rivers, and lakes, 
are all smooth and hard as a stone, and they run 
upon the surface, without any regturd to what is 
undenieath. 

But I had no occasion to push at q winter journey 
of this kind ; 1 was bound to England, not to Mos- 
cow, and my route lay Wo ways ; cither i must go 
on as the oanrntn WMit, till I cune to Jamslaw, and 



ROB IM SON CRUSOE. £97 

then go off west for Narva, and the gulf of Finland 
and 80 to Dantzic, where I might posaibly sell my 
China cargo to good advantage ; or I must leave 
the caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from 
whence I had but bix days by water to Arch-ahgel, 
and from thence might be sure of shipping either to 
England, Holland, or Hamburgh. 

Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter 
would have been preposterous ; fur as to Dantzic, 
the Baltic would have been frozen up, and I could 
not get passage ; and to go by land m those coun- 
tries was far less s^fe than among the Mogul Tar- 
tars ; hkewise, to go to Archangel in October, all 



to Moscow in the winter, when the ships are gone ; 
so that I could have nothing but extremity of cold 
to encounter, with ascarcity of provisions, and must 
lie in an empty town all the winter; so that, upon 
the whole, I thought it much my better way to let 
the caravango, and make provision to winter where 
I was, at Tobolski, in Siberia, in the latitude of 
about sixty degrees, where I was sure of three 
things to wear out a cold winter with, viz. plenty 
of provisions, such as the country afforded, a warm 
bouse, with fuel enough, and excellent company. 

I was now in a quite different climate from my 
beloved island, where I never felt cold, except when 
I had my ague i on the contrary, I had much to do 
to bear any clothes on my back, and never made 
any fire but without doon, which was necessary for 
dressing my food, &c. Now I made me three good 
vests, with large robes or gowns over them, to hang 
down to the feet, and button close to the wrists; 
and all these lined with furs, to make them suffi- 
ciently warm. 

As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly dii- 



niS ADVEMTUBZB OF 

liked our way in England of making fires in every 
room in the nouse in open chimneyH, which, when 
the fire was out, always ke^t the air io the room 
cold as the climate ; but taking an apartmeut in a 
good house in the town, I ordn^d a chimney to be 
built like a furnace, in the centre of six several 
rooms, like a stove ; the funnel to carry the smoke 
went up one way, the doorto come at the fire went 
in another, and all the rooms <^ere kept equally 
warm, but no fire see%^uC -'as they heat the ba- ' 
gnios in England. Uy^Bp/means, we had always 
the same cliuiate in all ^E^oorbs, and an equal 
Jieat waa preserved ; and Kow' col^ soever it was 
without, it was always warm within ; and yet ^e 
nw no fire, nor were ever incommoded with smol^. 

The most wonderful thing of all was, Uiat it 
should be passible to meet wi£ good company here, 
in a country so barbarous as that of the most north- 
erly pa^ts of Europe, near the frozen ocean, within 
but a very few degrees of Nova Zembla. but this 
being the country where the state criminals of Mus- 
covy, as I observed before, are all banished, this city 
was full of noblemen, gentlemen, soldiers, and coiu'- 
tiers of Muscovy. Here was the famous priaceGal- 
Utzen, the old general Robostiski, and several other 
persons of note, and some ladies, liy means of my 
Scots merchant, whom, nevertheless, I parted with 
here, 1 made an acquaintance with several of these 
gentlemen j and from these, in the long winter 
nights in which I staid here, 1 received several very 
agreeable visits. 

It was talking one night with prince •—, one 

of the banished ministers of state belonging to the 
Czar of Muscovy, that the discourse of my particu- 
lar case began. He had been telling me abundance 
of fine things of the greatness, the magnificence, 
the donunions, and the absolute power of the em- 



peroT of the Russiang : I interrupted him, aAd told 
him I WBB a greater and more powerful prince than 
even the Czar of Muscovy was, though my domi- 
nioDB were not so large, or my people go many. 
The RufiBJan grandee looked a little surprJBed. and 
fixing hiB eyeB Bteadily upon me, began to wonder 
what i meant. I told him hia wonder would cease 
when I had explained myself First, I told hira I 
had absolute disposal of the lives and fortunes of all 
my subjects; that not^thstanding my absolute 
power, I had not one person disafiected to my go- 
vernment, or to my person, in all iny dominions. 
He shaok his.head at that, and said, there, indeed, 
I Outdid the Czar of Muscovy. I told him that all 
the lands in my kingdom were my own, and all my 
subjects were not only my tenante, but tenants at 
wilfi that they would all fight for me to the last 
drop ; and that never tyrant, for such I acknow- 
ledged myself to be, was ever so universally beloved, 
and yet so horribly feared by his Subjects. 

After amusing nim with ^ese riddles in govern- 
ment for a while, I opened the case, and told him 
tbe story at large of my living in the island; and 
how I managed both myself and the people that 
were under me, just as i have since minuted it 
down. They were exceedingly taken with the ston', 
and especially the prince, who told me.withasigh, 
that the true greatness of life was to be masters of 
ourselves ; that he would not have exchanged such 
a state of life as mine to be Czar of Muscovy ; and 
that he found more felicity in the retirement he 
seemed to be banished to there, than ever he found 
in the highest authority he enjoyed in the court of 
his master the czar ; that the height of human wis- 
dom was to bring oiir tempers down to our circum- 
stances, and to make a calm within, under the 
wei^t of the greatest storms without. When be 



SOO ACVEMTCRES 0> 

came first hither, he said he used to tear the hwr 
trom Ilia head, and the clothes from his back, ai 
others had done before him ; but a little time and 
consideration had made him look into himself, as 
well as round him, to things without : that he found 
the mind of man, if it was but once brousht to re- 
flect upon the state of universal life, and nuw little 
this, world was concerned in its true felicity, was 
perfectly capable of making a felicity for itself, fully 
satiafying to itself, and suitable to its own best ends 
>nd aesires, with but very little assistance from the 
world ; the air to breathe in, food to sustain life, 
clothes for warmth, and liberty for exercise, in or 
der to health, completed, in his opinion, all that 
the world could do for us : and ttiough the great- 
ness, the authority, the riches, and the pleasures 
which some enjoyed in the world, had much in them 
that was agreeable to us, yet all those things chiefly 
gratified the coarsestof our atfections, such as our 
ambition, our particular pride, avarice, vanity, and 
sensuality ; all which being the mere productof the 
worst part of man, were in themselves crimes, and 
bad in them the seeds of all manner of crimes; but 
neither were related to, nor concerried with, any of 
those virtues that constituted us wise men, or of 
those graces that distinguished us as Christians; 
that being now deprived of all the fancied felicity 
which he enjoyed in the full exercise of all those 
vices, he said he was at leisure to look upon the dark 
side of them, where he found all manner of de- 
formity, and was now convinced that virtue only 
makes a man truly wise, rich, and great, and pre- 
serves him in the way to a superior happiness m a 
future state ; and in this, he said, they were more 
happy in their banishment than all uieir demies 
were, who had the full possesston of all the wealth 
and power they had left behind them. Nor, sir, 



myt he, do I bring my miDd to thi'e politically, br 
the necessity of my circumstances, which some call 
miserable ; but, if 1 know any Uiing of myself, I 



would not now go back, though the 
ster should call me, and reinstate me in all my for- 
mer grandeur: I say, I would no more eo bacL to it 
than I believe my soul, when it eliall be delivered 
iroai this prison of the body, and has had a taste oi 
the glorious state beyond life, w.ould come back to 
the gaol of flesh and blood it is now inclosed in, 
and leave heaven, to deal in the dirt and crime of 
human afiairs. 

He spoke this with so much warmth in his tem- 
per, so much 'earnestness and motion of his spirits, 
that it was evident it was the true sense of his soul; 
there was no room to doubt his sincerity. 1 told 
him I once thought myself akind of monarch in my 
old station, of which 1 had given him an account ; 
but that I thought he was not only a monarch, but 
a great conqueror; for that he that has got a vic- 
tory over his own exocbitant desires, and the ab- 
solute dominion over himself, whose reason entirely 
governs his will, is certainly greater than he that . 
conquers a city. But, my lord, said 1, shall 1 take 
the liberty to ask you a question? — With all my 
heart, says he. If the door of your liberty waa 
opened, said I, would you not take hold of it to 
deliver you from this exile ! — Hold, said he ; your 
auesdon is subtile, and requires some. serious, just 
distinctions, to give it a sincere answer; and I v " 



liver myself from this state of banishment, except 
these two; first, the enjoyment of my relations; 
and secondly, a little warmer climate: but I pro- 
test to you, that to go back to the pomp of the 
court, (he glory, the power, tlie hurry of g minis- 

VOL. XVII. 2d 



S02 ADVRMTUREa OF 

ter of ttatet the ireolth, the gaity, aod the jdes- 
Bures of a comtier; if toy master ^ould send me 
word thia moment that he reitorea me to all he ba- 
nished me from, 1 proteat, if I know myeelf at all, 
I would not leave this wilderness, these deserts, and 
these frozen lakes, for the palace of Moscow. — But, 
my lord, said I, perhaps jruu tMt only are bani^ed 
from the pleasures of the court, and from the power, 
authority, and wealth you enjoyed before, but you 
may be absent too from some of the coaveniences c^ 
life ; your estate, perhaps, confiscated, and your ef- 
fects plundered; and the supplies left you here may 
not be suitable to the ordinary demands of life. — 
Aye, saj'B he, that is as ^ou suppose me to be a lord, 
or a prmce, &c.i so, indeed I am; but you are 
now to consider me only as a man, a human crea- 
ture, not at all distinguished from another; and so 
I can sufier no want, unless 1 should be visited with 
Btclmess and distempers. However, to put the ques- 
tion out of dispute, you see our manner; we are, 
in this place, nve persons of rank; we live perfectly 
retired, as suited to a state of banishment; we hare 
somethine rescued from the shipwreck of our for- 
tunes, which keeps us from the mere necessity of 
hunting for food; but the poor soldiers, who are 
here without that help, live in as much ^eaty as 
we, who go into the woods and catch sables and 
foxes ; the labour of a month will maintain tbem a 
year; and, as tlie way of living is not expensive, so 
It is not hard to get sufficient to ourselves. So that 
objection is out of doors. 

I have not room to give a full account of the most 
agreeable conversadoa 1 had with this truly great 
man; in all which he showed that his mind was so 
inspired with a superior knowledge of thkigs, so 
sopported by religion, as well as by a vast smve of 
wiadom, that his contenqtt of the world wa> reaUjr 



u nuidi M be had expreisecl, aad that he vhb always 
the some to the last, aa trill appear in the etory I 
am eoing to tell. 

iLad beeD here eight monthsi and a dark, dread- 
fal winter, 1 thought it ; the coid so iutense that I 
could not BO much aa look abroad without being 
wrapped in furs, and a luaEk of fur before my face, 
or rather a hood, with only a hole for breath, and 
two for eight: the little daylight we had waa, aa 
we reckoned, for three monthij, not above five hours 
a-day, and six at most ; only that the snow lying 
on the ground continually, and the weather clear, 
it was never quite dark. Our horses were kept, or 
rather starved, under-ground, and as for our ser- 
vants, whom we hired here to look afler ourselves 
and horses, we had every dow and then, their fin- 
gers and toes to thaw and take care of, lest they 
should mortify and fall d£ 

It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses 
being close, the walls thick, the lights small, and 
the ^aes all double. Our food was chiefly the flesh 
of deer, dried and cured iu the season; bread good 
enough, but baked as biscuits; dried fish of seve- 
ral sorts, and some flesh of mutton and ofthe buf- 
faloes, which is pretty good meat. All the stores of 
provisions for the winter are laid up in the summer, 
and well-cured: our drink was water, mixed with 
aqua-vitsinsteadofbrandy; and foratreat, mead 
instead of wine, which, however, they have exeel- 
lent good. Tlie -hunters, who venture abroad all 
weathers, frequently brought us in fine venison, and 
sometimes bear's flesh, but we did not much care 
for the last. Wehadagoodstockoftea, with which 
we treated our friends, as, above, and we lived very 
cheerfully and well, all things ctmsidered. 

It waa now March, the day grown considertdily 
longer, and the weather at least tolerable; so the 



304 ADVBNTUHES OF 

Other tTarelleni began to prepare sledges to carry 
them over the snow, and to get things ready to be 
eoing; but my measures being fixed, as I have said, 
tor Archangel, and not for Moscovy or the Baltic, 
I made no motion ; knowing very well that the ships 
froin the south do not set out for that part of the 
world till May or June, and that if I was there by 
the beginning of August, it would be as soon as any 
ships would be reaily to go away ; and therefore I 
made no haste to be gone, as others did: in a word, 
I BBW a great many people, nay all the travellera, 
go away before me. It seems, every year they go 



and buy necessaries, which they bring back with 
them to furnish their shops: also others went en 
the same errand to Archangel; but then they all 
being to come back again, above eight hundred 
' miles, went all out before me. 

In the month of May I began to make all ready 
to pack upj and, as 1 was doing this, it occurred to 
me that, seeing all these people were banished by 
the Czar of Muscovy to Siber^andyet, when they 
came there, were left at liberty to go whither they 
would, why they did not then go away to any part 
of tAe world, wherever they thought fit; and I be- 
gan to examine what should hinder them from mak- 
ing such an attempt. But my wonder was over 
when I entered upon that subject with the person I 
have mentioned, who answered me thus: Consider, 
first, sir, said he, the place where we arei and, 
secondly, tltt condition we are in; especially the 
generality of the people who are banished hither. 
We are surrounded with stronger things than bars 
or bolts; on the north side an unnavigable ocean, 
where shipneversailed, and boat oever swam; every 
other way, we have above thousand miles to pass 
throuj^ Uie czar's own dominions, and by ways ut- 



ROBiMsoM cmisos. SOS 

terly iroplHabte, except by the rosds made by the 
government, and through the towns garrisoned by 
his troops; so that we could neither pass undisco- 
vered by the road, nor subsist any odier way ; so 
that it is in Tain to attempt it. 

I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that 
tfiey were in a prisor^ every jot as secure as if tbey 
had been locked up in the castle at Moscow : how- 
ever, it came into my thoughts that I might cer- 
Uunly be made an instruaient to procure the escape 
of this excellent person; and that whatever hanard 
1 ran, 1 would certainly try if 1 could carry him off. 
Upon this I took an occasion one e*ening, to tell 
him my thoughts. I represented to him that it was 
very easy for me to carry him away, there being no 
guard over him in the country: and as 1 was not 
going to Moscow, but to Archangel, and that I 
went in the retinue of a caravan, by which I wks 
not obliged to lie in the stationary towns in the de- 
sert, but could encamp every nignt where I would, 
we might easily paM uninterrupted to Archangel, 
where 1 would immediately secure him on boardan 
English ship, and carry him safe along with me; 
ana u to his subsistence, and other particulars, it 
■hould be my care, ti]l be could better supply 
himeeK 

He heard meveryattentively.andlooked earnestly 
on me all the while 1 spoke; nny, i could see in his 
very face that what I said put hie spirits into an 
exceeding ferment ; his colour frequently changed, 
his eyes looked red, and his heart fluttered, that it 
might be even perceived in his countenaoce; nor 
could he immediately answer me when I had done, 
and as it were hesitated what he would say to it: 
but after he had paused a little, he embraced me, 
and said, Howhappyu% we, unguarded creatures 
as we are, that even our greatest acts of trieitdship 
Sd3 



306 ADVEKTURBS OF 

are nude inaret unto iu, and we are made tempters 
of one another! My dear tViend, said he, your offer 
is eo sincere, haa such kindnega in it, is so disia- 
terested in itself, sod is so calculated for my advan- 
tage, that I must have very little knowledge of the 
vorld if 1 did not both wooder at it, and acknow- 
ledge the obligation 1 have upon me to you for it. 
But did you believe 1 was sincere in what I have 
ofVeneaid toyouofmycontsmpt of the world? Did 
you believi! I spoke my very soul to you, and that I 
had really obtained that degree of felicity here that 
had placed me above all that the world could give 
me P Did you believe I was sincere when I told you 
I would not go back, if 1 was recalled even to be 
all that I once was in the court, with the fiivour of 
the caar my master ? Did you believe me, my friend, 
to be an honest man; or did you believe me to be 
a boasting hypocriteP Here he stopped, as if he 
would hear what I would say; but, indeed, I soon 
after ^ceived that he stopped because liis spirits 
were u) motion, his great heart was full of struggles, 
and he could not go on. I was, I ccmfess, astonish- 
ed at the thing a« well as at the man, and I used 
some arguments with him to urge him to set him- 
self free ; that he ought. to look upon this as a door 
opened by Heaven for his deliverance, and a sum- 
mons by i^ovidence, who has the care and dispo- 
sition of all events, to do himself good, and to ren- 
der himself useful in the world. 

He had by this time recovered himself; How do 
you know, sir, says he warmly, but that instead of 
summons from Heaven, it may be a feint of uiother 
. instrument ; representing in alluring colours to me 
the show of felicity as a deliverance, which may in 
itself be my snare, and tend directly to my ruin? 
Here I am &ee from the temptation of returning to 
my former miMrable greatness ; there I am not sure 



ROeiNSOt) CRUSOE. 307 

^ut that aH the seeds of pride, ambitioti, avarice, and 
luxury, which I know remain in nature, may revive and 
take root, and, in a word, again overwhdm me; and 
when the happy prisoner, whom you Bee now master 
of his soul's liberty, shall be the miseraable slave of 
his own seneee, in the full possession of all personal 
liberty. Dear sir, let me remain in this blessed con- 
finement, banished from the crimes of life, rather 
than purchase a show of freedom at the expense of 
the liberty of my reason, and at the future happiness 
which I now have in my view, but shall then, I fear, 
quickly lose sight of; for 1 am but flesh; a man, 
a mere man ; have passions and atfections as likely 
to possess and overthrow me as any man; O be not 
my triend and tempter both together ! 

If I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, 
and stood silent, looking at him, and, indeed, ad- 
miring what I saw. The struggle in his soul was 
so great, that though the weather was extremely 
cold, it put him into a most violent sweat, and I 
found he wanted to give vent to his mind ; so I said 
a word or two, that I would leave him to consider 
of it, and wfut on him again, and then I withdrew 
to my own apartment. 

About two hours after, I heard somebody at or 
near the door of my room, and I ^ras goin^ to open 
the door, hut he had opened it, and came in. My 
dear friend, says he,'you had almost overset me, hut 
I am recovered. Do not take it ill that I do not 
close with your ofier; I assure you it is not for want 
of sense of the kindness of it in you; and I came 
to make the most sincere acknowledgment of it to 
you ; but I hope I have got the victory over my- 
■elf-^My lord, saidi, Ihopeyouarefully satisfied 
that you do not resist the call of Heaven. — Sir, said 
he, if it had been from Heaven, the same power 
would have influenced me to have accepted it : but 



SOB ADVBHTDaBS OF 

I hope, and am fiiUy Hatiified, that it is jrom Heaven 
that I declined it: and I have in^nite satis&ction 
in the parting, that yaa shall leave me an honest 
man Btill, though not a free man. 

Ihadnothing to do but to acquiesce, and make 
profeasiona to oiio of m^ having do end in it but a 
sincere desire to serve him. He embraced me very 
pBts!onately> and assured lue he was sensible of 
that, and snould always acknowledge it ; and with 
that he o&red me a rery fine present of sables, too 
much, indeed, for me to accept from a man in his 
circumstances, and I would have avoided them, biU 
he would not be refused. 

The next morning I sent my servant to hia lord- 
ship with a small present of tea, and two pieces of 
Chma damask, and four little wedges of Japait-miid, 
which did not all wdgh above six ounces or there- 
about, but were far short of the value of his sables, 
which, when I came to England, 1 found worth 
near two hundred pounds. He accepted the tea* 
and one [Hece of the damask, and oneof thepieces 
of gold, which had afineatamp upon it, of the Japan 
coinage, which I found he took for the rarity of it, 
but would not take anv more; and he sent word by 
my servant that he desired to speak with rae. 

When J came to him, he told me I knew what 
had passed between us, and hoped I would not move 
him any more in that affair; but that, since I had 
made sucb a generous offer to him, he asked me if 
I had kindness enough to offer the same to another 
person that he would name to me, in whom he had 
a great share of concern. I told him that I could 
not say t inclined to do so much for any but him- 
self, for whom I had a particular value, and should 
have been glad to liave been the instrument of his 
deliverance; however, tf he would please to laiae 
the person to me, I would give him my answer, He 



ROBINSON CRUSOB. 309 

told me it was his only son ; who, though I had not 
seen him, yet he was in the «ame condition wiUi 
himself, and above two hundred miles from him, oa 
the other side of the Oby; but that if I consented, 
he would send for him. 

I made no heEltation, but told him 1 would do it. 
I made some ceremonv in letdng him understand 
that it was wholly on his account ; and that seeing 
1 could not prevail on him, I would shew my respect 
to him by my concern for his son; but these things 
are too tedious to repeat here. He sent away the 
next day for his son ; and !n about twenty days he 
came back with the messenger, bringing six or seven 
horses loaded with very rich furs, and which in the 
whole amounted to a very great value. Hie servants 
brought the horses into the town, but left: the young 
]ord, atadistance, till night, when he came incognito 
into our apartment, and his father presented hira to 
mei and, in short, we concerted the manner of our 
travelling, and every thing proper for the journey. 

I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, 
black fox skms, fine ermines, and such other furs 
as are very rich, in that city, in exchange for some 
of the goods I had brought from Chma ; in par- 
ticular for the cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold 
the greatest part here, and the rest afterwards at 
Archangel, for a much better price than I could 
have got at London ; and my partner, who was sen- 
able of the profit, and whose business more par- 
ticularly than mine, was merchandise, was mightily 
pleased with our stay, on account of the traffic we 
made here. 

It was the beginning of June when I left this re- , 
mote place, a city, 1 believe, little heard of in the 
world ; and, indeed, it is so far out of the road of 
commerce, that I know not how it should be much 
talked of. We were now reduced to a very small 



SIO ADVKNTURBS OF 

caravan, having only thirty-two hones and camela 
in all, and all of them passed for nuDe, though m^ 
new guest was proprietor of eleven of them: it was 
most natural also ttiat I should take more ritrvants 
with me than I had before; and the young lord 
passed for my steward; what great man I passed for 
myself, 1 know -not, neither did it concern oie to 
inquire. We had here the worst and the largest 
desert to pass over that we met widi in our whole 
journey; I call ittheworst, hecause the way was 
very deep in some places, and very uneven In others; 
the best we had to say for it was, that we thought 
we had no troops of Tartars or robbers to fear, 
and that they never came on this side the river Oby, 
or at least but Very seldom ; but we found it other- 
wise. 

My young lord had a futhfiil Siberian servant, 
Vho was perfectly acquainted with the country, and 
led as by private roads, so that we avoided coming 
into the principal towns and cities upon the great 
road, sucn as Tumen, Soloy Karoskoi, and several 
others; because the Muscovite eQrrisonH which are 
kept there are very curious ana strict in their ob- 
servation upon travellers, and searching lest any of 
the banished persons of note should make Uieir 
escape that way into Muscovy; but by this means, 
as we were kept out of the cities, so our whole jour- 
ney was a desert, and we were obliged to encamp 
and lie in our tents, when we might have had very 
good accommodation in the cities on the way: thig 
uie young lord was bo sensible of, that he would not 
allow us to lie abroad when we came to several 
cities on the way, but lay abroad himself, with his 
servant in the woods, and met us always at the ap- 
pointed places. 

We were just entered Europe, having passed die 
river Kama, which Id tbete parts ii the boundary 



KOBINBOM CKUaOE. SH 

between Europe and Asia, and the &raX city on the 
European side was called Soloy KaiuBkoi, which is 
as much as to say, the great city on the river Kama; 
and here we .thought to see some evident alteration 
in the people; but we were mistaken; for as we 
had a vast desert to pass, which is near seven hun- 
dred milos long in some places, but not above two 
hundred miles over, where we passed it, so till we 
came past that horrible place, we found very little 
difference between that country and the Mogul Tar- 
tary: the people are mostly pagans, and little bet- 
ter than the savages of America; their houses and 
towns full of idols, and their way of living wholly 
barbarous, except in the cities, as above, and the 
villages near them, where'they are Christians, as 
they cull themgelves,-<ifthe Greek church; but havv 
their religion mingled with so many relics of super- 
stition, that it is 8(;arce to be known In some places 
from mere sorcery and witcbcraft. 

In passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must 
(aller all our dangers were to our imagination 
escaped, as before) have been plundered and robbed, 
and perhaps murdered, by a troop of thieves ; of 
what country they were I am vet at a loss to know, 
but they were all on horseback, carried bows and 
arrows, and were at first about forty-five in number; 
they came so near to us as to be within two musket- 
shots, and .asking no questions, surrounded us with 
their hori;es, and looked very earnegtly upon us 
twice; at length they placed themselves just in our 
way; upon which we drew up in a little line, before 
our camels, being notabovesixteenmeniaall; and 
being drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out the 
Siberian servant, who attended bis lord, to see who 
they were: his master was the more willinff to let 
him go, because he was not a little appreneniive 



312 ADVKNTURKS OF 

that they were a Siberian troop sent out after hint. 
The man came up near them with a flag of truce. 
and called to them; but though he spoke several of 
their languages or dialects oflanguages rather, he 
could not undentand a word they g^d; however, 
after some signs to him not to come nearer to them, 
at his peril, the fellow came back no wiser than he 
went; only that by their dress, he said, he believed 
them to be some Tartars of Kalmuck, or of the Cir- 
cassian hordes, and th^t there must be more of them 
upon the great desert, though he never heard that 
any of them were seen so far north before. 

About an hour after, they again made a motion to 
attack us, and rode round our little wood to see 
where they might break in; but finding us always 
ready to face them, they wentoff again; and we 
reeofTed not to stir for that night. 

This was small comfort to us ; however, we had 
no remedy: there was, on our left hand, at about a 
quarter of a mile distance, a little grove, and very 
near the road: I immediately resolved we should 
advance to those trees, and fortify ourselves as well 
OS we could there ; for, first, I considered that the 
trees would in a great measure cover us from their 
arrows ; and, in the next place, they could not come 
to charge us inabody; it was, indeed, my old Por- 
tuguese pilot who proposed it, and who had this ex- 
cellency attending him, that he was always readiest 
and most apt to direct and encourage us in cases of 
the most danger. We advanced immediately, with 
what speed we could, and gained that little wood; 
the Tartars, or thieves, for we knew not what to 
call them, keeping their stand, and not attempting 
to hinder us. When we came thither, we found, to 
our great satisfaction, that it was a swampy piece 
of ground, and en the one side a very great spring 



KOBIHSON CRUGOB. 31S 

oFwater, irhich running out in a little brook, was, 
a little fknher, joined by another of the like size; 
^nd was, in short, the source of a considerable river, 
called at^rwards the Wirteka: the trees which grew 
about this spring were not above two hundred, but 
very large, and stood pretty thick, so that as soon 
as we got in we saw ourselyes perfectly safe from 
the enemy, unless they attacked us on foot. 

While we staid here waiting the motion of the 
enemy some hours, without perceiviog they made 
aay movement, our Portuguese, with some help, 
cut several arins of trees naif off, and laid them 
hanging across from one tree to another, and in a 
manner fenced us in. About two hours before night 
they came down directly upon us : and though we 
bad not perceived it, we found they had been joined 
by some more of the same, so that they were near 
fourscore horse ; whereof, however, we fancied some 
were women. They came on till they were within 
half shot of our little wood, when we fired one 
musket without ball, and called to them in the Rus- 
sian tongue to know what they wanted, and bade 
them keep off; but tbey came on with a double' 
fiiry up to the wood side, not imagining we were so 
barricaded that diey could not easily break in. Our 
old pilot was our captain, as well as our engineer, 
and desired us not to fire upon them till they came 
within pistol-shot, that we might be sure to kill ; 
and that when we did fire we should be sure to take 
good aim ; we bade him give the word of command, 
which he delayed so long, that they were some of 
them within two pikes length of us when we let fly. 
We aimed so true that we killed fourteen of them, 
and wounded several othersj-as also several of their 
horses ; for we had all of us loaded our pieces with 
two or three bullets at least. 

voi« xvii. 2 B 



St4< ADVENTDRBB OF 

They were terribly surprised with onr fire, and 
retreated immediately about one hundred rods from 
us, in which time we loaded our pieces again, and 
seeing them keep that digtance, we Ballieaout, and 
catched four or five of their horses, whose riders we 
supposed were killed ; and coming up to tbe dead, 
we judged they were Tartars, but knew Dot hew 
they cadie to make an excursion such an uDusual 
length. 

We slept little, yon may be sure, but spent the 
most part of the niglit in strengthening our situa- 
tion, and barricading the entrances into the wood, 
and keeping a strict watch. We watted for day- 
light, and when it came, it gave us a very unwel- 
come discovery, indeed ; for tbe enemy, wbo we 
tiiought were discouraged with the reception tbey 
met with, were now sreatly increased, and had set 
op eleven or twelve huts or tents, as if they were 
resolved to besiege us ; and this little camp they 
had pitched upon the open plain, about three quar- 
ters of a mile from us. We were, indeed, surprised 
at this discovery; and now, I confess, I gave myseir 
over for lost, and all that I had ; the loos of my ef- 
fects did not lie so near me, though very consi- 
derable, as the thoughts of falUng into the hands 
of such barbarians, at tbe latter end of my journey, 
afUr so many difficulties and hazards as I had gone 
through, and even in sight of our port, where we 
expected safety and deliverance. As to my partner, 
he was raging, and declared that to lose nis goods 
would be his ruin, and that he would rather die than 
be starved; and he was for fighting to the last 
drop. 

The yotiDg lord, a gallant youth, was for figbting 
to the last also ; and my old pilot was of the opinion 
we were able to resist them all in the utuatMNi we 



BOBitiaoM causoK. .315 

ireredienin; and thtu we spent the day in debates 
of what we ihould do ; but towards eveiilDg we 
found that the number of our enemies still increas- 
ed, and we did not know but by the morning they 
might still be a greater number ; bo 1 began to in- 
quire of those people we had brought from Tobolsk], 
if there were no priTate ways, by wluch we might 
avoid them in the night, and perhaps retreat to some 
town, or get help to guard us over the desert. The 
Siberian, wbo was servant to the young lord, told 
us, if we designed to avoid them, and not fight, he 
would engage to cany us off in the night, to a way 
that went north, towards the river Petrou, by which 
he made no question but. we might get away, and 
the Tartars never the wiser : but, he said, his lord 
had told him he would not retreat, but would rather 
choose to fight. I tohi him he mistook his lord ; 
for that he was too wise a man to love fighting for 
the sake of it ; that 1 knew his lord was brave enough, 
by what he had showed already; but that bis lord 
knew better than to desire seventeen or eighteen 
men to fight five hundred, unless an unavoidable 
necessity forced them to it ; and that, if he thought 
it possible for us to escape in the night, we had no- 
thmg else to do but to attempt it. He answered, if 
his lordship gave him such orders he would lose 
his life if he did not perform it : we soon brought 
his lord to give that order, though privately, and we 
immediately prepared for the putting it in practice. 
And, first, as soon as it began to be dark, we 
kbdled a fire in our little camp, which we kept 
burning, and prepared so as to make it bum all 
nisht, that the Tartars mi^t conclude we were 
Bti& there ; but as soon as it was dark, and we could 
see the stars (for our guide would not stir before), 
having all our horses and camels ready loaded, we 



316 ADVIMTCHKB OF 



d our Dew guide, who I loon found steered 
himself by the noith star. 

AAer we had travelled two htfurs very bard, it 
began to be lighter, still ; not that it was quite dark 
all night, but the moon began to rise, -so that, in 
short, it woe rather lighter than we wished it to be ; 
but by six o'clock the next morning we were got 
above thirty miles, having almost spoiled our horses. 
Here we round a Russian village, named Kerma- 
zinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of the 
Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two bours before 
night we set out ag^n, and travelled till eight the 
next morning, though not quite bo hard as before ; 
and about seven o'dock we passed a little river, 
called Kirtza, and came to a good large town in- 
habited by Russians, called OKDmoys ; there we heard 
that several troops of Kaimucki had been abroad 
upon the desert, but that we were now completely 
out of danger of them, which was to our great sa- 
tis&ction. Here we were obliged to get some fresh 
horses : and having need enough of rest, we staid 
five days ; and mj partner and 1 agreed to give the 
honest Siberian who brought ui thither the value of 
ten pistoles. 

In five days more we came to Veuslims, upon the 
river Wirtsogda, and running into the Dwina : we 
were there, very happily, near the end of our tra- 
vels by land, that nver bdng navigable, in seven 
days' passage, to Archangel, From hence we came 
to Lawrensky the 3d of July; and providing our- 
selves with two luggage'boats, and a barge for our 
own convenience, we embarked the 7th, and arrived 
all safe at Archangel the iSth ; having been a year 
five months and three days on the journey, includ- 
ing our stay of eight months at Tobolsk!. We were 
ot^iged to Kay at thia place six weeks for th« arrival 



BOBIMBOM CRDSOB. S17 

of the shipi and must have tanied longer had not 
a Hambui^her come in above a mooth sooner than 
any of the EaEligh ships ; when, afler soine consi- 
deratiwi that the city of Hamburgh might happen 
to be as good a market for our goods as London, 
we all took freight with him ; and, having put our 
goodg on board, it was most natural for me to put 
my steward on board to take core of them; by 
which means my young lord had a sufficient oppor- 
tunity to conceal himself, never coming on shore 
again all the time we staid there; and this he did 
that he might not be seen in the city, where some 
of the Moscow merchants would certainly haveseen 
and discovered him. 

We then set sail from Archangel the 20th of 
August, the same year ; and after no extraordinary 
bad voyage, arrived safe in the Elbe the 1 8th of 
September. Here my partner and I found a very 

good sale for our goods, as well those of China as 
)B sables, &c. of $t>eri'a;' and dividing the pro- 
duce, ray share amounted' to 34-751. I7<<- 3^. in- 
cluding about six hundred, pounds worth of dia- 
monds which 1 purchased at Bengal. 

Here the young lord took his leave of us, and 
went up the Elbe, in order to go to the court of 
Vienna, where he resolved to seek protection, and 
could correspond with those of his father's friends 
who were left alive. He did not part without 
testimonies of gratitude for the service I had done 
liim, and his sense of my kindness to the prince hia 
father. 

To conclude, having staid near four months in 
Hamburgh, 1 came from thence by land to the 
Hague, where I embarked in the packet, and ar- 
rive in London the 10th of January, 1705; hav- 
ing been absent front England ten years and nine 



318 ADVEMTUSXS OF ROBINSON CRUaOK. 

moDtlu. And here I resolved to prepare fiv « 
lon^ journey than all these, having lived a life 
of infinite variety serenty-two yean, and learned' 
sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and 
the bleuing of eiiding our days in peace. 



END UT VOL. XVU. 



; -„ Goo^^lc 



■ -„ Google 



■ -„ Goo^k 



■ -„ Goo^k 



■ -„ Google 



■ -„ Google 



■ -„ Google 



