



-Q_2 Cottesbrcjoke v_Q_Q_ 



C 4 



, oq 0c2 



THE 

LIFE 

And Strange Surprizing 

ADVENTURES 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

Of TORK, Mariner: 

Who lived eight and twenty Years all alone in 
an un-inhabited Ifland on the Coaft of America, 
near the Mouth of the Great River oiOroonoque ; 

Having been caft on Shore by Shipwreck, where- 
in all the Men'periftied but himfelf. 

With an ACCOUNT how he waa at laft as 
ftrangely deliver'd by Pyrates. 

Written by Himfelf. 



%f)t Wto Coition* 




LONDON: Printed for W. Taylor at the 
Ship in Pater-Nofter-Rovj. Mdccxix. 



THE 



PREFACE, 

IF ever the Story of any private 
Mans Adventures in the 
World were worth making 
Tublick, and were acceptable 
when Publijh'd, the Editor of this 
Account thinks this will be fo. 

The Wonders of this Man's 
Life exceed all that (he thinks) 
is to be found extant ; the Life of 
one Man being fcarce capable of 
a greater Variety. 

The Story is told with Modefiy, 
with Serioufnefs, and with areli- 
gious Application of Events to the 
Ufes to which wife Men always 

apply 



The Preface. 

apply them ( viz ,) to the Inftruflion ' 
of others by this Example, and to 
jufiify and honour the Wifdom of 
Providence in aU the Variety of 
our Circumflances, let them hap- 
pen how they will. 

The Editor believes the thing 
to be ajufi Hifiory of Faff ; nei- 
ther is their any Appearance of 
Fitlion in it \ And however 
thinks, becaufe aUfuch Things are 
difputed, that the Improvement of 
it, as well to the Diver/ion, as 
to the InJiruBion of the Reader, 
will be the fame ; and asfuch, he 
thinks, without farther Compli- 
ment to the World, he does them 
a great Service in the Publica- 
tion. 

THE 




THE 

LIFE 

AND 

ADVENTURES 

O F 

Robinson Crusoe, &V. 



Was born in the Year 1632, in the 
City of York, of a good Family, tho' 
not of that Country, my Father be- 
ing a Foreigner of Bremen, who fettled 
firft at Hull 1 He got a good Eftate 
by Merchandize, and leaving off his 
Trade, lived afterward at Tork, from whence he had 
married my Mother, whofe Relations were nimed 
R.binfon, a very good Family in that Country, and 
from whom I was called Robinfon Kreutz,naer j but by 
the ufual Corruption of Words in England, we are 
now called, nay we call our felves, and write our 
NameCrfl/c^and fo my Companions always called me. 

B I had 




I had two elder Brothers, one of which was 
Lieutenant-Collonel to an EngBJh Regiment of Foot 
in Flanders, formerly commanded by the famous 
Co\. Lockhart, and was killed at the Battle near Dun- 
kirk againft the Spaniards ; What became of my fe- 
corid Brother I never knew, any more than my Fa- 
ther or Mother did know what was become of me. 

Being the third Son of the Family, and not bred 
to any Trade, my Head began to be fill'd very 
early with rambling Thoughts : My Father, who 
was very ancient, had given me a competent Share 
of Learning, as far as Houfe-Education, and a 
Country Free-School generally goes, and defign'd 
me for the Law ,* but I would be fatisfied with no- 
thing but going to Sea, and my Inclination to this 
led me fo flrongly againft the Will, nay, the Com- 
mands of my Father, and againft all the Entreaties, 
and Perfuafions of my Mother, and other Friends, 
that there feem'd to be fomething fatal in that 
propenfion of Nature tending directly towards 
the Life of Mifery which was to befal me. 

My Father, a wife and grave Man, gave me 
ferious and excellent Counfel againft what he fore- 
faw was my Defign. He called me one Morning in- 
to his Chamber, where he was confined by the 
Gout, and expoftulated very warmly with me upon 
this Subjeft : He ask'd me what Reafons more than 
a meer wandring Inclination I had for leaving my 
Father's Houfe and my native Country, where I 
might be well introduced, and had a Profped 
of railing my Fortune by Application and In- 
duftry, with a Life of Eafe and Pleafure. He 
told me it was for Men of defperate Fortunes on 
one Hand, or of afpiring, fnperior Fortunes on the 
other, who went abroad upon Adventures, to rife 
by Enterprize, and make themfelves famous in Un- 
dertakings of a Nature out of the common Road ; 

that 



m 



that thefe Things were all either too far above me, 
or to far below me ; that mine was the middle 
State, or what might be called the upper Station 
of Low Life, which he had found by long Experi- 
ence was the beft State in the World, the moffc 
fuited to-human Happinefs, not expofed to the Mi- 
feries and Hardships, the Labour and Sufferings of 
the mechanic k Part of Mankind, and not emba- 
rafs'd with the Pride, Luxury, Ambition and En- 
vy of the upper Part of Mankind. He told me, I 
might judge of the Happinefs of this State, by this 
one thing, m. That this was the State of Life 
which all other People envied ,• that Kings have 
frequently lamented the miferable Confequences o£ 
being born to great Things, and wifh they had 
been placed in the Middle of the two Extremes, 
between the Mean and the Great; that the wife 
Man gave his Teftimony to this as the juft Standard 
of true Felicity, when he prayed to have neither: 
Poverty or Riches. 

He bid me obferve it, and I fhould always find*' 
that the Calamities of Life were fhared among the 
upper and lower Part of Mankind ,• but that the 
middle Station had the feweft Difafters, and was 
not exposed to fo many Viciflltudes as the higher or 
lower Part of Mankind,- nay, they were not fubje- 
ftedto fo many Diftempers and UneafineflTes either 
of Body or Mind, as thofe were, who by vicious 
Living, Luxury and Extravagancies on one Hand, 
or by hard Labour, want of Neceffaries, and mean 
or inefficient Diet on the other Hand, bring Di- 
ftempers upon themfelves by the natural Confequen- 
ces of their Way of Living ; That the middle Sta- 
tion of Life was calculated for all kind of Virtues 
and all kind of Enjoyments ; that Peace and Plen- 
ty were the Hand-maids of a middle Fortune ; 
that Temperance, Moderation, Quietnefs, Health, 

B % Soci- 



Society, all agreeable Diverfions, and all deferable 
Pleafures, were the Bleffings attending the middle 
Station of Life ; that this Way Men went filently 
and fmoothly thro' the World, and comfortably out 
of it, not embarafs'd with the Labours of the 
Hands or of the Head, not fold to the Life of Sla- 
very for daily Bread, or harrafs'd with perplex' d 
Circumftances which rob the Soul of Peace, and 
the Body of Befl ; not enraged with the Paffion of 
Envy, or fecret burning Luft of Ambition for great 
Things; but in eafy Circumftances Aiding gently 
thro' the World, and fenfibly tafting the Sweets of 
living, without the bitter, feeling that they are 
happy, and learning by every Day's Experience to 
know it more fenfibly. 

After this he prefs'd me earneftly, and in the 
moft affe&ionate manner, not to play the young 
Man, not to precipitate my felfinto Miferies which 
Nature and the Station of Life I was born in, 
feem'd to have provided againft ; that I was under 
no Neceffity of feeking my Bread ,• that he would 
do well for me, and endeavour to enter me fairly 
into the Station of Life which he had been juft re- 
commending to me ; and that if I was not very ea- 
fy and happy in the World, it muft be my meer 
Fate or Fault that muft hinder it, and that he 
fhould have nothing to anfwer for, having thus dif- 
charg'd his Duty in warning me againft Meafures 
which he knew would be to my Hurt : In a word, 
that as he would do very kind Things for me 
if I would ftay and fettle at Home as he direded, 
fo he would not have fo much Hand in my Misfor- 
tunes, as to give me any Encouragement to go 
aw;ay : And to clofe all, he told me, I had my 
elder Brother for an Example, to whom he had ufed 
the fame earneft Perfuafions to keep him from go- 
ing into the Low-County Wars, but cou'd not pre- 
vail 



C5]. 

vail, his young Defires prompting him to run into 
the Army where he was kill d ; and tho' he faid 
he would not ceafe to pray for me, yet lie would 
venture to fay to me, that if I did take this fooliflr 
Step, God would not blefc me, and I would have 
Leifure hereafter to refled, upon having neglected 
his Counfel, when there might be none to aflift in 
my Recovery. 

I obferved in this laft Part of his Difcourfe, 
which was truly Prophetick, tho' I fuppofe my 
Father did not know it to be fo himfelf ; I fay, I 
obferved the Tears run down his Face very plen- 
tifully, and efpecially when he fpoke of my Brother 
who was killed ,• and that when he fpoke of my ha- 
ving Leifure to repent, and none to aflift me, he 
was fo mov'd, that he broke off the Difcourfe, and 
told me, his Heart was fo full, he could fay no 
more to me. 

I was fincerely afre&ed with this Difcourfe, as 
indeed who could be otherwife ? and I refolv'd not 
to think of going Abroad any more, but to fettle 
at Home according to my Father's Defire. But a- 
lafs ! a few Days wore it all off ; and in fhort, to 
prevent any of my Father's farther Importunities, 
in a few Weeks after, I refolv'd to run quite away 
trow him. However, I did not ad: fo haftily neither 
as my firft Heat of Refolution prompted, but I 
took my Mother, at a Time when I thought her a 
litt e pleafanter than ordinary, and told her, that 
my Thoughts were fo entirely bent upon feeing the 
World, that I fhould never fettle to any thing with 
Refolution enough to go through with it, and my 
Father had better give me his Confent than force 
me to go without it ; that I was now eighteen 
Years old, which was too late to go Apprentice to 
a Trade, or Clerk to an Attorney ; that I was fure 
jt I did, I fhould never ferve out my Time, ^nd I 
B 3 fhould 



[<S] 

Jhould certainly run away from my Mafter before 
my Time was out> and go to Sea ; and if (he would 
jfpeak to my Father to let me go one Voyage a- 
broad, if I came home again and did not like it, I 
would go no more, and I would promife by a dou- 
ble Diligence to recover that Time I had loft. 

This put my Mother into a great Paffion : She 
told me, flie knew it would be to no Purpofe to 
fpeak to my Father upon any fuch Subjeft ,• that he 
knew too well what was my Intereft to give his 
Confent to any fuch Thing fo much for my Hurt, 
and thatfhe wondered how I could think of any fuch 
Thing after fuch a Difcourfe as I had had with my 
Father, and fuch kind and tender ExprefTionsasflie 
knew my Father had usM to me ,• and that in fhort, 
if I would ruin my felf, there was no Help for me ; 
but I might depend I Ihould never have their Con- 
fent to it : That for her Part fhe would not have fo 
much Hand in my Deftru&ion ; and I fhould never 
have it to fay, that my Mother was willing when 
my Father was not. 

Tho' my Mother refufed to move it to my Father, 
yet as I have heard afterwards, fhe reported all the 
Difcourfe to him, and that my Father, after fhewing 
a great Concern at it, faid to her with a Sigh, That 
Boy might be happy if he would flay at home, but if 
he goes abroad, he will be the molt miferableft 
Wretch that ever was born: I can give no Confent 
to it. 

It was not till almoft a Year after this that I broke 
loofe, tho' in the mean time I continued obftinately 
deaf to all Propofals of fettling to Bufinefs, and fre- 
quently expoftulating with my Father and Mother, 
about their being fo pofitively determined againft 
what they knew my Inclinations prompted me to. 
But being one Day at Hull, where I went cafually, 
and without any Purpofe of making an Elopement 

that 



[7] 

that time; but I fay, being there, and one of my 
Companions being going by Sea to London y in his 
Father's Ship, and prompting me to go with them, 
with the common Allurement of Seafaring Men, viz*'. 
That it fhould coft me nothing for my Paffage, I 
confulted neither Father nor Mother any more, nor 
fo much as fent them Word of it ; but leaving them 
to hear of it as they might, without asking God's 
Bleffing, or my Father's, without any Confideration 
of Circumftances or Confequences,and in an ill Hour, 
God knows, on the fir ft o( September 1651, I went 
on Board a Ship bound for London : Never any young 
Adventurer's Misfortunes, I believe, began fooner, 
or continued longer than mine. The Ship was no 
fooner gotten out of the Humber, but the Wind be- 
gan to blow, and the Sea to rife in a moft frightful 
manner ,• and as I had never been at Sea before, I was 
moft inexpreflibly fick inBody, and terrify \d in Mind: 
I began now ferioufly to reflect upon what I had 
done, and how juftly I was overtaken by the Judg- 
ment of Heaven for my wicked leaving my Father's 
Houfe, and abandoning my Duty ; all the good 
Counfelof my Parents, my Father's Tears, and my 
Mother's Entreaties came now frefh into my Mind; 
and my Confcience, which was not yet come to the 
fitch of Hardnefs to which it has been fince, re- 
proach'd me with the Contempt of Advice, and the 
Breach of my Duty to God and my Father. 

All this while the Storm encreas'd, and the Sea^ 
which I had never been upon before, went very high, 
tho* nothing like what I have feen many times 
fince ; no, nor like what I faw a few Days after : 
But it was enough to affeft me then, who was but 
a young Sailor, and had never known any thing of 
the Matter. I expe&ed every Wave would have 
fwallowed us up, and that every time the Ship fell 
down, as I thought, in the Trough or Hollow 

B 4 of 



[8] 

of the Sea, we fhould never rife more ; and in this 
Agony of Mind, I made many Vows and Resolu- 
tions, that if ic would pleafe God hereto fpare 
my Life this one Voyage, if ever I got once my 
Foot upon dry Land again, I would go di redly 
home to my Father, and never fet it into a Ship a- 
gain while I liv'd; that I would take his Advice, 
and never run my felt into fuch Miferies as thefe a- 
ny more. Now I faw plainly the Goodnefs of his 
Obfervations about the middle Station of Life, 
how eafy, how comfortably he had liv'd all his 
Days, and never had been exposed to Tempefts at 
Sea, or Troubles on Shore ; and I refolv'd that I 
would, like a true repenting Prodigal, go home to 
my Father. 

Thefe wife and fober Thoughts continued all the 
while the Storm continued, and indeed fome time 
after ; but the next Day the Wind was abated and 
the Sea calmer, and I began to be a little innur'd 
tp it : However, I was very grave for all that Day, 
being alfo a little Sea fick ftill ; but towards Night 
the Weather clear'd up, the Wind was quite over, 
a charming fine Evening followM; the Sun went 
down perfe&ly clear, and rofe fo the next Morn- 
ing ; and having little or no Wind, and a fmooth 
Sea, the Sun fhining upon it, the S.'ght was, as I 
thought, the mofc delightful that ever I faw. 

I had (lept well in the Night, and was now no 
more Seasick, but very chearful, looking with 
Wonder upon the Sea that was fo rough and terri-^ 
ble the Day before, and could be fo calm and fo 
pleafant in fo little time after. And now leaf! my 
good Refplutionsihould continue, my Companion, 
who had indeed entic'd me away, comes to me, 
WeU> Bob, fays he, clapping me on the Shoulder, 
How do you do after it ? I warrant you were frighted, 
vidnh you lafi N/ght, when it blew but a Cap full of 

'Wind$ 



C9] 

Wind ? A CaffuU d'you call it ? faid I, 'twas a terri- 
ble Storm : A Storm, you Fool you , replies he, doyoU 
call that a Storm, why it was nothing at all ; give us but 
a good Ship and Sea-room, and we think nothing 0/ fuch 
a Squall of Wind as that ; but you re but afrejh Water 
Sailor, Bob ; come let us make a Bowl of Punch and 
we'll forget all that, d'ye fee what charming Weather 'tit 
now To make fhort this fad Part of my Story, 
we went the old way of all Sailors, the Punch was 
made, and I was made drunk with it, and in that 
one Night's Wickednefs I drowned all my Repen- 
tance, all my Reflections upon my paft Conduft, 
and all my Refolutions for my future. In a word, 
as the Sea was returned to its Smoothnefs of Sur- 
face and fettled Calmnefs by the Abatement of that 
Storm, fo the Hurry of my Thoughts being over, 
my Fears and Apprehenfions of being fwallow'd up 
by the Sea being forgotten, and the Current of my 
former Defires returned, I entirely forgot the Vows 
and Promifes that I made in my Diftrefs. I found 
indeed fome Intervals of Refleftion, and theferious 
Thoughts did, as it were, endeavour to return a- 
gain fometimes, but I fhook them off, and rouz'd 
my felf from them as it were from a Diftemper, 
and applying my felf to Drinking and Company, 
foon matter ci the Return of thofe Fits, for fo I 
call'd them, and I had in five or fix Days got as 
compleat a Viftory over Confcience as any young 
Fellow that refolv'd not to be troubled with it, 
could defire : But I was to have another Trial for it 
dill ; and Providence, as in fuch Cafes generally 
it does, refolv'd to leave me entirely without Ex- 
cufe. For if I would not take this for a Delive- 
rance, the next was to be fuch a one as the worft 
and moft harden'd Wretch among us would con* 
fefs both the Danger and the Mercy. 

. The 



[IO] 

The fixth Day of our being at Sea we came m- 
toTarmouth Roads ,• the Wind having been contra- 
ry, and the Weather calm, we had made but little 
Way fince the Storm. Here we were obliged to 
come to an Anchor, and here we lay, the Wind con- 
tinuing contrary, viz,, at South-weft, for feven or 
eight Days, during which time a great many Ships 
from Newcafllc came into the fame Roads, as the 
common Harbour where the Ships might wait for 
a Wind for the River. 

We had not however rid here fo long, but fhould 
have Tided it up the River, but that the Wind 
blew too frefh; and after we had lain four or five 
Days, blew very hard. However, the Roads be- 
ing reckoned as good as a Harbour, the Anchorage 
good, and our Ground-Tackle very ftrong, our 
Men were unconcerned* and not in the leaft appre- 
henfive of Danger, but fpent the Time in Reit and 
Mirth, after the manner of the Sea ; but the eighth 
Day in the Morning, the Wind increafed, and we 
had all Hands at Work to ftrike our Top-Mafts, 
and make every thing fnng andclofe, that the Ship 
might ride as eafy as polible. By Noon the Sea 
went very high indeed, and our Ship rid Forecafik 
in> fhipp'd feveral Seas, and we thought once or 
twice our Anchor had come home; upon which 
our Mailer order'd out the^Sheet Anchor; fo that 
we rode with two Anchors a-head, and the Cables 
vered out to the better End. 

By this Time it blew a terrible Storm indeed, 
and now I began tofee Terror and Amazement in 
the Faces even of the Seamen themfelves. The Ma- 
iler, tho' vigilant in the Bufinefs of preferring the 
Ship, yet as' he went in and out of his Cabbin by 
me, I could hear him foftly to himfelf fay feveral 
times, Lord be mercijultous, wejball be all left, twi 
{hall be all undone ; and the like. During thefe firft 

Hur- 



[ ii 3 

JIurries, I was ftupid, lying flill in my Cabbin 3 
which was in the Steerage, and cannot defcribe my 
Temper : I could ill re-afltime the firft Penitence, 
which I had fo apparently trampled upon, and har- 
dened my felf againft : I thought the Bitternefs of 
Death had been paft, and that this would be no- 
thing too like the firft. But when the Mafter him- 
felf came by me, as I faid juft now, and faid we 
fliould be all loft, I was dreadfully frighted- I got 
up out of my Cabbin, andlook'd out; butfucha 
difmal Sight I never faw : The Sea went Mountains 
high, and broke upon us every three or four Mi- 
nutes : When I could look about, I could fee no- 
thing but Diftrefs round us : Two Ships that rid 
near us, we found, had cut their Mafts by the 
Board, being deep loaden ; and our Men cry'd our, 
that a Ship which rid about a Milea-Head of us 
was foundered. Two more Ships being driven from 
their Anchors, were run out of the Roads to Sea, 
at all Adventures, and that with not a Maft ftand- 
ing. The light Ships fared the beft, as notfo much 
labouring in the Sea ; but two or three of them 
drove, and came clofe by us, running away with 
only their Sprit-fail out before the Wind. 

Towards Evening the Mate and Boatfwain 
begg'd the Mafter of our Ship to let them cut a- 
way the Fore-maft, which he was very unwilling 
to : But the Boatfwain protefting to him, that if he 
Hid not, the Ship would founder, he confented ; 
and when they had cut away the Fore-maft, the 
Main-maft flood fo loofe, and fhook the Ship fo 
much, they were obliged to cut her away alfo, and 
make a clear Deck. 

Any one may judge what a Condition I muft be 
in at all this, who was but a young Sailor, and 
who had been in fuch a Fright before at but a lit- 
tle. But if I can exprefs at this Diftance the 

Thoughts 



C ii ] 

Thoughts I had about mc at that time, I was in 
tenfold more Horror of Mind upon Account of my 
former Convi&ions, and the having returned from 
them to the RefolutionsI had wickedly taken at firft, 
than I was at Death it felf ; and thefe added to the 
Terror of the Storm, put me into fuch a Condition, 
that I can by no words describe it. But the worft 
was not come yet, the Storm continued with fuch 
Fury, that the Seamen themfelves acknowledged 
they had never known a worfe. We nad a good Ship, 
but fhe was deep loaden, and wallowed in the Sea, 
that the Seamen every now and then cried out, fhe 
would founder. It was my advantage in one refped, 
that I did not know what they meant by Founder, 
till I enquired. However, the Storm was fo vio- 
lent, that I faw what is not often feen, the Mafter, 
the Boatfwain, and fome others more fenfible than 
the reft, at their Prayers, and expe&ing every Mo- 
ment when the Ship would go to the Bottom. In 
the Middle of the Night, and under all the reft of 
of our Diftreffes, one of the Men that had been 
down on Purpofe to fee, cried out we had fprung a 
Leak ; another faid there was four Foot Water in 
the Hold. Then all Hands were called to the Pump, 
At that very Word, my Heart, as I thought, died 
within me, and I fell backwards upon the Side of 
my Bed where I fat, into the Cabin. However, 
the Men roufed me, and told me, that I that was 
able to do nothing before, was as well able to 
pump as another ; at which I ftirr'd up, and went 
to the Pump and work'd very heartily. While this 
was doing, the Mafter feeing fome light Colliers, 
who not able to ride out the Storm, were obliged 
to flip and run away to Sea, and would come near 
us, ordered to fire a Gun as a Signal of Diftrefs. I 
who knew nothing what that meant, was fo furpri- 
zed, that I thought the Ship had broke, or fojne 

dread- 



dreadful thing had happen'd. In a word, I was fo 
furprizul, that I fell down in a Swoon. As this 
was a time when every Body had his own Life to 
think oi) no Body minded me, or what was become 
of me ; but another Manftept up to the Pump, and 
thrufting me afide with his Foot, let me lye, think- 
ing I had been Dead; and it was a great while 
before I came to my fel£ 

We work'd on, but the Water encreafing in the 
Hold, it was apparent that the Ship would founder, 
and tho' the Storm began to abate a little, yet as 
it was not poffible fhe could fwim till we might run 
into a Port, fo the Matter continued firing Guns for 
Help ; and a light Ship who had rid it out juft a 
Head of us, ventured a Boat out to help us. It was 
with the utmoft hazard the Boat came near us, but 
it was impoffible for us to get on Board, or for the 
Boat to lie near the Ship Side, till at laft the Men 
rowing very heartily, and venturing their Lives to 
fa ve ours, our Men caft them a Rope over the Stern 
with a Buoy to it, and then vered it out a great 
Length, which they after great Labour and Hazard 
took hold of, and we hawlM them clofe under our 
Stern and got all into their Boat. It was to no 
Purpofe for them or us after we were in the Boat to 
think of reaching to their own Ship, fo all agreed 
to let her drive, and only to pull her in towards 
Shore as much as we could, and our Matter pro- 
mifed them, That if the Boat was ftav'd upon 
Shore he would make it good to their Matter, (o 
partly rowing and partly driving, our Boat wenta- 
wayto the Northward, floaping towards the Shore 
almoft as far as Winterton-Nefs, 

We were not much more than a quarter of an 
Hour out of our Ship but we faw her fink, and 
then I underftood for the firtt time what was meant 
by a Ship foundering in the Sea ; I mutt acknow- 
ledge 



[ H] 

ledge I had hardly Eyes to look up when the Sea- 
men told me fhe was finking ; for from that Mo- 
ment they rather put me into the Boat than that I 
might be faid to go in, my Heart was as it were 
dead within me, partly with Fright, partly with 
Horror of Mind and the Thoughts of what wai 
yet before me. 

While we were in this Condition, the Men yet 
labouring at the Oar to bring the Boat near the 
Shore, we could fee, when our Boat mounting the 
Waves , we were able to fee any thing, a great many 
People running along the Strand to afTift us when 
we fliould come near, but we made but flow way 
towards the Land, nor were we able to reach the 
Shore, till being paft the Light-Houfe at Winterton y 
the Coaft falls off to the Weftward towards Cromer •, 
and fo the Land broke off a little the Violence of 
the Wind; Here we got in, and tho' not without 
much Difficulty got all fafe on Shore, and walk'd 
afterwards on Foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfor- 
tunate Men, we were ufed with great Humanity, 
as well by the Magiftrates of the Town, who 
affign'd us good Quarters, as by particular Mer- 
chants and Owners of Ships, and had Money*gi- 
ven us fufficient to carry us either to London, or back 
to Hull, as we thought fit. 

Had I now had the Senfe to have gone back to 
Hull, and have gone home, I had been happy, and 
my Father, an Embleme of our blefled Saviour's Pa- 
rable, had even kill'd the fatted Calf for me ; for 
hearing the Ship 1 went away in, was call away in 
Yarmouth Road, it was a great while before he had 
any Affurance that I was not drown'd. 

But my ill Fate pufh'd me on now with an Ob- 
ftinacy that nothing could reiift ; and tho* I had fe- 
veral times loud Calls from myReafon and my 
mgre compofed Judgment to go home, yet I had 

no 



C I?] 

ho Power to do it. I know not what to call this, nor 
will I urge, that it is a fecret over-ruling Decree 
that hurries us on to be the Inftruments of our pwn 
Deftru&ion, even the*' it be before us, and that we 
pufli upon it with our Eyes open. Certainly no- 
thing but fome fuch decreed unavoidable Mifery 
attending, and which it was impofTiblle for me to 
efcape, could have pufh'd me forward againfl the 
calm Reafonings and Perfuafions of my moft re- 
tired Thoughts, and againft two fuch vifible In- 
ftruftions as I had met with it my firft Attempt. 

My Comrade, who hadhelp'd to harden me be- 
fore, and who was the Mafter's Son, was now left 
forward than I ; the firft time he fpoke to me after 
we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or 
three Days, for we were feparated in the Town 
to feveral Quarters ; I fay, the firft time he faw me, 
it appeared his Tone was altered, and looking very 
melancholy, and fhaking his Head, askMmehow 
I did, and telling his Father who I was, and how' 
I had come this Voyage only for a Trial, in order 
to go farther abroad ,* his Father turning to me 
with a very grave and concernM Tone, Toung Man> 
fays he, you ought never to go to Sea any more, you ought 
to take this for a plain and vifible 'Token that you are 
net to be a Seafaring Man. Why, Sir, faid I, will you 
go to Sea no more ? That is another Cafe; faid he, 
it is my Calling, and therefore my Duty ; but as you made 
this Voyage for a Tryal,youfee what a Tafie Heaven has 
given you of what you are to expeEl if you perffl ; perhaps 
this is all befallen us on your Account, like Jonah in the 
Ship of Tarlhifh. Pray, continues he, what are you ? 
And on what Account did you go to Sea ? Upon that I 
told him fome of my Story ; at the End of which he 
burft out with a ftrange kind of Paffion, What had 
I done, fays he, that fuch an unhappy Wretch fhould 
come into my Ship; I would notfet my Foot in 

the 



[ 16 ] 

the fame Ship with thee again for a thoufand 
Pounds. This indeed was, as I faid, an Excurfiotl 
of his Spirits which were yet agitated by the Senfe 
of his Lofs, and was farther than he could have 
Authority to go. However he afterwards talk'd very 
gra,vly to me exhorted me to go back to my Fa- 
ther, and not tempt Providence to my Ruin ; told 
me I might fee a vifible Hand of Heaven againft 
me, And young Man, faid he, depend upon it, if you 
do not go back, where- ever you go, you will meet with no- 
thing but Dif afters and Di f appointments > till your Father s 
Words are fulfilled upon you. 

. We parted foon after; for I made him little 
Anfwer, and I faw him no more; which way he 
went, I know not. As for me, having fome Mo- 
ney in my Pocket, I travelled to London by Land ; 
and there, as well as on the Road, had many Strug- 
gles with my felf, what Courfe of Life I fliould take, 
and whether I fliould go Home, or go to Sea. 

As to going Home, Shame oppofed the bed 
Motions that offered to my Thoughts ; and it im- 
mediately occurred to me how I fliould be laugh *d 
at among the Neighbours, and fliould be afhamM 
to fee, not my Father and Mother only, but even 
every Body elfe ; from whence I have fince often 
obferved, how incongruous and irrational the com- 
mon Temper of Mankind is, efpecially of Youth, 
to that Reafon which ought to guide them in fuch 
Cafes, viz,. That they are afliam'd to fin, and 
yet are aftiam'd to repent ; not afham'd of the Acti- 
on for which they ought juftly to be efteemed Fools, 
but are afliam'd of the returning, which only can 
make them be efteem'd wife Men. 

In this State of Life, however, I remained fome 
time, uncertain what Meafures to take, and what 
Courfe of Life to lead. An irreliftible Reluctance 
continued to going Home ; and as I ftay'd a while, 

the 



t i?l 



the Remembrance of the Diftrefs I had bedh xtl 
wore off ; and as that abated, the little Motion I 
had m my Defires to a Return wore off with it, till 
at laft I quite laid afide the Thoughts of it, and 
look'd out for a Voyage. 

That evil Influence which carried me firft away 
from my Father's Houfe, that hurried me into the 
wild and indigefted Notion of raifing my Fortune > 
and that impreft thofe Conceits fo forciby upon 
me, as to make me deaf to all good Advice, and 
to the Entreaties, and even Command of my Fa- 
ther t I fay, the fame Influence, whatever it was* 
prefented the mod unfortunate of all Enterprizes 
to my View ; and I went on Board a Veflel bound 
to the Coaft of Africa ; or as our Sailors vulgarly 
call it, a Voyage to Guiney* 

It was my great Misfortune that in all thefe 
Adventures I did not fliip my felf as a Sailor ; 
whereby, tho > indeed I might have work'd a little 
harder than ordinary, yet at the fame time I had 
learn'd the Duty and Office of a Fore-maft Man ; 
and in time might have qualify M my felf for a 
Mate or Lieutenant, if not for a Mafter. But as 
it was always my Fate to choofe for the worfe* 
fo I did here ; for having Money in my Pocket, 
and good Cloaths upon my Back, I would always 
go on Board in the Habit of a Gentleman ; and fo 
1 neither had any Bufinefs in the Ship, or learn 'd 
to do any. 

It was my Lot firft of all to fall into pretty good 
Company in London, which does not always hap- 
pen to (uch loofe and unguided young Fellows as I 
then was ; the Devil generally not omitting to lay 
fome Snare for them very early : But it was not fo 
with me, I firft jfcU acquainted with the Mafter of 
a Ship who had been on the Coaft of Guiney ; and 
who having had vety good Succefs there, was re- 

C folved 



[i8] 

foWed to go again ; and who taking a Fancy td my 
Converfation, which was not at all difagreeable at 
that time, hearing me fay I had a mind to fee the 
World, told me, if I woird go the Voyage with 
him I fhould be at no Expence,- I fhould be his 
Mefs-mate and his Companion, and it I could car- 
ry any Thing with me, I fhould have all the Ad- 
vantage of it that the Trade would admit ; and 
perhaps I might meet with fome Encouragement. 

I embrace! the Offer, and entring into a ftri<5fc 
Friendfhip with this Captain, who was an honeft 
and plain-dealing Man, I went the Voyage with 
him, and carried a fmall Adventure with me, which 
by the difinterefted Honefty of my Friend the Cap- 
tain, I increafed very considerably ; fori carried a- 
bout 40/. in fuch Toys and Trifles as the Captain 
direfted me to buy. This 40 /. I had muftered to- 
gether by the Ailiftance of fome of my Relations 
whom I correfponded with, and who, I believe, 
got my Father, or at leaft my Mother, to contri- 
bute fo much as that to my firft Adventure. 

This was the only Voyage which I may fay was 
fuccefsful in all my Adventures, and which I owe to 
the Integrity and Honefiy of my Friend the Cap- 
tain, under whom aifo I got a competent Know- 
ledge of the Mathematicks and the Rules of Na- 
vigation, learn 'd how to keep an Account of the 
Ship's Courfe, take an Obfervation ; and in fhort* 
to underftand fome Things that were needful to be 
underflood by a Sailor : For, as he took Delight to 
introduce me, I took Delight to learn ; and, in a 
Word, this Voyage made me both a Sailor and a 
Merchant: For I brought Home £. 5. 9 Ounces of 
Gold Dud for my Adventure, which yielded me in 
London, at my Return, almoft 300 /. and this fillM 
me with thofe afpiring Thoughts which have fince 
fo compleated my Ruin. 

Yet 



r i9i 



Yet even in this Voyage I had my Misfortunes 
too ; particularly, that I was continually fick, be- 
ing thrown into a violent Calenture by the exceffivc 
Heat of the Ciimate ; our principal Trading being 
upon the Coaft, from the Latitude of 1 5 Degrees* 
North even to the Line it felf. 

I was now fet up for a Guiney Trader ; and my 
friend, to my great Misfortune, dying foon after his 
Arrival, I refolv'd to go the fame Voyage again^ 
and I embark'd in the fame Veffel with one who was 
his Mate in the former Voyage, and had now got 
the Command of the Ship. This was the unhap- 
pieft Voyage that ever Man made ; for tho' I did 
not carry quite 100 /. of my new gained Wealth* 
fo that I had 200/. left, and which I lodg'd with 
my Friend's Widow, who was very juft to me, yet 
I fell into terrible Misfortunes in this Voyage ; and 
the firft was this, viz,. Our Ship making her Courfe 
towards the Canary Ifiands, or rather between thofe 
Iflands and the u4jrkan Shore, was furprized in the 
Grey of the Morning, by a lurkijh Rover otSalleei 
who gave Chafe to us with all the Sail flie could 
make. We crowded alfo as much Canvafs as our 
Yards would fpread, or our Mafts carry, to have 
got clear ; but finding the Pirate gain 'd upon us, 
and would certainly come up with us in a few 
Hours, we prepaid to fight ; our Ship having iz 
Guns, and the Rogue 18. About three in the Af- 
ternoon he came up with us, and bringing too by 
Mift^ke, juft athwart our Quarter, inftead of a- 
thwart our Stern, as he intended, we brought 8 of 
our Guns to bear on that Side, and pour'd in a 
Broadfide upon him, which made him fheer off a- 
gain, after returning our Fire, and pouring in alfo 
his fmall Shot from near 200 Men which he had on 
Board. However, we had not a Man touch 'd, all 
our Men keeping clofe. He prepaid to attack us 

G 2 again 



tio] 



again, and we to defend our felves ; but laying u$ 
en Board the next time upon our other Quarter* 
he entered fixty Men upon our Decks, who imme- 
diately fell to cutting and hacking the Decks and 
Rigging. We ply'd them with Small-fhot, Half- 
Pikes, Powder-Chefts, and fuch like, and cleared 
our Deck of them twice. However, to cut fliort 
this melancholy Part of our Story, our Ship being 
difabled, and three of our Men kill'd, and eighc 
wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were car- 
ry } d all Prifoners into Sallee^ a Port belonging to 
the Moors. 

The Ufage I had there was not fo dreadful as at 
firft I apprehended, nor was I carried up the Coun- 
try to the Emperor's Court, as the reft of our Men 
were, but was kept by the Captain of the Rover, i 
as his proper Prize, and made his Slave, being 
young and nimble, and fit for his Bufinefs. At this 
iurprizing Change of my Circumftances from a 
Merchant to a miferable Slave, I was perfectly o- 
vcr whelmed ; and now I looked back upon my Fa- 
ther's prophetick Difcourfe to me, that I (hould be 
miferable, and have none to relieve me, which I 
thought was now foefre&ually brought to pafs, that 
it could not be worfe; that now the Hand of Hea- 
ven had overtaken me, and I was undone without 
Redemption. But alafs 1 this was but a Tafte of 
the Mifery I was to go thro', as will appear in the 
Sequel of this Story. 

As my new Patron or Mafler had taken me JJome 
to his Houfe, fo I was in Hopes that he would take 
me with him when he went to Sea again, believ- 
ing that it would fome time or other be his Fate 
to be taken by a Spanijh or Portugal Man of War ; 
and that then 1 fliould be fet at Liberty. But this 
Hope of mine was foon taken away ; for when lie 
went to Sea, he left me on Shore to look after his 

little 



£** 3 

little Garden, and do the common Drudgery of 
Slaves about his Houfe ; and when he came Home 
again from his Cruife, he order 'd me to lie in the 
Cabin to look after the Ship. 

Here I meditated nothing bu,t my Efcape ; and 
what Method I might take to effeft it, but found 
no Way that had the leaft Probability in it : No- 
thing prefented to make the Suppofition of it ra- 
tional ; for I had no Body to communicate it to, 
that would embark with me ; no Fellow-Slave, no 
Englijh Man, Irijh Man, or Scotch Man there but my 
(elf ; fo that for two Years, tho* I often pleafed my 
felf with the Imagination, yet I never had the leaffc 
encouraging Profpe£t of putting it jm Praftice. 

After about two Years, gn odd Circumftance 
prefented it felf, whiph put the old Thought of 
making fome Atttempt for my Liberty, again in 
my Head ; My Patron lying at Home longer than 
ufual, without fitting out his Ship, which, as I 
heard, wasTor want of Money ; he ufed conftant- 
ly, once or twice a Week, fometfmes oftner, if the 
Weather was fair, to take the Ship's Pinnace, and 
go out into the Road a fifliing ; and as he always 
took me and a young Marefco with him to row the 
Boat, we made him very merry, and I prov'd very 
dexterous in catching Fifli; infomuch that fome- 
times he would fend mc with a Moor, one of his 
Kinfmen, and the Youth the Marefco, as they called 
him, to catch a Difli of Fife for him. 

It happened one time, that going a fifliing in a 
ftark calm Morning, a Fog rofe (o thick, that tho' 
we were not half a League from the Shore we loft 
Sight of it ; and rowing we knew not whither or 
which Way, we laboured all Day and all the next 
Night, and when the Morping came we found we 
had pull'd off to Sea inftead of pulling in for the 
Shore j and that we were at Ieaft two Leagues from 

C 3 the 



["] 

the Shore : However, we got well in again, tho^ 
with a great deal of Labour, and fome Danger ; 
for the Wind began to blow pretty frefh in the 
Morning ; but particularly we were all very hungry. 

But pur Patron, warned by this Difafter, refolved 
to take more Care of himfelf for the future ; and 
having lying by him the Long-Boat of our Englijh 
Ship they had taken, he refolved he would not go 
a filhing any more without a Compafs and fome 
Provifipn ; fo he ordered the Carpenter of his 
Ship, who alfo was an Engtift Slave, to build a lit- 
tle State-Room or Cabin in the middle of the 
Long^Boat, like that of a Barge, with a Place to 
Hand behind it to fleer and hale home the Main- 
flieet; and Room before for a Hand or two to 
ftand and work the Sails ? She failed with that we 
fall a Shoulder of Mutton Sail ; and the Boom 
gib'd over the Top of the Cabin, which lay very 
fnug and low, and had in it Room for him to lie, 
with a Slave or two, and a Table to eat on, with" 
fome fmall Lockers to put in fome Bottles of fuch' 
JLiquor as he thought fit to drink ; particularly 
his Bread, Rice and Coffee. 

We went frequently out with this Boat a fifhing, 
#nd as I was moft dextrous to catch Fifli for him, 
he never went without me : It happened that he 
had appointed to go out in this Boat, either for 
yieafure or for Fifli, with two or three Moors of 
fome Difiinftion in that Place, and for whom he 
had provided extraordinarily ; and had therefore 
fent on Board the Boat over Night, a larger Store 
of Provifions than ordinary ; and had order'd me 
to get ready three Fuzees with Powder and Shot, 
which were on Board his Ship ; for that they de- 
fign'd fome Sport of Fowling as Well as Fifhing. 

I got ail Things ready as he had directed, and 
waited the next Morning with the Boat, wafhed 

clean, 



dean, her Antient and Pendants out, and every 
thing to accommodate his Guefts ; when by and 
by my Patron came on Board alone, and told me 
his Guefts had put off going, upon fome Bufinefs 
that fell out, and ordered me with the Man and 
Boy, as ufual, to go out with the Boat and catch 
them fome Fifh, for that his Friends were to fup 
£t his Houfe ; and commanded that as foon as I 
had got fome Fifh I fhould bring it home to his 
Houfe ; all which I prepaid to do. 

This Moment my former Notions of Deliver-? 
#nce darted into my Thoughts, for now I found % 
was like to have a little Ship at my Command ; and 
my Mafter being gone, I prepared to furnifti my 
felf, not for a fitting Bufinefs, but for a Voyage ; 
tfio' I knew not, neither did I fo much as confider 
whither I fliould fleer; for any where to get out 
of that Place was my Way. 

My firft Contrivance was to make a Pretence to 
fpeak to this Moor, to get fomething for our Sub- 
fiftence on Board ; for I told him we muft not pre- 
sume to eat of our Patron's Bread ; he faid, that 
was true j fo he brought a large Basket of Rusk 
or Bisket of their kind, and three Jarrs with frefh 
Water into the Boat ; I knew where my Patron's 
Cafe of Bottles flood, which it was evident by 
the Make were taken out of fome Englijh Prize \ and 
I conveyed them into the Boat while the Moor was. 
on Shore, as if they had bsen there before, for our 
Mafter : I conveyed aifo a great Lump of Bees- 
Wax into the Boat, which weighed above half a 
hundred Weight, with a Parcel of Twine or 
Thread, a Hatqhet, a Saw, and a Hammer, all 
which were of great Ufe to us afterwards : efpe- 
cially the Wax to make Candles. Another Trick. 
I try'd upon him, which he innocently came into, 
alfo i his Name was Ifmael, who they call Muly, 

C 4 or 



[ H T 



or Moely, fo I call'd to him, Moely faid I, our Pa-* 
tron's Guns are on Board the Boat, can you not 
get a little Powder and Shot, it may be we may 
kill feme Alcamies (a Fowl like our Culieus) for our 
felves, for I know he keeps the Gunner's Stores in 
the Ship ? Yes, fays he, Til bring fome, and ac- 
cordingly he brought a great Leather Pouch which 
held about a Pound and half of Powder, or rather 
more; and another with Shot, that had five or fix 
Pound, with fome Bullets ; and put all into the 
Boat : At the fame time I had found fome Powder 
of my Matter's in the great Cabin, with which I 
fill'd one of the large Bottles in the Cafe, which 
was almoft empty ; pouring what was in it into a- 
nother : And thus furnifhed with every thing need- 
ful, we faii'd out of the Port to fifh : The Caftle, 
which is at the Entrance of the Port, knew who we 
were, and took no Notice of us ; and we were not 
above a Mile out of the Port before we hal'd ill our 
Sail, and fet us down to fifh : The Wind blew 
from the N. NE. which was contrary to my Defire; 
for had it blown Southerly, I had been fure to have 
made the Coaft of Spain 9 and at leaft reached to the 
Bay of Cadiz, ; but my Refolutions were, blow 
which way it would, I would be gone from that 
horrid Place where I was, and leans the reft to Fate. 
After we had fiftrd fome time and catch'd no- 
thing, for when I had Fifh on my Hook, I would 
not pull them up, that he might not fee them ; I faid 
to the Moor, this will not dp, our Mafter will not 
be thus fenrd, we mull: Hand farther off: He think- 
ing no Harm agreed, and being in the Head of the 
Boat fet the Sails ; and as I had the Helm I run 
the Boat out near a League v farther, and then 
brought her too as if I would fifh, when giving 
die Boy the Helm, I ftept forward to where the 
Mm was, and making as it' I ftoop'd far fome- 

thing 



thing behind him, I took him by furprize with 
my Arm under his Twift, and toft him clear o- 
ver board into the Sea 5 he rife immediately, for 
he fwam like a Cork, ^nd called to me, begg'd to be 
taken in, told me he would go all over the World 
with me ; he fwam fo ftrong after the Boat that he 
would have reach'd me very quickly, there being but 
little Wind ; upon which I ftept into the Cabin* 
and fetching one of the Fowling-pieces, I prefented 
it at him, and told him, I had done him no hurt, 
and if he would be quiet I would do him none : But 
faid I, you fwim well enough to reach the 
Shore, apdtheSea is calm, make thebeft of your 
Way to Shore and I will do you no harm, but if 
you come near the Boat Til fhoot you thro' the 
Head ; for I am refolved to have my Liberty ; fo 
he turr/d himfelf about and fw^m for the Shore, 
and I make no doubt but he reach'd it with Eafe, 
for he was an excellent Swimmer. 

I could have been content to ha' taken this Moor 
with me, and ha' drowiui the Boy, but there was no 
venturing to truft him : When he was gone I turn 'd 
to the Boy, who they call'd Xury y and faid k to 
him, Xury, if you will be faithful to me I'll make 
you a great Man, but if you will not ftroak your 
Face to be true to me, that is, /ware by Mahomet and 
his Father s Beard, I muft throw you into the Sea 
too ; the Boy fmil'd in my Face and fpoke fo inno*- 
cently that I could not miftruft him ; and fwore to 
be faithful to ine, and go ail over the World with 
me. 

While I was in View of the Moor that was 
f.vimming, I fcood out dire&iy to Sea with the Boat, 
rather ftretching to Windward, that they might 
think me gone to wards the Straits-mouth (as indeed 
any one that had been in theirWits muft ha' been fup- 
pos'dto do)forwho would ha Yuppos'd we were failed 

on 






[25] 

on to the Southward to the truly Barbarian Coaft* 
where whole Nations of Negroes werefure to fur- 
round us with their Canoes, and deftroy us; 
where we could ne'er once gone on Shore but we 
fliould be devoured by favage Beads or more mer- 
cilcfs Savages of human kind. 

But as foon as it grew dusk in the Evening, I 
changed my Courfe, and fteer'd dire&iy South and 
by Eaft, bending my Courfe a little toward the 
Eaft, that I might keep in with the Shore ; and 
having a fair frelh Gale of Wind, andfmooth quiet 
Sea, I made fuch Sail that I believe by the next 
Day at Three a Clock in the Afternoon, when I 
firft made the Land, I could not be kfs than 150 
Mi es South ofSallee; quite beyond the Emperor 
of Morocco's Dominions, or indeed of any other 
King thereabouts, for we faw no People. 
V Yet fuch was the Fright I had taken at the Moors > 
and the dreadful Apprehenfions I had of falling in- 
to their Hands, that I would not flop, or go on 
Shore, or come to an Anchor ; the Wind continu- 
ing fair, 'till I had faifd in that manner five Days : 
And then the Wind fliifting to the Southward; I 
concluded alio that if any of our Veflels were in 
Chafe of me, they alfo would now give over ; fa 
I ventured to make to the Coaft, and came to an 
Anchor in the Mouth of a little River, I knew not 
what, or where ; neither what Latitude, what 
Country, what Nation, or what River; I neither 
faw, or defir'd to fee any People, the principal thing 
I wanted was frefh YVater: We came into this 
Creek in the Evening, refolving to fwim on Shore 
as foon as it was dark, and difcover the Country ; 
but as foon as it was quite dark, we heard fuch 
dreadful Noifes of the Barking, Roaring, and 
Howling of wild Creatures of we knew not what 
Kinds, that the poor Boy was ready to die with 

Fear, 



\.VJ ] 

Fear and begg'd of me not to go on Shore tity 
Day ; well Xury, (aid I, then I won't, but it may 
be we may fee Men by Day, who will be as bad to 
us as thofe Lyons ; then we give them the Jhoot Gun, 
fays Xury, laughing, make them rtmwcy; fuch Englifo 
Xury fpoke by converfing among us Slaves, howe- 
ver I was glad to fee the Boy fo cheerful, and I 
gave him a Dram (out of our Patron's Cafe of Bot- 
tles) to chear him up : After all, Xury's Advice 
was good, and I took it, we dropped our little An- 
chor and lay ftill aitafclight; I fay ftill, for we flept 
none ; for in two or three Hours we faw vaft great 
Creatures (we knew not what to call them) of 
many forts, come down to the Sea-fliore and run in- 
to the Water, wallowing and waffling themfelves 
for the Pleafure of cooling themfelves : and they 
made fuch hideous Howlings and Yellings, that I 
never indeed heard the like. 

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed fo was 
I too ; but we were both more frighted when wc 
heard one of thefe mighty Creatures come fwim- 
ming towards our Boat, we could not fee him, but 
we might hear him by his blowing to be a mon- 
ftrous, huge and furious Beaft; Xury (aid. it was a 
Lyon, and it might be fo for ought I know ; but 
poor Xury cried to me to weight the Anchor and 
row away ; no, faidl, Xury y we can flip our Cable 
with the Buoy to it and go off to Sea, they cannot 
follow us far; I had no fooner faid fo, but I per- 
peiv'd the Creature (whatever it was) within two 
Oars length, which fomething furprized me ; how- 
ever I immediately ftept to the Cabin-door, and 
taking up my Gun fir*d at him, upon which he im- 
mediately turn'd about and fwam towards the 
Shore again. 

But it is impoflible to defcribe the horrible Noi- 
fes, and hidious Cries and Howlings, that were 

raifed 



[28] 

tfaifed as well upon the Edge of the Shore, as high- 
er within the Country ; upon the Noife or Re- 
port of the Gun, a Thing I have fome Reafon to 
believe thofe Creatures had never heard before : 
This convinc'd me that there was no going on 
Shore for us in the Night upon that Coaft, ,and 
how to venture on Shore in the Day was another 
Queftion too ; for to have fallen into the Hands 
of any of the Savages, had been as bad as tQ 
have fallen into the Hands of Lyons and Ty- 

fers ; at leaft we were equalljfr^pprehenfive of the 
)anger of it. 
Be that as it would, we were oblig'd to go on 
Shore fomewhere or other for Water, for we had 
not a Pint left in the Boat ; when or where to get to 
it was the Point : Xury {aid, if J would let him go 
on Shore with one of the Jars, he would find if there 
was any Water and bring fome to me. I ask'd 
him why he would go ? Why I ftiould not go and 
he ftay in the Boat ? The Boy anfwer'd with fo 
much Afte&ion, that made me love hrm ever 
after* Says he, If wild Mans come, they eat me, you 
go wey. Well, Xury, faid I, we will both go, and 
if the wild Mans come, we will kill them, they 
fhall eat neither of us; fo I gave Xury a piece of 
Rusk-bread to eat, and a Dram out of our Pa- 
tron's Cafe of Bottles which I mentioned before ; 
and we hal'd the Boat in as near the Shore as we 
thought was prpper, and waded on Shore ; car- 
rying nothing but our Arms, and two Jarrs for 
Water. 

1 did not care to go out of Sight of the Boat, 
fearing the coming of Canoes with Savages 
down the River; But the Boy feeing a low Place 
kboiit a Mile up the Country rarrtbled to it ; and 
by and by I faw him come running towards me, 
I thought he was purfued by fome Savage, or- 

flighted 



frighted with fome wild Beaft, and I run forward 
toward him to help him, but when I came nearer 
to him, I faw fomething hanging ovfcr his Shoul- 
ders which was a Creature that he had fhot, like £ 
Hare but different in Colour, and longer Legs, 
however we were very glad of it, and it was very 
good Meat ; but the great Joy that <poor Xury 
came with, was to tell me he had found good Wa- 
ter and feen no wild Mara. 

But we found afterwards that we need not take 
fuch Pains for Water, for a little higher up the 
Creek where we where, we found the Water frefh 
when the Tide was out, Which flowed but a little 
way up; fo we filled our Jarrs and feafted on the 
Hare we had killed, and prepared to go on our 
Way, having feen no Foot-fteps of any human 
Creature in that part of the Country. 

As I had been one Voyage to this Coaft before, 
I knew very well that the Illands of the Canaries, 
and the Cape de Verd Iflands alfo, lay not far off 
from the Coaft. But as I had no Inftruments to 
take an Obfervation to know what Latitude we 
were in, and not exa&ly know, or at leaft to re- 
memjber what Latitude they were in ; I knew not 
where to look for them, or when to ftandoffto Sea 
towards th$m ; otherwife I might now eafily fyav$ 
found fome of thefe Iflands. But my hopes was, 
that if I flood along this Coaft till I came to that 
Part where the Englijh traded, I fliould find fome of 
their Veffels upon their ufual Defign of Trade, 
that would relieve and take us in. 

By the beft of my Calculation, that Place where 
I now was, muft be that Country, which lying be- 
tween the Emperor of Morocco's Dominions and the 
Negroes, lies waft and uninhabited, except by wild 
Beafts; the Negroes having abandon'd it and gone 
farther South for fear of the Moors ; and the Moors 

not 



I PI 

hot thinking it worth inhabiting, by reafon of its 
Barrennefs ; and indeed both forfaking it becaufe 
of the prodigious Numbers of Tygers, Lyons* 
Leopards, and other furious Creatures which har- 
bour there ; fothat the Moors uk it for their Hun- 
ting only, where they go like an Army, two or three 
thoufand Men at a Time ; and indeed for near an 
hundred Miles together upon this Coaft, we faw 
nothing but a wait uninhabited Country, by Day; 
and heard nothing but Howlings and Roaring of 
wild Beafts, by Night. 

Once or twice in the Day tifne, I thought I faw 
the Pico of Teneriffe, being the high top of the 
Mountain Teneriffe in the Canaries ; and had a great 
mind to venture out in hopes of reaching thither ,• 
but having tried twice I was forced in again by 
contrary Winds, the Seaalfo going too high for my 
little VeiTel, fo I refolved to purfue my firft Defign 
and keep along the Shore. 

Several times I was obliged to land for frefh Wa- 
ter, after we had left this Place ,• and once in par- 
ticular, being early in the Morning, we came to 
an Anchor under a little Point of Land which was 
pretty high, and the Tide beginning to flow, we 
lay ftill to go farther in ,• Xury i whofe Eyes were 
more about him then it feems mine were, calls foft- 
ly to me, and tells me that we had beft go farther 
off the Shore ; for, fays he, look yonder lies a 
dreadful Monfler on the Side of that Hillock fall 
afleep : I look'd where he pointed, and faw a 
dreadful Monfler indeed, for it was a terrible great 
Lyon that lay on the Side of the Shore, under the 
Shade of a Piece of the Hill that hung as it were a 
little over him. Xury y faid I, you (hall go on Shore 
and kill him; Xary look'd frighted, and faid, 
'Me kill \ be eat me atone Mouth ; one Mouthful he 
meant ; however, I faid no more to the Boy, but 

bad 



tin 



bad him lye ftill, and I took our biggeft Gun, 
which was almoft Musket-bore, and loaded it with 
a good Charge of Powder, and with two Slugs, 
and laid it down ; then I loaded another Gun with 
two Bullets, and the third, for we had three Pie- 
ces, I loaded with five {mailer Bullets. I took the 
beft Aim I could with the firft Piece to have fhot 
him into the Head, but he lay fo with his Leg 
rais'da little above his Nofe, that the Slugs hit 
his Leg about the Knee, and broke the Bone. He 
ftarted up growling at firft, but finding bis Leg broke 
fell down again, and then got up upon three Legs, 
and gave the moft hideous Roar that ever I heard ; 
I was a little furpriz'd that I had not hit him on 
the Head ; however I took up the fecond Piece im- 
mediately, and tho' he began to move off fir'd a- 
gain, and fhot him into the Head, and had the 
Pleafure to fee him drop, and make but little Noife, 
but lay ftruggling for Life. Then Xury took Heart, 
and would have me let him go on Shore : Well, go 
faid I ; fo the Boy jump'd into the Water, and ta- 
king a little Gun in one Hand, fwam to Shore with 
the other Hand, and coming clofe to the Creature, 
put the Muzzle of the Piece to his Ear, and fhot 
him into the Head again, which difpatch'd him 
quite. 

This was Game indeed to us, but this was no 
Food, and I was very forry to lofe three Charges of 
Powder and Shot upon a Creature that was good 
for nothing to us. However, Xury faid, he would 
have fome of him ,• fo he comes on board, askM 
me to give him the Hatchet; for what, Xury, faid 
I? Me cut off his Head, faid he. However, Xury 
could not cut off h;"s Head, but he cut off a Foot 
and brought it with him, and it was a monftrous 
great one. 

He- 



t*i] 



I bethought my felf however, that perhaps the 
Skin of him might one way or other be of fome 
Value to us ,• and I refolved to take off his Skin if 
I could. So Xury and I went to work with him ; 
but Xury was much the better Workman at it, for I 
knew very ill how to do it. Indeed it took us up 
both the whole Day, but at laft we got off the 
Hide of him, and fpreading it on the top of our 
Cabin ,• the . Sun effectually dried it in two Days 
time, and it afterwards ferv'd me to lye upon. 

After this Stop we made on to the Southward 
continually for ten or twelve Days, living very 
fparing on our Provifions, which began to abate 
very much, atld going nooftner into the Shore than 
we were oblig'd ro for frefii Water; my Defign in 
this was to make the River Gambia or Senegal!, that 
is tofay> any where about the Cape deVerd, where 
I was in hopes to meet with fome European Ship, 
and if I did not, I knew not what Courfe I had 
to take, buttofeek for the Iftands, or perifh there 
among the Negroes. I knew that alj the Ships from 
Europe, which fail'd either to the Coaft olGuiney, 
or to Brafily or to the Eaft-Indiej, made this Cape, 
or thofe Iftands ; and in a word, £ put the whole 
of my Fortune upon this iingle Point, either that I 
muft meet with fomcShip, ormuft perifh. 

When I had purfued this Refolution about ten 
Days longer, as I have faid, I began to fee that 
the Land was inhabited, and in two or three 
Places as we failed by, we faw People ftand upon 
the Shore to look at us, we could alfo perceive 
they were quite Black and Stark-naked. I was once 
inclined to have gone on Shore to them ; but Xury 
was my better Counfellor, and faid tome, no go, 
no go ; however I hawl'd in nearer the Shore that I 
might talk to them, and I found they run along 
the Shore by me a good way ; I obferv'd they had 

no 



C?3] 

no Weapons in their Hands, except one who had a 
long (lender Stick, which Xury fad was a Lance, 
and that they would throw them a great way with 
good Aim; fo I kept at a diitance, but talk'd with 
them by Signs as well as I could ; and particularly 
made Signs for fomething to eat, they beckon 'd to 
me to ftop my Boat, and they would fetch me 
fome Meat; upon this I lower'd the top of my 
Sail, and lay by, and two ol them run up into the 
Country, and in lefs than half an Hour came back* 
and brought with them two Pieces of dry Flefh 
and fome Corn, fuch as is the Produce of their 
Country ; but we neither knew what the one or the 
other was; however we were willing to accept it, 
but how to come at it was our next Dlfpute, for I 
was not for venturing on Shore to them, and they 
were as much aftraid of us ; but they took a fafe 
way for us all,, for they brought it to the Shore and 
laid it down, and went ftood a great way off 
till we fetch'd it on Board, andTRen came clofe to 
us again. 

We made Signs of Thanks to thenf, tfor we had 
nothing to make them amends ; but an Opportuni- 
ty offered that every Inftant to oblige them won- 
derfully, for while we were lying by the Shore, 
came two mighty Creatures, one purfuing the other, 
(as we took it) with great Fury, from the Mountains 
towards the Sea; whetherit was the Male purging 
the Female,or whether they were in Sport or in Kage, 
we could not tell, any more than we could tell whe- 
ther it was ufual or ftrange, but I believe it was the 
latter; becaufe in the firft Place, thofe ravenous 
Creatures feldom appear but in the Night ; and in 
the fecond Place, we found the People terribly 
frighted, efpecially the Women. The Man that 
had the Lance or Dart did not fly from them, 
but the reft did j however as the two Creatures 
D ran 



Iran dire&Iy into tlie Water, they did not feem to of- 
fer to fall upon any of the Negroes, but plungM 
themfelves into the Sea and fwam about as if 
they had come for their Diversion ,• at laft one of 
them began to come nearer our Boat than at firft I 
expe&ed, but I iay ready for him, for I had loaded 
$ny Gun with all poflible Expedition, and bad Xury 
load both the other ; as foon as he came fairly with- 
in my reach, J fird, and (hot him dire&ly into the 
Head ; immediately he funk down into the Water, 
but rofe inftantly and plung'd up and down as if 
he was ftruggling for Life ; andfo indeed he was, 
he immediately made to the Shore, but between 
the Wound which was his mortal Hurt, and the 
jftrangling of the Water, he dyed juft before he 
reached the Shore. 

It is impoffible to exprefs the Aflpriifliment of 
thefe poor Creatures at the Noife and the Fire of 
my Gun j fome of them were even ready to dye 
for Fear, and fell down as Dead with the very 
Terror. But when they faw the Creature dead and 
funk in the AVater, and that I made Signs to them 
to come to the Shore; they took Heart and came 
to the Shore and began to fearch for the Creature, 
I found him by his Blood ltaining the Watefc-, and 
by the help of a Rope which I flung round him 
and gave the Negroes to hawl, they drag'd hijtn on 
Shore, and found that it was a moft curious Leo-: 
pard, fpottedand fine to an admirable Degree, and 
the Negroes held up their Hands with Admiration, 
to think what it was I had killed him with. 

The other Creature frighted with the flafh of 
Fire and the Noife of the Giin fwam on Shore, 
and ran up direfrly to the Mountains from whence, 
they came, nor could I at that Difiance know 
what it was. I found quickly the Negroes were 
for eating the Ficfli of this Creature, fo I ^yas wil- 
ling 



ling to have them take it as a Favour from me> 
which when I made Signs to them that they might 
take him, they were very thankful for, immediate" 
jy they fell to work with him, and tho' they had no 
Knife, yet withafharpen'd piece of Wood they took 
otf his Skin as readily, and much more readily than 
we coa'd have done with a Knife ; they offered me 
iome of the Flefh, which I declined, making as if 
J would give it them, but made Signs for the Skin, 
which they gave me very freely, and brought me a 
great deal more of their Provilion, which tho' I did 
not underftand, yet I accepted; then I made Signs 
to them for fome Water, and held out one. of my 
Jarrs to them, turning it Bottom upward, to (hew 
that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it 
filled. They call'd immediately to fome of their 
Friends, and there came two Women and brought 
a groat Veflfel made ot Earth, and burnt, as Ifup- 
pofe in the Sun ,* this they fet down for me, as be- 
fore, and I fent Xury on Shore with my Jarrs, and 
filled them all three. The Women were as ftark 
naked as the Men. 

I was now furnifiied with Roots and Corn, fuch 
as it was, and Water, and leaving my friendly Ne- 
groes, I made forward for about eleven Days more> 
without offering to go near the Shore, till I faw 
,the Land run out a great Length into the Sea, at 
about the Diftance of four or five leagues before 
me, and the Sea being very calm, I kept a large 
offing to make this Point ; at length, doubling the 
Point at about two Leagues from the Land, 1 
faw plainly Land on the other Side to Seaward ; 
then I concluded, as it was mod: certain, indeed, 
that this was the Cape de Verd, and thofe the /- 
flands, calfd from thence Cape de Verd Ifland*. 
However they were at a great Diftance, and I 
could not well tell what I had beft to do,, for if I 

D 2 fhould 



[3*3 

fhould be taken with a Frefh of Wind I might 
neither reach one or other. 

In this Dilemna, as I was very penfive, I flept 
into the Cabin, and fat me down, Xury having 
the Helm, when on a fudden the Boy cry'd out 
fytafter, Mafier, a Ship with a Sail, and the foolifh 
Boy was frighted out of his Wits, thinking it 
muft needs be fome of his Matter's Ships fent to 
purfueus, when, I knpw we were gotten far enough 
put of their reach. I Jumped out of the Cabin, 
and immediately faw not only the Ship, but what 
fhe was, (viz,.) that it was 3 Portugufe Ship, and 
as I thought was b'6un<i to the Coaft of Guinea for 
Negroes. But when 1 pbferv 'd the Courfe fhe 
fleerd, I w#s foon convinced they were bound 
fome other way, and did not defigh to come any 
nearer to the Shore ; upon which I ftretch'd out to 
Sea as much as I could, revolving to fpeak with 
them if ppffible, 

With all the Sail I could make I found I fhould 
not be able to come in their Way, but that they 
fhould be gone by, before I could make any Signal 
to them ; but after I had crowded to the utmoft, 
and began to defpair, they it feems faw me by the 
help of their Perfpeqtive-Glafles, and that it was 
fome European Boat, which as they fuppofed jnuft 
belong to fome Ship that was loft, fo they fliort- 
ned Sail to let me come up. I was encpuraged 
with this, and as I had my Patron*s Antient on 
Board, I made a Waft of it to them for a Signal 
of Diftrefs, and fir'd a Gun, both which they faw, 
for they told me they faw the Smoke, thp* they did 
not hear the Gun ; upon thefe Signals they very 
kindly brought too, and lay by for me, and in a- 
£>put three Hours time I came up with them. 

Theyask'dmewhatI was, in Portuguefc, and in 
$anijh, and in French, but I underftpod none of 

them v 



C 37 1 



Mem ; but a Iaft a Scots Sailor who was on bbardi 
cail'd to me, and I anfwer'd him, and told him I 
was an Englijh Man, that I had made my efcapc out 
of Slavery from the Moors at Sallee ; then they bad 
me come on board, and very kindly took me in* 
and all my Goods. 

It was an inexprtffible Joy to $ne, thnt dfiy on't 
will believe, that I was thus deliver'd, as I efteeitt'd 
it, from fuch a miferable and almoft hopelefs Con- 
dition as I was in, and I immediately offered all I 
had to the Captain of the Ship, as a Return for 
my Deliverance ; but he generoufly told me, he 
would take nothing from me, but that all I had 
fliould be deliver'd fafe to me when I came to the 
Brajils ; for, fays he, I have favd your Life on no o- 
theyterms than I would be glad to befaved myfelf and 
it may one time or other be my Lot to be taken up in the 
fame Condition ; befides, faid he, when I carry you to 
the Brafils, fo great a way from your own Country, if I 
Jhould take from you what you have, you will befiarved 
there y and then I only take away that Life /have given. 
No, no. Seignior, Inglefe, fays he, Mr. Englifhman^ 
I will carry you thither in Charity, and thofe things will 
help you to buy your Sub/ifiance there, and your P affagi 
home again. 

As he was Charitable in his Propofal, fo he was 
juft in the Performance to a tittle, for he ordered 
the Seamen, that none fhould offer to touch any 
thing I had ; then he took every thing into his own 
Pofleffion, and gave me back an exad Inventory of 
them, that I might have them* even fo much as 
my three Earthen Jarrs. 

As to my Boat it was a very good one; and 
that he faw, and told me4ue .would buy it of me 
for the Ship's Ufe, and ask'd me what 1 \frould have 
for it ? I told him he had been fo generous to me 
in every thing, that I could not offer to make a- 

30 3 tiy 



[?8] 



riy Price of the Boat, but left it entirely to him; 
upon which he told me he would give me a ISore 
of his Hand to pay me 80 Pieces of Eight for it 
at Brafil, and when it came there, if any one ot- 
fer'd to give more he would make it up ; he offered 
mealfo 60 Pieces of Eight more for my Boy Xury, 
which I was loath to take, not that I was not wil- 
ling to let the Captain have him, but I was very 
loath to fell the poor Boy's Liberty, who had afli-* 
fled me (o faithfully in procuring my own. How- 
ever when I Jet him know my Reafon, he own'd it 
to be juft, and offered me this Medium, that he 
would give the Boy an Ob igation to fet him free 
in ten Years, if he turn'd Chriilian; upon this, 
and Xury faying he was willing to go to him, I 
let the Captain have him. 

We had a very good Voyage to the Brafik, and 
arrived in the Bay de Todos /os Santos, or All- Saints- 
Bay, in about 22 Days after. And now I was 
once more delivered from the moft miferable of 
all Conditions of Life, and what to do next with 
my fe;f, I was now to confider. 

The generous Treatment the Captain gave me, 
I can never enough remember ; he wou.dtake no- 
thing of me for my Paflage, gave me 20 Ducats 
for the Leopard's Skin, and 40 for the Lyon's Skin 
which I had in my Boat, and caufed every Thing 
I had in the Ship to be punctually deliver'd me, 
and what I was willing to fell he bought, fuch as 
the Cak of Bottles, two of my Guns, and a Piece 
of the Lump of Bees-wax, for I had made Can- 
dles cf the reft ; in a word, I made about 220 
Pieces of Eight ot all my Cargo, and with this 
Stock I vent on Shore in the Brafilo. 

I had not been long here, but being recommen- 
ded to the Hoi.fe of a good honeft Man like hira- 
fej£ vvh o had ai Ingeino as they call it; that is, a 

P.an- 



[39] 

Plantation, and a Sugar-Houfe. I liv'd with him 
fome Time, and acquainted myfelf by that Means 
With the Manner of their planting and making of 
Sugar,- and feeing how well the PJanters liv'd, and 
how they grew rich fuddenly, I refolv'd, if I could 
get Licence* to fettle there, I would turn Planter a- 
inong them, refolving in the mean time to find out 
fome way to get my Money, which I left in London, 
remitted to me. To this Purpoie, getting a kind 
of a Letter of Naturalization, I purchafed as much 
Land that was uncur'd, as my Money would reach* 
and form'd a Plan for my Plantation and Settlement, 
and fuch a one as might be fuitable to the Stocky 
which I proposed to myfelf to receive from England. 
I had a Neighbour, a Portuguefe of Lisbon, but 
born of Englijh Parents, whofe Name was IVells, 
and in much fuch Circumftances as I was- I call 
him my Neighbour, becaufe his Plantation lay next 
to mine, and we went on very fociably together. My 
Stock was but low a? well as his ,• and we rather 
planted for Food than any Thing elfe, for about two 
Years. However, we began to encreafe, and our 
Land began to come into Order ; fo that the third 
Year we planted fome Tobacco, and made each of 
us a large Piece of Ground ready for planting Canes 
in the Year to come ; but we both wanted Help ; 
and now I found more than before, I had done 
wrong in parting With my Boy Xurj. 

But alas! for me to do wrong that never did right, 
was no great Wonder : I had no Remedy but to 
goon; I was gotten into an Imployment quite re- 
mote to my Genius, anddire&ly contrary to the Life 
I delighted in, and for which I forfdok my Father's 
Houfe, and broke thro 5 all his good Advice ; nay, 
I was coming into the very middle Station, or up- 
per Degree of low Life, which my Father Advifed 
me to before ; and which,- if I refolv'd to go on 

P 4 With 



£40] 



with, I might as well ha* ftaid at Home, and neve* 
have fatigu'd my felf in the World as I had done ; 
and I ufed often to fay to my felf, I could ha* 
done this as well in England among my Friends, as 
ha' gone 5000 Miles oft to do it among Strangers 
and Savages in a Wildernefs, and at fuch a Diftance, 
as never to hear from any Part of the World that 
had the leaft Knowledge of me. 

In this manner I ufed to look upon my Condition 
with the utmoft Regret. 1 had no Body to con- 
verge with, but now and then this Neighbour ; no 
Work to be done, but by the Labour of my Hands ; 
and I ufed to fay, I iv'd jufl like a Man call away 
upon fomedefolatelfland, that had no Body there 
but himfelf. But how juft has it been, and how fhould 
all Men refled, that, when they compare their pre- 
fent Conditions with others that are worfe, Heaven 
may oblige them to make the Exchange, and be 
convine'd of their former Felicity, by their Experi- 
ence : I fay, how juft has it been, that the truly foli- 
tary Life I refk&ed on in an IQand of meer Defol- 
tion fliould be my Lot, who had fo often unjuftly 
compared it wit h the Life which I then led, in which 
had I continued, I had in all Probability been ex- 
ceeding profperous and rich. 

I was in fome Degree fettled in my Meafures for 
carrying on the Plantation, before my kind Friend 
the Captain of the Ship, that took me up at Sea, 
went back ,• for the Ship remained there in provi- 
ding his Loading, and preparing for his Voyage, 
near three Months, when telling him what little 
Stock I had left behind me in Londin, he gave me 
this friendlyand fincere hdvicz.Seignor Inglefefays he, 
for fo he always called me,ifyoii will give meLetters, 
and a Procuration here in Form to me, w'th Orders 
to the Perfon who has your Money in Dndcn, to fend 
your Efie&s to Lubon ) to fuch Perfons as I fhall di- 
rect 



tt&i and in fuch Goods as are proper for this 
Country, I will bring you the Produce of them, 
God willing, at my Return ; but flnce human Af- 
fairs are all futjeft to Changes and Difafters, I 
would have you give Orders but for ioo /. Sterl. 
which you fay is half your Stock, and let the Ha- 
zard be run for the full; fo that if it come fafe, 
you may order the reft the fame Way ; and if it 
mifcarry, you may have the other Half to have 
Recourfe to for your Supply. 

This was fo wholefome Advice, and look'd fo 
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was 
the beft Courfe I could take ; fo I accordingly pre- 
pared Letters to the Gentlewoman, with whom I 
had left my Money, and a Procuration to he Por- 
tuguefe Captain, as he defir'd* 
1 wrote the EngUJh Captain'sWidowafull Acconnt 
of all my Adventures, my Slavery, Efcape,and how 
I had met with the Portugal Captain at Sea, the Hu- 
manity of hisBehaviour, and in what Condition I was 
now in, with all other neceflary Diredions for my 
Supply ; and when this honeft Captain came to Lis- 
bon, he found means by fome of the £«g///?>Merchants 
there, to fend over not the Order only, but a full 
Account of my Story to a Merchant at London, 
who reprefented it effectually to her ; whereupon, 
(he not only delivered the Money, but out other 
own Pocket fent the Portugal Captain a very hand- 
fome Prefent for his Humanity and Charity to me. 

The Merchant in London veiling this ioo /. in 
Englijb Goods, fuch as the Captain had writ for, 
fent them di redly to him at Lisbon, and he brought 
them ail fafe to me to the Rrafils, among which, 
without my Dire&ion ( for I was too young in 
my Bufinefs to think of them) he had taken Care 
to have all flrtsof Tools, Iron-Work, and Uten- 

fib 



[4i] 

Jils neceGary (or my Plantation, and which were ol 
great Ufe to me. 

When this Cargo arrived, I thought my Fortune . 
made, for I was furprized with Joy of it ; and my 
good Steward the Captain had laid out the five 
Pounds which my Friend had fent him for a Pre- 
fent for himfelf, to purehafe, and bring me over a 
Servaut under Bond for fix Years Service, and would 
not accept of any Confideration, except a little 
Tobacco, which I would have him accept, being m 
of my own Produce. 

Neither was this all ; but my Goods being all 
Englijh Manufactures, fuch as Cloath, Stuffs, Bays, 
and Things particularly valuable and defirable in 
the Country, I found Means to fell them to a very 
great Advantage ; fo that I may fay, I had more 
than four times the Value of my firft Cargo, and 
was now infinitly beyond my poor Neighbour, I 
mean in the Advancement of my Plantation ; for the 
firft thing I did, I bought me a Negroe Slave, and an 
European Servant alfo ; I mean another befides that 
which the Captain brought me from Lisbon. 

But as abus'd Prosperity is oftentimes made the 
very Means of our greateft Adverfity, fo was it with 
me. I went on the next Year with great Succefs in 
my Plantation : I raifed fifty great Rolls of Tobac- 
co on my own Ground, more than I had difpofed 
of for Neceffaries among my Neighbours; and 
thefe fifty Rolls being each of above a ioo lj/i. were 
well cur'd and laid by again ft the Return of the 
Fleet from Lisbon: And nowincreafingin Bufinefs 
and in Wealth, my Head began to be full of Pro- 
jects and Undertakings beyond my Reach ; fueh as 
are indeed often the Ruin of the beft Heads in 
Bfcifkefs. 

Had 



I • Had I continued in the Station I was now in, I 
had room for all the happy Things to have yet be- 
fallen me, for which my Father fo earneftly recom- 
mended a quiet retired Life, and of which he had 
io fcnfibly defcribed the middle Station of Life to 
be full off; but other Things attended me, and I 
was ftill to be the wilful Agent of all my own 
Miferies ; and particularly to encreafe my Faulty 
and double the Reflections upon my felf, which in 
m my future Sorrows I ftiould have Leifure to make ; 
all thefe Mifcarriages were procured by my appa- 
rent obftinate adhering to my foolifh Inclination, of 
wandring Abroad, and purfuing that Inclination, in 
Contradi&ion to the cleared Views of doing my 
felfgood, in a fair and plain Purfuit of thofe Prof- 
pe&s, and thofe Meafures of Life, which Nature 
and Providence concurred to prefent me with, and 
to make my Duty. 

.As I had once done thus in my breaking away 
from my Parents, fo I could not be content now, 
but I rauft go and leave the happy View I had of 
being a rich and thriving Man in my new Plantati- 
on, only to purfue a rafh and immoderate Defire of 
rifing fafter than the Nature of the Thing admit- 
ted; and thus I caft my felf down again into the 
deepeft Gulph of human Mifery that ever Man fell 
into, or perhaps could be confident with Life and 
a State of Health in the World. 

To come then by juft Degrees, to the Parti- 
culars of this Part of my Story ; you may fuppofe, 
that having now lived almoft four Years in the 
Brafihy and beginning to thrive and profper very 
well upon my Plantation ; I had not only learn'd 
the Language, but had contraded Acquaintance 
and Friendship among my Fellow-Planters, as well 
as among the Merchants at St. Sahadore, which 
was our Port ,' and that in my Difcourfes among 

them 4 



t44 3 



them, I had frequently given them an Account of 
ray two Voyages to the Coaft of Guinea* the 
manner of Trading with the Negroes there, and 
how eafy it was to purchafe upon the Coaft, for 
Trifles, fuch as Beads, Toys, Knives, Sciffars* 
Hatchets, Bits of Glafs, and the like ; not only 
Gold Duft, Guinea Grains, Elephants Teeth, && 
but Negroes for the Service of the Brajils> in great 
Numbers. 

They liftened always very attentively to my 
Difcourfes on thefe Heads, but efpecialJy to that 
Part which related to the buying Negroes, which 
was a Trade at that Time not dnly not far entred 
into, but as far as it was, had been carry'd on by 
the Affienu/s, or Pcrmiffion of the Kings ofSpaitt 
and Portugal, and engrofs'd in the Publick, fo that 
few Negroes were brought, and thofe exceffive 
dear. 

It happened, being in Company with fome Mer- 
chants and Planters of my Acquaintance, and 
talking of thofe Things very earneftly, three of 
them came to me the next Morning, and told me 
they had been mufing very much upon what I had 
difcourfed with them of, the laft Night, and they 
came to make a fecret Propofal to me ; and after 
enjoining me Secrecy, they told me, that they had < 
a mind to fit out a Ship to go to Guinea, that + 
they had ail Plantations as well as I, and were 
ftraiten'd for nothing fo much as Servants ; that as 
it was a Trade that could not be carry 'd on, be- 
caufe they could not publickly fell the Negroes 
when they came Home, fo they defir'd to 
make but one Voyage, to bring the Negroes on 
Shore privately, and divide them among their 
own Plantations ; and in a word, the Queilion 
was, whether I would go their Super-Cargo in the 
Ship to manage the Trading Part upon the Coaft 



[45 ] 

pf Guiney ? And they offer'd me that I fhould have 
my equal Share of the Negroes, without providing 
any Part of the Stock. 

This was a fair Propofal, it muft be confefsM, 
had it been made to any one that had not had a 
Settlement and Plantation of his own to look after, 
which was in a fair Way oi coming to be very 
confiderable, and with a good Stock upon it. But 
for me that was thus entered and eftablifhed, and 
had nothing to do but go on as I had begun for 
three or four Years more, and to have fent for the 
other hundred Pound from England, and who in 
that time, and with that little Addition, could 
fcarce ha* fail'd of being worth three or four thou- 
fand Pounds Sterling, and that encreafing too ; for 
me to think offuch a Voyage, was themoft pre- 
pofterous Thing that ever Man in fuch Circum- 
fiances could be guilty of. 

But I that was born to be my own Deftroyer, 
could no more refift the Offer than I could reftrain 
my firfl rambling Defigns, when my Father's good 
Counfel was loft upon me. In a word, I told them 
I would go with all my Heart, if they would un- 
dertake to look after my Plantation in my Ab- 
fence, and would difpofe of it to fuch as I fhould 
,4ire&, if I mifcarry'd. This they all engaged to 
'do, and entred into Writings or Covenants to do 
fo ; and I made a formal Will, difpofing of my 
Plantation and Eftefts, in Cafe of my Death, ma- 
king the Captain of the Ship that had fav'd mv Life, 
as before, my univerfal Heir, but obliging him to 
difpofe of my Efte&s, as I had direfted in my Will, 
one half of the Produce being to himfelf, and the 
other to be fhipp'd to England. 

In fhort, I took all poffible Caution to preferve 
my Efre&s and keep up my Plantation ; had I u- 
fcd half as much Prudence to have look'd into my 

own 



[¥1 

,pwn Intereft, and have made a Judgment of wh$t 
i ought to have done, and not to have done, I ha4 
certainly never gone away from fo profperous an 
Undertaking, leaving all the probable Views of a 
thriving Circumftance, and gone upon a Voyage 
to Sea, attended with all its common Hazards ; to 
fay nothing of the Reafons 1 had to exped particu- 
lar Misfortunes to my felE 

But I was hurry "d on, and obeyed blindly the 
Di&ates of rny Fancy rather than my Reafon ; and 
accordingly the Ship being fitted out, and the Car- 
go fujpnifhed, and all Things done as by Agree- 
ment, by my Partners in the Voyage, I went on 
Board in an evil Hour again, the firft of September, 
1659* being the fame Day eight Year that I went 
from my Father and Mother at HuH y in order to 
ad the Rebel to their Authority, and the Fool to 
my own Intereft. 

Our Ship was about 120 Tun Burthen, carried 
fix Guns, and fourteen Men, including the Matter, 
his Boy, and my felf; we had on Board no large 
Cargo of Goods, except of fuch Toys as were fit 
for our Trade with the Negroes, fuch as Beads, 
bits of Glafs Shells, and odd Tribes, efpecially 
little Looking-Giaffcs, Knives, ScilTars, Hatchets, 
and the like. 

The fame Day I went on Board we fet fail, 
ftanding away to the Northward upon our own 
Coaft, with Defign to ftretch over for the African 
Coaft, when they came about 10 or 12 Degrees of 
Northern Latitude, which it feems was the man- 
ner of their Courfe in thofe Days. We had very 
good Weather, only exceffive hot, all the way up- 
on our own Coaft, till we caine the Height of 
Cape St. AiigujlinQ, from whence keeping farther off 
at Sea we loit Sight of Land, and fteer'd as if wc 
was bound for the Isle Fernand de Nuronba, holding 

our 



[47] 

our Courfe N. E.by N. and leaving thofe Ifles on 
the Eaft ; in this Courfe we paft the Line in about 
1 2 Days time, and were by our laft Obfervation in 
7 Degrees 22 Min. Northern Latitude, when a vi- 
olent Tournado or Hurricane took us quite out of 
our Knowledge ; it began from the South- Eaft, 
came about to the North- Weft, and then fettled 
into the North-Eaft, from whence it blew in fuch 
a terrible manner, that for 1 2 Days together we 
could do nothing but drive, and fcudding away 
before it, let it carry us whither ever Fate and the 
Fury of the Winds directed ,* and during thefe 1 2 
Days, I need not fay, that I expe&ed every Day 
to be fw allowed up, nor indeed did any in the Ship 
exped to fave their Lives. 

In this Diftrefs, we had, befides the Terror of 
the Storm, one of our Men die of the Calenture, 
and one Man and the Boy wafh'd over-board ; a- 
bout the twelfth Day the Weather abating a little, 
the Mafter made an Obfervation as well as he 
could, and found that he was in about eleven De- 
grees North Latitude, but that he was twenty two 
Degrees of Longitude difference Weft from Cape St. 
Auguftiw ; fo that he found he was gotten upon the 
Coaft of Guiana, or the North Part of Brafil, be- 
yond the River Amoz^ones, toward that of the Ri- 
i/cv Oroenoque, commonly call'd the Great River, and 
began to confult with me what Courfe he ftiould 
take, for the Ship was leaky and very much difa- 
bled, and he was going dire&ly back to the Coaft 
of Brafel. 

I was pofitively againft that, and looking over 
the Charts of the Sea-Coaft of America with him, 
we concluded there was no inhabited Country for 
us to have recourfe to, till we came within the Cir- 
cle of the Canibbe-IJlandsy and therefore refolved 
to ftand away for Barbadoes, which by keeping oft* 

at 



C4H 

at Sea, to avoid the Indraft of the Bay or Gulph 
of Mexico, we might eafily perform, as we hoped, 
in about 15 Days Sail; whereas we could not 
poffibly make our Voyage to the Coaft of Africa, 
without fome Affiftance, both to our Ship and 
to our felves. 

With this Defign we changed our Courfe, and 
fleer'd away N. W. by IV. in order to reach fome 
oi our Englijh Iflands, where I hoped for Relief; 
but our Voyage was otherwife determined, for 
being in the Latitude of 12 Deg. 18 Min. a fe- 
cond Storm came upon us, which carry 'd us away 
with the fame Impetuofity Weilward, and drove 
us fo out of the very Way of all humane Com- 
merce, that had our Lives been faved, as to 
the Sea, we were rather in Danger of being de- 
voured by Savages than ever returning to our own 
Country. 

In this Diftrefs, theWind blowing itii] very hard, 
one of our Men early in the Morning, cry'd out, 
Land; and we had no fooner run out of the Ca- f 
bin to look out, in hopes of feeing whereabouts 
in the World we were ; but the Ship ftruck upon 
a Sand, and in a Moment her Motion being fo 
ftopp'd, the Sea broke over her in fuch a manner, 
that we expe&ed we fhould all have perifli'd im- 
mediately, and we were immediately driven into 
clofe Quarters to fhelter us from the very Foam 
and Sprye of the Sea. 

It is not eafy for any one, who has not been 
in the like Condition, to defcribe or conceive the 
Condernation of Men in fuch Circumftances; we 
knew nothing where we were, or upon what Land 
it was we were driven, whether an Ifland, or the 
Main ; whether inhabited, or not inhabited ; and 
as the Rage ot the Wind was ftill great, tho' ra- 
ther lefs than at firft, we could not fo much as 

hope 



[49 3 

hope to have the Ship hold many Minutes without 
breaking in Pieces, unlefs the Winds by a kind of 
Miracle Ihould turn immediately about. In a 
word, we fat looking one upon another, and ex- 
pefting Death every Moment, and every Man act- 
ing accordingly, as preparing for another World ; 
for there was little or nothing more for us to do in 
this : That which was ourprefent Comfort, and all 
the Comfort we had, was, That contrary to our 
Expectation the Ship did not break yet, and that 
the Matter faid, the Wind began to abate. 

Now tho' we thought that the Wind did a little 
abate, yet the Ship having thus ftruck upon the 
Sand, and flicking too fad for us to exped her get- 
ting oft, we were in a dreadful Condition indeed, 
and had nothing to do but to think of faving our 
Lives as well as we could ; we had a Boat at our 
Stern, juft before the Storm, but ihe*wasfirft ftav'd 
by daihing aga:nft the Ship's Rudder, and in the 
next Piace (be broke away, and either funk or 
was driven off to Sea; fo there was no Hope from 
her : We had anocher Boat on Board, but how to 
get her off into the Sea, was a doubtful Thing ; 
however, there was no room to debate, for we 
fancy 'd the Ship would break in Pieces every Mi- 
nute; and feme told us (he was a&ually broken al- 
ready. 

In this Diftrefs, the Mate of our Veffe) lays hold 
of the Boat, and with the Help of the reft of the 
Men, they got her (lung over the ShipViide, and 
getting ail inco her, let go, and committed cur 
ftlvesj being Eleven in Number, to God's Mercy, 
and the wild Sea ; for tho' the Storm was abated 
confiderably, yet the Sea went dreadhil high upon 
the Shore, and might well be calfd, Den wild Zee, 
as the Dutch call the Sea in a Storm* 

E And 



And now our Cafe was very difmal indeed; for 
we all faw plainly, that the Sea went fo high, that 
the Boat could not live, and that we fliould be ine- 
vitably drownM As to making Sail, we had none, 
nor, if we had, could we have done any thing with 
it ; fo we work'd at the Oar towards the Land, 
tho' with heavy Hearts, like Men going to Executi- 
on; for we all knew, that when the Boat came nea- 
rer the Shore, fhe would be dafti'd in a thoufand 
Pieces by the Breach of the Sea. However we 
committed our Souls to God in the moft earned 
manner, and the Wind driving us towards the Shore, 
we haften'd our Deftru&ion with our own Hands, 
pulling as well as we could towards Land. 

What the Shore was, whether Rock or Sand, 
whether Steep or Shoal, we knew not; the only 
Hope that could rationally give us the leaft Shado\y 
of Expe&ation, was, if we might happen into fome 
Bay or Gulph, or the Mouth of fome River, where 
by great Chance we might have run our Boat in, or 
got under the Lee of the Land, and perhaps made 
fmooth Water. But there was nothing of this ap- 
peared ; but as we made nearer and nearer the Shore, 
the Land looked more frightful than the Sea. 

After we had row'd, or rather driven about a 
League and a Half, as we reckon 'd it, a raging 
Wave, Mountain-like, came rowling a-ftern of us, 
and plainly bad us exped the Coup- de-Grace. In a 
word, it took us with fuch a Fury, that it overfet 
the Boat at once; and feparating us as well from 
the Boat, as from one another, gave us not Time 
hardly to fay, O God ! for we are all fwallowed 
up in a Moment. 

Nothing can defcribe the Confufion of Thought 
which I fe.t when I funk into the Water ; for tho* I 
fwam very well, yet I could not deliver my felf from 
the Waves, fo as to draw Breath, 'till the Wave 

having 



[5i ] 

having driven me, or rather carried me a vaft Way 
on towards the Shore, and having fpentit felf, went 
back, and left me upon the Land almoft dry, but 
half dead with the Water I took in, 1 had fo much 
Prefence of Mind as well as Breath left, that feeing 
my felf nearer the main Land than I expected, I got 
upon my Feet, and endeavoured to make on to- 
wards the Land as faft as I could, before another 
Wave fhould return, and take me up again. But I 
foon found it was impoflible to avoid it ; forlfaw 
the Sea come after me as high as a great Hill, and 
as furious as an Enemy which I had no Means or 
Strength to contend with ; my Bufinefs was to hold 
my Breath, and rife myfelf upon the Water, if I 
could s and fo by fwimming to preferve my Breath- 
ing, and Pilot myfelf towards the Shore, if pofli- 
ble ; my greateft Concern now being, that the Sea, 
as it would carry me a great Way towards the Shore 
when it came on, might not carry me back again 
with it when it gave back towards the Sea. 

The Wave that came upon me again, buried me 
at once 20 or 30 Foot deep in its own Body ; and I 
could feel my felf carried with a mighty Force and 
Swiftnefs towards the Shore a very great Way ; but 
I held my Breath, and aflifted my felf to fwim ftiil 
forwards with ail my Might. I was ready to burft 
m with holding my Breath, when, as I felt my felf 
* rifing up, fo to my immediate Relief, I found my 
Head and Hands fhoot out above the Surface of the 
Water; and tho' it was not two Seconds of Time 
that I could keep my felf fo, yet it relieved me 
greatly, gave me Breath and new Courage. I was 
covered again with Water a good while, but not 
fo long but I held it out; and finding the Water 
had fpent it felf, and began to return, I ftrook for- 
ward againft the Return of the Waves, and felt 
Ground agkin with my Feet. I flood ftill a few 
E 2 Mo- 



[51] 



Moments to recover Breath, and 'till the Water 
went from me, and then took to my Heels,andrun, 
with what Strength I had, farther towards the 
Shore : But neither would this deliver me from 
the Fury of the Sea, which came pouring in af- 
ter me again, and twice more I was lifted up by 
the Waves, and carry 'd forwards as before, the 
Shore being very flat. 

The laft Time of thefe two had well near been 
fatal to me; for the Sea having hurry *d me along as' 
before, landed me, or rather dafh'd me againft a 
Piece of a Rock ; and that with fuch Force, as it 
left me fenfelefs, and indeed helplefs, as to my own 
Deliverance ; for the Blow taking my Side and 
Breaft, beat the Breath, as it were, quite out of my 
Body ; and had it returned again immediately, I 
muft have been ftrangled in the Water; but I re;- 
coverM a little before the Return of the Waves ; 
and feeing I fhould be cover'd again with the Wa- 
ter, I refolv'd to hold faft by a Piece of the Rock, 
and fo to hold my Breath, ifpoflible/ull the Wave 
went back ; now asthe Waves were not fo high as 
at firft, being near Land, I held my Hold 'till the 
Wave abated, and then fetched another Run, 
which brought me fo near the Shore, that the 
next Wave, tho' it went over me, yet did not fo 
fwallow me up as to carry me away, and the next 
Run I took, I got to the main Land, where, to 
my great Comfort, I clamberM up the Gifts of 
the Shore, and fat me down upon the Grafs, free 
from Danger, and quite out of the Reach of the 
Water. 

I was now landed, andfafeon Shore, and began 
to look up and thank God that my Life was fa v'd in 
a Cafe wherein there was fcmeMinutes before fcarce 
any room to hope. I believe it isimpoffible to ex- 
prefs to the Life what the Extafies and Tranfport s of 

the 



[ 53 ] 

the Soul arc, when it i$ fo fav'd, as Tmy fay, out 
of the very Grave; and I do not wcnder now at 
that Cuftom, viz,. That when a Malefa&or, who 
has the Halter about his Neck, is ty'd up, and juft 
going to be turned off, and has a Reprieve brought 
to him : I fay, I do not wonder that they bring a 
Surgeon with it, to let him Blood that very Mo- 
ment they tell him of it, that the Surprize may not 
drive the Animal Spirits from the Heart, and over- 
whelm him : 

For fudden Joys, like Griefs, confound at firft. 

I walk'd about on the Shore, lifting up my Hands 
and my whole Being, as I may fay, wrapt up in the 
Contemplation of my Deliverance, making a thou- 
fand Geitures and Motions which I cannot defcribe, 
reflecting upon all my Comrades that were drown'd, 
and that there (hould not be one Soul fav'd but my 
felf; for, as for them, Ineverfaw them afterwards, 
or any Sign of them, except three of their Hats, 
one Cap, and two Shoes that were not Fellows. 

I call my Eyes to the ftranded Veflel, when the 
Breach and Froth of the Sea being fo big, I could 
hardly fee it, it lay fo far off, and confider'd, Lord ! 
how was it poflible I could get on Shore ! 

After I had folac'd my Mind with the comfortable 
Part ofmy Condition, I began to look round me to 
fee what kind of Place I. was in, and what was next 
to be done, and I foon found my Comforts abate ; 
and that, in a word, I had a dreadful Deliverance : 
For I was wet, had no Cloaths to fhift me, nor any 
thing either to eat or drink to comfort me, neither 
did I fee any Profped before me, but that of pe- 
nding with Hunger, or being devour'd by wild 
Beads ; and that which was particularly afHi&ing 
to me, was, that I had no Weapon either to hunt 
E 3 and 



[54] 

and kill any Creature for my Suftenanc£, or to de-> 
fend my felf againft any other Creature that might 
defire to kill me for t heir's : In a word, I had no- 
thing about me but a Knife, a Tobacco-pipe, and 
a littie Tobacco in a Box; this was all my Provifi- 
on, and this threw me into terrible Agonies of 
Mind, that for a while I run about like a M ad-man ; 
Night coming upon me, I began with a heavy 
Heart to confider what would be my Lotifjthere 
were any ravenous Beafts in that Country, feeing 
at Night they always come abroad for their Prey. 

All the Remedy that offered to my Thoughts at 
that Time, was, to get up into a thick bufliy Tree 
like a Firr, but thorny, which grew near me, and 
where I refolv'd to fit all Night, and confider the 
next Day what Death I fhould die, for as yet I 
faw no Profped of Life ; I walk'd about a Furlong 
from the Shore, to fee if I could find any frefli Wa- 
ter to drink, which I did, to my great Joy ; and har 
ving drank, and put a little Tobacco in my Mouth 
to prevent Hunger, I went to the Tree, and get- 
ting up into it, endeavoured to place myfelf fo, as 
thac if I fliould deep, I might not fall ; and having 
cut me a (hort Stick, like a Truncheon, for my 
Defence, I took up my Lodging, and having been 
exceffively fatigued, I fell faft afieep, and flept as 
comfortably as, I believe, few could have done 
in my Condition, and found myfelf the raoft re- 
frefh'd with it, that I think I ever was on fuch an 
Occafion. 

When I wak'd, it was broad Day, the Weather 
clear, and the Storm abated, fo that the Sea did 
not rage and fwell as before :; But that which fur- 
pm'd me moft, was, that the Ship was lifted off 
in the Night from the Sand where fhe lay, by 
the Swelling of the Tide, and was driven up al- 
mpft as far as the Rock, which I firft mention'd, 

<yvhere 



I 55 ] 

where I had been fo bruis'd by the dafting me a- 
gainft it; this being within about a Mile from the 
Shore where I was, and the Ship feeming to ftand 
upright Hilly I witfi'd my felf on Board, that, at 
leaft, I might /ave Tome neceffary Things for my 
Ufe. 

When I came down from my Appartment in the 
Tree, I look'd about me again, and the firft Thing 
I found was the Boat, which lay as the Wind and 
the Sea had tofs'd her up upon the Land, about 
two Miles on my Right-Hand. I walk'd as far as I 
could upon the Shore to have got to her, but found 
a Neck or Inlet of Water between me and the 
Boat, which was about half a Mile Broad, fo I 
came back for the prefent, being more intent upon 
getting at the Ship, where I hop'd to find fome- 
thing for my prefent Subfiftence. 

A little after Noon I found the Sea very calm, 
and the Tide ebb'd fo far out, that I could come 
within a quarter of a Mile of the Ship ,• and here 
I found a frefh renewing of my Grief, for I faw 
evidently that if we had kept on Board, we had 
been all fafe, that is to fay, we had ail got fafe 
on Shore, and I had not been fo miferable as to 
bp left entirely deftitute of all Comfort and Com- 
pany, as now I was ; this forced Tears from my 
, Eyes again, but as there was little Relief in that, 
I refolv'd, if poffible, to get to the Ship, fo I 
pullM off my Cloaths, for the Weather was hot to 
Extremity, and took the Water; but when I came 
xo the Ship, my Difficulty was ftill greater to 
know how to get on Board, for as fiie lay a-ground, 
and high out of the Water, there was nothing 
within my Reach to lay hold of, I fwam round 
her twice, and the fecond Time I fpy'd a fmall 
Piece of a Rope, which I wonder I did not fee 
at firft, hang down by the Fore-Chains fo low, 

E 4 as 



[5*] 

as that with great Difficulty I got hold of it, and 
by the help of that Rope,< got up into the Fore- 
caftle of the Ship, here I found that the Ship was 
bulg'd, and had a great deal of Water in her Hold, 
but that fhe lay fo on the Side of a Bank of hard 
Sand, or rather Earth, and her Stern lay lifted up 
upon the Bank, and her Head low almoft to 
the Water ," by this Means all her Quarter was 
free ', and all that was in that Part was dry ; 
for you may be fure my firft Work was to fearch 
and to fee what was fpoii'd, and what was 
free ,- and firft, I found that all the Ship's Pro- 
vifions were dry and -untouch'd by the Water, 
and being very well difpos'd to eat, I went to 
the Bread-Room and fill'd my Pockets with Bi£- 
ket, and eat it as I went about other Things, 
for I had no time to Iofe ? I alfo found feme Rum 
in the great Cabin, of which I rock a large 
Dram, and which I had indeed need enough of 
to fpirit me for what was before me : Now I 
wanted nothing but a Boat to furnifh my feif with 
many Things which I forefaw would be very ne- 
ceiTary to me. 

It was in vain to fit ft ill and wifli for what was 
not to be had, and this Extremity rouz'd my 
Application ; we had feveral fpare Yards, and 
•two or three large Sparrs or Wood, and a fpare 
Top- mail or two in the Ship ; I refolv'd to fall to 
work with thefe, and flung as many of them 
over Board, as I could manage for their Weight, 
tying every one with a Rope, that they might 
not drive away ; when this was done I went down 
the Ship& Side, and pulling them to me, I ty d 
four of them faft together ot both Ends as well 
as I could, in the Form of a Raft, and laying 
two cr three fhort Pieces of Plank upon them 
crofs-ways, I found I could walk upon it very 

v el), 



[57] 

well, but that it was not able to bear any great 
Weight, the Pieces being too light ; (o I went to 
work, and with the Carpenter's Saw I cut a fpare 
Top-maft into three Lengths, and added them to 
my Raft, wirh a great deal of Labour and Pains, 
but hope of furnifhing my felf with NeceiTaries, en- 
couraged me to go beyond what I fhould have been 
able to have done upon another Occafion. 

My Raft was now ftrong enough to bear any 
reafonable Weight ; my next Care was what to 
load it with, and how topreferve what I laid upon 
it from the Surf of the Sea ; but I was not long con- 
(idering this, I firftlaid all the Planks or Boards up- 
on it that I could get, and having confider'd well 
what I moll wanted, I firft got three of theSea- 
mens Chefts, which I had broken open and empty 'd, 
and lower'd them dpwn upon my Raft ; the firft 
of thefel fill'd with Provifions, viz,. Bread, Rice, 
three Dutch Cheefes, five Pieces of dry'd Goat's 
Flefli, which we liv'd much upon, and a little Re- 
mainder oi European Corn, which had been laid by 
for fome Fowls which we brought to Sea with us, 
but the Fowls were kill'd ; there had been fome 
Early and Wheat together, but, to my great Dif- 
appointment, I found afterwards that the Rats had 
eaten or fpoifd it all ; as for Liquors, I found fe- 
deral Cafes of Botjles belonging to our Skipper, in 
which were fome Cordial Waters, and in all about 
five or fix Gallons of Rack, thefe I flowed by 
themfelves, there being no need to put them into 
Jthc Gheft, nor no room for them. While I was 
doing this, I found the Tid^ begin to flow, tho* 
very calm, and I had the Mortification to fee my 
Coat, Shirt, and Waft-coat, which I had left on 
Shore upon the Sand, fwim away; as for my 
Breeches, which were only Linnenandopenknee'd, 
I fwam on Board in them and my Stockings : How- 
ever 



[58] 

ever this put me upon rummaging for Cloaths, of 
which 1 found enough, but took no more than I 
wanted for prefent Ufe, for I had other Things 
which my Eye was more upon, as firft Tools to 
work with on Shore, and it was after long fearch- 
ing that I found out the Carpenter's Cheft, which 
was indeed a very ufeful Prize to me, and much 
more valuable than a Ship Loading of Gold would 
have been at that time; 1 got it down to my Raft, 
even whole as it was, without lofing Time to look 
into it, for I knew in general what it contain'd. 

My next Care was for fome Ammunition and 
Arms ; there were two very good Fowling-Pieces 
in the great Cabin, and two Piftols, thefe I fe- 
cur'd firft, with fome Powder- Horns, and a fmall 
Bag of Shot, and two old rufly Swords : I knew 
there were three Barrels of Powder in the Ship, 
but knew not where our Gunner had flowed them, 
but with much Search I found them, two of them 
dry and good, the third had taken Water, thofe 
two I got to my Raft, with the Arms, and now 
I thought my felf pretty well freighted, and be- 
gan to think how I fhould get to Shore with them, 
having neither Sail, Oar, or Rudder, andtheleaft 
Cap full of Wind would have overfet all my Na- 
vigation. 

I had three Encouragements, i. A fmooth 
calm Sea. 2. The Tide rifing, and fetting in to 
the Shore. 3. What little Wind there was blew 
me towards the Land ; and thus, having found two 
or three broken Oars belonging to the Boat, and 
befides the Tools which were in the Cheft, I found 
two Saws, an Axe, and a Hammer, and with this 
Cargo I put to Sea ; For a Mile, or thereabouts my 
Raft went very well, only that I found it drive a 
little diftant from the Place where I had landed be- 
fore, by which I perceiv'd that there was fome In- 

4raft 



[59] 



draft of the Water, and confequently I hopxl to 
find fome Creek or River there, which I might 
make ufe of as a Port to get to Land with my 
Cargo. 

As I imagin'd, fo it was, there appear'd before 
me a little opening of the Land, and I found a 
ftrong Current of the Tide to fet into it, fo I gui- 
ded my Raft as well as I could to keep in the Mid- 
dle of the Stream : But here I had like to have 
fuffer'd a fecond Shipwreck, which, if I had, I 
think verily would have broke my Heart, for know- 
ing nothing of the Coaft, my Raft run a-ground 
at one End of it upon a Shoal, and not being a- 
ground at the other End, it wanted but a little 
that all my Cargo had flipp'd off towards that 
End that was a-float, and fo fallen into the Wa- 
ter : I did my utmoft by fetting my Back againft 
the Chefts, to keep them in their Places, but could 
not thruft off the Raft with all my Strength, nei- 
ther durft I flir from the Pofture I was in, but hold- 
ing upjthe Chefts with all my Might, flood in that 
Manner near half an Hour, in which time the ri- 
fing of the Water brought me a little more upon a 
Level, and a little after, the Water ftillrifing, my 
Raft floated again, and I thruft her off with the 
Oar I had, into the Channel, and then driving up 
• higher, I at length found my felf in the Mouth of 
a little River, with Land on both Sides, and a 
ftrong Current or Tide running up, I look'd on 
both Sides for a proper Place to get to Shore, for 
I was not willing to be driven too high up the 
River, hoping in time to fee fome Ship at Sea, 
and therefore refolv'd to place my felf as near the 
Coaft as I could. 

At length I fpyM a little Cove on the right 
Shore of the Creek, to which with great Pain and 
Difficulty I guided my Raft, and at laft got fo near, 

as 



as that, reaching Ground with my Oar, I coulcj 
thruft her dire&ly in, but hcrel had like to have 
dipt all my Cargo in the Sea again •, for that Shore 
lying pretty deep, that is to fay Hoping, there 
was no PJace to Jand, but where one End of my 
Float, if it run on Shore, would lie fo high, and 
the other fink lower as before, that it would en- 
danger my Cargo again : All that 1 could do, was 
to wait 'till the Tide was at the higheft, keeping the 
Raft with my Oar like an Anchor to hold the Side 
of it faft to the Shore, near a flat Peice of 
Ground which 1 expe&ed the Water would flow 
over; and fo it did : As foon as I found Water 
enough, for my Raft drew about a Foot of Water, I 
thruft heron upon that flat Piece of Ground, amd 
there fafter/d or mof d her bv (ticking my two 
broken Oars into the Ground ; one on one Side 
near one End, and one on the other Side near the 
other End ^ and thus I lay till the Water ebb'd a- 
way, and left my Raft and all my Cargo fafe op 
Shore. 

My next Work was to view the Country, and 
feek a proper Place for my Habitation,and where 
to ftow my Goods to fecure them from whatever 
might happen ; where 1 was, I yet knew not, whe- 
ther on the Continent or on an lfland, whether in- 
habited,, or not inhabited; whether in Danger of 
wild Beafts or not: There was a Hill not above 
aMile from me, which rofeup very deep and high, 
and which fcem'd to over top fome other Hills 
which lay as in a Kidge from it Northward ; 1 took 
out one of the Fowling Pieces, and one of the Pi- 
ftols, and an Horn of Powder, and thus arm'd I 
travelPd for Difcovery up to the Top of that Hill, 
thereafter 1 had with great Labour and Difficul- 
ty got to the Top, I faw my Fate to my great 
Affli&ion, (w&l) that 1 was in an liland environed 

every 



[6i ] 

every Way with the Sea, no Land to be feeri, ex- 
cept fome Rocks which lay a great Way off, and 
two fmall Wands lefs than this, which lay about 
three Leagues to the Weft. 

I found alfo that the Ifland I was in was barren, 
and, as I faw good Reafon to believe, un-inhabited, 
except by wild Beafts, of whom however I faw 
none, yet I faw abundance of Fowls, but knew 
not their Kinds, neither when I kill'd them could 
I tell what was fit for Food, and what not ; at my 
coming back, I fliotat a great Bird which I faw 
fitting upon a Tree on the Side of a great Wood, I 
believe it was the firft Gun that had been fir'd 
there fince the Creation of the World ; I had no 
fooner fir'd, but from all the Parts of the Wood 
there arofe an innumerable Number of Fowls of 
many Sorts, making a confus'd Screaming, and 
Crying, every one according to his ufual Note ; 
but not one of them of any Kind that I knew : As 
for the Creature I kind, I took it to be a Kind of 
a Hawk, its Colour and Beak refembling it, but 
had no Talons or Claws more than common, its 
Flefh was Carrion, and fir for nothing. 

Contented with this Difcovery, I came back to 
my Raft, and fell to Work to bring my Cargo on 
Shore, which took me up the reft of that Day, and 
what to do with my felt at Night I knew not, nor 
indeed where to reft ; for I was afraid to lie down 
on the Ground, not knowing but fome wild Beaft 
might devour me, tho', as I afterwards found, 
"there was really no Need for thofe Fears. 

However, as well as I could, I barricado'd my 
felf round with the Chefts and Boards that I had 
brought on Shore, and made a kind of a Hut for 
that Nights Lodging,- as for Food, I yet faw not 
which Way to fupply my felf, except that, I had 

feen 



t<*3} 



&en two or three Creatures like Hares run out of 
the Wood where I (hot the Fowl. 

I now began to confider, that I might yet get a 
great many Things out of the Ship, which would 
be ufeful to me, and particularly fome of the Rig- 
ging, and Sails, and fuch other Things as might 
come to Land, and Irefolv'd to make anotherVoy- 
age on Board the Veflel, if poflible ; and as I 
knew that the firft Storm that blew muftnecefTarily 
breakher all in Pieces, I refolv'd to fet all other 
Things apart, 'till I got every Thing out of the 
Ship that I could get ; then I call'd a Council, that 
is to fay, in my Thoughts, whether I fhould take 
backthe Raft, but this appeared impracticable ; fo 
I refolv'd to go as before, when the Tide was 
down, and I did fo, only that I ftripp'd before I 
went from my Hutt, having nothing but a che- 
quered Shirt, a Pair of Linnen Drawers, and a Pair 
of Pumps on my Feet. 

I got on Board the Ship, as before, and prepared 
a fecnod Raft, and having had Experience of the 
firft, I neither made this fo unweildy, nor loaded 
it fo hard, but yet I brought away feveral Things 
very ufeful to me ; as firft, in the Carpenter's Stores 
I found two or three Bags full of Nails and Spikes, 
a great Skrew-Jack, a Dozen or two of Hatchets, 
and above all, that moft ufeful Thing call'd a 
Grind-ftone; allthefe I fecur'd together, with fe- 
veral Things belonging to the Gunner, particular- 
ly two or three Iron Crows, and two Barrels of 
Musket-Bullets, feven Muskets, and another Fow- 
ling-Piece, with fome fmall Quantity of Powder 
more; a large Bag full of fmall Shot, and a great 
Roll of Sheet-Lead : But this wasfo heavy, I could 
not hoife it up to get it over the Ship's Side. 

Befides thefe things, I took all the Mens Cloaths 
that I could find, and a fpare Fore-top-fail, a Ham- 
mock, 



mock and fome Beddings and with this I loaded 
my fecond Raft, and brought them all fafe on Shore 
to my very great Comfort. 

I was under fome Apprehenfions during my Ab- 
fence from the Land, that at leaft my Provifions 
might be devoured on Shore ; but when I came back, 
I found no Sign of any Vifitor, only there fat a 
Creature like a wild Cat upon one of the Chefis, 
which when I came towards it, ran away a little 
Diftance, and then flood ftill ; fhe fat very com- 
posed, and unconcern'd, and look'd full in my Face, 
as if (he had a Mind to be acquainted with me, I 
prefented my Gun at her, but as fhe did not under- 
ftand it, (he was perfe&ly unconcern'd at it, nor 
did (he offer to ftir away ; upon which I tofs'd her 
a bit of Bisket, tho' by the Way I was not very 
free of it, for my Store was not great : However, 
I fpar'd her a bit, I fay, and fhe went to it, fmell'd 
of it, and eat it, and look'd (as pleased) for more, 
but I thank'd her, and could fpare no more ; fo fhe 
marched off. 

Having got my fecond Cargo on Shore, tho* I 
was fain to open the Barrels of Powder, and bring 
them by Parcels, fo they were too heavy, being 
large Casks, I went to work to make me a little 
Tent with the Sail and fome Poles which I cut for 
that purpofe, and into this Tent I brought every 
Thing that I knew would fpoil, either with Rain 
or Sun, and I piled all the empty Chefts and Casks 
up in a Circle round the Tent, to fortify it from a- 
ny fudden Attempt, either from Man or Beaft. 

When I had done this I blocked up the Door of 
the Tent with fome Boards within, and an empty 
Cheft fet up an End without, and fpreading one 
of the Beds upon the Ground, laying my two Pi- 
ftols juft, at my Head and my Gun at Length by 
me, I went to Bed for the firft Time, and flept 

very 



[«4] 

very quietly all Night, for I was very weary* and 
heavy, for the Night before I had fleptlittle, and 
had laboured very hard all Day, as well to fetch all 
thofe Things from the Ship, as to get them on 
Shore. 

1 had the biggeft Magazine of all Kinds now 
that ever were laid up, I believe, for one Man ; 
but I was not fatisfy'd ftill ; for while the Ship fat 
upright in that Pofture, I thought I ought to get 
every Thing out of her that I could ,* fo every Day 
at low Water I went on Board, and brought away 
fome Thing or other : But particularly the third 
Time I went, I brought away as much of the Rig- 
ging as I could, as alfo all the fmall Ropes and 
Rope-twine I could get, with a Piece of fpare Can- 
vafs, which was to riiend the Sails upon Occafion* 
the Barrel of wet Gun-Powder : In a Word,I brought 
away all the Sails firft and laft* only that I was 
fain to cut them in Pieces, and bring as much at a 
Time as I could ; for they were no more ufeful to-. 
be Sails, but as meer Canvafs only. 

But that which comforted me mdre flill, was, 
that at laft of all, after I had made five or fix fuch 
Voyages as thefe, and thought I had nothing more 
to exped from the Ship that was worth my med- 
lingwith, I fay, after all this, I found a great Hog- 
(head of Bread, and three large Runlets of Rum or 
Spirits, and a Box of Sugar, and a Barrel of fine 
Flower ; this was furprizing to me, becaufe I had 
given over expecting any more Provi (ions, except 
what was fpoil'd by the Water ; Ifoon empty 'd the 
Hogfhead of that Bread, and wrapt it up, Parcel 
by Parcel, in Pieces of the Sails, which I cut out; 
and in a Word, I got all this fafe on Shore alfo. 

The next Day I made another Voyage ; and 
row havingplunder'd the Ship o£ what was porta- 
ble 



r*5] 

Jble and fit to hand out, 1 b:gc<n with the Cabled i 
andentcing the great Cabie mro Pi. cos, fa:h as 
I could move, 1 got two Cables a hi a Hawiec ot\ 
Shore, with all the Iro^-work I could pec^ < nd 
having cut down rhe Sprit fail yard, and the if* 
fen-yard,and ev,?ry Thing I to ud romat» a'an^d 
fcaft, I loaded vlth tcaV'tll »(c hvAvy Gitqjj^ and 
came away : b .c uv go. u Ltd b.gan u>v to 
leave me-, for this Fate wa> !> UjiweildV aijd lo 
overlo*den,rhat afrer I wis enter d the lit U y d e$ 
where I had landed the reft ot my Goods net be- 
ing ab.e to gu id: it fo handi'v as I d ^ theothci% 
it overfet, and threw me and ail my ( irgq nto 
the Water •, as for my f lr it w a^ no yre it n rnij 
for I was near the Shore , bit as to mv Qargo, 
it was great Parr of ic :ol , efpecial y r e I \, 
which 1 expe&ed would have bee i ot gr .at 1 1 1 : 
to me: However, when the I ice was our, I a c 
moft of the Pieces of Cable aihore, and ibme of 
the Iron, tho' with infinite Labour ; for t wa fain 
to dip for it inco the Water, a vVprk *hkh ra- 
tigu'd me very much: After this 1 went e tiv thy 
on board, and brought away *hat icouJd get. 

I had been now thirteen Days on c nore, and had 
been eleven Times on Board the Ship-, ip fyhich 
Time I had brougfft away all that one Pair of 
Hands cduld well befuppos'd cat abi: to brtig, tho* 
f believe verily* had thd calm. Weather held I 
fhould have brought away the whole Miip Piece by 
Piece: But preparing the i; i ime to go oti 
Board, I found the Wind begin to ri ] c ho v r 
ac low Water I went on Board, and tho' i tl g t 
lhad rumag'd the Cabin fo effe£h?ally,asthatno* 
thing more could be found, yet Idilcove- Via Lock- 
er with Drawers in ic, in one of which ifoutld two 
or three Razors, and one Pair of large Sciffars* 
with fume ten cr a dozen of good t\niv and 



[66-] 

Forks ; m anothef I found about Thirty fix Poiincfa 
value in Money, fome European Coin, fome Brajtl$ 
fome Pieces of Eight, fome Gold, fome Silver. 

1 fmiTd to my felf at the Sight of this Money, 
ODrug! faidl alotid, what art thou good for? 
Thou art not worth to mc, no not the taking off 
of the Ground, one of thofe Knives is worth all 
this Heap, I have no Manner of ufc for thee, e'en 
remain where thou arc, and go to the Bottom as 
a Creature whofe Life is not worth faving. How- 
ever upon fecond Thoughts, I took it away ? and 
wrapping all this in a Piece of Canvas, I Degan 
to think of making another Raft, but wnile I was 
preparing this, I found the Sky over caft, and the 
Wind began to rifc 3 and in a Quarter of an Hour 
it blew a frdh Gale from the Shore \ it prefencly 
occur'd tome, that it was in vain to pretend to 
make a Raft with the Wind off Shore* and that 
it was my Bufinefs to be gone before the Tide of 
Flood began, otherwife I [flight not be ab!#to 
reach the Shore at all : Accordingly I let my 
/elf down into the Water, and fwam crofs the 
Channel, which lay between the- Ship and the 
Sands, and even that with Difficulty enough, part- 
ly with the Weight of the Things I had about me, 
and partly the roughnefs of the Water, for the 
Wind role very haltily, and before it was quite 
high Water, it blew a Storm. 

But I was got Home to my little Tent, where 
I lay with all my Wealth about me very fecure. 
It blew very hard all that Night, and in the Morn- 
ing when I look'd out, behold no more Ship was to 
be feen ; I was a little furpnYd, but rccover'd my 
felt with this fatisfa&ory Reflection, viz. That I 
had loft no Time, nor abated no Diligence to get 
every Thing out of her that could be ufeful to me, 
and that indeed there was little left in her that I 

was 



r «n ] 

Was able to bring away, i( I had had more 
Time. 

I now gave over any more Thoughts of the 
.Ship, or of any Thing ouc of her, except what 
mighc drive on Shore from her Wreck, as indeed 
divers Pieces of her afterwards did ; but thole 
Things were of (mall ufeto me. 

My Thoughts were now wholly employ'd a- 
boutfecuring my felf either againft Savages, lfa- 
ny (hould appear, or wild Beads, if any were in the 
Illand -,aud I had many Tho ights of the Method 
howtodothis,and what kind of Duelling timake, 
whether I (hould make me a Cave in the Earth, or 
a Tent upon the Earth : And, in fliort, I refoly'd 
upon both, the Manner and Ddcription of which 
it may not be improper to give an Account of, 

I foon found the rlace I was in was not for my 
Settlement, particularly becaufeit was upon alow 
moorifh Ground near the Sea, and I beJiev'd 
wAuld not be \vholefome, and more particularly 
becaufe there was no frefh Water near k^ fo I re- 
folv'd to find a more healthy and more convenient: 
Spot of Ground. 

I confulted fcveral Things in mv Situation 
which I found would be proper forme, i ft. Health, 
and frefh Water I juft now mentioned. 2dJy, Shel- 
ter from the Heat of the Sun. 3dly, Security from 
ravenous Creatures, whether Men or Beads. 4th Jy, 
a View to the Sea, that if God fent any Ship in 
Sight, I might not lofe any Advantage for my 
Deliverance, of which I was not willing to baniQx 
all my Expe&ation yet. 

^ In (earch of a Place proper for this, I found a 
little Plain on the fide of a rifing Hill, whofe 
Front towards this little Plain was fteep as a 
Houfe-fide, fo that nothing could come down 
upou me from the Top ; on the fide of this Rock 

F 2 there 



[68] 



there was a hollow Place worn a little Way in 
like the Entrance or Door of a Cave, but there was 
not really any Cave or Way into the Rock at all. 

On the flat of the Green,ju ft before this hollow 
Place, I refol v'd to pitch my Tent : This Plain was 
not above an hundred Yards broad, and about 
twice as long, and lay like a Green before my 
Door, and at the End of it defcended irregularly 
every Way down into the low Grounds by the 
Sea-fide It was on the N.NW. Side of the Hill, 
fo that I was fhelter'd from the Heat every Day, 
till it came to a W. and by S. Sun, or thereabouts, 
which in thofe Countries is near the Setting. 

Before I fet up my Tent, I drew a half Circle 
before the hollow Place, which took in about ten 
Yards in its Semi-diameter from the Pvock, and 
twenty yards in its Diameter, from its Beginning 
and Ending. 

In this half Circle I pitched two Rows of ftrong 
Stakes, driving them into the Ground till they 
flood very firm like Piles, the biggeft End being 
out of the Ground about fi\e Foot and and an half, 
and fharpen'd on the Top ; the two Rows did not 
ftand above fix Inches from one another, 

Then I took the Pieces of Cable which I had cut 
in the Ship, and laid them in Rows one upon 
another, within the Circle between thefe two 
Rows of Stakes, up to the Top, placing other 
Stakes in thelnlide, leaning a^ainft them, ibout 
two Foot and a hair h'gh, like a Spur to a Poft, 
and this Fence was fo ftrong, that neither Man or 
Beaft could get into k or over it : This coft-me 
a great deal ot i ime and Labour, elpeciallv to cue 
the Piles in the. WooMs, bring them to the Place, 
and drive them into the Earth. 

The Entrance into thh PJace I made to be not 
. by a Door, but by a (liorc Ladder, to go over 

the 



[<*9] 

the Top, which Ladder, when I was in, I lifted 
over after me, and fo I was compleatly fenced in, 
and forcify'd, as I thought, from all the World, 
and confequently flept feciire in the Night, which 
otherwife I could not have dene, tho' as it appeared 
afterward, there was no need of all this Caution 
from the Enemies that I apprehended Danger from. 

Into this Fence or Fortrefs, with infinite La- 
bour, I carry 'd all my Riches, all my Provisions, 
Ammunition and Stores, of which you have the 
Account above, and I made me a largeTent,which 
to preferve me from the Rains, that in one Part of 
the Year are very violent there, I made double, viz,. 
one fmaller Tent within, and one JargerTent above 
it, and cover'd the uppermoft with a large Tar- 
paulin which I had lavM among the Sails. 

And now I lay no more for a while in the Bed 
which I had brought on Shore, but in a Ham- 
mock, which was indeed a very good one, and be- 
long'd to the Mate of the Ship. 

Into th<s Tent I brought a.i my Provisions, and 
every Thing that would fpoil by the Wet, and ha- 
ving thus enclosed all my Goods, I made up the 
Entrance, which till now I had left open, and fo 
pafs'd and repafs'd, as I faid, by a ftiort Ladder. 

When I had done this, I began to work my Way 
into the Rock, and bringing all the Earth and 
Stones that I dug down out thro' my Tent, I laid 
'em up within my" Fence in the Nature of a Ter- 
ras, that fo it rais'd the Ground within about a 
Foot a half; and thus I made me a Cave juft be- 
hind my Tent, which feiv'd me like a Cellar to 
my Houfe. 

It coft me much Labour, and many Days, be- 
fore all thefeThings were brought to Perfection, and 
therefore I muft go back to fome other things which 
took up fome of my Thoughts. At t le fame time it 
F 3 happned. 



[70] 

happened after I had laid my Scheme for the fet-< 
ting up my Tent, and making the Cave, that a 
Scorm of Rain failing from a thick dark Cloud, a 
fudden Flath of Lightning happened, and' after 
that a great Clap of Thunder, as is naturally the 
Effect of it; i was not fo much furpriz'd with 
the Lightning, as I was with a Thought which 
darted into my Mind as fwift as the Lightning it 
ielf: O my Powder! my very Heart funk within 
me, when I thought, that at one Blaft all my 
Powder my be deftroy'd ; on which, not my De- 
fence only, but the providing me Food, as I 
thought, entirely depended; I was nothing near 
fo anxious about my own Danger, tho* had the 
Powder took ftre, I had never known who had 
hurt me. 

Sdch Impreffion did this make upon me, that 
after the Scorm was over, I laid afide all my 
Works, my Buildings, and Fortifying, and ap- 
ply'd my fe<f to make Bags and Boxes to feparate 
the Powder, and keep it a little and a little in a 
Parcel, in hope, that whatever might come, it 
might not ail take Fire at once, and to keep it fo 
apart, that it fhould not be pofTible to make one 
Part fire another. I finifhM this Work in about a 
Fortnight, and I think my Powder, which in all 
was about 240 lb. weight, was divided, in not lefs 
than a hundred Parcels ; as to the Barrel that had 
been wet, I did not apprehend 'any Danger fromi 
that, fo I placed it in my new Cave, which in my 
Fancy I call'd my Kitchin, and the reft I hid up 
and down in Holes among the Rocks, fo that np 
wet might come to ir, marking very carefully 
where I laid it. 

In the Interval of time while this was doing, I 
went out once at leaft every Day with my Gun^ 
as well to divert my felf, as to fee if I could kill any 

thing 



[7i 1 

thing fit for Food, and as near as I could to ac- 
quaint my felf with what the Ifland produced. The 
firft tinje I went out 4^prefently d'fcover'd that 
there were Goats in the Ifland, which was a great 
Satisfaction to me ; but then it was attended with 
this Misfortune to me, viz,* That they were fo 
ftiy, fofubtile, and fo fwift of Foot, that it was 
the diflkulfceft thing in the World to come at them ; 
But I was not difcourag'd at this, not doubting 
but I might now and then (hoot on^, as itfoon hap- 
pened, for after I had found their Haunts a little, 
I laid wait in this Manner for them : I obferv'd if 
theyfawme in the Valleys, tho* they were upon 
the Rocks, they would run away as in a terrible 
Fright ; but if they were feeding in the Valleys, 
and I was upon the Rocks, they took no Notice 
of me, from whenc? I concluded, that by the 
Pofition of their Opticks, their Sight was fo di- 
rected downward, that they did not readily fee 
Objefts that were above them ; fo afterwards I 
took this Method, I always climbed the Rocks firft 
to get above them, and then had frequently a fair 
Mark. The firft foot I made among thefe Crea- 
tures, I killed a She-Goat which had a little Kid 
by her which (he gave fuck to, which griev'd me 
heartily ; but when the Old one fell, the Kid 
flood ftock ftill by her till I came and took her up, 
and not only fo, but when I carried the Old one 
with me upon my Shoulders, the Kid folio w'd 
me quite to my Enclofure, upon which I laid down 
rhe Dam, and took the Kid in my Arms, and 
carried it over my Pale, in hopes to have bred it 
qp tame, but it would not eat, fo was I forc'd to 
kill it and eat it my felf ; thefe two fuppiy'd me 
with Flefli a great while, for I eat fparingly ; and 
fav'd my Previfions (my Bread efpecially) as much 
as poffible I could. 

F 4 Having 



C7i] 

Having now fix'd my Habitation, I found it ab~ 
folutfjy necefl'ary to provide a Place to make a 
x i.c in, and Fewel to jjwrn ; and what I did for 
fhat, as a.fo how I enlarged my Cave, and what 
Ccveniencics I made, 1 (hall give a full Account 
or in its place: But I muft firftgive fome little 
Account cf my felf, and cf my Thoughts about 
Living, which it may well be fuppofed were not 
a tew. 

JL had a difmal Profpeft of my Condition, for as 
I was no call away upon that IOand without be- 
iig drivci-, as is faid, by a violent Storm quite out 
ot che Coi rfj of our intended Voyage, and a great 
V\ ay, tyfr iome hundreds of Leagues out of the 
(ordinary Courfe of the Trade of Mankind, I had 
gieat Reafon to confider it as a Determination of 
Heaven, that in cms difolate Place, and in this 
a folate Manr.er 1 fliould end my Life ; the Tears 
would run p tntifujiy down my Face when I made 
thefe £LfL£io s, and fometimes I would expoftu- 
late wich piy felf, Why Providence fhould thus 
compleat-y ruin its Creatures, and render them 
fo ubfolutely rcufe; able, fo without Help aban- 
don^, fo entirely deprefs'd, that it could hardly 
be rational to be thankful for fuch a Life. 

But lomething always returned fwift upon me to 
check the fe Thoughts, and to reprove me; and 
particularly one Day walking with my Gun in my 
Hand by the Sea-lide, I was very penfive upon the 
Subjedi of my prefent Condition, when Reafon as 
it were ex : oibla'ed with me t'other Way, thus: 
Well, you are in a defoiate Condition 'tis true, but 
pray remember, Wnere are the reft of you? D d 
pot you come Eleven of you into the Boat, wher? 
aie the Ten? Why were not they fav'd and you 
loft? Why were you fingledout ? Is it better to be 
here or there ? And then I poinded to the Sea. Alj 

EviJs 



C 7$ 3 

Evils are to be confider'd with the Good that is in 
them, and with what worfe attends them. 

Then it occur'd to me again, how well I was 
furnifh'd for my Sublicence, and what would have 
been my Cafe if it had not happen'd, Which ivas 
an Hundred fhoufund to One> that the Ship floated 
from the Place where (he firft ftruck aid was dri- 
ven fo near to die Snore, that 1 had Time to get 
all thefe Tmngs out of her : What would have 
been my Cafe, if I had been to have liv'd in the 
Condition in which I at tirft came on Shore, with- 
out Necdlaries cf Life, or Neceflaries to fupply 
and procure them ? Particularly, faia I aloud, (tho* 
to my felt) wnat fhould I have done without a 
Gut,, without Ammi niticn, without any Tools 
to make any thing, or to work with, without 
Cloatlj , Bccioi! g, a lent, or any manner of 
Covering, and that now 1 Ai ad all thefe to a fuffi- 
cient Quantity, and was in a tair way to provide 
my felt in f'.ch a manner, as to live without 
my Gun when my Ammunition was fpent; fo 
that I bad a tolerable View of fubfiftirg without 
any Want as long as I i;v'd ; for 1 confic er'd from 
the beginning how 1 wcu ci provide for the Acci- 
dents mat mighc happen, and for the Time that 
was to come, even not only after my Ammunition 
|hould be f: ent, but e\en after my Health or 
Strength (hould decay. 

1 confefs 1 had not entertained any Notion of my 
Ammunition being deiiroy'dat one Blaft, I mean, 
my Towder be ng blown up by Lightning, and this 
made tie Thoughts ofitfo iurpnzingto mewhen 
it lighten'dand th.ndtr'd, as I obferv'd juft now. 

And now being to enter into a melancholy 
Relation of a Scene of iilent Life, fuch perhaps as 
was never heard of in the World before, I (hall 
take it from its Beginning, and continue it in its 

Order. 



[74] 

Order. 1$ was, by my Account, the joth of Sept. 
when, in the Manner as abovefaid, I firft fet Foot 
upon this horrid Ifland, when the Sun being, to 
its, in its Autumnal Equinox, was almoftjuft over 
my Head, for I reckoned my'felf, by Obfervation, 
to be in the latitude of p Degrees 22 Minutes, 
North of the Line. 

After I had been there about ten or twelve 
Days, it came into my Thoughts, that I fhould 
lofe my Reckoning of Time for want of Books 
and Pen and Ink, and fhould even forget the Sab- 
bath Days from the working Days ; but to prevent 
this, l cut it with my Knife upon a large Poft, in 
Capital Letters, and making it into a great Crofs, 
I fet it up on the Shore where I firft landed, viz,. I 
came on Shore here on the $oth of Sept 16$ 9. Upon 
the Sides of this fquare Poit, I cut every Day a 
Notch with my Knite, and every feventh Notch 
was as long again as the reft, and every firft Day of 
the Month as long again as that long one, and thus 
I kept my Kalender, or weekly, monthly, and 
yearly reckoning of Time. 

In the next Place we are to obferve, that among 
the many Things which I brought out of the Ship 
in the feveral Voyages, which as abovemention'd, 
I made to it, I got feveral Things of lefs Value, 
but not at all lefs ufetul to me, which I omitted 
fetting down before ; as in particular, Pens, Ink, 
and Paper, feveral Parcels in the Captain's, Mate's, 
Gunner's, and Carpenter's keeping, three or four 
Compaffes, lome Mathematical Inftruments, Di- 
als, Perfpectives, Charts, and Books of Navigati- 
on, all which I huddled together, whether I might 
want them or no ; alfo 1 found three very good 
Bibles, which came tome in my Cargo from Eng- 
land^ and which I hadpack'd up among my Things; 
ftotne Portuguese Books alfo, and among them two 

or 



[75] 

or three Popifli Prayer-J3ooks, and fcveral other 
Bopfcs ; all >vhich I carefully fecur'd, And I muft 
not forget, that we had in the Ship a Dog and 
two Cats; oi whofe eminent Hiftory, I may have 
Occafion to fay fomething in its Place ; for I car- 
ry'd both the Cats with me ; and as for the Dog, 
he jumped out of the Ship of himfelf, and fwam 
on Shore to me the Day after I went on Shore 
with my firft Cargo, and was a trufty Servant to 
me many Years : I wanted nothing he could fetch 
me, nor a,ny Company that he could make up to 
me ; I only wanted to have him talk to me, but 
that would not do. As I obferv'd before, I found 
Pen, Ink, and Paper, and I husbanded them to the 
utmoft ; and I (hall fhew, that while my Ink la- 
fted, I kept Things very exaft ; but after that was 
gone, I could not; for I could not make any Ink, 
by any Means that I could devife. 

And this put me in mind that I wanted many 
things, notwithflanding all that I had amafs'd to- 
gether,- and of thefe, this of Ink was one, as alfo 
Spade, Pick- Ax, and Shovel, to dig or remove 
the Earth, Needles, Pins, and Thread; as for 
Linnen, I foon learned to want that without much 
Difficulty. 

This Want of Tools made every Work I did, go 
on heavily ; and it was near a whole Year before I 
had entirely finiftiM my little Pale or furronnded 
Habitation: The Piles or Stakes, which were as- 
heavy as I could well lift, were a long Time in cut- 
ting and preparing in the Woods, and more by far 
in bringing home; fothat I fpent fometimes two 
Days in cutting and bringing home one of thofe 
Pofts, and a third Day in driving it into the Ground ; 
for which Purpofe I got a heavy Piece of Wood 
at firft, but at laft bethought my/elf of one of the 
Iron Crows, which however, tho' I found it, yet 

it 



[7*] 



it made driving thofc Pofts or Piles very laborious 
and tedious Work. 

But what need I ha' been concem'd at the Te- 
dioufnefs of any Thing I had to do, feeing I had 
Time enough to do it in ; nor had I any other Emr 
ployment, if that had been over, at leaft, that I 
could forefee, except the ranging the Ifland to feek 
for Food, which I did more or lefs every Day. 

I now began to confider ferioufly my Conditi- 
on, and the Circumftance I was reduc d to, and I 
drew up the State of my Affairs in Writing, not fo 
much to leave them to any that were to come af- 
ter me ; for I was like to have but few Heirs, as 
to deliver my Thoughts from daily poring upon 
them, and affliding my Mind ; and as my Reafon 
began now to mafter my Defpondency, I began 
to comfort myfelf as well as I could, and tofet 
the Good againft the Evil, that I might have 
fomething to diftinguifh my Cafe from worfe; and 
I ftated it very impartially, like Debtor and Cre- 
ditor, the Comforts I enjoy 'd, againft the Mife- 
riesl fuffer'd, thus: 

Evil. Good. 

/ am cafi upon a borri- But I am alive, and 

ble deflate Ifland, void of not drown d> as all my 
all Hope of Recovery, Ship's Company was. 

lam (ingled out andje- But I am (ingled out too 

parated, as it were, from from all the chip's Crew to 
all the World to be mi- be (pared frcmDeath ; and 
ferable. he that miraculoitfly faved 

me ft cm Death, can deliver 
me from this Condition. 

lam divided from Man- But lam mtflarvd and 
kind, a Solitaire, one ba- perijhing on a barren Place, 
nijh'dfrom humane Society, affording no Suftenance 

I have 



C 77 ] 

/ have no Cloaths to But I am in a hot Cli~ 

cover me. mate, where if I hadCloaths 

I could hardly wear them* 

I am without any De- But lam cafl on an /- 
fence or Means to rejifi any /land, where I fee no wild 
Violence of Man or Beaft. Beafts to hurt me, as I favj 

on the Coafi of Africa: 
And what if I had been 
Shipwreck' d there ? 

I have no Soul to fpeak But God wonderfully 

to y or relieve me, fern the Ship in near enough 

to the Shore, that I have 
gotten out fo many neceffa- 
ry Things as will either 
f apply my Wants y or ena- 
ble me to f apply my felfe- 
ven as lonv as I live. 



Upon the whole, here was an undoubted Tefti- 
mony, that there was fczrce any Condit on in the 
World fo miferable, but there was fomething»^- 
tive, or (omzthing pojitive, to be thankful for in it ; 
and let this ftand as a Dire&ion from the Experi- 
ence of the mod miferable of all Conditions in this 
World, that we may -always find in it fomething 
to comfort our felves from, and to fet in the De- 
scription of Good and Evil, on die Credit Side of 
the Account. 

Having now brought my Mfnd a little to relifli 
my Condition, and given over looking out to Sea, 
to fee if I could fpy a Snip; I fay, giving over 
thefc Things, I began to apply ipyfejf to accom- 
modate my way of Living, and to make Tilings 
as eafy to me as I could. 

1 have 



[78] 



1 have already defcribed my Habitation, which 
was a Tfcnc under the Side of a Rock, furrounded 
with a ftrong Pales of Pofts and Cables, but 1 might 
now rather call it a Wall, for I rais'd a kind of 
Wall up againrt it of Turfs, about two Foot thick 
on the Outlide, and after fome time, I think it 
was a Year and half, I raisM Rafters from it lean- 
ing to the Rock, and thafch'd or cover'd it with 
Boughs of Trees, and fuch things as I could get to 
keep out of the Rain, which I found at fome times 
of the Year very violent. 

I have already obferved how I brought all my 
Goods info this Pale, and into the Cave which I 
had made behind me: But I mult obferve too 
that at hrft this was a confus'd Heap of Goods, 
which as they lay in no Order, fo they took up 
all my Places I had no room to turn myfclf* So 
I fct myfelf to enlarge my Cave and Works far- 
ther into the Earth \ for it was a loofe fandy Rock, 
which yielded eafily to the Labour 1 beftowed on 
it : And fo when I found I was pretty lafe as to 
Beafts of Prey, I work'd fide ways to the Right 
Hand into the Rock s and then turning to the Right 
again, work'd quite out, and made me a Door to 
eome our, on the Outfide of my Pale or Fortifi- 
cation. 

This gave me not only Egrefs and Regrefs, as 
it were a Back-way to my Tent and to my Store- 
houfe, but gave me room to (low my Goods. 

And now I began to apply my felf to make fuch 
neceffary tilings as I found 1 moft wanted, as par- 
ticularly a Chair and a Tables for without thefe I 
was not able to enjoy the few Comforts I had in the 
World) I could not write or eat, or do feveral 
things with fo much Plcafure without a Table. 

So I went to work ; and here I rnuft ne^ds ob- 
serve, that as Reafon is the Subttance and Origi- 
nal 



C 79 D 

nal of theMathematicks, fo by flating and fqua- 
ring every Thing by Reafon, and by making the 
mod rational Judgment of Things, every Man 
may be in time Matter of every mechanick Art. I 
had never handled Tool in my Life, and yet in 
time by Labour, Application and Contrivance, I 
found at laft that I wanted nothing but I could 
have made it, efpeciailyif I had had Tools , v how- 
ever, I made abundance of Things, even without 
Tools, and fome with no moreTools than an Adze 
and a Hatchet, which perhaps were never made 
that way before, and that with infinite Labour : 
For Example, if I wanted a Board, I had no other 
Way but to cut down a Tree, fet it on an Edge be- 
fore me, and hew it flat on either Side with my 
Ax, till I had brought it to be thin as a Plank, 
and then dubb it fmooth with my Adze. It is true, 
by this Method I could make but one Board out 
of a whole Tree, but this I had no Remedy for 
but Patience, anymore than I had for the prodi- 
dious deal of Time and Labour which it took me 
up to make a Plank or Board : But my Time or 
Labour was little worth, and foit was as well em- 
ploy 'd one way as another. 

However, I made me a Table and a Chair, as 
I obferv'd above, in the firft Place, and this I did 
out of the fhort Pieces of Boards that I brought 
on my Raft from the Ship : But when I had 
wrought out fome Boards, as above, I made large 
Shelves of the Breadth of a Foot and a Half one 
over another, all along one Side of my Cave, to 
lay all my Tools, Nails, and Iron-work, and in a 
Word, to feparate every Thing at large in their 
Places, that I might come eafily at them ; I knocked 
Pieces into the Wall of the Rock to hang my Guns 
and all Things that would hang up. 

So 



[8o] 

So that had my Cave been to be feen, it Joofe'd 
like a general Magazine of all neceffary Things, 
and I had dve'ry Thing fo ready a: m ; Hand, that 
it was a great PJeafure to me to fee all my Goods 
in fuch Order, and efpecially to find my Stock of 
all Neccflaries Co great. 

And now it was wheii I began to keep a Jour- 
nal of every Day's Employment, for indeed at firft 
I was in too much Hurry, and not only Hurry 
as to Labour, but in too itiuch DifcompofLre of 
Mind, and my Journal would ha* been full of many 
dull things. For Example, I muft have faid thus: 
Seft. the 3 oth, After I got co Snore and had efcap'd 
drowning, 'inftead of being thankful to God for 
my Deliverance, having rirft vomited with the 
great Quantity of fait Water which was gotten 
into my Stomach, and recovering my felf a little, I 
ran about the Snore, wringing my Hands and beat- 
ing my Head and Face, exclaiming at My Mifery, 
and crying out, I was undone, undone, till tir'd 
and faint I was forc'd to lye down on the Ground 
to repofe, but durft not deep for fear of being 
devoured. 

Some Dajrs after thfs, and after I had been on 
board the Snip, and got all that I could out of 
her, yet I could not forbear getting up to the Top 
of a little Mountain and looking o^t to Sea iii 
hopes of feeing a Snip, then fancy at a vaft Di- 
ftance 1 fpy'd a Sail, pleafe myfdf with the Hopes 
of it, and then after looking lteadily till I was al- 
moft blind, lofe it quite, and lit down and weep 
like a Child, and thus encreafe my Mifery by my 
Folly. 

But having gotten over thefe things in fome Mea- 
fure, and havingfettled my Hdufhould-Stuff and 
Habitation, made mea Table and a Chair, and all 
as handfome about me as I could* I began to keep 

mv 



f 81 ] 

my Journal of which I (hall here give you the 
Copy (tho* in it will be told all thele Particulars 
over again) as long as ic lafted, for having no more 
Ink 1 was fore'd to leave it oft\ 

7k JOURNAL. 

SEptember 305 1659. I poor mifcrable Robinfott 
Curfa, being Shipwreck'd, during a dreadful 
Storm, intheOtfing, came on Shore on this dif- 
mal unfortunate Ifland, which I caird the I/land 
ofDefpair^ all the reil of the Ship\s Company be- , 
ingdrown'd, and my (elf almoft dead. 

All the reft of the Day I (pent in affiiding my 
felf at the difmal Circumftanas I was brought to* 
viz,. I had neither Food, Houfe,Cloaths, Weapon, 
or Place to fly to, and in Defpairof any Relief, 
law nothing but Death before me 5 either that I 
Ihould be devour'd by wild Beafts, murther'd by 
Savages, or ftarv'd to Death for want of Fooa. At 
the Approach of Night, Ifiepun a Tree for fear 
of wild Creatures, but flept foundly tho' it rain'd 
all Night. 

OElober i. In the Morning 1 faw to my great 
Surprife the Ship had floated with the high Tide, 
and was driven on Shore again much nearer the 
Ijland, which as it was fome Comfort on one hand, 
for feeing her fit upright, and not broken to pieces 
I hop'd, if the Wind abated , I might get on board, 
and get fomc Food and Neceflaries out of her for 
my Kelief •, fo on the other hand it renew'd^ my 
Grief at the Lofs of my Comrades, who lima-' 
gin'd if we had all ftaid on board might have 
iav'd the Ship, or at leaft that they would not have 
been all drown'd as they were •, and that had the 
Men been fav'd, wc might perhaps have built us 
a Boat out of the Ruins of the Ship, to have car- 

G ried 



[ 8i ] 

i ied iis to lome dther Part of the World. I fpen£ 
great part of thi3 Day in petplexing my felf ori 
thefe things ) biit at length feeing the Ship almoft 
dry, I went upon the Sand as near as I could, and 
then Swam on Board \ this Day alio cOntinu'd rain- 
ing, tho' with no Wind -at all. 

From the iftof Ottober to the 24th. All thefe 
Days entirely fpent in many feveral Voyages to 
get all I could out of the Ship, which I brought 
on Shore, every Tide of Flood, upon Rafts. Much 
Rain alfb in thefe Days, thro' with lome Intervals 
of fair Weather : But, it feems, this was the rainy 
Seafbn. 

OEl. 20. I overfet my Raft, and all the Goods 
I had got upon it, but being in fhoai Water, and 
the things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of 
them when the Tide was out. 

OB. 25. It rain'd all Night and all Day, with 
lome Qufts of Wind, during which time the Ship 
broke in pieces, the Wind blowing a little harder 
than before, and was no more to be feen, except 
the Wreck of her, and that only at low Water, 
I fpent this Day in covering and fecuring the Goods 
which I had fav'd, that Rain might not fpoil 
them. 

Ott. 26. I walk'd about the Shore almoft all 
Day to find out a Place to fix my Habitation, 
greatly concern'd.to fecure my felf from any Attack 
in the Night, either from ;wild Beafts or Men. 
Towards Night I ftx'd upon a proper place under 
a Rock, and marked out a Semi-Circle for my En- 
campment, which I Tefolv'd to ftrengthen with a 
Work, Wall, or Fortification made of double Piles, 
]in*d within with Cable, and without with Turf. 

From the 26th to the 30th I work'd very hard 
in carrying all my Goods to my new Habitation 

tho' ' 



[8?] 

tho' fbitte part of the time it rain'd exceeding 
hard. 

The 31ft in the Morning I went out into the 
Ifland with my Gun to fee for fbme Food, and dif- 
cover th£ Country ; when I kill'd a She-Goat, and 
her Kid followed me home , which I afterwards 
kill'd alfb, becaule it would not feed. 

November I. I let up ray Tent under a Rock, and 
lay there for the firft Night, making it as large as 
I could with Stakes driving in to fwing my Ham- 
mock upon. 

Nov. 2. I let up all my Chefts and Boar % and 
the Pieces of Timber which made my Ra r cs, and 
with them formed a Fence round me, a U^e with- 
in the Place I had mark'd out for my Fortifi- 
cation. 

Nov. 3. I went out with my Gun, and kill'd two 
Fowls like Ducks, which were ve^y good Food. 
In the Afternoon went to work to make me a 
Table. 

Nov. 4. This Morning I began to order my times 
of Work, of going out with my Gun, time of 
Sleep, and time of Diver fion, viz,. Every Morning 
I walk'd out with my Gun for two or three .Hours 
if it did not Rain, then emplov'd mylelf to work 
till about Eleven a-clock, then eat what I had to 
live on, and from Twelve to Two 1 lay down to 
fleep, the Weather being exceffive ho*\ and then 
in the Evening to work again: Tne wcr ; ng Part 
of this Day and the next were wholly employed 
in mab'ng my Table, for 1 was yer but a very i >rry 
Workman, tho'Tirne and [Neceifity maae me a 
compleat natural Mechanick loon after, as 1 believe 
it would do any one eiie. 

Nov. 5. This Day went abroad with my Gun 

(and my Dog, and kill'd a wild Cat, her Skin 
pretty fofc^ but her Fleih good for nothing : Every 

G 2 Creature 



[8 4 ] 



Creature I kill'd, I took off the Skins and preferv'd 
them. Coming back by the Sea-fhore, Ifaw ma- 
ny Sorts of Sea- Fowls, which I did not under- 
ftand; but was furpnVd, and almoft frighted with 
two or three Seals, which, while I was gazing at, 
not well knowing what they were, got into the 
Sea, and efcap'd me for that Time. 

Nov. 6. After my Morning Walk, I went to 
work with my Table again, and finifli'd it, tho > 
not to my Liking; nor was it long before I learn'd 
to ire/.dit. 

■Nov. 7. Now it began to be fettled fair Wea- 
ther. The 7th, 8th, pth, 10th, and Part of the 
1 2th, (for the nth was Sunday, according to my 
Reckoning) I took wholly up to make me a Chair, 
and with much ado brought it to a tolerable Shape, 
but never to pleafeme; and even in the making I 
pull'd it to Pieces feveral Times. Note, I foon ne- 
glefted my keeping Sunday ; for omitting my Mark 
for them on myPoft, I forgot which was which. 

Nov. 13. This Day it rain'd, which refrefti'd me 
exceedingly, and cool'd the Earth, but it was ac-> 
company 'd with terrible Thnnderand Lightning, 
which frighted me dreadfully, for fear of my Pow- 
der : As foon at it was over, I refolv'd to feparate 
my Stock of Powder into as many little Parcels as 
poffible, that it might not be in Danger. 

Nov. 14, 15,16. Thefe three Days I fpent in 
making little fquare Chefts or Boxes, which might 
hold about a Pound, or two Pound, at moft, of 
Powder ; and fo putting the Powder in, I flowed 
it in Places as fecure and remote from one another, 
as poffible. On one of thefe three Days I killed 
a large Bird that was good to eat, but I know not 
what to call it. 

Nov. 17. This Day I began to dig behind my 
Tent into the Rock, to make room for my farther 

Conve- 



[85] 



Conveniency. Note, Three Things I wanted ex-, 
ceedingly for this Work, viz,.* Pick-ax, a Shovel* 
and a Wheel-barrow or Basket, fo I defifted from 
my Work, and began to confider how to fupply 
that Want, and make me fome Tools : As for a 
Pick-ax, I made ufe of the Iron Crows, which 
were proper enough, tho* heavy,- but the next 
Thing was a Shovel or Spade ,• this was fo abfo- 
lutely neceflfary, that indeed I could do nothing ef- 
fedually without it,- but what kind of one to 
make I knew not, 

Nov. 1 8. The next Day in fearching the Woods 
I found a Tree of that Wood, or like it, which 
in the Brafils they call the Iron Tree, for its ex- 
ceeding Hardncfs ; of this, with great Labour 
and almoft fpoiling my Ax, I cut a piece, an4 
brought it Home too with Difficulty enough, for 
it was exceeding heavy. 

The exceffive hardnefs of the Wood, and having 
no other way, made me a long while upon this 
Machine ,• for I work'd it effe&ually by little 
and little into the Form of a Shovel or Spade, 
the Handle exaftly fhap'd like ours in England, 
only that the broad Part having no Iron fhod up- 
on it at Bottom, it would not laft me fo long; 
however it ferv'd well enough for the Ufes which 
J had Occafion to put it to; but never was a Sho- 
vel, I believe, made after that Fafhion, or fo 
long a making. 

I was ftill deficient, for I wanted a Basket or a 
Wheel-barrow ; a Basket I could not make by a^y 
means, having no fuch Things as Twigs that would 
bend to make Wicker Ware, atleaft none yet found 
out ; and as to a Wheel-barrow, I fancy'd I could 
make all but the Wheel, but that I had no Notion 
ot, neither did I know how to go about it ; befidcs 
I had no poffible way to make the Iron Gudgeons 

G 3 for 



[ 86] 

for the Spindle or Axis of the Wheel to run in, fo 
I gave it over ; and fo for carrying away the Earth 
which I dug out of the Cave, I made me a Thing 
like a JHodd which the Labourers carry Mortar in, 
when they ferve the Bricklayers. 

This was not fo difficult to me as the making 
the Shovel ; and yet this, and the Shovel, and the 
Atvempt, which I made in vain, to make a Wheel- 
barrow, took me up no lefs than four Days, I mean 
always, excepting my Morning Walk with my Gun, 
which I feldom failed ; and very feldom faiPd alfo 
of bringing home fomething fit to eat. 

Nov. 23. My other Work having now flood ftill, 
becaufe of my making thefe Tools , when they 
were finifli'd, I went on, and working every Day, 
as my Strength and Time allowed, I fpent eigh- 
teen Days entirely in widening and deepning my 
Cave, that it might hold my Goods commodi- 
oufly. 

Note, During all this Time, I worked to make 
this Room or Cave fpacious enough to accommo- 
date me as a Warehcufe or Magazine, a Kitchen, 
a Dining-room, and a Cellar; as for my Lodging, 
I kept to the Tent, except that fometimes in the 
wet Seafon of the Year, it rainM fo hard that I 
cculd not keep my felf dry, which caused me after- 
wards to cover all my Place within my Pale with 
long Poles in the Form of Rafters, leaning againft 
the Rock, and load them with Flags, and large 
Leaves of Trees like a Thatch. 

December 10. I began now to think my Cave 
or Vault finifhed, when on a fudden (it leems I 
had made it too large ) a great Quantity of Earth 
fell down from the Top and one Side, fo much, 
that in fhort it frighted me, and not without Rea- 
fon too ; for if I had been under it, I had never 
wanted a Grave digger : Upon this Difafler I had 



a great 



[ 87 ] 

a great deal of Work to do over again ; for I had 
the loofe Earth to carry out, and which was of 
more Importance, I had the Cieling to prop up, fo 
that Imight be fure no more would come down. 

Dec. 1 1. This Day I went to work with it accord- 
ingly, and got two Shoars or Pofts pitched upright 
to the Top, with two Pieces of Boards a-crofs over 
each Poft ; this I finifh'd the next Day ; and fetting 
more Pofts up with Boards, in about a Week more 
J had the Roof fecur'd ; and the Pofts {landing in 
Rows, fervid me for Partitions to part of my Houfe. 

Dec. 1 7. From this Day to the Twentieth I 
plac'd Shelves, and knocked up Nails on the Pofts 
to hang every Thing up that could be hung up, 
and now I began to be in fome Order within 
Doors. 

Dec 20. Now I carry'd every Thing into the 
Cave, and began to furnifh my Houfe and fet tip 
fome Pieces of Boards, like a Dreffer, to order my 
Viftuals upon, but Boards began to be very fcarce 
with me ; alfo I made me another Table. 

Dec. 24. Much Rain all Night, and all Day; no 
ftirring out. 

Dec. 25. Rain all Day, 

Dec. 25. No Rain, and the Earth much cooler 
than before, and pleafanter. 

* Dec. 27. Kill'd a youn^ Goat, and lam'd ano- 
ther fo that I catch'd it, and led it Home in a 
String; when I had it Home, I bound and fplin- 
ter'd up its Leg which was broke. N. B. I 
took fuch care of it, that it liv'd, and the Leg 
grew well and as ftrong as ever; but by nurfing 
it fo long it grew tame, and fed upon the little 
Green at my Door, and would not go away : 
Tliis was the firft Time that I entertain'd a 
Thought of breeding up fome tame Creatures. 
G 4 that 



[88] 

that I might have Food when my Powder and 
Shot was all fpent. 

Dec.2%,29, 30. Great Heats and no Breeze,- fo 
that there was no ftirring abrqad, except in the E- 
vening for Food ; this Time I fpent in putting all 
my Things in Order within Doors. 

January 1. Very hot ftill, but I went abroad ear- 
ly and late with my Gun, and lay ftill in the middle 
of the Day ; this Evening going farther into the 
Valleys, which lay towards the Center of the Ifland, 
I found there was plenty of Goats, tho* exceeding 
fhy and hard to come at, however I refolv'd to try 
if I could not bring my Dog to hunt them down. 

Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next Day, I went out 
with my Dog, and fat him upon the Goats; but I 
was miflaken,, for they all fac'd about upon the 
Dog, and he knew his Danger too well, for he 
would not come near them, 

Jan. 3 .[I began my Fence or Wall ; which, being 
ftill jealous of my being attack'd byfome Body, I 
refolv'd to make very thick and ftrong. 

N. B. This Wall being defcriV d before, / 
furpofely omit what was f aid in the Jour- 
^ rial ; it is fufficient to cbferve, that I was 

no lefs Time than from the 3d o/January 
to the l^th of April, working, finijhtng and 
perfecting this Wall, tho it was no more 
than about 24 Yards in Length, being a half 
Circle from one Place in the Rock to another 
Place about eight Yards from it, the Door 
of the Cave being in the Center behind it . 

All this Time I work'd very hardj the Rains 
hindering me many Days, nayfometimes Weeks 
together ,• but I thought I fhould never be perfect- 
ly fecure "till this Wall was fmifh'd; and it is 

fcarc? 



[8 9 ] 

fcarce credible what inexpreflible Labour every 
Thing was done with, efpecially the bringing 
Piles out of the Woods, and driving them into the 
Ground ; for I made them much bigger than I 
need to have done. 

When this Wall was finifh'd, and the Out-fide 
double fene'd with a Turf- Wall rais'd up clofe to 
it, I perfuaded myfelf, that if any People were to 
come onshore there, they would not perceive any 
Thing like a Habitation ; and it was! very well 
I did fo, as may be obferv'd hereafter upon a ve- 
ry remarkable Occafion. 

During this Time* I made my Rounds in the 
Woods for Game every Day when the Rain ad- 
mitted me, and made frequent Difcoveries inthefe 
Walks of fomething or other to my Advantage ; 
particularly I found a kind of wild Pidgeons, who 
built not as Wood Pidgeons in a Tree, but rather 
as Houfe Pidgeons, in the Holes of the Rocks > 
and taking fome young ones, 1 endeavoured to 
breed them up tame, and did fo ; but when they 
grew older, they flew all away, which perhaps 
was at iirft for want of feeding them, for I had 
nothing to give them ; however I frequently found 
their Nells, and got their young ones, which was 
very good Meat. 

And now in the managing my Houfhold Affairs, 
I found my felf wanting in many Things, which 
I thought at firft it was impdffible for me to make, 
as indeed as to fome of them it was ; for Inftance, I 
could never make a Cask to be hoop'd, I had a 
fmall Runlet or two, w I obfervd before, but I 
couM never arrive to the Capacity of making one 
by them, tho* I fpent many Weeks about it ; I 
could neither put in the Heads, or joint the Staves 
fo true to oneanother, as to make them hold Wa- 
ter, fo I gave that alfo over. 

In 



[ 90 J 

In the next Place, I was at a great Lofs-for Can- 
dle ; fo that as foon as ever it was dark, which was 
generally by Seven a Clock, I was obliged to go to 
|kd : 1 remember the Lump of Bees-wax with 
which I made Candles in my African Adventure, 
but I had none of that now ; the only Remedy I 
had, was, that when I had kiU'd a Goat, I fav'd 
the Tajlow, and with a little Difti made of Clay, 
which I bak'd in the Sun, to which I added a Wick 
of fome Oakum, I made me a Lamp ; and this 
gave me Light, tho* not a clear fteady Light like 
a Candle; in the middle of all my Labours it hap- 
pened, that rummaging my Things, I found a little 
Bag, which, as I hinted before, had been filled with 
Corn for the feeding of Poultry, not for this Vo- 
yage, but before, as I fuppofe, when the Ship 
came from Lisbon ; what little Remainder of Corn 
had been in the Bag, was all devoured with the 
Rats, and I faw nothing in the Bag but Husks and 
Duft ; and being willing to have the Bag for fome 
other Ufe, I think it was to put Powder in, when 
I divided it for fear of the Lightning, or fome fuch 
Ufe, I ihook the Husks of Corn out of it en one 
Side of my Fortification under the Rock. 

It was a little before the great Rains, juft now 
mention'd, that I threw this Stuff away, taking no 
Notice of any Thing, and not fo much as remem^ 
bring that I had thrown any Thing there ; when 
sbout a Month after, or thereabout, I faw fome 
few Stalks of fbmcthing Green (hooting out of the 
Ground, which I fancyM might be fome Plant I 
had not fecn, but I was furpriz'd and perfectly 
aftonifh'd, when after a little longer time I faw 
about ten or twelve Ears come out, which were 
perfect green Barley of the fame Kind as our Eu- 
ropean, nay, as our Englifi Barley. 

It 



[ 9I ] 

It is impoflible to exprefs the Aftonifhment and 
Confufion of my Thoughts en this Occafion ; I 
had hitherto afted upon no religious Foundation at 
all ; indeed I had very few Notions of Religion in 
my Head, or had entertained any Senfe of any 
Thing that had befallen me, otherwife than as a 
Chance, or, as we lightly fay, what pleafes God ; 
without fo much as enquiring into the End of Pro- 
vidence in thefe Things, or his Order in gover- 
ning Events in the World : But after I faw Barley 
grow there, in a Climate which I know was not 
proper for Corn, and efpecially that I knew not 
how it came there, it ftartled me ftrangely, and I 
began to fuggeft, that God had miraculoufly caus'd 
this Grain to grow without any help of Seed 
fown, and that it was (o dire&ed purely for my 
Suftenance on that wild miferable Place. 

This touchM my Heart a little, and brought 
Tears out of my Eyes, and I began to blefs my 
felf, that fuch a Prodigy of Nature fhould happen 
upon my Account ; and this was the more firange 
to me, becaufe I faw near it ftill all along by the 
Side of the Rock, fome other {haggling Stalks, 
which prov'd to be Stalks of Rice, and which I 
knew, becaufe I had feen it grow in Africa, when 
I was afhore there. 

m ] I not only thought thefe the pure Produftions 
of Providence for my Support, but not doubting, 
but that there was more in the Place ; I went all 
over that part of the Ifland, where I had been 
before peering, in every Corner, and under everjT 
Rock, to fee for more of it, but I could not find 
any ; at laft it. occurred to my Thoughts, that I had 
fliook a Bag of Chickens Meat out in that Place, 
and then the Wonder began to ceafe ; and I muft 
confefs, my religious Thankfulnefs to God's Pro- 
vidence began to abate too upon the difcove- 



[$»] 



ring that all this was nothing but what was com- 
mon ; tho'I ought to have been as thankful for fo 
ftrange and unforefeen Providence, as if it had 
been miraculous ', for it was really the Work of 
Providence as to me, that fhould order or appoint, 
that 10 or 12 Grains of Corn fhould remain un- 
fpoil'd (when the Rats had deftroy'd all the reft) 
as if it had been dropt from Heaven: Asalfo that I 
fliould throw it out in that particular Place where 
it being in the Shade of a high Rock, it fprang up 
immediately ; whereas if 1 had thrown it any 
where elfe at that Time, it had been burnt up and 
deftroy'd. 

I carefully fa v'd theEars of this Corn, you may be 
fure in their Seafon, which was about the End of 
June y and laying up every Corn, I refolv'd to fow 
them all again, hoping in Time to have fome 
Quantity fufficient to fupply me with Bread; but 
it was not till the 4th Year that I could allow my 
felf the leaft Grain of this Corn to eat, and even 
then butfparingly, as I (hall fay afterwards in its 
Order; for I loft all that I fow'd the firft Seafon, 
by not obferving the proper Time for I fow'd it 
juft before the dry Seafon, fo that it never came 
up at all, at leaft, not as it would have done: Of 
which in its Place. 

Betides this Barley, there was, as above 20 or 
30 Stalks of Rice, which I preferv'd with the fame 
Care, and whofe Ufe was of the fame Kind, or to 
the fame Purpofe, (viz*) to make me Bread, or 
rather Food ; for I found Ways to cook it up with- 
out baking, tho' I did that alfo after fome Time, 
But to return to my Journal. 

I worked exceffive hard thefe three or four 
Months to get my Wall done ; and the 14th of 
April I clofed it up, contriving to go into it, not 
by a Door, but over the Wall by a Ladder, that 

there 



C 93 1_ 

there might be no Sign in the Out-fide of my Ha- 
bitation. 

April 1 6. I finifh'd the Ladder, fo I went up with 
the Ladder to the Top, and then pull'd it up after 
me, and let it down on the Infide : This was a 
compleat Enclofureto me ; for within I had Room 
enough, and nothing could come at me from with* 
out, unlefs it could firfl mount my Wall 

The very next Day after this Wall was finifhed, 
I had almoft had all my Labour overthrown at 
once, and myfelf killed ; the Cafe was thus ; As I 
was bufy in the Infide of it, behind my Tent, juft in 
the Entrance into my Cave, I was terribly frighted- 
with a moft dreadful furpming Thing indeed; 
for all on a fudden I found the Earth come crum- 
bling down from the Roof of my Cave, and from 
the Edge of the Hill over my Head, and two of 
the Polls I had fet up in the Cave, cracked in a 
frightful manner: I was heartily feared, but thought 
nothing of what was really the Caufe, only think- 
ing that the top of my Cave was falling in y as fome 
of it had done before ; and for fear I fhou'd be bu- 
ry \i in it, I ran forward to my Ladder, and not 
thinking my felf fafe their neither, I got over my 
Wall for fear of the Pieces of the Hill which I ex- 
pected might roll down upon me: I was no fooner 
flept down upon the firm Ground, but I plainly 
faw it was a terrible Earthquake, for the Ground I 
flood on fhook three times at about eight Mi- 
nutes diflance, with three fuch Shocks, as would 
have overturned the flrongefl Building that could 
be fuppos'd to have flood on the Earth ; and a 
great Piece of the Top of a Rock, which flood a- 
bout half Mile from me next the Sea, fell down 
with fuch a terible Noife, as I never heard in all 
my Life: I perceiv'd alfo, the very Sea was put 
into violent Motion by it; and I believe the 

Shock 



r 94 1 

Shocks were ftronger under the Water than on the 
Ifland. 

I was fo amaz'd with the Thing it felf, having 
never felt the like, or dilcouried with any one that 
had, that I was like one dead or ftupify'd ^ and the 
Motion o? the Earth made my Stomach fick, like 
Qne that was tofi'd at Sea •, but the Noife of the 
falling of the Rock awak'd me, as it Were, and rou- 
zing me from the ftupiiied Condition I was in, fill'd 
me with Horror, and I thought of nothing then 
but the Hill falling upon niy Tent, and all my Houfc 
hold Goods, and burying all at once \ and this 
itink my very Soul within me a lecond time. 

After the third Shock was over, and I felt no 
more for fome time, I began to take Courage, and 
yet I had not Heart enough to get over my Wall a- 
gain, for fear of being buried alive, but lat ftill 
upon the Ground, greatly caftdown anddifconlb- 
late, not knowing what to do : All this while I had 
not the leaft ferlous religious Thought, nothing 
but the common, Lord hd Mercy upon me j and 
when it was over, that went away too. 

While I lat thus, I found the Air over-caft, and 
grew cloudy, as if it would rain } loon after that 
die Wind role by little and little, lb that in leis 
than half an Hour it blew a moft dreadful Hurri- 
cane : The Sea was all on a Hidden covered over 
with Foam and Froth, the Shore was covered with 
the Breach of the Water, the Trees were torn up 
by the Roots, and a terrible Storm it was -, and 
this held about three Hours, and then began to 
abate, and in two Hours more it was calm, and 
began to rain very hard. 

All this while I lat upon the Ground very much 
terrify'd and dejetted, when on a Hidden it came 
into my Thoughts, that thele Winds and Rain being 
the Confequence of the Earthquake, the Earthquake 

itfelf 



C 95 3 



itfelfwas fpent and over, and I might venture into 
my Cave again : With this Thought my Spirits 
began to revive, and the Rain alio helping to per- 
fivade me, I went in and fat down in my Tent, 
but the Rain was fb violent, that my Tent was 
ready to be beaten down with it i; and I was foi c'd 
to g;o into my Cave, tho 7 very much afraid and ui>- 
eafy far fear it ihould fall on my Head. 

Th ; s violent Rain forced me to a new Work, viz.* 
to cut a Hole thro 5 my new Fortification like a 
Sink to 1 at Water, go out, which would el fe have 
drown'd my Cave. After I had been in my Cave 
fbme Time, and found lull no more Shocks of the 
Earthquake follow, I began to be more composed 5 
and now to fupport my Spirits, which indeed want- 
ed it very much, I went to my little Store, and 
took a fmall Sup of Rum, which however I did 
then and always very fparingly, knowing I could 
have no more when t v .at was gone. 

It cont^nu'd raining all that Night, and great 
Part of the next Day, fb that I could not itir 
abroad, but my Mind being mere composed, I be- 
gan- to think of what I had beft do, concluding, 
that if the Ifland was fubje£t to thele Earthquakes, 
there would be no living for me in a Cave, but I 
xtiuft confider of building me lome little Hut in an 
open Place, which I might lurround with a Wall as 
I had done here, and fb make my felf fecure from 
wild Beafts or Men: But concluded, if I ftaid 
where 1 was, I ihould certainly, one Time or other, 
be bury'd alive. 

With thefe Thoughts I refblv'd to remove my 
Tent from the Place where it flood, which was 
jiift under the hanging Precipice of the Hill, and 
which, ifit ihould be ihaken again, would certain- 
ly fall upon my Tent : And 1 fpent the two next 

Days 



[9*] 

Pays, being the 19th and 20th of April, in con- 
triving where and how to remove my Habitation. 

The Fear of being fwallow'd up alive, made 
me that I never flept in Quiet ; and yet the Appre- 
henfion, of lying abroad without any Fence, was 
almoft equal to it : But ftill when 1 look'd about* 
and faw how every Thing was put in Order, how 
pleafantly concealed I was, and how fafe from 
Danger, it made me very loth to remove. 

In the mean time it occurred to me, that it would 
require a vaft deal of Time forme to do this, and 
that I muft be contented to run the Venture where 
I was, 'till I had form'd a Camp for myfelf, and 
had fecur'd it fo as to remove to it : So with this 
Resolution I composed myfelf for a Time, and re- 
folv'd that I would go to work with all Speed to 
build me a Wall with Files and Cables, &c. in a 
Circle as before, and fet my Tent up in it when it 
was finiftui, but that I would venture to flay where. 
I was 'till it wasfinifli'd and fit to remove to. This 
was the 2 1 ft. 

April 22. The next Morning I began to confide* 
of Means to put this Refolve in Execution, but I 
was at a great Lofs about my Tools ; I had three 
large Axes and abundance of Hatchets, (for we. 
carry 'd the Hatchets for TraiEck with the Indians) 
but with much chopping and cutting knotty hard 
Wood, they were all full of Notches and dull, 
andtho'I had a Grindftone, I could not turn it and 
grind my Tools too; this coll: me as much Thought 
as a Statefman would have beftow'd upon a grand 
Point of Politicks, or a Judge upon the Life and 
Death of a Man- At length I contriv'd a Wheel 
with a String, to turn it with my Foot, that I 
might have both my Hands at Liberty : Note, I had 
never feen any fuch thing in England, or atleafl 
not to take Notice how it was done, tho'fincel 

have 



[9ll 



have obferv'd it is very common there: Befides 
that, my Grind- ftone was very large and heavy* 
This Machine coft me a full Week's Work to bring 
it to Perfe&ion. 

April 28, 2,9. Thefe two whole Days I took up 
in grinding my Tools, my Machine for turning 
my Grind-(tone performing very well. 

April 30. Having perceiv'd my Bread had been 
low a great while, now I took a Survey of it, and 
reduc'd myfelf to one Bisket-cake a Day, which 
made my Heart very heavy* 

May 1 . In the Morning looking towards the 
Sea-iide, the Tide being low, I faw fomething lie 
on the Shore bigger than ordinary ; and it look'd 
like a Cask j when I came to it, I found a fmall 
Barrel, and two or three Pieces of the Wreck of 
the Ship, which were driven on Shore by the late 
Hurricane , and looking towards the Wreck itfelf, 
I thought it feem'd to lie higher out of the Water, 
that it us'd to do j I examin'd the Barrel which 
was driven on Shore, and foon found it was a 
Barrel of Gun-powder; but it had taken Water, 
and the Powder was cak'd as hard as a Stone 3 how- 
ever I rolPd it farther on Shore for the prefent,and 
went on upon the Sands as near as 1 could to the 
Wreck of the Ship to look for more. 
t When I came down to the Ship,I found it ftrange- 
ly remov'd y the Fore-caflle, which lay before bu- 
ry'd in Sand, was heav'd up at leaft fix Foot 7 and 
the Stern, which was broke to pieces, and parted 
from the reft by the Force of the Sea foon after I 
had left rummaging her, was tofs'd, as it were, up, 
and call: on one Side, and the Sand was thrown 
fo high on that fide next her Stem, that whereas 
there was a great Place of Water before, fo that I 
could not come within a Quarter of a Mile of the 
Wreck without fwimming, I could now walk 

H quite 



[?8 ] 



quite up to her when the Tide was out 3 I wasfur- 
priz'd with this at firft, but foon concluded it muft 
be done by the Earthquake : And as by this Violence 
the Ship was more broken open than formerly, fo 
many Things came daily on Shore, which the Sea 
*had loofen'd, and which the Winds and Water rol- 
led by degrees to the Land. 

This wholly diverted my Thoughts from the 
Defign of removing my Habitation -, and I bufied 
myfelf mightily, that Day efpecially, in fearching 
whether I could make any way into the Ship j but I 
found nothing was to be expected of that kind, for 
that all the Infide of the Ship was choak'd up 
with Sand ; However, as I had learnt not to defpair 
of any thing, I refblv'd to pull every thing to 
pieces that I could of the Ship, concluding, that 
every thing I could get from her, would be of fome 
Ufe or other to me. 

May 3. I -begun with my Saw, and cut a Piece 
of a Beam thro', which I thought held fome of the 
upper Part or Quarter-Deck together, and when 
I had cut it thro', I clear'd away the Sand as well 
as I could from the Side which lay higheftj but 
the Tide coming in, 1 was obliged to give over 
for that Time. 

May 4. I went a fifhing, but caught not one Fifh 
that I durft eat of, till I was weary of my Sport $ 
when jufi: going to leave off, I caught a young 
Dolphin. I had made me a long Line of fome 
Rope Yarn, but I had no Hooks, yet I frequently 
caught Fifh enough, as much as I car'd to eat j 
all which I dry'd in the Sun, and eat them dry. 

May f. Work'd on the Wreck, cut another 
Beam afunder, and brought three great Fir Planks 
off from the Decks, which I ty'd together, and 
made fvvim on Shore, when the Tide of Flood 
came on. 

* May 



I 99.1 



May 6. Work'd on the Wreck, got feveral Troti 
Bolts out of Her, and other Pieces of Iron- work $ 
work'd very frard, and came Home very much 
tir'd, and had Thoughts of giving it over. 

May y. Went to the Wreck again, but with an , 
Intent not to work j but found the Weight of the 
Wreck had broke itfelf down, the Beams being cut % 
that feveral Pieces of the Ship feem'd to lie loofe* 
and the Infide of the Hold lay fo open, that I 
could fee into it, but al mo it full of Water and Sand. 

May 8. Went to the Wreck, and carry'd an Iroil 
Crow to wrench up the Deck, which lay now 
quite clear of the Water or Sand - y I wrench'd open 
two Planks, and brought them on Shore alfo with 
the Tide: I left the Iron Crow in the Wreck for 
next Day. 

May p. Went to the Wreck, and with the Crow 
made Way into the Body of the Wrecks and felt 
feveral Casks, and loofen'd them with the Crow* 
but could not break them up $ I felt alfo the Roll 
of Englijh Lead, and could ftir it, but it was too 
heavy to remove. 

May 10,11,12, 13,14. Went every Day to the 
Wreck, and got a great deal of Pieces of Tim- 
ber, and Boards, or Plank, and z or 300 Weight 
of Iron. 

* May if. I carry'd two Hatchets to try if I 
could not cut a Piece off of the Roll of Lead, by 
placing the Edge of one Hatchet, and driving it 
with the other > but as k lay about a Foot and a 
half in the Water, I could not make any Blow to 
drive the Hatchet. 

May 16. It had blow'd hard in the Night, and 
the* Wreck appear'd more broken by the Force of 
the Water -, but I ftaid fo long in the Woods to get 
Pidgeons for Food, that the Tide prevented me 
going to the Wreck that Day. 

H % May 



[ ioo ] 



May i j. I faw fomc pieces of the Wreck blown 
on Shore, at a great Diftance, near two Miles off 
me, but refolv'd to fee what they were, and found 
it was a Piece of the Head, but too he^vy for me 
to bring away. 

May 2.4. Every Day to this Day I work'd on 
the Wreck and with hard Labour I loofen'd fome 
Things fo much with the Crow, that the firft 
blowing Tide feveral Casks floated out, and two 
of the Seamens Chefts j but the Wind blowing from 
thb Shore, nothing came to Land that Day, but 
Pieces of Timber, and a Hogftiead which had fomc 
Brazil Pork in it, but the Salt-water and the Sand 
had fpoiPd it. 

I continued this Work every Day to the ifth of 
June, except the Time neceflary to get Food, 
which I always appointed, during this Part of my 
Employment, to be when the Tide was up, that I 
might be ready when it was ebb'd out 5 and by this 
Time I had gotten Timber, and Plank, and Iron- 
work enongh, to have built a good Boat, if I 
had known how j and alfo, I got at feveral Times, 
and in feveral Pieces, near 100 Weight of the Sheet- 
Lead. 

June 16. Going down to the Sea- fide, I found 
a large Tortoife or Turtle 5 this was the firft I had 
feen, which it feems was only my Misfortune, not 
any Defeat of the Place, or Scarcity > for had I 
happened to be on rhe other Side of the Ifland, I 
might have had Hundreds of them every Day, as 
J found afterwards j but .perhaps had paid dear 
enough for them. 

June 17, I fpent in cooking the Turtle 5 I 
found in her thrcefcorc Eggs j and herFlefh was to 
me at that Time the molt favoury and pleafant 
that ever I tailed in my Life, having had no Flefh, 

but 



[ ioi 3 



but of Goats and Fowls, fince I landed in this hor- 
rid Place. 

June 1 8. Rain'd all Day, and I ftay'd within. I 
thought at this Time the Rain felt Cold, and I 
was fomething chilly, which I knew was not ufual 
it that Latitude. 

June 19. Very ill, and fhivering, as if the Wea- 
ther had been cold. 

June zo. No reft all Night, violent Pains in my 
Head, and feverifh. 

June 21. Very ill, frighted almoft to Death 
with the Apprehenfions of my fad Condition, to 
be fick, and no Help : Pray'd to GOD for the 
firft Time fince the Storm off of Hull^ but fcarce 
knew what I faid, or why > my Thoughts being 
all confufed. 

June 22. A little better, but under dreadful Ap- 
prehenfions of Sicknefs. 

June 23. Very bad again, cold and fhivering, 
and then a violent Head-ach. 
June 24. Much better. 

June if. An Ague very violent ; the Fit held me 
fevcn Hours, cold Fit, and hot, with faint Sweats 
after it. 

June 16. Better 5 and having no Vi&uals to eat, 
took my Gun, but found myfelf very weak ; how- 
-ever I kill'd a She-Goat, and with much Difficul- 
ty got it Home, and broil'd fome of it, and eat 5 
I wou'd fain have ftew'd it, and made fome Broth, 
but had no Pot. 

June 27. The Ague again fo violent, that I 
lay a-bed all Day, and neither eat or drank. I 
was ready to perifh for Thirft, but fo weak, I had 
not Strength to ftand up, or to get myfelf any 
Water to drink: Pray'd to God again, but was 
light-headed, and when I was not, 1 was fo igno- 
rant, that I knew not what to fay> only I lay and 

H 3 cry*dK| 



[ 102 ] 



cry'd, Lord look upon me^ Lord pity 'me- 9 Lord have 
Mercy upon me - y I fuppofe I did nothing elfe for two 
or three Hours, till the Fit wearing off, I fell afleep, 
and did not wake till far in theNight * when I wak'd, 
I found myfelf much refrefh'd, but weak, and ex- 
ceeding thirfty: However, as I had no Water in 
my whole Habitation, I was forc'd to lie till Morn- 
ing, and went to deep again : In this fecond Sleep, 
I had this terrible Dream. 

I thought, that I was fitting on the Ground on 
the Out-fide of my Wall, where I fat when the 
Storm blew after the Earthquake, and that I faw 
a Man defcend from a great black Cloud, in a 
bright Flame of Fire, and light upon the Ground : 
He was all over as bright as a Flame, fo that I 
could but juft bear to look towards him > his 
Countenance was moft inexpreflibly dreadful, im- 
poffible for Words to defcribe > when he ftep'd up- 
on the Ground with his Feet, I thought the Earth 
trembPd, juft as it had done before in the Earth- 
quake, and all the Air look'd to my Apprehenfion, 
as if it had been fill'd with Flafhes of Fire. 

He was no fooner landed upon the Earth, but 
he mov'd forward towards me, with a long Spear 
or Weapon in his Hand, to kill me -, and when he 
came to a rifing Ground, at fome Di fiance, he 
fpoke to me, or I heard a Voice fo terrible, that 
it is impoffible to exprefs the Terror of it $ all that 
I can fay I underflood was this, Seeing all thefe 
Things have not brought thee to Repentance^ now thou 
Jhalt die : At which Words, I thought he lifted up 
the Spear that was in his Hand to kill me. 

JNJo one, that fliall ever read this Account, will 

. £xpe£t that Ifhould be able to defcribe the Horrors 

pf my Soul at this terrible Vifion, I mean, that even 

while it was a Dream, I even dreamed of thofe 

Horrors 5 nor is it any more pofTible to defcribe 

the 



I 103 ] 



the Irrtpreflion that remain'd upon my Mind, when 
I awak'd, and found it was but a Dream. 

I had alas ! no divine Knowledge 5 what I had rc- 
ceiv'd by the good Inftru&ion of my Father was then 
jvorn out by an uninterrupted Series, for 8 Years, of 
feafaring Wickednefs, and a conltant Converfation 
with nothing but fuch as were like myfelf, wicked 
and prophane to the laft Degret : I do not remem- 
ber that I had in all that time one Thought that fo 
much as tended either to looking upwards toward 
God, or inwards towards a Reflection upon my 
own Ways : But a certain Stupidity of Soul, with- 
out Defire of Good, or Confcience of Evil, had en- 
tirely overwhelm'd me, and I was all that the mod 
hardned, unthinking, wicked Creature among our 
common Sailors can be fuppos'd to be, not having 
the leaft Senfe, either of the Fear of God in Dan- 
ger, or of Thankfulnefs to God in Deliverances. 

In the relating what is already paft of my Story, 
this will be the more eafily believed, when I fhall 
add , that thro' all the Variety of Miferies that 
had to this Day befallen me, I never had fo much 
as one Thought of it being the Hand of God, or 
that it was a juft Punifhment for my Sin, my re- 
bellious Behaviour againft my Father, or my pre- 
fent Sins which were great * orfo much as a Punifh- 
ment for the general Courfe of my wicked Life. 
When I was on the defpei ate Expedition on the de- 
fert Shores of Africa, I never had fo much as one 
Thought of what would become of me$ or one 
Wifh to God to dired me whither I fhould go, or to 
keep me from the Danger which apparently fur- 
rounded me, as well from voracious Creatures as 
cruel Savages: But I was meerly thoughtlefs of a 
God, or a Providence -, a&ed like a meer Brute 
from the Principles of Nature, and by the Di&ates 
of common Senfe only, and indeed hardly that. 

H 4 Whca 



[ i°4 ] 



When I was deliver'd and taken up at Sea by the 
Portugal Captain, well us'd, and dealt juftly and 
honourably with, as well as charitably, I had not 
the lead Thankfulnefs on my Thoughts : When 
again I was fhipwreck'd, ruin'd, and in danger of 
drowning on this Ifland, I was as far from Re- 
morfe, or looking on it as a Judgment * I only faid 
to myfelf often, that I was an unfortunate Dog^ and 
born to be always miferable. 

It is true, when I got on Shore firft here, and 
found all my Ship's Crew drown'd , and my 
felf fpar'd, I was furpriz'd with a kind of Extafy, 
and fome Tranfports of Soul, which, had the Grace 
of God affifted, might have come up to true Thank- 
fulnefs -, but it ended where it begun, in a meer 
common Flight of Joy, or, as I may fay, being glad I 
was alive 3 without the leaft Reflection upon the 
diftinguiihing Goodnefs of the Hand which had 
preferv'd me, and had fingled me out to be pre- 
ferv'd, when all the reft were deftroy'd : or an En- 
quiry why Providence had been thus merciful to 
me > even juft the fame common fort of Joy which 
Seamen generally have after they are got fare afhore 
from a Shipwreck, which they drown all in the next 
Bowl of Punch, and forget almoft as foon as it is 
over 5 and all the reft of my Life was like it. 

Even, when I was afterwards, on due Confide- 
ration, made fenfible of my Condition, how 1 was 
caft on this dreadful Place, out of the Reach of 
humane Kind, out of all Hope of Relief, or Profpeft 
of Redemption, as foon as I faw but a Profped of 
living, and that I fhould not llarve and perifh for 
Hunger, all the Senfe of nrp Affliction wore oflF, 
and 1 begun to be very eafy, apply 'd myfelf to the 
Works proper formyPrefervationand Supply, and 
was far enough from being affli&ed at my Con- 
dition, as a Judgment from Heaven, or as the 

Hand 



[ io 5 ] 



Hand of God againft me 3 thefe were Thoughts 
which very feldom enter'd into my Head. 

The growing uf> of the Corn, as is hinted in 
my Journal, had at firft fome little Influence upon 
me, and began to -affed me with Serioufnefs, as 
long as I thought it had fomething miraculous in 
it > but as foon as ever that part of the Thought 
was remov'd, all the ImpreiTion which was rais'd 
from ir, wore off alfo, as 1 have noted already. 

Even the Earthquake, tho' nothing could be 
more terrible in its Nature, or more immediately 
•dire&ing to the invifible Power, which alone di- 
re£h fuch things $ yet no fooner was the firft: Fright, 
over, but the lmpreflion it had made went off alfo $ 
I had no more Senfe of God or his Judgments, 
much lefs of the prefent Afflidtion of my Circum- 
ftances being from his Hand, than if I had been in 
the moft profperous Condition of Life. 

But now when I began to be fick, and a leifure- 
ly View of the Miferies of Death came to place it- 
felf before me 3 when my Spirits began to fink un- 
der the Burden of a flrong Diftemper, and Nature 
was exhaufted with the Violence of the Fever $ 
Confcience that had flept fo long, begun to awake, 
and I began to reproach myfelf with my paft Life, 
in which I had fo evidently, by uncommon Wic- 
•kednefs, provok'd the Juftice of God to lay me 
under uncommon Strokes, and to deal with me in 
fo vindictive a manner. 

Thefe Refle&ions opprefs'd me for the fecond or 
third Day of my Diftemper, and in the Violence, 
as well of the Fever, as of the dreadful Reproaches 
of my Confcience, extorted fome Words from me, 
like praying to God, tho' I cannot fay they were 
cither a Prayer attended with Defires or with 
Hopes j it was rather the Voice of mere Fright 
and Diftrefsj my Thoughts were confus'd, the 

Con* 



L 1o6 ] 

Convi&ions great upon my Mind, and the Horror 
of dying in fuch a miferable Condition rais'd Va- 
pours into my Head with th& mere Apprehenfi- 
ons$ and in thefe Hurries of my Soul, I know not 
what my Tongue might exprefs* but it was ra- 
ther Exclamation, fuch as, Lord! what a miferable 
Creature am I? If I Jhould be fick, I Jh all certainly 
die for want of Help^ and what will become of me ! 
Then the Tears burft out of my Eyes, and I could 
fay no more for a good while. 

In this Interval, the good Advice of my Father 
came to my Mind, and prefently his Predi£tion, 
which I mentioned at the Beginning of this Story, 
viz. 'That if I did take this foolijh Step, God would not 
blefs me \ and I would have leifure hereafter to re fie 61 
upon having neglected his Counfel, when there might be 
none to ajfift in my Recovery Now, faid I aloud, 
My dear Father's Words are come to pafs : God's 
Juftice has overtaken me, and I have none to help 
or hear me: I reje&ed the Voice of Providence, 
which had mercifully put me in a Pofture or Sta- 
tion of Life, wherein I might have been happy and 
eafyj but I would neither fee it myfelf, or learn 
to know the Bleffing of it from my Parents : I left 
them to mourn over my Folly, and now I am left 
to mourn under the Confequences of it. I refus'd 
their Help and Affiftance who would have lifted me 
into the World, and wou'd have made every thing 
eafy to me, and now I have Difficulties to ftruggle 
with, too great for even Nature itfelf to fupport, 
and no Affiftance, no Help, no Comfort, no Ad- 
vice : Then I cry 'd out, Lord be my Help, for lam 
in great Difirefs. 

This was the firft Prayer, if I may call it fo, 
that I had made for many Years; But I return to 
my Journal. 

June 



[ io 7 ] 



June 2.8. Having been fomewhat refreih'd with 
the Sleep I had had, and the Fit being entirely 
off, I got up> and tho' the Fright and Terror of 
my Dream was very great, yet I confider'd, that 
the Fit of the Ague wou'd return again the next 
Day, and now was my Time to get fomething to 
refrefh and fupport myfelf when I ihould be ill ^ 
and the firffc Thing I did, I fill'd a large fquare 
Cafe Bottle with Water, and fet it upon my Ta- 
ble, in Reach of my Bed 3 and to take off the chill 
or aguifh Difpofition of the Water, I put about 
a Quarter of a Pint of Rum into it, and mix'd 
them together > then I got me a Piece of the 
Goat's Flefh, and broil'd it on the Coals, but 
could eat very little \ I walk'd about, -but was very 
weak, and withal very fad and heavy-hearted in 
the Senfe of my miferable Condition *> dreading 
the Return of my Diftemper the next Day > at 
Night I made my Supper of three of the Turtle's 
Eggs, which I roafted in the Aihes, and eat, as we 
call it, in the Shell > and this was the firfl: Bit of 
Meat I had ever ask'd God's Blefling to, even as I 
cou'd remember in my whole Life. 

After I had eaten, I try'd to walk, but found 
myfelf fo weak that I cou'd hardly carry the 
Gun, (for I never went out without that 3) fo I 
went but a little Way, and fat down upon the 
Ground, looking out upon the Sea, which was 
juft before me, and very calm and fmooth : As I 
fat here, fome fuch Thoughts as thefe occur'd to 
me. 

What is this Earth and Sea of which I have feen 
fo much, whence is it produc'd, and what am 1, and 
all the other Creatures, wild and tame, humane and 
brutal, whence are we? 

Sure 



[ io8 ] 



Sure we are all made by fome fecrct Power, 
who form'd the Earth and Sea, the Air and Sky ; 
and who is that ? 

Then it followed moft naturally, It is God that 
has made it all : Well, but then it came on ftrangely, 
if God has made all thefe Things, Fie guides and 
governs them all, and all Things that concern 
them; for the Power that could make all Things, 
muft certainly have Power to guide and dire6t 
them. 

If fo, nothing can happen in the great Circuit 
of his Works, either without his Knowledge or 
Appointment. 

And if nothing happens without his Knowledge, 
he knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful 
Condition; and if nothing happens without his 
Appointment, he has appointed all this to befal 
me. 

Nothing occur'd to my Thought to contradict 
any of thefe Conclufions; and therefore it refted 
upon me with the greater Force, that it muft needs 
be, that God had appointed all this to befal me; 
that I was brought to this miferable Circumftance 
by his Direftion, he having the fole Power, not of 
me only, but of every Thing that happen'd in the 
World. Immediately it follow'd, 

Why has God done this to me ? What have I done 
to be thus us'd ? 

My Confcience prefently checked me in that En- 
quiry, as if I had blafphem'd, and methought it 
fpoke to me like a Voice; WRETCH! dofi thou 
ask what thou baft done ! look back upon a dreadful 
mif-fpent Life, and ask thy felf what thou hafi not 
done ? ask, Why is it that thou wert not long ago de- 
firofd? Why wert thou not drown" d in Yarmouth 
Roads ? KilVd in the Fight when the Ship was taken by 
the Saiie Man of War ? Devoured by the wildBeafis 

on 



[ i°j 1 



oh the Coaft of Africa? Or Drown' d HERE, 
when all the Crew perijh'd but thy [elf? Doft thou 
ask, What have I done ? 

I was ftruck dumb with thefe Refle&ions, as one 
aftonifh'd, and had not a Word to fay, no not 
to anfwer to myfelf, but rofe up penfive and fad, 
walk'd back to my Retreat, and went up over my 
Wall, as if I had been going to Bed 5 but my 
Thoughts were fadly difturb'd, and I had no In- 
clination to deep 5 fo I fat down in my Chair, 
and lighted my Lamp, for it began to be dark : 
Now as the Apprehension of the Return of my Di- 
ftemper terrify'd me very much, it occur'd to my 
Thought, that the Brazilians take no Phyfick but 
their Tobacco for almoft all Diftempers* and I 
had a Piece of a Roll of Tobacco in one of the 
Chefts, which was quite cur'd, and fome alfo that 
was green and not quite cur'd. 

I went, dire£ted by Heaven no doubt 5 for in 
this Cheft I found a Cure both for Soul and Body 5 
I open'd the Cheft, and found what I look'd for, viz. 
the Tobacco , and as the few Books, I had fav'd, 
lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles which 
I menaced before, and which to this Time I had 
not found Leifure, or fo much as Inclination to 
look into y I fay 5 1 took it out, and brought both 
.that and the Tobacco with me to the Table. 

What Ufe to make of the Tobacco, I knew not, 
as to my Diftemper, or whether it was good for it 
or noj but I try'd feveral Experiments with it, as 
if I was refolv'd it fhould hit one Way or other : 
I firft took a Piece of a Leaf, and chew'd it in my 
Mouth, which indeed at firft almoft ftupify'd my 
Brain, the Tobacco being green and ftrong, and 
that I had not been much us'd to it > then I took 
fome and fteep'd it an Hour or two in fome Rum, 
and refolv'd to take a Dofe of it when I lay down > 
* and 



C no] 



and laftly, I burnt fome upon a Pan of Coals, and 
held my Nofe clofe over the Smoke of it as long as 
I could bear it, as well for the Heat as almoft for 
Suffocation. 

In the Interval of this Operation, I took up the 
Bible and began to read, but my Head was too 
much difturb'd with the Tobacco to bear reading, 
at leaft that Time $ only having dpen'd the Book 
cafually, the firft Words that occur'd to me were 
thefe, Call on me in the Day ^ of % Trouble ', and I will 
deliver ', and thou Jh alt glorify me. 

The Words were very apt to my Cafe, and made 
fome Impreffion upon my Thoughts at the Time of 
reading them, tho' not fo much as they did after- 
wards 5 for as for being delivered, the Word had no 
Sound, as I may fay ^ to me > theThing was fo remote, 
fo impoffible in my Apprehenfion of Things, that 
I began to fay as the Children of Ifrael did, when 
they were promis'd Flefh to eat, Can God fpread a 
tfable in the Wildernefs ? fo I began to fay, Can God 
himfelf deliver me from this Place? and as it was 
not for many Years that any Hope appeafd, this 
prevail'd very often upon my Thoughts: But 
however, the Words made a great Impreffion upon 
me, and I mufed upon them very often. It grew 
now late, and the Tobacco had, as I faid, doz'd 
my Head fo much, that I inclin'd to fleep j fo I 
left my Lamp burning in the Cave, left I fhould 
want any Thing in the Night, and went to Bed* 
but before I lay down, I did what I never had done 
in all my Life, I kneel'd down and pray'd to God 
to fulfil the Promife to me, that if I call'd upon him 
in the Day of Trouble, he would deliver me j af- 
ter my broken and imperfect Prayer was over, I 
drunk the Rum in which I had fteep'd the Tobac- 
co, which wasfo ftrongand rank of the Tobacco, 
that indeed I could fcarce get it down j immediately 

upon 



[■"«.] 



Upon this I went to Bed, I found prefently it flew 
up in my Head violently, but I fell into a found 
Sleep, and wak'd no more, till by the Sun it rauft 
neceflarily be near three a-Clock in the Afternoon 
the next Day 5 nay, to this Hour I'm partly of the 
Opinion, that I flept all the next Day and Night, 
and rill almoft three that Day after 3 for other- 
wife I knew not how I fhould lofe a Day out of my 
Reckoning in the Days of the Week, as it appear'd 
fome Years after I had done 5 For if I had loft it by 
crofling and recroffing the Line, I fhould have loft 
more than one Day : But certainly I loft a Day in 
my Account, and never knew which Way. 

Be that however one way or t'other, when I 
awak'd I found myfelf exceedingly refrefh" d, and 
my Spirits lively and cheerful* when I got up, I 
was ftronger than I was the Day before, and my 
Stomach better, for I was hungry $ and in fhort, I 
had no Fit the next Day, but continu'd much al- 
ur'd for the better 3 this was the 29th. 

The 90th was my Well-day of courfe, and I 
went abroad with my Gun, but did not care to 
travel too far. I kill'd a Sea-Fowl or two, fome- 
thing like a Brand-Goofe, and brought them home, 
but was not very forward to eat them $ fo I eat fome 
more of the Turtle's Eggs, which were very good : 
This Evening I renew'd the Medicine which I had 
fuppos'd did me good the day before, viz. theTobac * 
co fteep'd in Rum, only I did not take fo much as 
before, nor did I chew any of the Leaf, or hold my 
Head over the Smoke* however, I was not fo well 
the next Day, which was the firft of July, as I hop'd 
I fhould have been j for I had a little Spice of the 
cold Fit, but it was not much. 

July z. I renew'd the Medicine all the three 
Ways, and doz'd my felf with it as it firft j and 
doubled the Quantity which I drank, 

31 



[ »2 ] 



$* I mifs'd the Fit for good and all, tho' I did 
not recover my full Strength for fome Weeks after : 
While I was thus gathering Strength, my Thoughts 
run exceedingly upon this Scripture, I will deliver 
thee \ and the Impoflibility of my Deliverance lay 
much upon my Mind in Bar of my ever expe£ting 
it : But as I was difcouraging myfelf with fuch 
Thoughts, it occurr'd to my Mind, that I pored 
fo much upon my Deliverance from the main Affli- 
ction, that I difregarded the Deliverance I had re- 
ceived 5 and I was, as it were, made to ask my 
felf fuch Queftions as thefe, viz. Have I not been 
delivered, and wonderfully too, from Sicknefs ? from 
the mod diftrefled Condition that could be, and 
that was fo frightful to me, and what Notice 
had I taken of it ? Had I done my part, God had de- 
livered me j but I had not glorified him j that is to fay, 
I had not own'd and been thankful for that as a 
Deliverance, and how could I expe£t greater De- 
liverance? 

This touch'd my Heart very much, and imme- 
diately I kneel'd down, and gave God Thanks a- 
loud for my Recovery from my Sicknefs. 

July 4. In the Morning I took the Bible, and be- 
ginning at the New Teitament, I began ferioufly 
to read it, and impos'd upon myfelf to read a- 
while every Morning and every Night, not tying 
myfelf to the Number of Chapters, but as long as 
my Thoughts Ihould engage me : It was not long 
after I fet ferioufly to this Work, but I found 
my Heart more deeply and fincerely afFe£ted with 
the Wickednefs of my paft Life : The Im- 
preffion of my Dream reviv'd, and the Words, Jill 
thefe things have not brought thee to Repentance^ ran 
ferioufly in my Thought : I was earneftiy begging 
of God to give me Repentance, when it happen'd 
providentially the very Day that reading the Scrip- 
ture, 



[ "3 ] 



ture, I came ft thefe Words, Heisexal/eda Prince 
and a Saviour fn give Repentance, and te give Remiffi- 
on. I threw d<Wn the Book, and with my Heart 
as well as my Hands lifted up ro Heaven, in a 
Kind of ExtafyVf Joy, I cry'd out aloud, Jefus, 
tbou Son of Davi&J e f us , thou exalted Prince and 
Saviour ; give me hpentance ! 

This was the fir\Time that I could fay, in the 
true Senfe of the Wtds, that I pray'd in all my Lite j 
for now I pray'd Ah a Senfe of my Condition, 
and with a true ScriW View of Hope founded 
on the Encouragement of the Word of God > and 
from this Time, 1 ma\ fay, I began to have Hope 
that God would hearW. 

Now I began to co&rue the Words mentioned 
above, Call on me, and hvill deliver you, in a diffe- 
rent Senfe from what I \ad ever done before ; for 
then I had no Notion ofW thing being call'd De- 
liverance, but my being Wliver'd from the Capti- 
vity I was irii for tho'U was indeed at large 
in the Place, yet the ^{land was certainly a 
Pnfon to me, and that in \he worft Senfe in the 
World ; but now Mearn'd to take it in another 
Senfe : Now 1 look'd back i\pon my part Life with 
fuch Honor, and my Sins appear'd fo dreadful, 
that my Soul fought nothing! of God, but Delive- 
rance from the Load of Guilt that bore down all my 
Comfort: As for my folitary Life it was nothing} 
I did not io much as pray to be deliver'd from it, 
or think of it; it was all of no Conlideration in 
Companfon to thisj And I add this Part here, to 
hint to whoever (hall read it, that whenever they 
come to a true Senfe of things, they will rind De- 
liverance from Sin a much greater Bleifing, than De- 
liverance from Affliction. 

But leaving this Part, I return to my Journal. 

I My 



[ 11+] 

My Condition began now to be^ho'notlefs mi- 
ferable as to my Way of living, /et much eafier 
to my Mind-, and my Thoughts being dire&ed,by 
a conftant reading the Scriptu£ and praying to 
God, to things of a higher Nature > I had a great 
deal of Comfort within, whichall now I knew no- 
thing of-, alfo, as my Health arJ Strength returned, 
I beftir'd myfelf to furnifh mielf with every thing 
that I wanted, and make m*W ay of living as re- 
gular as I could. 

From the 4th of July to-he 14th, I was chiefly 
employed in walking abou with my Gun in my 
Hand, a little and a littl at a Time, as a Man 
that was gathering up hi, f Strength after a Fit of 
Sicknefs: For it is hardly to be imagined, how low 
I was, and to what Weainefs I was reduced. The 
Application which I irade Ufe of was perfe&ly 
new, and perhaps what had never cur'd an Ague 
before, neither can I ncommend it to any one to 
pra£fcife, by this Experiment} and tho ? it did carry 
off the Fit, yet it rather contributed to weakening 
me 5 for I had frequett Convulsions in my Nerves 
and Limbs for fome Time. 

-I learnt from it a r fo this in particular, that be- 
ing abroad in the rainy Seafon was the mod pernici- 
ous thing to my Health that could be, efpecially in 
thofe Rains which came attended with Storms and 
Hurricanes of Wind -, for as the Rain which came 
in the dry Sealon was always moft accompany'd 
with fuch Storms, fo I found that Rain was much 
more dangerous than the Rain which fell in Sep- 
tember and Ottober. 

I had been now in this unhappy Ifland almoft 10 
Months, all Pollibility oi Deliverance from this 
Condition feem'd to be entirely taken from me> 
and I firmly believed, that no humane Shape had 
ever fet Foot upon that Place: Having nowfecur'd 

my 






[ "5] 



rriy Habitation, as I thought, fully to my Mind, I 
had a great Defire to make a more perfeft Difco- 
very of the Illand, and to fee what other Produc- 
tions I might find, which I yet knew nothing 

It was the lfth o(JuIy that I began to take a 
more particular Survey of the Ifland it felf: I went 
up the Creek firfl, where, as I hinted, I brought 
my Rafts on Shore $ I found after I came about 
two Miles up, that the Tide did not flow any 
higher, and that it was no more than a little 
Brook of running Water, and very frefh and good $ 
but this being the dry Seafon, there was hardly any 
Water in fome Parts of it, at leaft, not enough to 
run in any Stream, fo as it could be perceiv'd. 

On the Bank of this Brook I found many plea- 
fant Savana% or Meadows, plain, fmooth, and 
cover'd with Grafs •, and on the rifing Parts of 
them next to the higher Grounds, where the Wa- 
ter, as it might be luppofed, never overflow'd, 
I found a great deal of Tobacco, green and growing 
to a great and very itrong Stalk 5 there were di- 
vers other Plants which I had no Notion of, or Un- 
derftandmg about, and might perhaps have Vir- 
tues of their own, which I could not find out. 

I fearched for the Caffava Root, which the In- 
dians in all that Climate make then Bread of,but I 
could find none. I faw large Plants of Aloes, but 
did not then underftand them. J law feveral Sugar 
Canes, but wild, and for want of Cultivation, im- 
perfect. I contented myielf with thefe Difcovenes 
tor this Time, and came back muling with my 
felf what CourfL I might take to know the Virtue 
and Goodneis of any of the Fruits or Plants which 
I fhould difcoverj but could bring it to no Con- 
clusion j for in fliort, 1 had made fo little Obfer- 
vation while I was in the Brafils^ that I knew little 

1 z of 



[ ll< D 






of the Plants in the Field, at lead very little that 
might ferve me to any Purpofe now in my Dif- 
trefs. 

The next Day, the i<5th, I went up the fame 
Way again, and after going fomething farther than 
I had gone the Day before, I found the Brook, and 
the Savant? s began to ceafe, and the Country be- 
came more woody than before > in this Part I found 
different Fruits, and particularly I found Melons 
upon the Ground in great Abundances and Grapes 
upon the Trees 5 the Vines had fpread indeed over 
the Trees, and the Clutters of Grapes were juft 
now in their Prime, very ripe and rich: This was a 
furprifing Difcovery, and I was exceeding glad of 
them > but I was warn'd by my Experience to eat 
fparingly of them, remembring, that when I was 
aihorein Barbary\ the eating of Grapes kill'dfeveral 
of our Englijb Men who were Slaves there, by 
throwing them into Fluxes and Fevers : But I 
found an excellent Ufe for the Grapes, and that 
was to cure or dry them in the Sun, and keep 
them as dry'd Grapes or Raifins are kept, which 
1 thought would be, as indeed they were, as 
wholefome as agreeable to eat, when no Grapes 
could be had. 

I fpent all that Evening there, and went not 
back to my Habitation, which by the way was 
fhe firft Night, as I might fay, I had kin from 
Home. In the Night I took my firft Contrivance, 
and got up into a Tree, where I flept well, and the 
next Morning proceeded upon my Difcovery, tra- 
velling near four Miles, as I might judge by the 
length of the Valley, keeping ftili due North, with 
a Ridge of Hills on the South, and Eaft fide of 
me. 

At the End of this March I came to an Open- 
ing, where the Country feem'd to defcend to the 

Weft, 



[ "7 ] 



Weft, and a little Spring of frefh Water, which if- 
fued out of the Side of the Hill by me, run the 
other way, that is due Eaft$ and the Country ap- 
pear'd io frefh, fo green, fo flourifhing, everything 
being in a conftant Verdure, or Flounfh of Spring, 
that it look'd like a planted Garden. 

I defcended a little on the Side of that delicious 
Vale, furveying it with a fecret Kind of Pleafure, 
(tho' mixt with my other affli£ting Thoughts) to 
think that this was all my own, that I was King 
and Lord of all this Country indefeafibly , and 
had a Right of Pofieffion •, and if I could convey it, 
I might have it in Inheritance, as compleatly as 
any Lord of a Manor in England. I faw here 
Abundance of Cocoa Trees , Orange, and Le- 
ipon, and Citron Trees j but all wild, and very 
few bearing any Fruit, at leaft not then : Howe- 
ver the green Limes that I gathered, were not 
only pleaiant to eat, but very wholefome \ and I 
mix'd then Juice afterwards with Water, which 
made it very wholefome, and very cool, and re- 
frefhing. 

1 found now I had Bufinefs enough to gather and 
carry Home* and I refolv'd to lay up a Store, as 
well of Grapes, as Limes and Lemons, to furnilh 
myfelf for the wet Seafon, which I knew was ap- 
proaching. 

In order to this, I gather'd a great Heap of 
Grapes in one Place, and a lefTer Heap in another 
Place, and a great Parcel of Limes and Lemons in- 
another Place $ and taking a few of each with me, 
I travell'd homeward, and refolv'd to come again, 
and bring a Bag or Sack, or what 1 could make to 
carry the reft Home. 

Accordingly, having fpent three Days in this 
Journey, I came Homej fo I mult now call my 
Tent and my Cave : But before I got thither, the 

I 3 Grapes 



C "8 ] 

Grapes werefpoil'd, the Richnefs of the Fruits, 
and the Weight of the Juice having broken them, 
and bruis'd them, they were good for little or no- 
thing; as to the Limes they were good, but I 
could bring but a few. 

The next Day, being the 19th, I went back, 
having made me two fmall Bags to bring Home 
my Harveft: But I was furpriz'd, when coming 
to my Heap of Grapes, which were fo rich and 
fine when I gather'o them, I found them all fpread 
about, trod to Pieces,, and drag'd about, fome 
here, fome there, and Abundance eaten and de- 
vour'd : By this 1 concluded, there were fome wild 
Creatures thereabouts, which had done this > but 
what they were I knew not. 

However, as I found that there was no laying 
them up on Heaps, and no carrying them away in 
a Sack, but that one Way they would be deilroy'd, 
and the other way they would be crufh'd with 
their own Weight, I took another Courfe ; for I 
gather'd a large Quantity of the Grapes, and hung 
them up upon the out Branches of the Trees, that 
they might cure and dry in the Sun $ and as for 
the Limes and Lemons, I carry'd as many back as 
I could well itand under. 

When I came Home from this Journey s I con- 
templated with great Pleafure the Fruitfulnefs of 
that Valley, and the Plealantnefs of the Situation, 
the Security from Storms on that Side the Water, 
and the Wood, and concluded, that I had pitch'd 
upon a Place to fix my Abode, which was by far 
the worft Part of the Country. Upon the whole 
1 began to confider of removing my Habitation j 
and to look out for a Place equally lafe, as where 
1 now was fituate, if poflible, in that pleafaht 
fruitful Part of the I (land. 

5 This 



[»s»] 



This Thought ran long in my Head, and I was 

exceeding fond of it for fome Time, the Pleafant- 
nefs of the Place tempting me 5 but when I came 
to a nearer View of it, and to confider that I was 
now by the Sea- Side, where ic was at lead poflible 
that foraeth/ng might happen to my Advantage, 
and by the fame ill Fate that brought me hither, 
might bring fome other unhappy Wretches to the 
fame Place j and tho' it was fcarce probable that 
any fuch Thing fhould ever happen, yet to enclofe 
myfelf among the Hills and Woods, in the Center 
of the Ifland, was to anticipate my Bondage, and 
to render fuch an Affair not only improbable, but 
impofliblej and that therefore I ought not fay any 
Means to remove. 

However, I was fo enamour'd of this Place, 
that I fpent much of my Time there for the 
whole remaining Part of the Month of July, and 
tho' upon fecond Thoughts I refolv'd as above, not 
to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a Bower, 
and furrounded it at a Diffonce with a ftrong 
Fence, being a double Hedge, as high as I could 
reach, well ftak'd, and fill'd between with Brujh- 
wood-y and here I lay very fecure, fometimes two 
or three Nights together, always going over it 
with a Ladder, as before 5 fo that I fancy'd now I 

f had my Country Houfe, and my Sea-Coati-Houfe: 
And this Work took me up to the Beginning of 

" Auguft. 

I had but newly finifh'd my Fence, and began 
to enjoy my Labour, when the Rains came on, and 
made me flick clofe to my firft Habitation > for tho' 
I had made me a Tent like the other, with a Piece 
of a Sail, and fpread it very well 5 yet 1 had not 
the Shelter of a Hill to keep me from Storms, nor 
a Cave behind me to retreat into, when the Rains 
were extraordinary. 

I 4 About 



C I2 ° 1 



About the beginning of Juguft^ as 1 faid^ I had 
finifh'd my Bower, and began to enjoy myfelf. 
The third of Augufl, I found thfe Grapes 1 had 
hungup were perfectly dry'd, and> indeed, were 
excellent good Raifins of the Sun* fo 1 began to 
take them down from the Trees, and it was very 
happy that I did fo* for the Rains which follow'd 
would have fpoil'd them, and I had loft the beft 
Part of my Winter Food > for I had above two 
hundred large Bunches of them. No fooner had 
I taken them all down, and carry'd molt of them 
Home to my Cave, but it began to rain, and from 
hence, which was the fourteenth oiAuguft, itrain'd 
more oy lefs, every Day, till the middle otOttober-, 
and fometimes fo violently, that I could not ftir out 
of my Cave for feveral Days. s 

In this Seafon I was much furpriz'd with the 
Increafe of my Family * 1 had been concern'd for 
the Lofs of one of my Cats, who run away from 
me, or as 1 thought had been dead, and I heard no 
more Tale or Tidings of her, till to my Aftonifh- 
ment fhe came Home about the End of Augufl^ 
with three Kittens. This was the more ftrange to 
me, becaule tho' I had kill'd a wild Car, as I 
call'd it, with my Gun* yet I thought it was a 
quite differing {Cind from our European Catsj yet 
the young Cats were the fame Kind of Houfe breed 
like the old one 5 and both my Cats being Females, 
I thought it very ftrange: But from thefe three 
Cats, I afterwards came to be fo pefter'd with Cats, 
that 1 was fore'd to kill them like Vermin, or wild 
Beafts, and to drive them from my Houfe as much 
as poflible. 

From the fourteenth of Auguft to the twenty 
fixth was inccflant Rain, fo that J could not ftir, and 
was now very careful not to be much wet. In this 
Confinement I began to be firaitned for Food, but 

venturing 



[ 121 ] 



venturing out twice, I one Day kill'd a Goat, and 
the laft Day, which was the twenty fixth, found 
a very large Tortoife, which was a Treat to me, 
and my Food was regulated thus j I eat a Bunch of 
Raifins for my Breakfaft, a Piece of the Goat's Flefh, 
or of the Turtle for my Dinner broil'd j for to my 
great Misfortune, I had no Veflel to boil or flew 
any Thing ; and two or three of the Turtle's Eggs 
for my Supper, 

During rhisConfinement in my Cover by the Rain, 
I work'd daily two or three Hours at enlarging my 
Cave, and by Degrees work'd it on towards one Side, 
till I came to the Outfide of the Hill, and made 
a Door or Way out, which came beyond my Fence 
or Wall, and fo 1 came in and out this Way - y but I 
was not perfectly eafy at lying fo open 5 for as I 
had manag'd myfelf before, I was in a perfect En- 
clofuf^, whereas now I thought 1 lay expos'd, and 
open for any Thing to come in upon me 5 and yet 
I could not perceive that there wg$ any living 
Thing to fear, the biggeft Creature that I had yet 
feen upon the Ifland being a Goat. 

September the thirtieth, I was now come to the 
iinhappy Anniverfary of my Landing* I cafl: dp the 
Notches on my Port, and found I had been on 
Shore three hundred and fixty five Days. I kept 
xhis Day as a Solemn Faft, fetting it apart to Re- 
ligious Exercife, proilrating myfelf on the Ground 
with the moll ferious Humiliation, qonfeffing my 
Sins to God, acknowledging his Righteous Judg- 
ments upon me, and praying to him to have Mer- 
cy on me, through Jejus Chrifi ; and having not 
tailed the leaft Refreshment for twelve Hours, 
even till the going down of the Sun, I then eat 
a Bisket Cake, and a Bunch of Grapes, and went 
to Bed, finiihing the Day as I began it, 

I had 



[ I22 ] 



I had all this Time obferv'd no Sabbath-Day; 
for as at firft I had no Senfe of Religion upon my 
Mind, I had after fome Time omitted to diftin- 
guifli the Weeks, by making a longer Notch than 
ordinary for the Sabbath-Day, and fo did not really 
know what any of the Days were 5 but now having 
caft up the Days, as above, I found I had been 
there a Year ; fo I divided it into Weeks, and fee 
apart every feventh Day for a Sabbath -> though I 
found at the End of my Account I had loft a Day 
or two in my Reckoning. 

A little after this my Ink began to fail me, and 
fo I contented myfelf to ufe it more fparingly, and 
to write down only the moft remarkable Events of 
my Life, without continuing a daily Memorandum 
of other Things. 

The rainy Seafon, and the dry Seafon, began now 
to appear regular to me, and I learnt to divide 
them fo, as to provide for them accordingly. But 
I bought all my Experience before I had it; and 
this I am going to relate, was one of the moft dis- 
couraging Experiments that I made at all. I have 
mentioned that I had fav'd the few Ears of Barley 
and Rice, which I had fo furprizingly found fpring 
up, as I thought, of themfelves, and believe there 
were about thirty Stalks of Rice, and about twenty 
of Barleyj and now I thought it a proper Time 
to fow it after the Rains, the Sun being in its 
Southern Pofition going from me. 

Accordingly I dug up a Piece of Ground as well 
as I could with my wooden Spade, and dividing it 
into two Parts, I fow'd my Grain j but as I was 
fowing, it cafually occur'd to my Thoughts, that 
I would not fow it all at firft, becaufe I did not 
know when was the proper Time for it 5 fo I fow'd 
about two Thirds of the Seed, leaving about a 
handful of each. 

It 



[ 123 ] 



It was a great Comfort to me afterwards, that 
I did fo, for not one Grain of that I fow'd this 
Time came to any Thing 5 for the dry Months 
following, the Earth having had no Rain after the 
Seed was fown, it had no Moifture to aflift its 
Growth, and never came up at all, till the wet 
Seafon had come again, and then it grew as if ic 
had been but newly fown. 

Finding my firft Seed did not grow, which I 
eafily imagin'd was by the Drought, I fought for 
a moifter Piece of Ground to make another Trial 
in, and I dug up a Piece of Ground near my new 
Bower, and fow'd the reft of my Seed in February y 
a little before the Vernal Equinox 5 and this having 
the rainy Months of March and April to water it, 
fprung up very pleafantly, and yielded a very good 
Crop -, but having Part of the Seed left only, and 
not daring to fow all that I had, I had but a fmall 
Quantity at laft, my whole Crop not amounting 
to above half a Peck of each kind. 

But by this Experiment I was made Mafter of 
my Bufinefs, and knew exaftly when the proper 
Seafon was to fow j and that I might expedt two 
Seed Times, and two Harvefts every Year. 

While this Corn was growing, I made a little 
Difcovery which was of Ufe to me afterwards 5 As 
foon as the Rains were over, and the Weather be- 
gan to fettle, which was about the Month of AV 
vember^ I made a Vifit up the Country to my Bow- 
er, where though I had not been fome Months, yet 
I found all Things juft as I left them. The Cir- 
cle or double Hedge that I had made, was not on- 
ly firm and entire j but the Stakes which 1 had cut 
out of fome Trees that grew thereabouts, were all 
fliot out and grown with long Branches, as much 
as a Willow-Tree ufually lhoots the firft Year after 
lopping its Head. I could not tell what Tree to 

call 



[ I2 4 ] 



call it, that thefe Stakes were cut from. I was 
furpriz'd, and yet very well pleas'd, to fee the 
young Trees grow 5 and I prun'd them, and led 
them up to grow as much alike as I could ; and it 
is fcarce credible how beautiful a Figure they grew 
into in three Years * fo that though the Hedge 
made a Circle of about twenty five Yards in Dia- 
meter, yet the Trees, for fuch I might now call 
them, foon covcr'd it* and it was a compleat 
Shade, fufficient to lodge under all the dry Seafon. 

This made me refolve to cut fome more Stakes, 
and make me a Hedge like this in a Semicircle 
round my Wall 5 I mean that of my firft Dwel- 
ling, which I did* and placing the Trees or Stakes 
in a double Row, at about eight Yards diftance 
from my firft Fence, they grew prefently, and 
were at firft a fine Cover to my Habitation, and 
afterward ferv'd for a Defence alfo, as I ftiall ob- 
ferve in its Order. 

I found now, That the Seafons of the Year 
might generally be divided, not into Summer and 
Winter ^ as in Europe \ but into the Rainy Seafons, 
and the Dry Seafons, which were generally thus : 

Half ^WO Rainy? the tobeingthenon) or 
Half Aprils 

JUne,> Mnrth n( the Tine. 



July*, 

Half Auguft) 



J J o 

North of the Line. 

Half 



[ 125 ] 

lalf AuguftJ Rai the Sm bdng then come 

September,* ^ 
lalf Oclober^ 

alf Oclober, 1 

November/ p thc Sm he] then tQ ^ 
December,}- ^ of Ac Lin & 
January^ 

Half February ) ) 

The Rainy Seafon fometimcs held longer or 
fhorter, as the Winds happened to blow* but this 
was the general Obfervation I made : After I had 
found, by Experience, the ill Confequence of being 
abroad in the Rain, I took care to furnifh myfelf 
with Provifions beforehand, that I might not be 
oblig'd to go out 3 and I fat within Doors as much 
as poflible during the wet Months. 

In this Time I found much Employment, (and 
very fuitable alfo to the Time) for I found great 
Occafion of many Thirlgs which I had no way to 
furnifh myfelf with, but by hard Labour and con- 
ftant Application ; particularly, I try'd many Ways 
to make myfelf a Basket, but all the Twigs I 
could get for the Purpofe prov'd fo brittle, that 
they would do nothing. It prov'd of excellent Ad- 
vantage to me now, That when I was a Boy, I 
ufed to take great Delight in (landing at a Basket- 
maker's in the Town where my Father liv'd, to 
fee them make their PFicker-ware •> and being, as 
Boys ufually are, very officious to help, and a 
great Obferver of the Manner how they work'd 
thofe Things, and fometimes lending a Hand, I 
had by this Means full Knowledge of the Method^ 
of it, that I wanted nothing but the Materials* 
when it came into my Mind, That the Twigs of 
that Tree from whence I cut my Stakes that grew, 

5 might 



[ 126 ] 



might poffibly be as tough as the Sallows, and 
Willows, and Ofters in England, and I refolv'd 
to try. 

Accordingly the next Day I went to my Coun-_ 
try-Houfe, as I call'd it, and cutting fome of the 
(mailer Twigs, I found them to my Purpofe as 
much as I could defire - 9 whereupon I came the next 
Time prepar'd with a Hatchet to cut down a 
Quantity, which I foon found, for there was great 
Plenty of them ; thefe I fet up to dry within my 
Circle or Hedge, and when they were fit for Ufe, 
I carried them to my Cave, and here during the 
next Seafon I employ'd my felf in making, as well 
as I could, a great many Baskets, both to carry 
Earth, or to carry or lay up any Thing as I had 
occafion. And tho' I did not finifh them very hand- 
fomly, yet I made them fufficiently ferviceable for 
my Purpofe \ and thus afterwards I took Care ne- 
ver to be without them> and as my JVkker-ware 
decay'd, I made more, efpecially, I made ftrong 
deep Baskets to place my Corn in, inftead of Sacks, 
when I fhould come to have any Quantity of it. 

Having maiier'd this Difficulty, and employ'd a 
World of Time about it, 1 beltir'd myfelf to fee 
if pollible how to fupply two Wants: I had no 
Veflels to hold any Thing that was Liquid, ex- 
cept two Runlets which were almoft full of Rum, 
and fome Glafs Bottles, fome of the common £ z,e, 
and others which were Cafe-Bottles fquare, for 
the holding of Waters, Spirits, &V. I had not {o 
much as a Pot to boil any Thing, except a great 
Kettle, which I fav'd out of the Ship, and .which 
was too big for fuch Ufe as I defir'd it, viz. to 
.make Broth, and ftew a Bit of Meat by it felf. 
The Seconci Thing I would fain have nad, was a 
Tobacco-Pipe* but it was impofiible to me to 

make 



[ 127 ] 



make one, however I found a Contrivance for that 
too at laft. 

I employ'd myfelf in Planting my Second Rows 
of Stakes or Piles, and in this Wicker- working all the 
Summer* or dry Seafon, when another Bufinefs 
took me up more Time than it could be imagined 
I could fpare. 

I mention'd before, That I had a great Mind to 
fee the whole Ifland, and that I had travelled up 
the Brook, and fo on to where I built my Bower, 
and where I had an Opening quite to the Sea on 
the other Side of the Ifland. I now refolv'd to 
travel quite crofs to the. Sea-Shore on that Side ; 
fo taking my Gun, a Hatchet, and my Dog, and 
a larger Quantity of Powder and Shot than ufual, 
with two Bisket Cakes, and a great Bunch of 
Raifins in my Pouch for my Store, I began my 
Journey. When I had pafs'd the Vale where my 
Bower flood as above, I came within View of the 
Sea, to the Weji&nd it being a very clear Day, I fairly 
defcry'd Land, whether an Ifland or a Continent, I 
could not tell $ but it lay very high, extending from 
the Weft to the IV.S. IV. at a very great Diltance j 
by my Guefs it could not be lefs than Fifteen or 
Twenty Leagues off. 

I could not tell what Part of the World this 
might be, otherwife than that I knew it muft be 
part of America^ and as I concluded by all my 
Obfervations, muft be near the Spanijh Dominions, 
and perhaps was all inhabited by Savages, tyhere 
if I fhould have landed, I had been in a worfe 
Condition than I was now j and therefore I acqui- 
efced in the Difpofitions of Providence, which I 
began now to own, and to believe, order'd every 
Thing for the beft* I fay, I quieted my Mind with 
this, and left afHiding myfelf with fruitlefs Wiflies 
of being there. 

Befides 



[ 128 ] 



fiefides, after fome Paufe upon this Affair, I 
confider'd, that if this Land was the Spanijh Coaft, 
I fhould certainly, one Time or other, fee fome 
Vcflel pafs*or re-pafs one Way or other j but if 
not, then it was the Savage Coaft between the 
Spanijh Country and Brafils^ which are indeed the 
word of Savages 5 for they are Cannibals, or Men- 
eaters, and fail not to murther and devour all the 
humane Bodies that fall into their Hands. 

With thefe Conliderations I walk'd very leifure- 
ly forward. I found that Side of the Ifland where 
I now was, much pleafanter than mine, the open 
or Savana Fields fweet, adorn'd with Flowers and 
Grafs, and full of very fine Woods. I faw Abun- 
dance of Parrots, and fain I would have caught one, 
if poffible to have kept it to be tame, and taught 
it to fpeak to me. I did, after fome Pains taking, 
catch a young Parrot, for I knock'd it down with 
a Stick, and having recover'd it, I brought it home j 
but it was fome Years before I could make him 
fpeak: However, at laft I taught him to call me 
by my Name very familiarly: But the Accident 
that follow'd, tho' it be a Trifle, will be very di- 
verting in its Place. 

I was exceedingly diverted with this Journey : I 
found in the low Grounds Hares, as I thought 
them to be, and Foxes, but they differed greatly 
from all the other Kinds I had met with j nor could 
I fatisfy myfelf to eat them, tho' I kill'd feveral: 
But I had no need to be venturous ; for I had no 
Want ol Food, and of that which was very good 
too 5 efpecially thefe three Sorts, viz. Goats, Pid- 
geons,and Turtle or Tortoife 5 which, added to my 
Grapes, Leaden-hall Market could not have fur- 
nifli'd a Table better than I, in Proportion to the 
Company j and tho' my Cafe was deplorable 
enough, yet I had great Caufe for Thankfulnefs> 

and 






[ I 2 ? ] 



that I was not driven to any Extremities for Food* 
but rather Plenty, even to Dainties, 

I never traveled in this Journey above two Mile$ 
outright in a Day, or thereabouts; but I took fa 
many Turns and Returns, to fee what Difcoveries 
I could make, that I came weary enough to the 
Place where I refolved to fit down for all Night $ 
and then I either repos'd myfelf in a Tree, or fur- 
rounded myfelf with a Row of Stakes fet upright 
in the Ground, either from one Tree to another, 
or fo as no wild Creature could com$ at me, with-> 
out waking me. 

As foon as I came to the Sea Shore, I was fur- 
prized to fee that I had taken up my Lot on the 
worft fide of the Ifland ; for here indeed the Shorq 
was cover'd with innumerable Turtles, whereas on 
the other fide I had found but three in a Year and 
half. Here was alfo an infinite number of Fowls, 
of many Kinds, fome which J had feen, and fome 
which I had not feen of before, and many of them 
very good iMeatj but fuch as I knew not the 
Names of, except thofe call'd Penguins, 

I could have fhot as many as I pleas'd, but was 
veryfparing of my Powder and Shot $ and.therefore 
had more Mind to kill a She- Goat, if I could, 
which I could better feed on 5 and though there 
were many Goats here more than on my Side the 
Ifland, yet it was with much more Difficulty that 
I could come near them, the Country being flat 
and even, and they faw me much fooner t;han when 
I was on the Hill. 

I confefs this Side of the Country was much 
pleafanter than mine, but yerl had not the leaft In- 
clination to remove i for as I w^s fix'd in my Ha- 
bitation, it became natural to me, and I feem'd all 
the while I was here, to be as it were upon a Jour- 
ney, and from Home ; However, I travell'd along 

K the 



[ 1 3° 1 



the Shore of the Sea, towards the Eaft^ I fuppofe 
about twelve Miles - y and then fetting tip a great 
Pole upon the Shore for a Mark, I concluded I 
would go home again $ and that the next Journey 
I took fhould be on the other Side of the Ifland, 
EaB from my Dwelling, and fo round till I came 
to myPoft again : Of which in its Place. 

I took another Way to come back than that I 
went, thinking I could eafily keep all the Ifland fo 
much in my View, that I could not mifs finding 
my firft Dwelling by viewing the Country j but I 
found my felf miftaken $ for being come about two 
or three Miles, I found my felf defcended into a 
very large Valleys but fo furrounded with Hills, 
and thofe Hills covered with Wood, that I could 
not fee which was my Way by any Dire&ion but 
that of the Sun, nor even then, unlefslknew very 
well the Pofition of the Sun at that Time of the 
Day. 

It happened to my farther Misfortune, That the 
Weather prov'd hazey for three or four Days, 
while I was in this Valley > and not being able to 
fee the Sun, I wander'd about very uncomfortably, 
and at laft was obliged to find out the Sea Side, 
look for my Poll, and come back the fame Way I 
went > and then by eafy Journeys I turn'd Home- 
ward, the Weather being exceeding hot, and my 
Gun, Ammunition, Hatchet, and other Things 
very heavy. 

In this Journey my Dog furpriz'd a young Kid, 
and feiz'd upon it, and I running in to take hold 
of it, caught it, and fav'd it alive from the Dog : 
I had a great mind to bring it home if I could * 
fori had often been mufing, Whether it might not 
be poffible to get a Kid or two, and fo raife a Breed 
of tame Goats, which might fupply me when my 
Powder and Shot fhould be all fpent. 

I 






[ 13' J 



I made a Collar to this little Creature., and with 
aString which I made of fome Rope- Yarn, which 
I always carry'd about me, I led him along, tho' 
with fome Difficulty, till I came to my Bower, and 
there I enclosed him, and left him 3 for I was very 
impatient to be at home, from whence I had been 
abfent above a Month. 

I cannot exprefs what a Satisfa£tion it was to 
me, to come into my old Hutch, and lye down in 
my Hamock-Bed : This little wandring Journeyi 
without fettled Place of Abode, had been fo un- 
pleafant to me, that my own Houfe, as I call'd it 
to my felf, was a perfect Settlement to me, com- 
par'd to that 3 and it rendered every thing about 
me fo comfortable, that I refolv'd I would never 
go a great way from it again , while it fhould be 
my Lot to ftay on the Ifland. 

I repos'd my felf here a Week, to reft and regale 
my felf after my long Journey 3 during which, moft 
of the Time was taken up in the weighty Affair of 
making a Cage for my Poll, who began now to be 
a mere Domeftick, and to be mighty well acquain- 
ted with me. Then I began to think of the poor 
Kid , which I had penn'd in within my little Cir- 
cle, and refolv'd to go and fetch it home, or give 
it fome Food 3 accordingly I went, and found it 
where I left it 3 for indeed it could not get out, but 
was almoft ftarv'd for want of Food. I went and 
cut Bows of Trees, and Branches of fuch Shrubs 
as I could find, and threw it over, and having fed 
it, I ty'd it as I did before to lead it away 3 but it 
was fo tame with being hungry, that I had no need 
tf) have ty'd it 3 for it follow 'd me like a Dog 3 and 
as I continually fed it, the Creature became fo 
loving, fo gentle, and fo tond , that it was from 
that Time one of my Domefticks alfo, and Would 
never leave me afterwajds. 

K z The 



[ '3 2 1 



The rainy Seafon of the Autumnal Equinox was 
now come, and I kept the 30th of September in the 
fame folemn manner as before, being the Anniver- 
fary of my Landing on the Ifland, having now been 
there two Years, and no more Profpeft of being de- 
livered than the firft Day I came there. I fpent the 
whole Day in humble and thankful Acknowledg- 
ments of the many wonderful Mercies which my Sor 
litary Condition was attended with, and without 
which it might have been infinitely more miferable. 
I gave humble and hearty Thanks that God had 
been pleafed to difcover to me, even that it was 
poffible I might be more happy in this Solitary 
Condition, than I fhould have been in a Liberty of 
Society, and in all the Pleafuves of the World. That 
He could fully make up to me the Deficiencies of 
my Solitary State, and the want of Humane So- 
ciety, by his Prefence, and the Communications of 
his Grace to my Soul, fupporting, comforting, and 
encouraging me to depend upon his Providence 
here, and hope for his eternal Prefence hereafter. 

It was now that I began fenfibly to feel how 
much more happy this Life I now led was, with 
all its miferable Circumftances, than the wicked, 
curfed, abominable Life I led all the part Part of 
my Days* and now I changed both my Sorrows 
and my Joys* my very Defires alter'd, my Affe£H- 
ons changed their Gufts, and my Delights were 
perfe&ly new, from what they were at my firft 
Coming, or indeed for the two Years paft. 

Before, as 1 walk'd about either on my Hunt- 
ing, or for viewing the Country, the Anguifh of 
my Scul at my Condition, would break out upon 
me on a Hidden, and my very Heart would die 
within me, to flunk of the Woods, the Mountains, 
the Defarts I was in* and how 1 was a Prifoner 
lock'd up with the eternal Bars and Bolts of the 
5 Ocean, 



r j 33 1 



Ocean, in an uninhabited Wilderneft, without Re- 
demption : In the midll: of thegreateft Compofures 
of my Mind, this would break out upon me like a 
Storm, and make me wring my Hands, and weep 
like a Child : Sometimes it would take me in the 
middle of my Work, and I would immediately fit 
down and figh, and look upon the Ground for an 
Hour or two together $ and this was ftill worfe to 
me y for if I could burft out into Tears, or vent 
my felf by Words, it would go off, and the Grief 
having exhaufted it felf, would abate. 

But now I began to exercife my felf with new 
Thoughts 5 I daily read the Word of God, and ap- 
ply'd all the Comforts of it to my prefent State. 
One Morning being very fad , I open'd the Bible 
upon thefe Words, J will never , never leave thee^ 
nor for fake thee \ immediately it occurred, That thefe 
Words were to me, Why elfefhould they be direct- 
ed in fuch a Manner, juft at the Moment when I 
was mourning over my Condition, as one forfaken 
of God and Man? Well then, faid 1, if God does 
not forfake me, of what ill Confequence can it be, 
or what matters it, though the World fhould all 
forfake me, feeing on the other hand, if I had all 
the World, and fhould lofe the Favour and Blef- 
fing of God, there would be no Comparifon in 
the Lots ? 

. From this Moment I began to conclude in my 
Mind, That it was poffible for me to be more 
happy in this forfaken Solitary Condition, than it 
was probable I fhould ever have been in any other 
particular State in the World $ and with this 
Thought I was going to give Thanks to God for 
bringing me to this Place. 

I know not what it was, but fomethingfhock'd 
my Mind at that Thought, and I durft not fpeak 
the Words : How canit thou be fuch a Hypocrite, 

K 3 (faid 



[ »3+ ] 



(faidl, even audibly) to pretend to be thankful for 
a Condition, which however thou may'ft endea- 
vour to be contented with, thou would'ft rather 
pray heartily to be deliver'd from •, fo I ftopp'd 
there : But though I could not fay, I thank'd God 
for being there $ yet I fincerely gave Thanks to 
God for opening my Eyes, by whatever afflifting 
Providences, to fee the former Condition of my 
Life, and to mourn for my Wickednefs, and repent. 
I never open'd the Bible, or fhut it, but my very 
Soul within me blefs'd God for dire&ing my Friend 
in England, without any Order of mine, to pack it 
up among my Goods -> and for aflifting me after- 
wards to fave it out of the Wreck of the Ship. 

Thus, and in this Difpofition of Mind, I began 
my third Year $ and tho' I have not given the Rea- 
der the Trouble of fo particular Account of my 
Works this Year as the firft y yet in general it 
may be obferv'd , That I was very feldom idle 5 
but having regularly divided my Time, according 
to the feveral daily Employments that were before 
me, fuch as, Fir ft , my Duty to God, and the Read- 
ing the Scriptures, which I conftantly fet apart^ 
fome Time for thrice every Day. Secondly, Thego- 
ing abroad with my Gun for Food, which generally 
took me up three Hours in every Morning, when 
it did not rain. "Thirdly, The ordering, curing, 
preferving, and cooking what I had kill'd or catch'd 
for my Supply $ thefe took up great Part of the 
Day : Alfo it is to be confldered that the middle of 
the Day, when the Sun was in the Zenith, the Vio- 
lence of the Heat was too great to ftir out -, fo that 
about four Hours in the Evening was all the Time 
I could be fuppos'd to work in, with this Excep- 
tion, That fometimes I chang'd my Hours of 
Hunting and Wprking, and went to work in the 

Morning 



[ r 35 ] 



Morning, and abroad with my Gun in the After- 
noon. 

To this fhort Time allow'd for Labour, I defire 
may be added the exceeding Laborioufnefs of my 
Work ; the many Hours which for want of Tools, 
want of Help, and want of Skill 5 every Thing I 
did, took up out of my Time. For example, I 
was full two and forty Days making me a Board for 
a long Shelf, which I wanted in my Cave; where- 
as two Sawyers with their Tools, and a Saw-Pit, 
would have cut fix of them out of the fame Tree 
in half a Day. 

My Cafe was this : It was to be a large Ti e, 
which was to be cut down, becaufe my Board was 
to be a broad one. This Tree I was three Days 
a cutting down, and two more cutting off the 
Bows, and reducing it to a Log or Piece of Tim- 
ber. With inexpreflible hacking and h< wing I 
redue'd both the Sides of it into Chips, till it be- 
gun to be light enough to move ; then I turn'd it, 
and made one Side of it fmooth and flat as a 
Board, from End to End 5 then turning that fide 
downward, cut the other Side, till I brought the 
Plank to be about three Inches thick, and fmooth 
on both Sides. Any one may judge the Labour of 
my Hands in fuch a piece of Work -, but Labour 
and Patience carry'd me through that and many 
other things : I only obferve this in particular, to 
fhew the Reafon why fo much of my Time went 
away with fo little Work, viz. That what might be 
a little to be done with Help and Tools, was a vaffc 
Labour, and requir'd a prodigious Time to do alone, 
and by hand. 

But notwithftanding this, with Patience and La- 
bour I went through many things 5 and indeed eve- 
ry thing that my Circumftances made neceflary to 
me to do, as will appear by what follows. 

K 4 I was 



t I 3 <J ] 

I was now, in the Months of November and De~ 
timber^ expecting my Crop of Barley and Rice, 
The Ground I had manur'd or dug up for them 
Was not great ; for as I obferv'd, my Seed of each 
was not above the Quantity of half a Peck ; 
for I had loft one whole Crop by fowing in the 
drySeafon j but now my Crop promis'd very well, 
when on a fudden I found I was in danger of lo- 
fing it all again by Enemies of feveral Sorts, which 
it was fcarce poffible to keep from it $ as Firft, the 
Goats, and wild Creatures which I call'd Hares, 
who tafting the Sweetnefs of the Blade, lay in it 
Night and Day, as foon as it came up, and eat it 
foclofe, that it could get no Time to fhootup into 
Stalk. V 

This I fa w no Remedy for, but by making an En- 
clofure about it with a Hedge, which I did with a 
great deal of Toil > and the more, becaufe it re- 
quir'd Speed. However, as my Arable Land was 
but fmall, fuited to my Crop, I got it totally well 
fenc'd, in about three Weeks Time ? and fhooting 
fome of the Creatures in the Day-time, I fee my 
Dog to guard it in the Night, tying him up to a 
Stake at the Gate, where he would itand and bark 
all Night long 5 fo in a little time the Enemies for- 
fook the Place, and the Corn grew very ftrong, and 
well, and began to ripen apace. 

But as the Beads ruined me before, while my 
Corn was iji the Blade * lb the Birds were as likely 
to ruin me now, when it was in the Ear j for go- 
ing along by the Place to fee how it throve, I law 
my little Crop furrounded with Fowls of I know 
not how many forts, who flood as it were watch- 
ing till I ihould be gone : I immediately let fly a* 
mong them (for I always had my Gun with me) 
I had no fooper {hot but there rofe up a little 

Cloud 



I r 37 3 



Cloud of Fowls, which I had not feen at all, from 
among the Corn it felf. 

This touch'd me fenfibly, for I forefaw, that in 
a few Days they would devour all my Hopes, that t 
fliould be flarv'd, and never be able to raife a Crop 
at all, and what to do I could not tell : However, 
I refolv'd not to lofe my Corn, if poffible, tho' I 
fhould watch it Night and Day. In the firfl 
Place, I went among it to fee what Damage was 
already done, and found they had fpoil'd a good 
deal of it, but that as it was yet too green for 
them, theLofs was not fo great, but that the Re- 
mainder was like to be a good Crop if it could be 
fav'd. 

I (laid by it to load my Gun, and then coming 
away I could eafily fee the Thieves fitting upon all 
the Trees about me, as if they only waited till I 
was gone away, and the Event proved it to be To j 
for as I walk'd off as if I was gone, I was no fooner 
cut of their Sight, but they dropt down one by 
one into the Corn again. I was fo provok'd that I 
could not have Patience to ftaytill more came on, 
knowing that every Grain that they eat now, was, 
as it might be/aid, a Peck-loaf to me in theConfe- 
quence •> but coming up to the Hedge, I fir'd again, 
and kill'd three of them. This ^as what I wifii'd 
for y fo I took them up, and ferv'd them as we 
ferve notorious Thieves in England (viz.) hang'd 
them in Chains for a Terror to others. It is im- 
pofiible to imagine almoft, that this fhould have fuch 
an Effeft as it had , for the Fowls wou'd not only 
not come at the Corn, but in fhort they forfook all 
that Part of the Ifland, and I could never fee a Bird 
near the Place as long as my Scare-Crows hung 
there. 

This 



[ i3M 



This I was very glad of, you may be fure, and a- 
bout the latter end of December 9 which was our fe- 
cond Harveft of the Year, I reap'd my Crop. 

I was fadly put to it for a Scythe tfr a Sickle to 
cut it down, and all I could do was to make one as 
well as I could out of one of the broad Swords 
or Cutlafles, which I fav'd among the Arms out of 
the Ship. However, as my firft Crop was but fmall, 
I had no great Difficulty to cut it down > in fhort, 
I reap'd it my way, for I cut nothing off but the 
Ears, and carry'd it away in a great Basket which 
I had made, and fo rubb'd it out with my Hands; 
and at the End of all my Harvefting, I found that 
out of my half Peck of Seed, I had near two Bulhels 
of Rice, and above two Bufliels and half of Barley, 
that is to fay j by my Guefs, for I had no Meafure 
at that time. 

However, this was a great Encouragement to me ; 
and I forefaw that in time, it would pleafe God 
tofupply me with Bread : And yet here I was per- 
plex'd again, for J neither knew how to grind or 
make Meal of my Corn, or indeed how to clean it 
and part it - y nor if made into Meal, how to make 
Bread of it 3 and if how to make it, yet I knew 
not how to bake it : thefe things being added to my 
Defire of having a good Quantity of Store, and to 
fecure a conftant Supply, Irefolv'd not to tafte any 
of this Crop, but to preferve it all for Seed againlt 
the next Seafon, and in the mean time to employ 
all my Study and Hours of Working to accomplifh 
this great Work of Providing my felf with Corn 
and Bread. 

It might be truly faid, that now I work'd for 
my Bread : 'tis a little wonderful, and what I be- 
lieve.few People have thought much upon, (viz.) the 
ftrange multitude of little Things neceffary in the 

Pro- 



[ x 39 ] 



Providing, Producing, Curing, Dreffiiig, Making 
and Finifhing this one Article of Bread. 

I that was reduced to a mere State of Nature, 
found this to my daily Difcouragement, and was 
made more and more fenfible of it every Hour, even 
after I had got the firft Handful of Seed-Corn, 
which, as I have faid, came up unexpe&edly, and 
indeed to a furprize. 

Firft, I had no Plow to turn up the Earth, no 
Spade or Shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquer'd, 
by making a wooden Spade, as I obferv'd before * 
but this did my Work but in a wooden manner, and 
tho' it coft me a great many Days to make it, yet. 
for want of Iron it not only wore out the fooner, 
but made my Work the harder, and made it be per- 
form'd much worfe. 

However, this I bore with, and was content to 
work it out with Patience, and bear with the bad- 
nefs of the Performance. When the Corn was fow'd, 
I had no Harrow, but was forced to go over it my 
felf, and drag a great heavy Bough of a Tree over 
it j to Scratch it, as it may be call'd, rather than 
Rake or Harrow it. 

When it was growing and grown, I have ob- 
ferv'd already, how many Things I wanted, to 
Fence it, Secure it, Mow or Reap it, Cure and 
Carry it home, Thrafh, Part it from the Chaff, 
and Save it. Then I wanted a Mill to Grind it, 
Sieves to Drefs it, Yeaft and Salt to make it into 
Bread, and an Oven to bake it $ and yet all thefc 
things I did without, as fhall be obferv'd 5 and 
yet the Corn was an ineftimable Comfort and Ad- 
vantage to me too. All this, as I (aid, made 
every thing laborious and tedious to me, but that 
there was no help for, neither was my Time fo 
much Lofs to me, becaufe as I had divided it, a 
certain Part of it was every Day appointed to 

thefe 

1 



[ i+° 3 



thefe Works; and as I refolv'd to ufe none of the 
Corn for Bread till I had a greater Quantity by 
me, I had the n:xt fix Months to apply my felf 
wholly by Labour and Invention to furnifh my 
felf with Utenfils proper for the performing all the 
Operations neceflary for the making the Corn 
(when I had it) fit for my ufe. 

But firit, I was to prepare more Land, for I 
hr ow Seed enough to fow above an Acre of 
Ground. Before 1 did this, I had a Weeks- work 
at leaft to make me a Spade, which when it was 
done was but a forry one indeed, and very heavy, 
and required double Labour to work with it ; 
however I went thro' that, and fow'd my Seed in 
iypq large flat Pieces of Ground, as near my 
Houfe as I could find them to my Mind, and 
fene'd them in with a good Hedge, the Stakes of 
which were all cut of that Wood which I had fee 
before, and knew it would grow, fo that in one 
Year's time I knew I (hould have a Quick or Liv- 
ing-Hedge, that would want but little Repair. 
This Work was not fo little as to take me up lefs 
than three Months, becaufe great Part of that 
time was of the wet Seafon, when I could not go 
abroad. 

Within Doors, that is^ when it rained, and I 
could not go out, I found Employment on the fol- 
lowing Occafions $ always obfeiving, that all the 
while I was at work I diverted my felf with talk- 
ing to my Parrot, and teaching him to fpeakj 
and I quickly learn'd him to know his own Name, 
and at laft to fpeak it out pretty loud, POLL, 
which was the firit Word 1 ever heard fpoken in 
the Ifland by any Mouth but my own. This 
therefore was not my Work, but an afliftant to my 
Work y for now, as I (aid, I had a great Employ- 
ment upon my Hands, as follows, (viz.) 1 had 

long 



[ 1+1 ] 



long ftudy'd, by fome Means or other, to make 
my felf fome Earthen VefTels, which indeed I 
wanted forely, but knew not where to come at 
them : However, confidering the Heat of the Cli- 
mate, I did not doubt but if I could find out any 
fuch Clay, I might botch up fome fuch Pot, as 
might, being dry'd in the Sun, be hard enough, 
and ftrong enough to bear handling, and to hold 
any Thing that was dry, and required to be kept 
(o-> and as this was neceflary in the preparing 
Corn, Meal, &V. which was the Thing I was up- 
on, I refolv'd to make fome as large as I could, 
and fit only to ftand like Jarrs to hold what fhould 
be put into them. 

It would make the Reader pity me, or rather 
laugh at me, to tell how many awkward Ways I 
took to raife this Pafte, what odd mifhapen ugly 
things I made, how many of them fell in, and how 
many fell out, the Clay not being ftiff enough to 
bear its own Weight $ how many crack'd by the 
over violent Heat of the Sun, being fet out too 
hallilyj-and how many fell in pieces with only re- 
moving, as well before as after they were dry'd; 
and in a word, how after having laboured hard 
to find the Clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring 
it home and work it 5 I could not make above two 
large earthen ugly things, I cannot call them Jarrs, 
in about two Months Labour. 

However, as the Sun bak'd thefe two very dry 
and hard, I lifted them very gently up, and fee 
them down again in two great Wicker -Baskets, 
which I had made on purpofe for them, that they 
might not break > and as between the Pot and the 
Basket there was a little room to fpare, I ftuff'd it 
full of the Rice and Barley Straw, and thefe two 
Pots being to ftand always drv, I thought would 

hold 



[ J 42 ] 



hold my dry Corn, and perhaps the Meal, when 
the Corn was bruifed. 

Tho' I mifcarried Co much in my Defign for 
large Pots, yet I made feveral (matter things with 
better Succefs -, fuch as little round Pots, flat Difhes, 
Pitchers and Pipkins, and any things my Hand 
turn'd to , and the Heat of the Sun bak'd them 
ftrangely hard. 

But all this would not anfwer my End, which 
was to get an Earthen Pot to hold what was Li- 
quid, and bear the Fire, which none of thefe could 
do. It happen'd after fome time, making a pretty 
large Fire for cooking my Meat, when 1 went to 
put it out after I had done with it, I found a bro- 
ken Piece of one of my Earthen- ware Veflels in the 
Fire, burnt as hard as a Stone, and red as a Tile. 
I was agreeably furpriz'd to fee it, and faid to my 
felf, that certainly they might be made to burn 
whole, if they would burn broken. 

This fet me to ftudying how to order my 
Fire, fo as to make it burn me fome Pots. I had 
no notion of a Kiln, fuch as the Potters burn 
in, or of glazing them with Lead, tho' I had fome 
Lead to do it with 5 but I plac'd three large Pip- 
kins, and two or three Pots in a Pile one upon ano- 
ther, and plac'd my Fire- wood all round it, with 
a great Heap of Embers under them j I ply'd the 
Fire with frefh Fuel round the out-fide, and upon 
the top, till I faw the Pots in the infide red hot 
quite thro', and obferv'd that they did not crack 
at ail 5 when I faw them clear red, I let them Hand 
in that Heat about f or 6 Hours, till I found one 
of them, tho' it did not crack, did melt or run > for 
the Sand which was mixed with the Clay melted 
by the violence of the Heat, and would have run 
into Glafs if I had gone on 5 fo I flack'd my Fire 
gradually, till the Pots began to abate of the red 

Colour 



C H3 3 



Colour, and watching them all Night, that I might 
not let the Fire abate too faft> in the Morning I 
had three very good, I will not fay handfome Pip- 
kins -, and two other Earthen Pots, as hard burnt 
as cou'd be defir'd j and one of them perfe&ly 
glaz'd with the running of the Sand. 

After this Experiment, I need not fay that I 
wanted no fort of Earthen Ware for my Ufe 5 but 
I muft needs fay, as to the Shapes of them, they 
were very indifferent, as any one may fuppofe, 
when I had no way of making them ; but as the 
Children make Dirt-Pies, or as a Woman would 
makes Pies that never learn'd to raife Pafte. 

No Joy at a Thing of fo mean a Nature was 
ever equal to mine, when I found I had made an 
Earthen Pot that would bear the Fire 5 and I had 
hardly Patience to ftay till they were cold, before 
I fet one upon the Fire again, with fome Water in 
it, to boil me fome Meat, which it did admirably 
well j and with a piece of a Kid I made fome very 
good Broth, though I wanted Oatmeal, and feve- 
ral other Ingredients requifite to make it fo good 
as I would have had it been. 
~ My next Concern was, to get me a Stone Mor- 
tar to (lamp or beat fome Corn in ; for as to the 
Mill, there was no thought at arriving to that Per- 
fection of Art, with one pair of Hands. To fup- 
ply this Want I was at a great Lofs 5 for of all 
Trades in the World I was as perfe£tly unqualified 
for a Stone- Cutter, as for any whatever j neither 
had I any Tools to go about it with. I fpent many 
a Day to find out a great Stone big enough to cut 
hollow, and make fit for a Mortar, and could 
find none at all, except what was in the folid Rock, 
and which I had no way to dig or cut out * nor in- 
deed were the Rocks in the lfland of Hardnefs fuf- 
ficient, but were all ot a fandy crumbling Stone, 

which 



[ H4 ] 



which neither would bear the Weight of a heavy 
Pertle, or would break the Corn without filling it 
with Sand -, fo after a great deal of Time loft in 
fearching for a Stone, I gave it over, and refolv'd 
to look out for a great Block of hard Wood, which 
I found indeed much eafier ; and getting one as big 
as I had Strength to ftir, I rounded it, and form'd 
it in the Outfide with my Axe and Hatchet, and 
then with the Help of Fire, and infinite Labour, 
made a hollow Place in it, as the Indians in Brafil 
make their Canoes. After this, I made a great hea- 
vy Peftleor Beater, of the Wood called the Iron- 
Wood, and this I prepared and laid by againft I had 
my next Crop of Corn, when I propos'd to my felf 
to grind, or rather pound my Corn into Meal to 
make my Bread. 

My next Difficulty was to make a Sieve, or 
Searfe, to drefs my Meal, and to part it from the 
Bran and the Husk, without which I did not fee 
it poflible I could have any Bread. This was a 
mofl difficult thing, fo much as but to think on $ 
for to be fure I had nothing like the neceflary 
Thing to make it > I mean fine thin Canvas, or 
Stuff to fearie the Meal through. And here I 
was at a full Stop for many Months ; nor did I real- 
ly know what to do j Linen I had none left, but 
what was meer Rags> I had Goat's Hair, but nei- 
ther knew I how to weave it, or fpin it j and had I 
known how, here were no Tools to work it with* 
all the Remedy that I found for this, was, That at 
laft I did remember I had among the Seamens 
Cloaths which were fav'd out of the Ship, fome 
Neckcioaths of Callicoe or Muflin ; and with fome 
Pieces of thefe I made three fmall Sieves, but pro- 
per enough for the Work 3 and thus I made lhift 
tor fome Years > how I did afterward^ I fhall 
fhew in its Place. 

The 



[ H5 ] 



The baking Part was the next Thing to be 
confider'd, and how I fhould make Bread when I 
came to have Corn $ for firft I had no Yeaft ; as to 

5 hat Part, as there was no fupplying the Want, fo I 
id not concern my felf much about it : But for an 
Oven, I was indeed in great Pain ; at length I found 
out an Experiment for that alfo, which was this > 
I made fome earthen Veflels very broad, but not 
deep ; that is to fay, about two Foot Diameter, 
and not above nine Inches deep 5 thefe I burnt in 
the Fire, as I had done the other, and laid them 
by 5 and when I wanted to bake, I made a great 
Fire upon my Hearth, which I had pav'd with fome 
fquare Tiles of my own making, and burning alfo j 
but I fhould not call them fquare. 

When the Fire-wood was burnt pretty much in- 
to Embers, or live Coals, I drew them forward 
upon this Hearth, fo as to cover it all over, and there 
I let them lie, till the Hearth was very hot> then 
fweeping away all the Embers, I fet down my Loaf, 
or Loaves, and whelming down the earthen Pot 
upon them, drew the Embers all round the Out-fide 
of the Pot, to keep in, and add to the Heat 5 and 
thus, as well as in the beft Oven in the World, I 
bak'd my Barley Loaves, and became in little Time 
a meer Paftry-Cook into the Bargain 5 for I made 
ray felf feveral Cakes of the Rice, and Puddings j 
indeed I made no Pies, neither had I any Thing to 
put into them, fuppofing I had, except the Flefli 
either Fowls or Goats. 

It need not be wonder'd at, if all thefe Things 
took me up moft Part of the third Year of my A- 
bode here > for it is tobeobferv'd, That in the In* 
tervals of thefe Things, I had my new Harveft and 
Husbandry to manage $ for I reap'd my Corn in its 
Seafon, and carried it Home as well as I could, and 
laid it up in the Ear, in my large Baskets, till I had 

L Time 



C H« ] 



Time to rub it out $ for I had no Floor to thrafh it 
on, or Inftrument to thrafh it with. 

And now indeed my Stock of Corn increafing, 
I really Wanted to build my Barns bigger : I wanted 
a Place to lay it up in j for the Increafeof the Corn 
now yielded mefo much, that I had of the Barley 
about twenty Bufhels, and of the Rice as much, 
or more 5 infomuch, that now I refolv'd to begin 
to ufe it freely j for my Bread had been quite gone 
a great while 5 alfo I refolv'd to fee what Quanti- 
ty would be fufficient for me a whole Year, and to 
fow but once a Year. 

Upon the whole, I found that the forty Bufhels 
of Barley and Rice was much more than I could 
confume in a Year * fo I refolv'd to fow juft the 
fame Quantity every Year that I fowed the laft, in 
hopes that fuch a Quantity* would fully provide me 
With Bread, &c. 

All the while thefe Things were doing, you may 
be fure my Thoughts run many times upon the 
Profpeft of Land which I had feen from the other 
Side of the Ifland, and I was not without fecret 
Wifhes that I were on Shore there, fancying the 
feeing the main Land, and in an inhabited Country. 
I might find fome Way or other to convey my 
felf farther, and perhaps at laft find fome Means 
of Efcape. 

But all this while I made no Allowance for the 
Dangers of fuch a Condition, and how I might fall 
into the Hands of Savages, and perhaps fuch as I 
might have Reafon to think far worfe than the Li- 
ona and Tigers of Africa. That if I once came in- 
to their Power, I fhould run a Hazard more than a 
Thoufand to One of being kill'd, and perhaps of be- 
ing eaten j for I had heard that; the People of the 
Carribean Coafts were Cannibals or NJ^n-eaters $ and 
1 knew by the Latitude, that I couI& not be far off 
x from 



[ H7 3 



from that Shore. That fuppofe they werenot Can:* 
bals, yet that they might kill me, as many Europeans 
who had fallen into their Hands had been ferv'd, 
even when they had been ten or twenty together. j 
much more I that was but one, and could make lit- 
tle or no Defence. All thefe Things, I fay, which I 
ought to have confider'd well of, and did caft up in 
my Thoughts afterwards, yet took up none of my 
Apprehenfions at firft} but my Head run mightily 
upon the Thought of getting over to the Shore. 

Now I wiftfd for my Boy Xury, and the Long* 
Boat, with the Shoulder of Mutton Sail, with 
which I faiPd above a thoufand Miles on the Coaft 
of Africk ; but this was in vain. Then I thought I 
would go and look at our Ship's Boat, which, as I 
have faid, was blown up upon the Shore a great 
Way in the Storm, when we were firft caft away. 
She lay almoft where fhe did at firft, but not quite ; 
and was turn'd by the Force of the Waves and the 
Winds, almoft Bottom upward, againft a high 
Ridge of Beachy rough Sand - y but no Water a- 
bout her as before. 

If I had had Hands to have refitted her, and to 
have launched her into the Water, the Boat w T ould 
have done well enough, and 1 might have gone 
back into the Brajils with her eafily enough 5 but 
I might have forefeen, that I could no more turn 
her, and fet her upright upon her Bottom, than I 
could remove the Ifland: However, I went,tot,h$.. 
Woods, and cut Levers and Rollers, and brought 
them to the Boat, refolv'dto try what I could do j 
fuggefting co my felf, that if 1 could but turn hqr 
down, I might eafily repair the Damage fhe had 
receiv'd, and fhe would be a very good Boat, and 
I mi^ht go to Sea in her very eafily. 

I ipard no Pains indeed, in this Piece of fruitlefs 

Toil, and fpent, 1 think, three or four Weeks a- 

L z bout 



[ H8 ] 



bout it 5 at laft finding it impoflible to heave it up. 
with my little Strength, I fell to digging away the 
Sand to undermine it, and fo to make it fall down, 
fetting Pieces of Wood to thruft and guide it right 
in the Fall. " & 

But when I had done this, I was unable to ftir it 
up again, or to get under it, much lefs to move it 
forward towards the Watery fo I was fore'd to give 
it over > and yet, though I gave over the Hopes of 
the Boat, my defire to venture over for the Main 
increafed, rather than decreased, as the Means for 
it feem'd impoflible. 

This lit length put me upon thinking, Whether 
it was not poflible to make my felf a Canoe^ or Peria- 
gua, fuch as the Natives of thofe Climates make,even 
without Tools, or, as I might fay, without Hands, 
viz. of the Trunk of a great Tree. This I not 
only thought poflible, but eafy, and pleas'd my felf 
extreamly with the Thoughts of making it, and 
with my having much more Convenience for it than 
any of the Negroes or Indians > but not at all confi- 
dering the particular Inconveniences which I lay 
under, more than the Indians did, viz. Want of 
Hands to move it, when it was made, into the 
Water 3 a Difficulty much harder for me to fur- 
mount, than all the Confequences of want of 
Tools could be to them : For what was it to me, 
That when I had chofena vaftTree in the Woods, 
I might with much Trouble cut it down, if after 
I might be able with my Tools to hew and dub 
the Out- fide into the proper Shape of a Boat, and 
burn or cut out the Infide to make it hollow, fo 
to make a Boat of it, if after all this, I muft leave 
it jull there where I found it, and was not able to 
launch it into the Water. 

One would have thought I could not have had 
the leaii Refle&ion upon my Mind of my Circum- 

itance, 



[ H9 ] 



ftance, while I was making this Boat ; but I fhould 
have immediately thought how I fhould get it into 
the Sea j but my Thoughts were fo intent upon my 
Voyage over the Sea in it, that I never once confi- 
der'd how I fhould get it off of the Land j and it 
was really in its own Nature more eafy for me to 
guide it over forty five Miles of Sea, than about 
forty five Fathom of Land, where it lay, to fet it a 
float in the Water. 

I went to work upon this Boat the moft like a 
Fool that ever Man did, who had anyofhisSenfes 
awake. I pleas'd my felf with the Defign, with- 
out determining whether I was ever able to under- 
take it 5 not but that the Difficulty of launching 
my Boat came often into my Head j but I put a 
flop to my own Enquiries into it, by fehis foolifli 
Anfwer which I gave my felf, Let's firfi make it^ Pll 
warrant rilfindfome way or other to get it along^wben 
'tis done. 

This was a moft prepofterous Method j but the 
Eagernefs of my Fancy prevail'd, and to work I 
went. I fell'd a Cedar Tree : I queftion much 
whether Solomon ever had fuch a ene for the Build- 
ing of the Temple at Jerufalem. It was five Foot 
ten Inches Diameter at the lower Part next the 
Stump, and four Foot eleven Inches Diameter at 
the End of twenty two Foot, after which it lef- 
fen'd for a while, and then parted into Branches : 
It was not without infinite Labour that I fell'd 
this Tree : I was twenty Days hacking and hew- 
ing at it at the Bottom. I was fourteen more get- 
ting the Branches and Limbs, and the vaft fpread- 
ing Head of it cut off, which 1 hack'd and hew'd 
through with Axe and Hatchet, and inexpreflible 
Labour: After this, it coft me a Month to fhape 
it, and dub it to a Proportion, and to fomething 
like the Bottom of a Boat, that it might fwim up- 

L 3 right 



[ 150 ] 



right as it ought to do. It coft me near three 
Months more to clear the Infide, and work it out 
fo, as to make an exact Boat of it : This. I did in- 
deed ^syithout Fire, by meer Mallet and ChifTel, and 
by the dint of hard Labour, till I had brought it 
to be a very handfome Periagua^-xvA big enough to 
hayf carried fix and twenty Men, and confequently 
big enough to have carried me and all my Cargo. 

When I had gone through this Work, I was ex- 
tremely delighted with it. The Boat was really 
much bigger than I ever (aw a Canoe, or Periagua^ 
that was made of one Tree, in my Life. Many a 
weary Stroke it had coft, you maybe fure-, and 
there remained nothing but to get it into the Water; 
and had I gotten it into the Water, I make no que- 
Ition, but I fhould have begun the maddeft Voyage, 
and the moft unlikely to be perform'd, that ever 
was undertaken. 

But all my Devices to get it into the Water 
fail'd me, though they coft me infinite Labour too. 
It lay about one hundred Yards from the Water, 
and not more: But the firft Inconvenience was, it 
was up Hill tow^ds the Creek * well, to take a- 
way this Difcouragement, I refolv'd to dig into 
the Surface of the Earth, and fo make a Declivity : 
This I begun, and it coil me a prodigious deal of 
Pains 3 but who grudge Pains, that have their 
Deliverance in View ? But when this was work'd 
through, and this Difficulty manag'd, it was ftili 
much at one - y for I could no more ftir the Canoe^ 
than I could the other Boat. 

Then I meafur'd the Diftance of Ground, and 
refolv'd to cut a Dock, or Canal, to r bringthe Wa- 
ter up to the Canoe ) feeing I could not bring the 
Canoe down to the Water: Well, I began this 
Work, and when I began to enter into it, and cal- 
culate how deep it was to be dug, how broad, 

who 



[ i5i ] 



how the Stuff to be thrown out, I found, that by 
the number of Hands I had, being none but my 
own, it mud have been ten or twelve Years before 
Ifhould ha^e gone through with itj for the Shore 
lay high, fo that at the upper End it muft have 
been at leaft twenty Foot deep 3 fo at length, tho* 
with great Relu&ancy, I gave this Attempt over 
alfo. 

This griev'd me heartily, and now I faw, tho f 
too late, the Folly of beginning a Work before we 
count the Coft, and before we judge rightly of 
our own Strength to go through with it. 

In the middle of this Work, I finifti'd my fourth 
Year in this Place, and kept my Anniverfary with 
the fame Devotion, and with as much Comfort as 
ever before y for by a conftant Study, and ferious 
Application of the Word of God, and by the Af- 
filtance of his Grace, I gain'd a different Know- 
ledge from what I had before. I entertain'd diffe- 
rent Notions of Things. I look'd now upon the 
World as a Thing remote, which I had nothing to 
do with, no Expe£tation from, and indeed no De- 
fires about : In a Word, I had nothing indeed to 
do with it, nor was ever like toTiave> fo I though): 
it look'd as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, 
viz. as a Place I had lived in, but was come out of 
it 5 and well might I fay, as Father Abraham to 
Divest Between me and thee is a great Gulph fixed. 

In jthe fir ft Place, I was removed from all the 
Wickednefs of the World here: I had neither the 
Luft of the Flejh) the Luji of the Eye, or the Pride of 
Life. I had nothing to covet 5 for I had all that I 
was now capable ot enjoying: I was Lord of the 
whole Manor, or if I pleas'd, I mighr call my felf 
King, or Emperor over the whole Country, which 
I had Pofleffion of. There were no Rivals ; I had 
po Competitor, none to difpute Sovereignty or 



[ i$* ] 



Command with me. I might have rais'd Ship 
Loadings of Corn j but I had no ufe for it* fo I 
fct as little grow as I thought enough ^or my Oc- 
cafion. I had Tortoife or Turtles enough $ but 
now and then one was as much as I could put to 
any ufe. I had Timber enough to have built a 
Fleet of Ships. I had Grapes enough to have 
made Wine, or to have cur'd into Raifins, to have 
loaded that Fleet when they had been built. 

But all I could make ufe of, was, All that was 
valuable. I had enough to eat, and to fupply my 
Wants > and, what was all the reft to me? If I 
kill'd more Flefh than I could ear, the Dog muft 
eat it, or the Vermin. If I fow'd more Corn than 
I could eat, it muft befpoil'd. The Trees that I 
cut down, were lying to rot on the Ground: I 
could make no more ufe of them than for Fewel, 
and that I had no Occafion for, but to drefs my 
Food. 

In a Word, The Nature and Experience of 
Things di&ated to me upon juft Refle&ion, that 
all the good Things of this World, are no farther 
good to us, than they are for our Ufe $ and that 
whatever we may heap up indeed to give others, 
we enjoy juft as much as we can ufe, and no more. 
The moft covetous griping Mifer in the World 
would have been cured of the Vice of Covetoufnefs, 
if he had been in my Cafe 5 for I poflefled infinitely 
more than I knew what to do with . I had no roorti 
for Defire, except it was of Things which I had 
not, and they were but Trifles, though indeed of 
great ufe to me. I had, as I hinted before, a Par- 
cel of Money, as well Gold as Silver, about thirty 
fix Pounds Sterling : Alas ! there the nafty forry 
ufelefs Stuff lay $ I had no manner of Bulinefs 
for it j and I often thought with myfelf, that I 
Would have given a Handful of it for a Grofs of 

Tobacco- 



[ 153 ] 



Tobacco- Pipes, or for a Hand-Mill to grind my 
Corn j nay, I would have given it all for Sixpenny- 
worth of Turnip and Carrot Seed out of England^ or 
for a Handful of Peafe and Beans^ and a Bottle of 
Ink : Js it was, I had not the leaft Advantage by it, 
or Benefit from it - y but there it lay in a Drawer, 
and grew mouldy with the Damp of the Cave in 
the wet Seafon j and if 1 had had the Drawer full of 
Diamonds, it had been the fame Cafe* and they 
had been of no manner of Value to me, becaufe of 
no Ufe. 

I had now brought my State of Life to be much 
cafier in it felf than it was at firft, and much eafier 
to my Mind, as well as to my Body. I frequently 
fat down to my Meat with Thankfulnefs, and ad • 
mired the Hand of God's Providence, which had 
thus fpread my Table in the Wildernefs. I learned 
to look more upon the bright fide of my Condi- 
tion, and lefs upon the dark fide 3 and to confider 
what I enjoy'd, rather than what I wanted 5 and 
this gave mefometimes fuch fecret Comforts, that 
I cannot exprefs them ; and which I take Notice 
of here, to put thofe difcontented People in Mind 
of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God 
has given them $ becaufe they fee, and covet fome- 
thing that he has not given them : All our Difcon- 
- tents about what we want, appeared to me, to 
fpring from the want of Thankfulnefs for what we 
have. 

Another Refle&ion was of great Ufe to me, and 
doubtlefs would be fo to any one that fhould fall 
into fuch Diftrefs as mine was* and this was, to 
compare my preient Condition with what I at firft 
:cxpeded it fhould be y nay, with what it would 
certainly have been, if the good Providence of 
God had not wonderfully ordered the Ship to be 
call up nearer to the Shore, where I not only could 

come 



[ 15*] 



come at her, bpt could bring what I got out of 
her to the Shore, for my Relief and Comfort j 
without which, I had wanted for Tools to work, 
Weapons for Defence, or Gun-Powder and Shot 
for getting my Food. 

I fpent whole Hours, I may fay whole Days, in 
reprefenting to my felf in the moft lively Colours, 
how I mull: have a£ted, if I had got nothing out 
of the Ship 5 how I could not have fo much as 
got any Food, except Fifh and Turtles -, and that 
as it was long before I found any of them, I muft 
have perifh'd fir ft : That I fhould have liv'd, if I 
had not perifhed, like a meer Savage : That if I 
had kilPd a Goat, or a Fowl, by any Contrivance, 
I had no way to flea or open them, or part theFlefh 
from the Skin and the Bowels, or to cut it up \ 
but muft gnaw it with my Teeth, and pull it with 
my Claws like a Beaft. 

Thefe RefledHons made me very fenfible of the 
Goodnefs of Providence to me, and very thankful 
for my prefent Condition, with all its Hardihips 
and Misfortunes : And this part alfo I cannot but 
recommend to the Refle&ion of thofe, who are apt 
in their Mifery, to fay, Is any Jfflittion like mine / 
Let them confider, How much worfe the Cafes of 
fome People are, and their Cafe might have bccn y 
if Providence had thought fit. 

I had another Reflection which affifted me al(b 
to comfort my Mind with Hopes 3 and this was, 
comparing my prefent Condition with what I had 
deferv'd, and had therefore Reafon to expe& from 
the Hand of Providence. I had liv'd a dreadful 
Life, perfeftly deftitute of the Knowledge and Fear 
of God. I had been well inftru&ed by Father and 
Mothers neither had they been wanting to me, in 
their early Endeavours, to infufe a religious Awe 
of God into my Mind, a Senfe of my Duty, and 



[ 155] 



of what the Nature and End of my Being required 
of me. But alas ! falling early into the Sea-taring 
Life, which of all the Lives is the mod deftitute 
of the Fear of God, though his Terrors are al- 
ways before them 5 I fay, falling early into the 
Sea-faring Life, and into Sea-faring Company, all 
that little Senfe of Religion which I had entertain- 
ed, was laugh 'd out of me by my Mefs-Mates, by 
a harden'd defpifing of Dangers, and the Views of 
Death, which grew habitual to me, by my long 
Abfence from all manner of Opportunities to con- 
verfe with any Thing but what was like my felf, 
or to hear any Thing that was good, or tended 
towards it. 

So void was I of every Thing that was good, or 
of the leaft Senfe of what I was, or was to be, 
that in the greateft Deliverances I enjoy'd, fuch 
as my Efcape from Salle ; my being taken up by 
the Portuguefe Mafter of the Ship 5 my being plant- 
ed fo well in the Brafils * my receiving the Cargo 
from England^ and the like 3 I never had once the 
word Thank God fo much as on my Mind, or in 
my Mouth 5 nor in the greateft Diftrefs, had I fo 
much as a Thought to pray to him, or fo much as 
to fay, Lord have mercy upon me j no nor to men- 
tion the Name of God, unlefs it was to fwear by, 
and blafpheme it. 

I had terrible Reflexions upon my Mind for 
many Months, as I have already obferv'd, on the 
account of my wicked and hardned Life part 5 and 
when I looked about me, and confidered what parti- 
cular Providences had attended me fince my com- 
ing into this Place, and how God had dealt boun- 
tifully with me •> had not only punifhed me lefs than 
my Iniquity had deferv'd, but had fo plentifully pro- 
vided for mej this gave me great Hopes that my 

Repen- 



[ 1 5* ] 



Repentance was accepted, and that God had yet 
Mercy in ftorc for me. 

With thefe Refle&ions I work'd my Mind up, 
not only to Resignation to the Will of God in the 
prefent Difpofition of mv Circumilances y but even 
to a fincereTbankfulnefs for my Condition j and that 
I, who was yet a living Man, ought not to com- 
plain, feeing I had not the due Punifhment of my 
Sinsj that I enjoy'd fo many Mercies which I had 
no reafon to have expected in that Place , that I 
ought never more to repine at my Condition, but to 
rejoice, and to give daily Thanks for that daily 
Bread, which nothingbut a croud of Wonders could 
have brought. That I ought to confider 1 had been 
fed even by a Miracle, even as great as that of feed- 
ing Elijah by Ravens , nay, by a long Series of Mi- 
racles, and that I could hardly have nam'd a Place 
in the unhabitable part of the World where I could 
have been caft more to my Advantage : A Place, 
where as I had no Society, which was my Affii- 
£Hon on one Hand, fo I found no ravenous Beafts, 
no furious Wolves or Tygers to threaten my Life, 
no venomous Creatures or poiibnous, which I might 
feed on to my Hurt, no Savages to murder and de- 
vour me. 

In a word, as my Life was a Life of Sorrow, one 
way, fo it was a Life of Mercy, another 3 and I 
wanted nothing to make it a Life of Comfort, but 
to be able to make my Sence of God's Goodnefs to 
me, and Care over me in this Condition, be my 
daily Confolation - y and after I did make a juft 
Improvement of thefe things, I went away and was 
no more fad. 

I had now been here fo long, that many things 
which I brought on Shore for my Help, were ei- 
ther quite gone, or very much wafted and near 
fpent. 

My 



C i57 ] 



My Ink, as I obferved, had been gone for fome 
time, all but a very little, which I eek'd out with 
Water a little and a little, till it was fo pale it fcarce 
left any Appearance of black upon the Paper : As 
long as it lafted, I made ufe of it to minute down 
the Days of the Month on which any remarkable 
Thing happen'd to n\c, and firft, by carting up 
Times pall:, I remember that there was a ftrange 
Concurrence of Days in the various Providences 
which befel me 5 and which, if I had been fuperfti- 
tioufly inclin'd to obferve Days as Fatal or Fortu- 
nate, I might have hadReafon to have look'd upon 
With a great deal of Curiofity. 

Firft I had obferved, that the fame Day that I 
broke away from my Father and my Friends, and 
runaway to Hull r in order to go to Sea 5 the fame 
Day afterwards I was taken by the SalU Man of 
War, and made a Slave. 

The fame Day of the Year that I efcaped out of 
the Wreck of that Ship in Tarmouth Roads, that 
fame Day- Year afterwards I made my efcape from 
Salle in the Boat. 

The fame Day of the Year I was born on (viz.) 

the 50 th of September ', the fame Day I had my Life 

fo miraculoufly faved z6 Years after, when I was 

caft on Shore on this Iflandj fo that my wicked 

'Life and my folitary Life begun both on a Day. 

The next Thing to my Ink's being wafted, was 
that of my Bread, I mean the Bisket which I 
brought out of the Ship : This I had husbanded to 
the lalt Degree, allowing my felf but one Cake of 
Bread a Day for above a Year, and yet I was quite 
without Bread for near a Year before I got any 
Corn of my own - y and great Reafon I had to* be 
thankful that I had any at all, the getting it being, 
as has been already obferved, next to miraculous. 

My 



[ 158 ] 



My Cloaths began to decay too mightily : As to 
Linnen, I had had none a good while, except fome 
chequered Shirts which I found in the Chefts of the 
other Seamen, and which I carefully preferv'd, be- 
caufe many times I could bear no other Cloaths on 
but a Shirt j and it was a very great help to me 
that I had among all the Men's Cloaths of the Ship 
almoft: three dozen of Shirts. There were alfo fe- 
veral thick Watch-Coats of the Seamens, which 
were left indeed, but they were too hot to wear j 
and tho' it is true , that the Weather was fo vio- 
lent hot that there was no need of Cloaths, yet I 
could not go quite naked} no, tho' I had been in- 
clined to it, which I was not, nor could not abide 
the Thoughts of it, tho' I was all alone. 

The Reafon why I could not go quite naked, 
was, I could not bear the Heat of the Sun fo 
well when quite naked, as with fome Cloaths on $ 
nay, the very Heat frequently blifter'd my Skin* 
whereas with a Shirt on, the Air it felf made fome 
Motion, and whilftling under that Shirt was twofold 
cooler than without it : No more could I ever bring 
my felf to go out in the Heat of the Sun without a 
Cap or a Hat; the Heat of the Sun beating with 
fuch Violence as it does in that Place, would give 
me the Head-ach prefently, by darting fo dire&ly 
on my Head, without a Cap or Hat on $ fo that I 
could not bear it ; whereas, if I put on my Hat, it 
would prefently go away. 

Uponthofe Views I began to confider about put- 
ting the few Rags I had, which I called Cloaths, 
into fome Order : I had worn out all the Watt- 
coats I had, and my Bufinefs was now to try if I 
could not make Jackets out of the great Watch- 
Coars which I had by me, and with fuch other 
Materials as I had $ fo I fet to work a Tayloring, 
or rather indeed a Botching, for I made moit 

piteous 



[ 159] 



pietous Work of it. However, I made fliift to 
make two or three new Waftcoats, which I hoped 
would fcrve me a great while ; as for Breeches or 
Drawers, I made but a very forry fliift indeed, till 

afterward. 

I have mentioned that I faved the Skins of all 
the Creatures that I kilPd, I mean four-footed ones, 
and I had hung them up Itretch'd out with Sticks 
in the Sun, by which means fome of them were fo 
dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others 
it feems were very ufeful. The firft thing I made 
of thefe was' a great Cap for my Head, with the 
Hair on the Outfide to flioor off the Rain; and 
this I perform'd fo well, that after this I made me 
a Suit of Cloaths wholly of thefe Skins, that is to 
fay, a Waftcoat, and Breeches open at Knees, and 
both loofe, for they were rather wanting to keep 
me cool than to keep me warm. I muft not omit 
to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made > 
for if I was a bad Carpenter^ I was a worfe Taylor. 
However, they were fuch as I made very good 
fliift with} and when I was abroad, if it happen'd 
to rain, the Hair of my Waftcoat and Cap being 
outermoft, I was kept very dry. 

After this I fpent a great deal of Time and Pains 
to make me an Umbrella y I was indeed in great 
want of one, and had a great mind to make onej 
I had feen them made in the Brafils, where they 
are very ufeful in the great Heats which are there: 
And I felt the Heats every jot as great here, and 
greater too, being nearer the Equinox , befides, as 
I was obliged to be much abroad, it was a moll 
ufeful thing to me, as well for the Rains as the 
Heats. I took a world of Pains at it, and was a 
great while before I could make any thing likely to 
hold y nay, after I thought I had hit the Way, I 
Ipoil'd z or 3 before I made one to my Mind 5 but 

at 



[ "So] 



at laft I made one that anfwer'd indifferently wel!$ 
The main Difficulty I found was to make it to let 
down. I could make it to fpread, but if it did not 
let down too, and draw in, it was not portable for 
me any Way but juft over my Head, which would 
not do. However, at laft, as I faid, I made one 
to anfwer, and cover'd it with Skins, the Hair up- 
wards, fo that it caft off the Rains like a Pent- 
houfe, and kept off the Sun fo effeftually, that I 
could walk out in the hotteft of the Weather with 
greater Advantage than I could before in the cool- 
eft, and when I had no need of it, could clofeit and 
carry it under my Arm. 

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my Mind be- 
ing entirely compofed by refigning to the Will of 
God, and throwing my felf wholly upon the Dif- 
pofal of his Providence. This made my Life bet- 
ter than fociable j for when I began to regret the 
want of Converfation, I would ask my felf whether 
thus converting mutually with my own Thoughts, 
and, as I hope I may fay, with even God himfelf 
by Ejaculations, was not better than the utmoft 
Enjoyment of human Society in the World ? 

I cannot fay that after this, for five Years, any 
extraordinary Thing happened to me, but I lived on 
in the fame Courfe, in the fame Pofture and Place, 
juft as before : The chief Things I was employed in, 
befides my yearly Labour of planting my Barley and 
Rice, and curing my Raifins, of both which I al- 
ways kept up juft enough to have fufficient Stock 
of one Year's Provifions beforehand 5 I fay, befides 
this yearly Labour, and my daily Labour of going 
out with my Gun, I had one Labour to make me a 
Canoe, which at laft I finifhed : So that by dig- 
ing a Canal to it of fix Foot wide, and four Foot 
deep, I brought it into the Creek, almoft half a 
Mile. As for the firft, which was fo vaftly big, 

as 






C ki ] 



as I made it without confidering before- hand, as I 
ought to do, how I ihould be able to launch it ; fo 
never being able to bring it to the Water, or bring 
the Water to it, I was oblig'd to let it lie where it 
was, as a Memorandum to teach me to be wifer 
next Time: Indeed, the next Time, tho' I could 
not get a Tree proper for it, and in a Place where 
I could not get the Water to it, at any lefs Diftance 
than as I have faid, near half a Mile 5 yet as I faw 
it was prafticable at laft, I never gave it over; and 
though I was near two Years about it, yet I never 
grudg'd my Labour, in Hopes of having a Boat 
to go off to Sea at laft. 

However, though my little Periagua was fi- 
nifh'd, yet the Size of it was not at all anfwerable 
to the Defign which I had in View, when I made 
the firft - y 1 mean, Of venturing over to the Terra 
Firma, where it w r as above forty Miles broad j ac- 
cordingly, the Smallnefs of my Boat aflifted to put 
an End to that Defign, and now I thought no more 
of it : Bur as I had a Boat, my next Defign was to 
make a Tour round the Ifland; for as I had been 
on the other Side, in one Place, eroding as I have 
already defcrib'd it, over the Land 3 fo the Difco- 
veries I made in that little Journey, made me very 
eager to fee other Parts of the Coaft •, and now I 
had a Boat, I thought of nothing but failing 
round the lfland. 

For this Purpofe, that I might do every Thing 
with Difcretion and Confideration, I fitted up a lit- 
tle Maft to my Boat, and made a Sail to it, out of 
fome of the Pieces of the Ship's Sail, which lay in 
(lore 5 and of which I had a great Stock by me. 

Having fitted my Maft and Sail, and try'd the 
Boat, I found fhe would fail very well: Then I 
made little Lockers, or Boxes, at either End of my 
Boat, to put Provifions, Ncceflaries and Ammuni- 

M tion. 



[ I** ] 



tion, &c. into, to be kept dry, either from Rain, or 
the Sprye of the Seaj and a little long hollow 
Place I cut in the Infide of the Boat, where I could 
lay my Gun, making a Flap to hang down over 
it to keep it dry. 

I fix'd my Umbrella alfo in a Step at the Stern, 
like a Mart, to ftand over my Head, and keep the 
Heat of the Sun oflf of me like an Auning j and 
thus I every now and then took a little Voyage 
upon the Sea, but never went far out, nor far from 
the little Creek \ but at laffc being eager to view 
the Circumference of my little Kingdom, Irefolv'd 
upon my Tour, and accordingly I vi&uall'd my Ship 
for the Voyage, putting in two Dozen of my Loaves 
(Cakes I fhotild rather call them) of Barley Bread, 
an Earthen Pot full of parch 'd Rice, a Food I eat 
a great deal of, a little Bottle of Rum, half a 
Goat, and Powder and Shot for killing more, and 
two large Watch- coats, of thofe which, as I men- 
tion'd before, I had fav'd out of the Seamen's 
Chefts} thefe I took, one to lie upon, and the o- 
ther to cover me in the Night. 

It was the fixth of November^ in the fixth Year 
of my Reign, or my Captivity, which you pleafe, 
That I fet out on this Voyage, and I found it much 
longer than I expe&ed ; for though the lfland itfelf 
was not very large, yet when I came to the Eafi 
Side of it, I found a great Ledge of Rocks lie out 
above two Leagues into the Sea, fome above Wa- 
ter, fome under it 3 and beyond that, a Shoal of 
Sand, lying dry half a League more> lb that I was 
oblig'd to go a great Way out to Sea to double the 
Point. 

Whenfirftldifcover'd them, I was going to give 
over my Enterprife, and come back again, not 
knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to 
Sea 5 and above all, doubting how 1 fhould get back 

again j 



[ 1*3 ] 



again ; fo I came to an Anchor $ for I had made 
me a kind of an Anchor 5 with a piece of a broken 
Graplin, which I got out of the Ship, 

Having fecur'd my Boat, I took my Gun, and 
went on Shore, climbing up upon a Hill, which 
feem'd to over-look that Point, where I faw the 
full Extent of it, and refolv'd to venture. 

In my viewing the Sea from that Hill where I 
flood, 1 perceived a flrong, and indeed, a moft fu- 
rious Current, which run to the Eaft^ and even 
came clofe to the Point 5 and I took the more no- 
tice of it, becaufe I faw there might be fome Dan- 
ger, that when I came into it, I might be carry *d 
out to Sea by the Strength of it, and not be able 
to make the Ifland again 5 and indeed, had I not 
gotten firft up upon this Hill, I believe it would 
have been fo 3 for there was the fame Current on 
the other fide the Ifland, only, that it fet off at 
a farther Diftance* and I faw there was a ftrong 
Eddy under the Shore* fo I had nothing to do but 
to get in out of the firfl Current, and I fhould pre- 
fently be in an Eddy, 

I lay here, however, two Days 3 becaufe the 
Wind blowing pretty frefh at E. S. E. and that 
being juft contrary to the faid Current, made a 
great Breach of the Sea upon the Point 5 fo that it 
•was not fafe for me to keep too clofe to the Shore 
for the Breach, nor to go too far off becaufe of 
the Stream. 

The third Day in the Morning, the Wind ha- 
ving abated over Night, the Sea was calm, and I 
ventur'd j but I am a warning Piece again to all 
rafh and ignorant Pilots 3 for no fooner was I come 
to the Point, when even I was not my Boat's 
Length from the Shore, but I found my felf in a 
great Depth of Water, and a Current like the Sluice 
of a Mill : It carry'd my Boat along with it 

M z with 



[ 1*4 ] 



with fuch Violence, that all I could do, could 
not keep her fo much as on the Edge of it > but I 
found it hurry'd me farther and farther out from 
the Eddy, which was on my Left Hand. There 
was no Wind ftirring to help me, and all I could 
do with my Paddlers fignify'd nothing* and now 
I began to give my felf over for loft * for as the Cur- 
rent was on both fides the Ifland, I knew in a few 
Leagues Diftance they muft joyn again, and then 
I was irrecoverably gone * nor did 1 fee any Pofli- 
bility of avoiding it ; fo that I had no Profpe£t be- 
fore me but of perilling •> not by the Sea, for that 
was calm enough, but of ftarving for Hunger. I 
had indeed found a Tortoife on the Shore, as big 
almoft as I could lift, and had tofs'd it into the 
Boats and I had a great Jar of frefh Water, that is 
to fay, one of my Earthen Pots - 9 but what was all 
this to being driven into the vaft Ocean, where to 
be fure, there was no Shore, no main Land, or 
Ifland, for a thoufand Leagues at leaft. 

And now I faw how cafy it was for the Provi- 
dence of God to make the moft miferable Condi- 
tion Mankind could be in, worfe. Now I look'd 
back upon my defolate folitary Ifland, as the moft 
pleafant Place in the World, and all the Happinefs 
my Heart could wifh for, was to be but there a- 
gain. I ftrech'd out my Hands to it with eager 
Wifhes. O happy Defart, faid I, I fhall never fee 
thee more ! O miferable Creature, faid I, whi- 
ther am I going! Then I reproach'd my felf with 
my unthankful Temper, and how I had repin'd at 
my folitary Condition > and now what would I give 
to be on Shore there again ? Thus we never fee 
the true State of our Condition, till it is illuttrated 
to us by its Contraries > nor know how to value 
what we enjoy, but by the want of it. It is fcarce 
poflible to imagine the Confternation I was now in, 

being 



[ 1*5] 



being driven from my beloved Ifland (for fo it ap- 
peared to me now to be) into the wide Ocean, al- 
moft two Leagues, and in the utmoft Defpair of 
ever recovering it again. However, Iwork'dhard, 
till indeed my Strength was almoft exhaufted, and 
kept my Boat as much to the Northward, that is, 
towards the Side of the Current which the Eddy 
lay on, as poffibly I could j when about Noon, as 
the Sun pafs'd the Meridian, I thought I felt a lit- 
tle Breeze of Wind in my Face, fpringingupfrom 
the S. S. E. This chear'd my Heart a little, and 
efpecially when in about half an Hour more, it 
blew a pretty fmall gentle Gale. By this Time I 
was gotten at a frightful Diftance from the Ifland, 
and had the leaft Cloud or hazy Weather interven'd, 
I had been undone another Way too 5 for I had no 
Gompafs on Board, and fhould never have known 
how to have tteer'd towards the Ifland , if I had 
but once loft Sight of it 5 but the Weather conti- 
nuing clear, I apply'd my felf to get up my Maft 
again, fpread my Sail, Handing away to the North 
as much as poflible, to get out of the Current. 

Juft as I had let my Maft and Sail, and the Boat 
began to ftretch away, I faw even by the Clearnefs 
of the Water, fome Alteration of the Current was 
near > for where the Current was fo ftrong, the 
Water was foul 5 but perceiving the Water clear, 
I found the Current abate, and prefently I found 
to the Eaft, at about half a Mile, a Breach of the 
Sea upon fome Rocks j thefe Rocks I found caus'd 
the Current to part again, and as the main Strefs of 
it ran away more Southerly, leaving the Rocks to 
the North-EaB •> fo the other return'd by the Re- 
pulfe of the Rocks, and made a ftrong Eddy, 
which ran back again to the North-Weft with a 
very (harp Stream. 

M 3 They 



[ U4 ] 



They who know what it is to have a Reprieve 
brought to them upon the Ladder, or to be refcu- 
ed from Thieves juft going to murder them, or 
who have been infuch like Extremities, mayguefs 
whatmy prefent Surprize of Joy was, and how glad- 
ly I put my Boac into the Stream of this Eddy, and 
the Wind alfo frefhning, how gladly I fpread my 
Sail to it, running chearfully before the Wind, 
and with a ftrong Tide or Eddy under Foot. 

This Eddy carry'd me about a League in my 
Way bjfck again direftly towards the I {land, but 
about two Leagues more to the Northward than 
the Current which carried me away at firft ; fo that, 
when I came near the Ifland, I found my felf open 
to the Northern Shore of it, that is to fay, the o- 
ther End of the Ifland oppofite to that which I 
went out from. 

When I had made fomething more than a League 
of Way by the Help of this Current or Eddy,l found 
it was fpent and ferv'd me no farther. However, I 
found that being between the two great Currents, 
(viz.) that on the South Side, which had hurried 
me away, and that on the North, which layabout 
a League on the other Side : I fay, between thefe 
two, in the Wake of the Ifland, I found the Wa- 
ter at leaft (till and running no Way $ and having 
yet a Breeze of Wind fair for me, I kept on fleer- 
ing direftly for the Ifland, tho' not making fuch 
frefh Way as I did before. 

About four a Clock in the Evening, being then 
within about a League of the Ifland, I found the 
Point of the Rocks which occasioned this Difafter, 
ftretchingout, as is defcribed before, to the South- 
ward, and calling off the Current more Southward- 
ly, had of courfe made another Eddy to the North, 
and this I found very ftrong, but not dire&ly fetting 
the Way my Courfe lay, which was due Weft, bup 

almoij 



C 1*7 ] 



almoft full North. However, having a frefh Gale, 
I ftretch'd a-crofs this Eddy flanting North-weft, 
and in about an Hour came within about a Mile of 
the Shore, where it being fmooth Water, I foon 
got to Land. 

When I was on Shore I fell on my Knees and gave 
God Thanks for my Deliverance, refolving to lay 
afide all Thoughts of my Deliverance by my Boat -, 
andrefrefhtngmy felf with fuch Things as I had, I 
brought my Boat clofe to the Shore in a little Cove 
that I had fpy'd under fome Trees, and laid me 
down to fleep, being quite fpent with the Labour 
and Fatigue of the Voyage. 

I was now at a great Lofs. which way to get 
Home with my Boat : I had run fo much Hazard, 
and knew too much the Cafe to think of attempt- 
ing it by the Way I went out , at;d what might be 
at the other Side (I mean the Weft Side) I knew 
not, nor had I any Mind to run any more Ventures j 
fo I only refolved in the Morning to make my Way 
Weft ward along the Shore, and to fee if there was 
no Creek where I might lay up my Frigate in Safe- 
ty, fo as to have her again if I wanted her. In about 
three Mile, or thereabout, coafting the Shore, I 
came to a very good Inlet or Bay about a Mile over, 
which narrowed till it came to a very little Rivulet 
or Brook, where I found a very convenient Harbour 
for my Boat, and where fhe lay as if fhe had been 
in a little Dock made on purpofe for her. Here I 
put in, and having ftow'd my Boat very fate, I went 
on Shore to look about me, and fee where I was. 

I foon found I had but a little pafs'd by the Place 
where I had been before, when I travel* -d on Foot 
to that Shore j fo taking nothing out of my Boat, 
but my Gun and my Umbrella, for it was ex- 
ceeding hot, I began my March. The Way was 
comfortable enough alter fuch a Voyage as I had 

M 4 ' been 



[ i«8 ] 



been upon, and I reach'd my old Bower in the 
Evening, where I found every thing (landing as I 
left it ; for I always kept it in good Order, being, 
as I faid before, my Country-Houfe. 

I got over the Fence, and laid me down in the 
Shade to reft my Limbs, for I was very weary, and 
fellafleep: But judge you, if you can, that read my 
Story, what a Surprize I muft be in, when I was 
wak'd our of my Sleep by a Voice calling me by 
myNamefeveral times, Robin, Robin, Robin Crufoe, 
Poor Robin Crufoe ! where are you Robin Crufoe? 
Whereareyou? Where have you been ? 

I was fo dead afleep at fir ft, being fatigu'd with 
Rowing, or PaddJing, as it is call'd, the firft 
Part of the Day, and with Walking the latter Part, 
that I did not wake thoroughly y but dozing be- 
tween fleeping and waking, thought I dream'd 
that fome body fpoke to me : But as the Voice 
continued to repeat, Robin Crufoe, Robin Crufoe, at 
laft I began to'wake more perfeftly, and was at 
firft dreadfully frighted, and ftarted up in the ut- 
moft Confternation : But no fooner were my Eyes 
open, than Ifaw my Poll fitting on the top of the 
Hedge, and immediately knew that it was he that 
fpoke to me $ for juft in fuch bemoaning Language 
I had ufed to talk to him, and teach him ; and he 
had learn'd it fo perfeftly, that he would fit upon 
my Finger, and lay his Bill clofe to my Face, and 
cry, Poor Robin Crufoe, Where are you ? Where 
have you been ? How come you here ? and fuch things 
as I had taught him. 

However, even though I knew it was the Parrot, 
and that indeed it could be. no body elfe, it was 
a good while before I could compofe my felf : 
Firft, I was amazed how the Creature got thither, 
and then how he fhould juft keep about the Place, 
and no where elfe : But as I was well fatisfied it 

could 






[ i'9 1 



could be no body but honeft Poll, I got it over; 
and holding out my Hand, and calling him by his 
Name Poll, the fociable Creature came to me, and 
fat upon my Thumb, as he ufed to do, and conti- 
nued talking to me, Poor Robin Crufoe, and how 
did I come here ? and where had I been ? juft as if he 
had been overjoy'd to fee me again; and fo I car- 
ry'd him Home along with me. 

I had now had enough of rambling to Sea for 
fome time, and had enough to do for many Days 
to fit Hill, and refleft upon the Danger I had been 
in. I would have been very glad to have had 
my Boat again on my fide of the Ifland $ but I 
knew not how it was pra£Hcable to get it about. 
As to the Eaft fide of the Ifland, which I had 
gone round, I knew well enough there was no ven- 
turing that Way 3 my very Heart would fhrink, and 
my very Blood run chill to think of it: And as 
to the other fide of the Ifland, I did not know 
how it might be there j but fuppofing the Current 
ran with the fame Force againft the Shore at the 
Eaft, as it pafs'd by it on the other, I might run 
the fame Risk of being driven down the Stream, 
and carry 'd by the Ifland, as I had been before, 
of being carry 'd away from its fo with thefe 
Thoughts I contented my felf to be without any 
•Boat, though it had been the Produ6l of fo many 
Months Labour to make it, and of fo many more 
to get it unto the Sea. 

In this Government of my Temper I remained 
near a Year, liv'd a very fedate retired Life, as 
you may well fuppofe$ and my Thoughts being 
very much compofed as to my Condition, and 
fully comforted in refigning my felf to the Dif- 
pofitions of Providence, I thought I liv'd real- 
ly very happily in all things, except that of So- 
ciety. 

I im- 



[ 170 ] 



I improv'd my felf in this time in all the mecha- 
nick Exercifes which my Necefllties put me upon 
applying my felf to, and I believe I could, upon 
Occafion, made a very good Carpenter^ efpecially 
confidering how few Tools I had. 

Befidcs this, I arrived at an unexpe&ed Perfe&i- 
on in my Earthen Ware, and contrived well enough 
to make them with a Wheel, which I found infi- 
nitely eafier and better * becaufe 1 made Things 
round and fhapable, which before were filthy 
Things indeed to look on. But I think I was ne- 
ver more vain of my own Performance, or more 
joyful for any think 1 found out, than for my being 
able to make a Tobacco-Pipe. And tho' it was 
a very ugly clumfy thing, when it was done, and 
only burnt red like other earthen Ware, yet as it 
was hard and firm, and would draw the Smoke, I 
was exceedingly comforted with it 5 for 1 had been 
always ufed to fmoke, and there were Pipes in the 
Ship, but I forgot them at firft, not knowing that 
there was Tobacco in the Ifland * and afterwards, 
when I fearch'd the Ship again, I could not come 
at any Pipes at all. 

In my Wicker Warealfo I improved much, and 
made abundance of neceflary Baskets, as well as 
my Invention fhew'd me, though not very hanu- 
fome, yet they were fuch as were very handy and 
convenient for my laying Things up in, or fetching 
Things home in. For Example, if I kill'd a Goat 
abroad, I could hang it up in a Tree, flea it, and 
drefs it, and cut it in Pieces, and bring it home in 
a Basket) and the like by a Turtle, I could cut it 
up, take out the Eggs, and a piece or two of the 
Fielh, which was enough for me, and bring them 
home in a Basket, and leave the reft behind 
me. Alfo large deep Baskets were my Recei- 
vers of my Corn, which I always rubb'd, out as 

foon 



[ w ] 



foon as it was dry 3 and cured, and kept it in great 
Baskets. 

I began now to perceive my Powder abated con- 
siderably, and this was a Want which it was im- 
pofTible for me to fupply, and I began ferioufly to 
confidcr what I mud do when I ftiould have no 
more Powder \ that is to fay, how I fhould do to 
kill any Goat. I had, as I obferv'd in the third 
Year of my being here, kept a young Kid, and bred 
her up tame, and I was in hope of getting a He- 
Goat, but I could not by any means bring it to 
pafs, till my Kid grew an old Goat 5 and I could 
never find in my Heart to kill her, till fhe dy'd at 
laft of mere Age. 

But being now in the eleventh Year of my Resi- 
dence, and, as I havefaid, my Ammunition grow- 
ing low, I fet my felf to ftudy fome Art to trap and 
fnare the Goats, to fee whether I could not catch 
fome of them alive, and particularly I wanted a She- 
Goat great with Young. 

To this purpofe I made Snares to hamper them, 
and I do believe they were more than once taken 
in them, but my Tackle was not good, for I had 
no Wire, and I always found them broken, and my 
Bait devoured. 

At length I refolved to try a Pit-fall, fo I dug 
feveral large Pits in the Earth , in Places where I 
hadobferved the Goats ufed to feed, and oyer thefe 
Pits I placed Hurdles of my own making too, 
with a great Weight upon them 5 and feveral times 
I put Ears of Barley and dry Rice, without fet- 
ting the Trap, and I could ealily perceive that the 
Goats had gone in and eaten up the Corn, for I 
could fee the Mark of their Feet, At length I fet 
three Traps in one Night, and going the next 
Morning I found .them all flanding, and yet the 
Bait eaten and gone. This was very difcouraging : 

How- 



[ 172 ] 



However, I alter'd my Trap, and, not to trouble 
you with Particulars, going one Morning to fee my 
Trap, I found in one of them a large old He-Goat, 
and in one of the ocher three Kids, a Male, and 
two Females. 

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with 
him, he was fo fierce I durft not go into the Pit to 
him 5 that is to fay, to go about to bring him away 
alive, which was what I wanted. I could have 
JrilPd him, but that was not my Bufinefs, nor would 
it anfwer my End. So I e'en let him out, and he 
ran away as if he had been frighted out of 
his Wits: But I had forgot then what I recolle&ed 
afterwards, that Hunger will tame a Lyon. If I 
had let him ftay there three or four Days without 
Food, and then had carry 'd him fome Water to 
drink, and then a little Corn, he would have been 
as tame as one of the Kids, for they are mighty 
fagacious tradable Creatures where they are well 
ufed. 

However, for the prefent I let him go, knowing 
no better at that time j then I went to the three 
Kids, and taking them one by one, I tyed them 
with Strings together, and with fome Difficulty 
brought them all home. 

It was a good while before they would feed, but 
throwing them fome fweetCorn, it tempted them, 
and they began to be tame : and now I found that 
if I expe&ed to fupply my felf with Goat-Flefh 
when I had no Powder or Shot left, breeding fome 
up tame was my only Way, when perhaps I 
might have them about my Houfe like a Flock of 
Sheep. 

But then it prefently occur'd to me, that I muft 
keep the Tame from the Wild, or elfe they would 
always run wild when they grew up j and the only 
Way for this was to havt iome enclofed Piece of 

Ground 






X l 73 ] 



Ground, well fenc'd either with Hedge or Pale, to 
keep them info effectually, that thofe within might' 
not break out, or thofe without break in. 

This was a great Undertaking for one Pair of 
Hands, yet as I faw there was an abfolute Necef- 
fity of doing it, my firft Piece of Work was to 
find out a proper Piece of Ground, viz. where there 
was likely to be Herbage for them to eat, Water 
for them to drink, and cover to keep them from 
the Sun. 

Thofe who underftand fuch Enclofures will think 
I had very little Contrivance, when I pitch'd upon 
a Place very proper for all thefe, being a plain o- 
pen piece of Meadow-Land or Savanna, (as our 
People call it in the Weftern Colonies,) which had 
two or three little Drills of frefh Water in it, and 
at one end was very woody: I fay they will fmile 
at my Forecaft, when I fliall tell them I began my 
enclofing of this Piece of Ground in fuch a man- 
ner, that my Hedge or Pale muft have been at lead 
two Mile about. Nor was the Madnefs of it fo 
great as to the Compafs, for if it was ten Mile a- 
about I was like to have time enough to do it in. 
But I did not confider that my Goats would be 
as wild in fo much Compafs, as if they had had the 
whole Ifland, and I fhould have fo much Room 
•to chace them in, that I fhould never catch 
them. 

My Hedge was begun and carry'd on, I believe, 
about fifty Yards , when this Thought occurred 
to me j fo I prefently ftopt fhort, and for the firft 
beginning I refolv'd to enclofe a Piece of about i fo 
Yards in length, and ioo Yards in breadth, which 
as it would maintain as many as I fhould 
have in any reafonable time, fo as my Flock en- 
crcafed, I could add more Ground to my En- 
clofure. 

i This 



[ 174 3 



This was a£Hng with fome Prudence, and I went 
'to work with Courage. I was about three Months 
hedging in the firit Peice, and till I had done it I 
tether'd the three Kids in the beft part of it, and 
us'd them to feed as near tne as poflible to make 
them familiar •, and very often I would go and car- 
ry them fome Ears of Barley, or a handful of Rice, 
and feed them out of my Hand; fo that after my 
Enclofure was finifhed, and 1 let them loofe, they 
would follow me up and down, bleating after me 
for a handful of Corn. 

This anfwer'd my End, and in about a Year and 
half I had a Flock of about twelve Goats , Kids 
and all j and in two Years more I had three and 
Forty, befides feveral that I took and kill'd for my 
Food. And after that I enclofed five feveral Pie- 
ces of Ground to feed them in, with little Pens to 
drive them into, to take them as I wanted, and 
Gates out of one Piece of Ground into ano- 
ther. 

But this was not all, for now I not only had 
Goats-Fleih to feed on when I pleas'd, but Milk 
too, a thing which indeed in my beginning I did 
not fo much as think of, and which, when it came 
into my Thoughts, was really an agreeable Sur- 
prize. For now I fet up my Dairy, and had fome 
times a Gallon or two of Milk in a Day. And as 
Nature, who gives Supplies of Food to every 
Creature, di&ates even naturally how to make ufe 
of it 5 fo I that never milk'd a Cow, much leis 
a Goat, or had feen Butter or Cheefe made, very 
readily and handily, tho' after a great many Eflays 
and Mifcarriages, made me both Butter and Cheefe 
at laft, and never wanted it afterwards. 

How mercifully can our great Creator treat his 
Creatures, even in thofe Conditions in which they 
feem to be overwhelmed in Deftruftion! How 

can 



[ 175 ] 



can he fweeten the bittereft Providences, and give 
us caufe to praife him for Dungeons and Prifons! 
What a Table was here fpread for me in a Wilder- 
nefs, where I faw nothing at firft but to perifh for 
Hunger ! 

It would have made a Stoick fmUe t9 have feen, 
mcand my little Family fit down to Dinner j there 
was my Majefty the Prince and Lord of the whole 
Ifland* I had the Lives of all my Sybje&s at my 
abfolute command. I could hang, draw, give Li- 
berty, and take it away, and no Rebels among all 
my Subjects. 

Then to fee how like a King I din'd too all 
alone, attended by my Servants} Poll^ as if he had 
been my Favourite, was the only perfon permit- 
ted to talk to me. My Dog, who was now grown 
very old and crazy, and had found no Species to 
multiply his Kind upon, fat always at my Right 
Hand 3 and two Cats, one on one Side the Ta- 
ble, and one on the other, expeding now and 
then a Bit from my Hand, as a Mark of fpecial 
Favour. 

But thefe were not the two Cats which I brought 
on Shore at firft, for they were both of them dead, 
and had been interr'd near my Habitation by my 
own Hand j but one of them haying multiply'd by 
• I know not what Kind of Creature, thefe were 
two which I had preferv'd tame, whereas the reft 
run wild in the Woods, and became indeed trou- 
blefom to me at laft \ for they would often come 
into my Houfe, and plunder me too, till at laft I 
was obliged to fhoot them, and did kill a great 
many j at length they left me : With this Atten- 
dance, and in this plentiful Manner I liv'd 5 nei* 
ther could 1 be faid to want any thing but Society, 
and of that in fome time after this, I was like to 
have too much. 

I was 



[i 7 «] 



I was fomething impatient, as I have obferv'd, 
to have the ufe of my Boat ; though very loth to 
run any more Hazards ; and therefore fometimes I 
fat contriving Ways to get her about the Ifland, 
and at other Times I fat myfelf down contented 
.enough without her. But I had a ftrange Uneafinefs 
in my Mind to go down to the Point of the Ifland, 
where, as I have faid, in my laft Ramble, I went up 
the Hill to fee how the Shore lay, and how the 
Current fet, that I might fee what I had to do : This 
Inclination increas'd upon me every Day, and at 
length I refolv'd to travel thither by Land, follow- 
ing the Edge of the Shore. I did fo : But had any 
one in England been to meet fuch a Man as I was, it 
tnuft either have frighted him, or rais'd a great deal 
of Laughter ; and as I frequently flood ftill to look 
at my felf, I could not but fmile at the Notion of 
my travelling through Yorkjhire with fuch an Equi- 
page, and in fuch a Drefs : Be pleas'd to take a 
Sketch of my Figure as follows. 

I had a great high fhapelefs Cap, made of a 
Goat's Skin, with a Flap hanging down behind, as 
well to keep the Sun from me, as tofhoot the Rain 
off from running into my Neck - y nothing being fo 
hurtful in thefe Climates, as the Rain upon the 
Flefh under the Cloaths. 

I had afhort Jacket of Goat-Skin, the Skirts co- 
ming down to about the middle of my Thighs; 
and a pairof open-knee'd Breeches of the fame; the 
Breeches were made of the Skin of an old He-goat^ 
whofe Hair hung down fuch a Length on either 
Side, that like Pantaloons it reach'd to the middle of 
my Legs; Stockings and Shoes I had none, but had 
made me a Pair of fome-things, I fcarce know 
what to call them, like Buskins, to flap over my 
Legs, and lace on either Side like Spattcr-dafhes s 

but 



[ i77 ] 



but of a rtioft barbarous Shape, as indeed were alt 
the reft of my Cloaths. 

I had on a broad Belt of Goats-Skin dryed* 
Which I drew together with two Thongs of the 
fame, inftead of Buckles, and in a kind of a Frog 
on either Side of this. Inftead of a Sword and a 
Dagger, hung a little Saw and a Hatches one on 
one Side* one on the other. I had another Belt 
not fo broad, and faften'd in the fame manner* 
Which hung over my Shoulder $ and at the End of 
it, under my Left Arm* hung two Pouches, both 
inade of Goats-Skin too 5 in one of Which hung, 
my Powder, in the other my Shot : At my Back I 
carried my Basket^ on my Shoulder my Gun, and 
over my Head a great clumfy ugly Goat- Skin Um- 
brella, but which* after all^ was the mod necdTarjr 
Thing I had about me, next to my Gun : As for 
iny Face, the Colour of it was really not (oMoIetta 
like, as one might expeft from a Man not at all care- 
ful of it, and living within nine or ten Degrees 9f the 
Equinox. My Beard I had once fuifei \d to grow till 
it was about a quarter of a Yard long 5 but as I had 
both Sciflars and Razors fufficient^ I had cut it pret- 
ty fhort* except what grew on my upper JUp^ which 
I had trimm'd into a large Pair of Mahometan Whif* 
kers, fgch as I had feen worn by fame ?V^ who I 
law at Saltf j for the Moors did not wear iuch, tho* 
the Turks did ; of thefe Muftachioes or Whiskers,,! 
will not fay they were long enough to hang xny Hat 
upon them j but they were of Length and Shape 
xnonftrous enough , and (ucb a? in England would 
have pafs'd for frightful* 

But all this is by.the by \ for as to my Figure, I 
had fo few to oblerve me, that it was of no man- 
ner of Confequence 5 fo 1 fay no more to that Part. 
In this kind of Figure I went my new Journey, and 
Wa^ out five or fix Days. I travell'd firft along the 
N Sea . 



[ W ] 



Sea-Shor e^ dire&ly to the Place where I firft brought 
my Boat to an Anchor, to get up upon the Rocks y 
and having no Boat now to take care of, I went o- 
ver thcLand a nearer Way, to the fame Height that 
I was upon before - y when looking forward to the 
Point of the Rocks which lay out, and which I was 
obliged to double with my Boat, as is faid above, 
I was furpriz'd to fee the Sea all fmooth and quiet, 
noRipling, no Motion, no Current, anymore there 
than in other Places. 

I was at a ftrange Lofs to underftand this, and 
refolv'd to fpend fome Time in the obferving it, to 
fee if nothing from the Sets of the Tide had occa- 
fion'd it j but I was prefently convinced how it was, 
viz. That the Tide of Ebb fetting from the JVeft, 
and joining with the Current of Waters ffom fome 
great River on the Shore, mull be the occafion of 
this Current ; and that according as the Wind blew 
mord forcibly from the Weft, or from the North, 
this Current came near, or went farther from 
Shores for waiting thereabouts till Evening, I went 
up to the Rock again, .«nd then the Tide of Ebb 
being made, I plainly faw the Current again as be- 
fore, only,- that it run farther off, being near half a" 
League from the Shore \ whereas in my Cafe, it- 
fet clofe upon the Shore, and hurried me and my- 
Canoe along with it, which at another time it 
would not have done. 

ThisObfervation convinc'd me, That I had no- 
thing to do but to obferve the Ebbing and the 
Flowing of the Tide, and I might very eafily bring 
my Boat about the Ifland again: But when 1 be- 
gan to think of putting it in pra&ice, I had fuch a 
Terror upon my Spirits at the Remembrance of 
the Danger I had been in, that I could not think 
ei it again with any Patience * but on the contrary, 
I took up another-Refokition, which was more fafe; 

Vi though 



[ m ] 



though more laborious ; and this was, that I wouJd 
build, or rather make me another Pariagua or Ca± 
noe -, and fo have one for one Side of the Ifland, and 
one for the other. 

You are to underftand , that now I had , as t 
may call it, two Plantations in the Ifland ; one my 
little Fortification or Tent, with the Wall about 
it under the Rock, with the Cave behind me$ 
which by this time I had enlarged into feveral 
Apartments, or Caves, one within another. One 
of thefe, which was the dryefl, and largeft, and 
had a Door out beyond my Wall or Fortification $ 
that is to fay, beyond where my Wall join'd to 
the Rock, was all fill'd up with the large Earthen 
Pots, of which I have given an Account, and with 
fourteen or fifteen great Baskets, which would hold 
five or fixBufhels each, where I laid up my Stores 
of Provifion, efpecially my Corn, fome in the Eat 
cut off fhort from the Straw, and the other rubb'd 
out with my Hand. 

As for my Wall made, as before^ with long Stakes 
or Piles, thofe Piles grew all like Trees, and were 
by this Time grown fo big, and fpread To very 
much, that there was not the leaft Appearance to 
any one's View of any Habitation behind them; 

- Near this Dwelling of mine, but a little farther 
within the Land, and upon lower Ground, lay my 
two Pieces of Corn- Ground, which I kept duly 
cultivated and fow'd , and which duly yielded me 
their Harveft in its Seafon -, and whenever I had 
occafion for more Corn , I had more Land adjoin- 
ing as fit as that. 

Befides this, I had my Country Seat, and I had 
now a tolerable Plantation there alfo -, forfirft, I 
had my little Bower, as I call'd it, which I kept 
in Repair 3 that is to jay ^ I kept the Hedge which 
circled it in, constantly fitted up to its ufual Height^ 
N z ihs 



[ »8o] 



the Ladder (landing always in the Infide> I kept 
the Trees which at firft were no more than my 
Stakes, but were now grown very firm and tall j I 
kept rhem always fo cut, that they might fpread and 
grow ttyck and wild, and make the more agreeable 
Shade, which they did effectually to my Mind. In 
the Middle of this I had my Tent always (landing, 
being a Piece of a Sail fpread over Poles fet up for 
that Purpofe, and which never wanted any Repair 
or Renewing -> and under this 1 had made me a Squab 
or Couch, with the Skins of the Creatures I had 
kill'd, and with other foft Things, and a Blan- 
ket laid on them, fuch as belong'd to our Sea-Bed- 
ding, which I had faved, and a great Watch-Coat 
to cover me; and here, whenever I had Occafion 
to be abfent from my chief Seat, I took up, my 
Country Habitation. 

Adjoining to this I had myEnclofuresformy Cat- 
tle, that is to fay, rhy Goats: And as I had taken 
an inconceivable deal of Pains to fence and enclofe 
this Ground, fo I was fo uneafy to fee it kept entire, 
left the Goats (hould break thro', that I never left 
off till with infinite Labour I had (luck the Outfide 
of the Hedge fo full of fmall Stakes, and fo near to 
one another, that it was rather a Pale than a Hedge, 
and there was fcarce Room to put a Hand thro* 
between them, which afterwards when thofe Stakes 
grew, as they all did in the next rainy Seafon, made 
the Enclofure ftrong like a Wall, indeed lironger 
than any Wall. 

This will teftify for me that I was not idle, 
and that^ I fpared no Pains to bring to pafs what* 
ever appear'd neceffary for my comfortable Sup- 
port 5 for I confider'd the keeping up a Breed of 
tame Creatures thus at my Hand, would be a liv- 
ing Magazine of Flcfh, Milk, Butter and Cheefc, 

ior 



r 181 ] 



for mcas long as I Jiv'd in the Place, if it were to bt 
forty Years, and that keeping them in my Reach, 
depended entirely upon my pcrfe£Hng my Enclo- 
fures to fuch a Degree, that I might be fure of 
keeping them together $ which by this Method in- 
deed I fo effc&ually fecur'd, that when thefe lit- 
tle Stakes began to grow, I had planted them fo 
very thick, 1 was forced to pull fomc ofthem up 
again. 

In this Place alfo I had my Grapes growing, 
which I principally depended on for my Winter 
Store of Raifins > and which I never faiPd to pre- 
ferve very carefully, as the beft and moil agreeable 
Dainty of my whole Diet} and indeed they were 
not agreeable only, but phyfical, wbolefome, nou- 
rishing, and refrefhing, to the laft DegTec. 

As this was alfo about half the Way between my 
other Habitation and the Place were I had laid up 
my Boat, I generally ftay'd, and lay here in my 
Way thither > for I ufed frequently to vifit my 
Boat, apd I kept all Things about or belonging to 
her in very good Order * fometimes I went out 
in her to divert my felf, but no more hazardous 
Voyages would I go, nor fcarce ever above a 
Stone's Caft or two from the Shore, I was fo ap- 
prehenfiveof being hurried out of my Knowledge 
again by the Currents, or Winds, or any other Ac- 
cident. Bup now I come fo a new Scene of my Life. 

It happened one Day about Noon going towards 
my Boat, J was exceedingly furprifc'd with the Print 
of a Man's naked Foot on the Shore^ which was 
very plain to be feen in the Sand : I Hood like one 
Thunder- (truck, or as if I had feen an Apparition $ 
Jlilteq'd, Ilook'd round me, I could hear nothing, 
por fee any things I went up to a riling Ground 10 
look farther > 1 went up the Shore and down the 
§hor^ but it Was all one, I could fee no other 

N j loipreffioa 



C 182] 



Impreflion but that one, I went to it again to fee 
if there were any more, and to obfervc if it might 
not be my Fancy > but there was no Room for 
that, for there wasexa&ly the very Print of a Foot, 
Toes, Heel, and every Part of a Foot * how it 
came thither, I knew not, nor could in the leaft 
imagine. But after innumerable fluttering Though ts, 
like a Man perfectly confus'd and out of my felf, I 
c^me Home to my Fortification, not feeling, as we 
fay, the Ground I went on, but terrify'd to the laft 
Degree, looking behind me at every two or three 
Steps, miftaking every Bufh and Tree, and fancy- 
ing every Stump at a Diftance to be a Man 5 nor is 
it poffible to defcribe how many various Shapes af- 
frighted Imagination reprefented Things to me in $ 
hpw many wild Ideas were found every Moment 
in my Fancy, and what ftrange unaccountable 
Whimfies came into my Thoughts by the Way. 

When I came to my Caftje, for fo I think I call'd 
it ever after this, I fled into it like one purfuedj 
whether I went over by the Ladder as firft con- 
triv'd, or went in at the Hole in the Rock, which 
I call'd a Door, I cannot remember 5 no, nor could 
I remember the next Morning ; for never frighted 
Hare fled to Cover, or Fox to Earth, with more 
Terror of Mind than I to this Retreat. 

I flept none that Nights the farther I was from 
the Occafion of my Fright, the greater my Ap- 
prehensions were* which is fomething contrary to 
the Nature of fuch Things, and efpecially to the u- 
fual Pra6Hce of all Creatures in Fear: But. I was 
fo embarrafs'd with my own frightful Ideas of the 
Thing, that I form'd nothing but difmal Imagina- 
tions to my felf, even tho' I was now a great way 
off it. Sometimes I fancy 'd it mud be the De- 
vil i and Reafon joyn'd in with me upon this Sup- 
ppfition: For how ihould any other Thing in hu- 
man 



[ i8 3 ] 



man Shape come into the Place? Where was the 
Veflel that brought them? What Marks was there', 
of any other Footfteps?\Aftd how was it poflible 
a Man fhould come there? But then to think that 
Satan fhould take human- Shape upon him in fucha. 
Place where there could be no manner of Occafiori 
for it, but to leave the Print of his Foot behind^ 
him, and that even for no Purpofetoo, for hecould 
not befure I ihould fee it * this was an Amufement 
the other Way: I confidered that the Devil- might 
have found out abundance of other Ways to have 
terrify'd me than this of the fingle Print of a Foot. 
Thatjaslliv'd quite on the other Side of the Ifland, 
he would never have been fo fimple to leave a Mark 
in a Place where it was Ten Thoufandtoone whe- 
ther 1 fhould ever fee it or not, and in the Sand 
too, which the firft Surge of the Sea upon a high 
Wind would have defae'd entirely : Allthisfeem'd 
inconfiftent with the Thing it felf, and with all the 
Notions weufually entertain of the Subtilty of the 
Devil. 

Abundance of fuch Things as thefe aflifted to ar- 
gue me out of all Apprehenfions of its being the 
Devil; And I prefently concluded then, thatitmuft 
be fome more dangerous Creature, (viz) That it 
muft be fome of the Savages of the main Land 
-ovei-againitme, who had wandered out to Sea in 
their Canoes, and either driven by the Currents, or 
by contrary Winds, had made the Ifland a and had 
been on Shore, but were gone away again to Sea, 
being as.loth, perhaps, to have ltay'd in this defol- 
iate Ifland, as I would have been to have had them. 

While thefe Reflections were rowling upon my 
Mind, I was very thankful in my Thoughts, that 
I was fo happy as not to be thereabouts at that 
Time, or that they did not fee my Boat, by which 
they would have concluded that fome Inhabitant$ 

N 4 had 



C iff ] 



had bt*fl rti the Place, and perhaps have fearch'ti 
farther for me : Then terrible Thoughts rack'd my 
Imagination about their having found my Boat, 
and that there were People here ^ and that if fo, I 
fliould certainly have them come again in greater 
Numbers and devour me 3 that if it fhould happen 
fb that they fhould not find me, yet they woulcj 
find my Enelofure, deftroy all my Corn, carry a- 
way all my Flock of tame Goats, ajad I fhould pe- 
rifh at laft for mere Want. 

Thus my Fear banifh'd all my Religious Hope$ 
all that former Confidence in God, which was; 
founded upon fuch wonderful Experience as I had 
had of his Goodnefs, now vani^h'd, a*if he that 
had fed me by Miracle hitherto, could not preferve 
by his Power the Provifion which he had made for 
me bv his Goodnefs : I reproach'd my felf with my 
Eafinefs, that would not fow any more Corn one 
Year than would juft.ferve me till the next Seafon, 
afcif no A ccidenr could^Jiervene to prevent my 
enjoying the Qm^jj^gMps upon the Ground > 
and this I thought fojuifaReproof, that lrefolv'd 
for the future to have two or three Years Corn be- 
fore hand, fo that whatever might come, I might 
not perifh for want of Bread. 

How ftrangc a Chequer- Work of Providence is 
the Life of Man ! and by what fecret differing 
Springs are the Affe&ions hurry'd about, as differ- 
ring Circum f lances prefent! To Day we love what 
to Morrow we hate , to Day we feek what to Mor- 
row wcftiun$ to Day we defire what to Morrow 
we fear 5 nay, even tremble at the Apprehenfions of: 
This was exemplified in me at this time in the molt 
lively Manner imaginable : for I whofe only Af- 
fliction, was, that 1 feem'xfrbantfhed from human 
Society, tha^Iwas^abne, circumfcrib'd by the 
boundkfs Ocean, cut off from Mankind, and con- 

demn'4 



['SO 



demn'd to what I call'd filent Life* that I was as 
one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be num- 
bered among the Living, or to appear among the 
reft of his Creatures j that to have feen one of my 
own Species would have feem'd to me a Raifing 
me from'Death to Life, and the greateit Bleffing 
that Heaven itfelf, next to the fupreme Bleffing of 
Salvation, could bellow j I fay, that I fhould now 
tremble at the very A^prehenfions of feeing a Man, 
and was ready to fink intfr the Ground at but the 
Shadow, or filent Appearance of a Man's having 
fet his Foot in the Ifland. 

Such is the uneven State of human Life : And it 
afforded me a great many curious Speculations af- 
terwards. When I had a little recovered my firft 
Surprize-, I confider'd that this was the Station of 
Life the infinitely wife and good Providence of 
God had determined for mcj that as I could not 
forefee what the Ends of Divine Wifdom might be 
in all this, fo I was not to difpute his Sovereignty, 
who, as I was his Creature, had an undoubted 
Right by Creation to govern and difpofe of me ab- 
folutely as he thought fit > and who, as I was a 
Creature who had offended him, had likewife a ju- 
dicial Right to condemn me to what Punifhment 
be thought fit j -and that it was my part to fubmit 
•to bear his Indignation, becaufe I had finn'd again it 
him. 

I then reflc£ted that God, who was not only 
Righteous but Omnipotent, as he had thought 
fit thus to punifh and affli£t me, fo he was able 
to deliver me j that if he did not think fit to do it, 
•twas my unquettion'd Duty to refign my felf abfo- 
lutely and entirely to his Will* and on the other 
hand, it was my Duty alfo to hope in him, pray 
to him,. and quietly to attend the Di&ates and Dt- 
regions of his daily Providence. 

Thefc 



r **« 1 



Thcfc Thoughts took me up many Hours, Days, 
nay, I may fay, Weeks and Months $ and one par-' 
ticular EfFe6t of my Cogitations on this Occaiion, 
I cannot omir, viz. One Morning early, lying in 
my Bed, and filled with Thought about my Danger 
from the Appearance of Savages, I found it dif- 
compos'd me very much - y upon which thofe Words 
of the Scripture came into my Thoughts, Call upon 
me in the Day of Trouble ', and 1 will deliver ^ and thou 
Jhalt glorify me. 

Upon this, rifing chearfully out of my Bed, my 
Heart, was not only comforted, but I was guided 
and encouraged to pray earneftly to God for Deli- 
verance: When I had done praying, I took up my 
Bible, and opening it to read, the firft Words that 
prefented to me, were, Wait on the Lord^ and be of 
good Cheer , and he fhall firengthcn thy Heart j wait, 
Ifay^ on the Lord: It is impoflible to exprefs the 
Comfort this gave me. In Anfwer, I thankfully 
laid down the Book, and was no more fad, at leaft 
not on that Occafion. 

In the middle of thefe Cogitations, Apprehenfi- 
ons and Refle£Hons, it came into my Thought one 
Day, that all this might be a mere Chimera of my 
own; and that this Foot might be the Print of my 
own Foot, when I came on Shore from my Boat : 
Thischear'd me up a little too, and I began to per- 
fuade my felf it was all aDelufion 3 that it was no-, 
thing elfe but my own Foot ; and why might not I 
come that way from the Boat, as well as 1 was go- 
ing that way to the Boat : Again, I confider'd alfo 
that I could by no means tell for certain where I 
had trod, and where I had not j and that if at laft 
this was only the Print of my own Foot, I had 
play'd the part of thofe Fools, who drive to make 
Stones of Spe£tres and Apparitions, and then are 
frighted at them more than any body. 

Now 



[ i»7 1 



Now I began ro take Courage, and to peep abroad 
again 3 fori had not (tirr'doutofmy Cattle for three 
Days and Nights •, fo that I began to ilarve for 
Provifion j for I had little or nothing within Doors 
but fome Barley Cakes and Water. Then I knew 
that my Goats wanted to be miik'd too, which 
ufually was my Evening Diverfionj and the poor 
Creatures were in great Pain arid Inconvenience for 
want of it -, and indeed, it almoft fpoil'd fome of 
them, and almoft dry'd up their Milk. 

Heartning my felf therefore with the Belief that 
this was nothing but the Print of one of my own 
Feet, and fo I might be truly faid to ftart at my 
own Shadow, I began to go abroad again, and 
went to my Country Houfe to milk my Flock 5 but 
to fee with what Fear I went forward, how often I 
look'd behind me, how I was ready every now and 
then to lay down my Basket, and run for my Life, it 
would have made any one have thought I was haunt- 
ed with an evil Conicience, or that I had been late^ 
ly moft terribly frighted, and fo indeed I had. 

However, as I went down thus two or three 
Days, and having feen nothing, I began to be a lit- 
tle bolder} and to think there was really nothing in 
it, but my own Imagination : But I cou'd not per- 
fuade my felf fully of this, till I fhould go down to 
^the Shore again, and fee this Print of a Foot, and 
meafure it by my own, and fee if there was any Si- 
militude or Fitnefs, that 1 might be aflur'd it was 
my own Foot : But when I came to the Place, 
Fir ft 1 it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid 
up my Boat, I could not poflibly be on Shore any 
where thereabout. Secondly^ When J came to mea- 
fure the Mark with my own Foot, I found my Foot 
not fo large by a great deal } both thefe Things filPd 
my Head with new Imaginations, and gave me the 
Vapours again, to the highe(l Degree 5 fo that 1 

fhook 



[i88] 



/hook with cold, like one in an Ague : And I wen£ 
Home again, fill'd with the Belief that fome Man 
or Men had been on the Shore $ or in fhort, that the 
Ifland was inhabited, and I might be furpriz'd be- 
fore I was aware j and what courfe to take for my 
Security I knew not. 

O what ridiculous Refolutions Men take, when 
poflefs'd with Fear ! It deprives them of the Uie of 
thofe Means which Reafon offers for their Relief. 
The firft thing I propos'd to my felf, was, to 
throw down my Enclofures, and turn all my tame 
Cattle wild into the Woods, that the Jinemy might 
not find them 3 and then frequent the Ifland in Prop- 
ped of the fame, or the like Booty : Then to the 
fimple thing of digging up my two Corn Fields, 
that they might not find fuch a Grain there, and 
ftill be prompted to frequent the Ifland j then to de- 
molish my Bower and Tent, that they might riot 
fee any Veftiges of Habitation, and be prompted 
to look farther, in order to find out the Perfons 
inhabiting. 

Thefe were the Subjedt of the firft Night's Co-* 
gitation, after I was come Home again, while the 
Apprehenfions which had fo over-run my Mind 
were frefh upon me, and my Head was full of Va- 
pours, as above. Thus Fear of danger is ten thou- 
fand Times more terrifying than Danger it felf, when 
apparent to the Eyes , and we find the Burthen 
of Anxiety greater by much, than the Evil which 
we are anxious about 5 and which was worfe tharj 
all this, I had not that Relief in this Trouble 
from the Refignation I ufed to praftife, which I 
hop'd to have. I look'd, I thought, like Saul, who 
complain'd not only that the Philijlines were upon 
him , but that God had forfaken him } for I did not 
now take due Ways to compofe my Mind, by crying 
^oGodinmyDiflrefs, and reding upon his Provi- 
dence! 



[i8j,J 



dcnce, as I had done before, for my Defence and 
Deliverance j which if I had done, I had, at leaft, 
been more cheerfully fupported under this new Sur- 
prise, and perhaps carry 'd through it with more Re- 
solution. 

This confufion of my Thoughts kept me waking 
all N'g K : y but in the Morning I fell afleep, and 
having by the Amufement of my Mind, been, as ic 
were tired, and my Spirits exhaufted, I flept very 
foundly, and wak'd much better compos'd thaa 
I had ever been before: and now I began to think 
fcdately > and upon the utmoft Debate with my 
felf, I concluded, That this Ifland, which was fo 
exceeding pleafant, fruitful, and no farther from the 
main Land than as I had feen, was not fo entirely a- 
bandon'd as I might imagine: That altho' there 
were no ftated Inhabitants who liv'd on the Spot; 
yet that there might fometimes come Boats off from 
the Shore, who either with Defign, or perhaps 
never but when they were driven by crofs Winds 
might come to this Place. 

That I had liv'd here fifteen Years now, and had 
not met with the leaft Shadow or Figure of any 
People yet -, and that if at any Time they fhould be 
driven here, it was probable they went away again 
as foon as ever they could, feeing they had never 
thought fit to fix there upon any Occafion, to this 
Time. 

That the mod I cou'd fuggeft any Danger from, 
was, from any fuch cafual accidental Landing of 
{haggling People from the Main, who, as it was 
likely if they were driven hither, were here againft 
their Wills ; fo they made no ftay here, but went off 
again with all poflible Speed* feldom flaying one 
Night on Shore, leaft they fhould not have the 
Help of the Tides, and Day-light back again 5 and 
that therefore I had nothing to do but to confider 

of 



[ r? J 



offomc fafe Retreat, in cafe I fhould fee any Saval* 
ges land upon the Spot. 

N^w I began forely to repent, that I had dug 
my Cave fo large, at to bring a Door through a- 
gain, which Door, as I faid,came out beyond where 
my Fortification joyn'd to the Rock: upon mature- 
ly confidering this therefore, I refolv'd to draw me 
a fecond Fortification, in the fame Manner of a Se- 
micircle, at a Diftance from my Wall, juft where I 
had planted a double Row of Trees, about twelve 
Years before, of which I made mention: Thefe 
Trees having been planted fo thick before, they 
wanted but a few Piles to be driven between them > 
that they fhould be thicker, and ftronger, and my 
Wall would be foon finifh'd. 

So that I had now a double Wall, and my outer 
Wall was thickned with Pieces of Timber, old Ca- 
bles, and every Thing I could think of to make it 
ftrong} having in it feven little Holes, about as 
big as I might put my Arm out at: In the Infide 
of this, I thickned my Wall to above ten Foot 
thick, with continual bringing Earth out of my 
Cave, and laying it at the Foot of the Wall, and 
walking upon it * and through the feven Holes, I 
contriv'd to plant the Mufquets, of which I took 
Notice, that I got feven on Shore out of the Ship y 
thefe, I fay, I planted as Cannon, and fitted 
them into Frames that held them like a Carriage^ 
that fo I could fire all the feven Guns in two Mi- 
nutes time: This Wall I was many a weary Month 
a finifhing, and yet never thought myfelf fafe till it 
was done. 

When this was done, I ftuck all the Ground 
without my Wall, for a great way every way, as 
full with Stakes or Sticks of the Ojier Aike Wood> 
which I found fo apt to grow, as they could well 
fland 3 infomuch, that I believe I might fet in near 

twenty 



C 191 1 



twenty thoufand of them, leaving a pretty large 
Space between them and my Wall, that I might 
have room to fee- an Enemy, and they might have 
no ihelter from the young Trees, if they attempted 
to approach my outer Wall. 

Thus in « two Years time I had a thick Grove, 
and in five or -fix Years time I had a Wood before 
my Dwelling , growing fo monltrous thick and 
ftrong, that it was indeed perfeftly impaflable- 
and no Men of what kind foever, would ever ima- 
gine that there was any Thing beyond it, much le(s 
a Habitation. As for the Way which I propofed to 
myfelf to go in and out, for I left no Avenue, it 
was by fetting two Ladders 5 one to a Part of the 
Rock which was low, and then broke in, and left 
room to place another Ladder upon that 5 fo when 
the two Ladders were taken down, no Man living 
could come down to me without mifchiefing him- 
felf; and if they had come down, they were ftill 
on the Out-fide of my outer Wall. 

Thus I took all the Meafures human Prudence 
could fuggeft for my own Prefervation -, and it will 
be feen at length, that they were ;not altogether 
without juft Reafon j though I forefaw nothing at 
that Time, more than my mere Fear fuggefted to 
me. 
* ; While this was doing, I was not altogether care- 
Jefs of my other Affairs j for I had a great Concern 
upon me, for my little Herd of Goats j they were 
not only a prefent Supply to me upon every Occa- 
fion, and began to be fufficient to me, without the 
JExpenceof Powder and Shot* but alfo without the 
Patigue of Hunting after the wild Ones 3 and I was 
loth to lofe the Advantage of them, and to have 
*hem all to nurfe up over again. 

TTo this Purpofe, after long Confideration, I 
could think of but two Ways to preferve them* 

one 



[ I 9 2 ] 



one was to find another convenient Place to dig a 
Cave under Ground, and to drive them into it every 
Night 5 and the other was to enclofe two or three 
little Bits of Land, remote from one another, and as 
much concealed as I could,, where I might keep a- 
bout half a Dozen young Goats in each Place : So 
that if any Difafter happen'd to the Flock in gene- 
ral, I might be able to raife them again with little 
Trouble and Time: And this, tho' it would re- 
quire a great deal of Time and Labour, I thought 
was the moft rational Defign. 

Accordingly I fpent fome Time to find out the: 
moft retired Parts ot the Ifland* and I pitched up- 
on one which was as private indeed as my Heart 
could wifh for \ it was a little damp Piece of Ground 
in the middle of the Hollow and thick Woods* 
where, as is obferv'd, I almoft loft myfelf once be* 
fore, endeavouring to come back that Way from 
the Eaftern Part of the Ifland : Here I found a clear 
Piece of Land near three Acres, fo furrounded with 
Woods, that it was almoft an Enclofureby Nature, 
at leaft it did not want near fo much Labour to 
make it fo, as the other Pieces of Ground I had 
work'd fo hard at. 

I immediately went to work with this Piece of 
Ground, and in lefs than a Month's Time, I had 
fo fene'd it round, that my Flock or Herd, call it 
which you pleafe, who were not fo wild now as at 
fir ft they might be fuppofed to be, were well e- 
nough fecur'd in it. So without any farther De- 
lay, I removed ten young She- Goats and two He- 
Goats to this Piece ; and when they were there, I 
continued to perfe& the Fence till I had made it 
as fecure as the other, which, however, I did at 
more Leifure, and it took me up more Time by a 
great deal. 

All 



E m ] 

All this Labour I was at the Expence of, purely 
from my Apprehenfions on the Account of the Print 
of a Man's Foot which I had (cQa ; for as yet I 
never faw any humane Creature come near the 
lfland, and I had now liv'd two Years under thefe 
Uneafinefles, which indeed made my Life much lefs 
comfortable than it was before ; as may well be 
imagined by any who know what it is to live in 
the conftant Snare of the Fear of Man ; and this 1 
muft obferve with Grief too, that the Difcompo-* 
fure of my Mind had too great Impreflions alfo up- 
on the religious Part of my Thoughts, for the Dread 
and Terror of falling into the Hands of Savages; 
and Canibals lay fo upon my Spirits, that I feldom 
found my felf in a due Temper for Application ta 
my Maker, at leaft not with the fedate Calmnefs 
and Resignation of Soul which I was wont to do ,* 1 
rather prayed to God as under great Affliction and 
Prefiiire of Mind, furrounded with Danger, and in 
Expectation every Night of being murder'd and de- 
vour'd before Morning ; and I muft tefhfy from my 
Experience, that a Temper of Peace, Thankfulnefs, 
Love and Affection, is much the more proper Frame 
for Prayer than that of Terror and Difcompofure ; 
and that under the Dread of Mifchief impending, 
a Man is no more fit "for a comforting Performance 
of the Duty of praying to God, than he is for Re- 
pentance on a Sick-bed : For thefe Difcompofures 
affect the Mind as the others do the Body ; and the 
Difcompofure of the Mind muft neceflarily be as 
great a Difability as that of the Body, and much 
greater, praying to God being properly an Ad of 
the Mind, not of the Body. 

But to go on ,• After I had thus fecur'd one Part 
of my little living Stock, I went about the whole 
lfland, fearching for another private Place, to make 

O fuch 



[ '94] 

fuch ano her Depofit ; when wandring more to the 
Weft Poi.t of the Ifland than I had ever done yet, 
and lcokii g oat to Sea, I thought I faw a Boat up- 
on the Sea, at a great Diftance ; I had found a Pro- 
fpe&ive-Glafs, or two, in one of the Seamen's 
Chefts, which I fav'd out of our Ships ; but I had 
it not about me, and this was fo remote, that I could 
not tell what to make of it ; though I look'd at it 
till my Eyes were not able to hold to look any 
longer ; whether it was a Boat, or not, I do not 
know ; but as I defcended from the Hill, I could 
fee no more of it, lb I gave it over ; only I refolv'd 
to go no more out without a Profpe&ive-Glafs in 
my Pocket. 

When I was come down the Hill, to the End of 
the Ifland, where indeed I had never been before, 
I was presently convinced, that the feeing the Print 
of a Man's Foot, was not fuch a ftrange Thing in 
the Ifland as I imagined ; and but that it was a fpe- 
cial Providence that I was caft upon the Side of the 
Ifland, where the Savages never came , I fhould ea- 
fily have known, that nothing was more frequent 
than for the Canoes from the Main, when they hap- 
pened to be a little too far out at Sea, to fhoot over 
to that Side of the Ifland for Harbour ; likewife as 
they often met, and fought in their Canoes, the Vic- 
tors having taken any Prifoners, would bringthem 
over to this Shore, where, according to their dread- 
ful Cufloms, being all Cambah, they would kill and 
eat them ; of which hereafter. 

When I was come down the Hill to the Shore, 
as I faid above, being the S. IV. Point of the 
Ifland, I was perfeftly confounded and amaz'd ; nor 
is it poffible for me to exprefs the Horror of my 
Mind , at feeing the Shore fpread with Skulls, 
Hands, Feet, and other Bones of humane Bodies ; 
and particularly I obferv'd a Place where there had 

been 



[i9? ] 

been a Fire made, and a Circle dug itl the Earth, 
like a Cockpit, where it is fuppofed the Savage 
Wretches had fat down to their inhumane Feaftings 
upon the Bodies of their Fellow-Creatures. 

I was fo aftonifh'd with the Sight of thefe Things, 
that I entertained no Notions of any Danger to my, 
felf from it for a long while ; all my Apprehen- 
fions were buried in the Thoughts of fuch a Pitch 
of inhumane, helliih Brutality, and the Horror of 
the Degeneracy of humane Nature ; which tho* I 
had heard of often* yet I never had fo near a View 
of before ; in fhort* I turned avyay my Face from 
the horrid Speftacle ,• my Stomach grew fick, and 
I was juft at the Point of Fainting , when Nature 
difcharg'd the Diforder from my Stomach , and ha- 
ving vomited with an uncommon Violence, I was 
a little relieved ; but could not bear to ftay in the 
Place a Moment ; fo I gat me up the Hill again, 
with all the Speed I could, and walked on towards 
my own Habitation. 

When I came a little out of that Part of the 
Ifland, I ftood ftill a while as amaz'd j and then re- 
covering my felf, I look'd up with the utmoft Affec- 
tion of my Soul, and with a Flood of Tears in my 
Eyes, gave God Thanks that had caft my firft Lot 
in a Part of the World, where I Was diftinguifh'd 
from fuch dreadful Creatures as thefe ; and that 
tho' I had efteem'd my prefent Condition very mi- 
ferable, had yet given me fo many Comforts in it, 
that I had ftill more to give Thanks for than to 
complain of ; and this above all, that I had even in 
this miferable Condition been comforted with the 
Knowledge of himfelf, and the Hope of his Bkf- 
fing, which was a Felicity mote than fufficiently 
equivalent to all the Mifery which I had fufferci, QV 
could fuffer* 

O a la 



[It,*] 

In this Frame of Thankfulnefs, I went Home to 
my Caftle, and began to be much eafier now, as to 
the Safety of my Circumftances, than ever I was 
before ; for I obferv'd that thefe Wretches never 
came to this Ifland in fearch of what they could 
get ; perhaps not feeking, not wanting,' or not ex- 
pecting any Thing here ; and having often, no 
doubt, been up in the covered woody Part of it, 
without finding any Thing to their Purpofe. I knew 
I had been here now almoft eighteen Years, and ne- 
ver faw the leaft Foot-fleps of humane Creature 
there before ; and I might be here eighteen more 
as entirely conceal 5 d as I was now, if I did not dis- 
cover my felf to them, which I had no manner of 
Occafion to do, it being my only Bufinefs to keep 
my felf entirely concealed where I was, unlefs I 
found a better fort of Creatures than Canibah to 
make my felf known to. 

Yet I entertained fuch an Abhorrence of the Sa- 
vage Wretches, that I have been fpeaking of, and 
of the wretched inhumane Cuftom of their devour- 
ing and eating one another up, that I continu'd pen- 
five, and fad, and kept clofe within my own Circle 
for almoft two Years after this : When I fay my 
own Circle, I mean by it, my three Plantations, 
viz. my Caftle, my Country Seat, which I caH'cl 
my Bower, and my Enclofure in the Woods ; nor 
did I look after this for any other Ufe than as an 
Enclofure for my Goats ; for the Averfion which 
Nature gave me to thefe hellifh Wretches was 
fuch, that I was fearful of feeing them, as of feeing 
the Devil himfelf; nor did I fo much as go to look 
after my Boat in all this time ; but began rather 
to think of making me another ; for I could not 
think of ever making any more Attempts, to bring 
the other Boat round the Ifland to me , left I 
ihould meet with fome.of thefe Creatures at Sea, 

-I in 



C i?7 3 

in which, if I had happened to have fallen ^nto the/r 
Hands, I knew what would have been my Lot. 

Time however, and the Satisfa&ion I had, that 
I was in no Danger of being difcovered by thefe 
People, began to wear off my Uneafinefs about 
them; and I began to live juft in the fame composed 
Manner as before ; only with this Difference, that 
I ufed more Caution, and kept my Eyes more a- 
bout me than I did before, left I fhould happen to 
be (ccn by any. of them ; and particularly, I was 
more cautious of firing my Gun, left any of them 
being on the Ifland, fhould happen to hear of it ; 
and it was therefore a very good Providence to me, 
that I had furnifh'd my felf with a tame Breed of 
Goats, that I needed not hunt any more about the 
Woods, or ftioot at them ; and if I did catch any 
of them after this, it was by Traps, and Snares, 
as I had done before ; (o that for two Years after 
this, I believe I never fir'd my Gun once off, tho r I 
never went out without it ; and which was more, as 
I had fav'd three Piftols out of the Ship, I always 
carried them out with me, or at leaft two of them, 
flicking them in my Goat-Skin Belt ; alio I furbifh'd 
up one of the great Cutlaihes, that I had out of the 
SMp, and made me a Belt to put it on alfo ; fo that 
I was now a moft formidable Fellow to look at, 
when 1 went abroad, if you add to the former De- 
fcription of my felf, the Particular of two Piftols, 
and a great broad Sword hanging at my Side in a 
Belt, but without a Scabbard. 

Things going on thus, as I have faid, for feme 
Time ,• I feemcl, excepting thefe Cautions, to be 
redue'd to my former calm fedate way of Living y 
all thefe Things tended to {hewing me more and 
more how far my Condition was from being mife- 
rable, compared to fome others ; nay, to many o- 
ther Particulars of Life, which it might have plea- 

O 3 ~ fed 



[i 9 8] 

fed God to have made my Lot. It put me upon 
refle&ing, how little repining there would be 
among Mankind, at any Condition of Life, if Peo- 
ple would rather compare their Condition with 
thofe that are worfe, in order to be thankful, than 
be always comparing them with thofe which arc 
better, to affift their Murmurings and Complain- 
ings. 

As in my prefent Condition there were not really 
many Things which I wanted ; fo indeed I thought 
that the Frights I had been in about thefe favage 
Wretches, and the Concern I had been in for my 
own Prefervation, had taken off the Edge of my In- 
vention for my own Conveniences ,* and I had drop'd 
a good Defign, which I had once bent my Thoughts 
too much upon ; and that was, to try if I could not 
make fome of my Barley into Malt, and then try 
to brew my felf fome Beer : This was really a whim- 
fical Thought, and I reprov'd my felf often for the 
Simplicity of it ; for I prefently faw there would 
be the Want of feveral Things neceffary to the 
making my Beer, that it would be impoffible for 
me to fupply : As Firft, Casks to preferve it in, 
which was a Thing, that as I have obferv'd alrea- 
dy, I could never compafs; no, tho* I fpent not 
many Days, but Weeks, nay Months in attempt- 
ing it, but to no purpofe. In the next Place, I had 
no Hops to make it keep, no Yeaft to make it worki 
no Copper or Kettle to make it boil ; and yet all 
thefe Things, notwithflanding, I verily believe, had 
not thefe Things interven'd, I mean the Frights and 
Terrors I was in about the Savages, I had under- 
taken it, and perhaps brought it to pafs too ; for J 
feldom gave any Thing over without accomplifhing 
it, when I once had it in my Head enough to begin 
it. 

But 



[ 199 ] 

But my Invention now run quite another Way i 
for Night and Day I could think of nothing but 
how I might deflroy fome ofthefeMonftersin their 
cruel bloody Entertainment, and, if poffible, fave 
the Vi&itn they fliould bring hither to deftroy. It 
would take up a larger Volume than this whole 
Work is intended to be, to fet down all the Contri- 
vances I hatched, or rather brooded upon in my 
Thought, for the deftroying thefe Creatures, or at 
leaft frighting them, fo as to prevent their coming 
hither any more ; but all was abortive, nothing 
could be poffible to take Efted, unlefs I was to be 
there to do it my felf; and what could one Man 
do among them, when perhaps there might be 
twenty or ' thirty of them together , with their 
Darts, or their Bows and Arrows, with which they 
could flioot as true to a Mark, as I could with my 
-Gun ? 

Sometimes I contrived to dig a Hole under the 
Place where they made their Fire, and put in five 
or fix Pounds ot Gun-powder, which when they 
kindled their Fire, would confequently take Fire, 
and blow up all that was near it; but as in the firlt 
Place I fliould be very loth to wail fo much Powder 
upon them, my Store being now within the Quan- 
tity of one Barrel ; fo neither could I be fure of its 
agoing off, at any certain time, when it might fur- 
prize them, and at beft, that it would do little more 
than juft blow the Fire about their Ears and fright 
them, but not fufficient to make them forfake the 
Place ; fo I laid it afide, and then proposed, that 
I would place my felf in Ambufh, in fome con- 
venient Place, with my three Guns, all double 
loaded ; and in the middle of their bloody Cere- 
mony let fly at them , when I fliould be fure to kill 
or wound perhaps two or three at every fhoot ; and 
then falling in upon them with my three Piflols, 

O 4 and 



[ ^00 ] 

and my Sword, I made no doubt but that if there 
was twenty I fliould kill them all. This Fancy 
pleas'd my Thoughts for fome Weeks, and I was 
fo full of it, that I often drcanrd of it ; and fome- 
times, that I was juft going to let fly at them in my 
Sleep. 

I went fo far with it in my Imagination, that I 
employed my felf feveral Days to find out propet 
Places to 'put my feif in Ambufcade, as I faid, to 
watch for them ; and I went frequently to the Place 
it felf, which was now grown more familiar to me ; 
and efpeciaity while my Mind was thus fill'd with 
Thoughts of Revenge, and of a bloody putting 
twenty or thirty of them to the Sword, as I may 
call it ; the Horror I had at the Place, and at the 
Signals of the barbarous Wretches devouring one 
another, abated my Malice. 

Well, at length I found a Place in the Side of the 
Hill, where I was fatisfy'd I might fecurely wait, 
till I faw any of their Boats coming, and might 
then, even before they would be ready to come on 
Shore, convey my felf unfeen into Thickets of Trees, 
in one of which there was a Hollow large enough 
to conceal me entirely ,' and where I might lit, and 
obferve all their bloody Doings, and take my full 
aim at their Heads, when they were fo clofe toge- 
ther, as that it would be next to impoffible that 1 
fliould mifs my Shcot, or that I could fail wound- 
ing three or four of them at the firft Shoot. 

In this Piace then I refolved to fix my Defign, 
and accordingly I prepared two Muskets and my 
ordinary Fowling-piece. The two Muskets I 
loaded with a Brace of Slugs each, and four or five- 
fmaller Bullets, about the Size of Piftol Bullets; 
and the Fowling-piece I loaded with near a Hand- 
ful ot Swari-fhdt, of the largeft Size ,• I alfo loaded 
Bay Piftols with about four Bullets each, and in this 

Pofture, 



Pofture, well provided with Ammunition for a fe- 
cond and third Charge, I prepaid my felf for my 
Expedition. 

After I had thus laid the Scheme of my Defign, 
and in my Imagination put it in Pra&ice, I conti- 
nually made my Tour every Morning up to the 
,Top of the Hill, which was from my Caftle, as 1 
call'd it, about three Miles, or more, to fee if I 
could obferve any Boats upon the Sea, coming near 
the Illand, or ftanding over towards it ; but I ber 
gan to tire of this hard Duty, after I had for two 
or three Months conftantly .kept my Watch ; but 
came always back without any Difcovery, there 
having not in all that Time been the leaf t Appear- 
ance, not only on, or near the Shore ; but not on 
the wfciole Ocean, fo far as my Eyes or Giafles could 
reach every Way. 

As long as I kept up my daily Tour to the Hill 
to look out, fo long alfo. I kept up the Vigour of 
my Defign, and my Spirits feem'd to be all the 
while in a fuitable Form, for fo outragious an Exe- 
cution as the killing twenty or thirty naked Savages, 
for an Oftence which I had not at all entred into a 
Difcuffion of in my Thoughts, any further than my 
Patiions were at firft fir'd by the Horror I conceived 
at the unnatural Cuftom of that People of the Coun- 
try, who it feems had been fuffer'd by Providence, 
in his wife Difpofition of the World, to have no 
other Guide than that of their own abominable and 
vitiated Paffions ; and confequently were left, and 
perhaps had been fo for fome Ages, to aft fuch 
horrid Things , and receive fuch dreadful Cu- 
ftoms, as nothing but Nature entirely abandon'd 
of Heaven, and aded by fomc heliiih Degeneracy, 
could have run them into : Put now when, as I 
have faid, I began to bewerry of the fruitlefs Ex- 
curfion which I had nude fo long, audi fo far, eve- 
ry 



[ *ox 1 

ry Morning in vain, fo my Opinion cf the Adion 
itfelf began to alter, and I began with cooler and 
calmer Thoughts to confider what it was I was go- 
ing to engage in. What Authority or Call I had, 
to pretend to be Judge and Executioner upon thefe 
Men as Criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit 
for fo many Ages to fuffer, unpunifli'd, to go on, 
and to be, as it were, the Executioners of his Judg- 
ments one upon another. How far thefe People 
were Offenders againft me, and what Right I had 
to engage in the Quarrel of that Blood, which they 
flied promifcuoufly one upon another. I debated 
this Very often with my felf thus; How do I know 
what God himfelf judges in this particular Cafe ? it 
is certain thefe People do not commit this as a 
Crime ; it is not againft their own Confciences re- 
proving, or their Light reproaching them. They 
do not know it to be an Offence, and then commit 
it in Defiance of divine Juftice, as we do in almoft 
all the Sins we commit. They think it no more a 
Crime to kill a Captive taken in War, than we do 
to kill an Ox ; nor to eat humane Flefli, than we do 
to eat Mutton. 

When I had confider'd this a little, it folio w'd ne- 
ceffarily, that I was certainly in the Wrong in it ; 
that thefe People were not Murderers in the Senfe 
that I had before condemned them in my Thoughts ; 
any more than thofe Chriftians were Murderers, who 
often put to Death the Prifoners taken in Battle; 
or more frequently, upon many Occafions, put 
whole Troops of Men to the Sword, without gi- 
ving Quarter, tho' they threw down their Arms 
and fubmitted. 

In the next Place it occur'd me, that albeit the 
Ufage they thus gave one another was thus brutifh 
and inhumane ; yet it was really nothing to me : 
Thefe People had done me no Injury. That if they 

attempted 



[ wj ] 

attempted me, or I faw it neceffary for my imme- 
diate Prefervation to fall upon them, fomething 
might be faid for it ,• but that as I was yet out of 
their Power, and they had really no Knowledge of 
me, and consequently no Defign upon me ; and there- 
fore it could not be juft for me to fall upon them. 
That this would juftify the Conduft of the Spaniards 
'in all their Barbarities praftis'd in America, where 
they deftroyM Millions of thefe People, who, how- 
ever they were Idolaters and Barbarians, and had fe- 
veral bloody and barbarous Rites in their Cuftoms, 
fuch as facrificing humane Bodies to their Idols, 
were yet, as to the Spaniards, very innocent People ; 
and that the rooting them out of the Country, is 
fpoken of with the utmoft Abhorrence and Detefta- 
tion, by even the Spaniards themfelves, at this Time, 
and by all other Chriftian Nations of Europe, as z 
mere Butchery, a bloody and unnatural Piece of 
Cruelty, unjuftifiable either to God or Man ; and 
fuch, as for which the very Name of a Spaniard is 
reckon'd to be frightful and terrible to all People of 
Humanity, or of Chriftian Compaffion : As if the 
Kingdom of Spain were particularly Eminent for 
the Product -of a Race of Men, who were without 
Principles of Tendernefs, or the common Bowels of 
Pity to the Miferable, which is reckoned to be a 
Mark of generous Temper in the Mind. 

Thefe Confiderations really put me to a Paufe 
and to a kind of a full Stop ,• and I began by little 
and little to be offofmy Defign, and to conclude, I 
had taken wrong Meafures in my Refolutions to at- 
tack the Savages ; that it was not my Bufinefs to 
meddle with them, unlefs they firft attacked me, and 
this it was my Bufinefs if poflible to prevent ; but 
that if I were difcover'd, and attack'd, then I knew 
my Duty. 

On 



[ 104 ] 

On the other hand, I argu'd with my felf, That 
this really was the way not to deliver my felf, but 
entirely to ruin and deftroy my felf -, for unlefs I was 
fure to kill every one that not only fhould be on 
Shore at that Time, but that fhould ever come on 
Shore afterwards, if but one of them efcap'd, to tell 
their Country People what had happen'djthey would 
come over again by Thoufands to revenge the 
Death of their Fellows, and I fhould only bring up- 
on my felf a certain Deftru&ion, which at prefent 
I had no manner of Occafion for. 

Upon the whole I concluded, that neither in 
Principles nor in Policy, I ought one Way or other 
to concern my felf in this Affair. That my Bufmefs 
was by all poffible Means to conceal my felf from 
them, and not to leave the leaft Signal to them to 
guefs by, that there were any living Creatures upon 
the Ifland ; I mean of humane Shape. 

Religion join'd in with this Prudential, and I was 

convinced now many Ways, that I was perfectly out 

of my Duty, when I was laying all my bloody 

Schemes for the Deftruction oi innocent Creatures, 

I mean innocent as to me : As to the Crimes they 

.were guilty of towards one another, I had nothing 

•' to do with them ; they were national, and I ought 

to leave them to the Juftice of God, who is the Go- 

vernour of Nations, and knows how by national 

Punifhments to make a juft Retribution for national 

Offences ; and to bring publick Judgments upon 

thofe who offend in a publick Manner, by fuch 

'Ways as beft pleafes him. 

This appear'd fb clear to me now, that nothing 
was a greater Satisfadion to me, than that I had 
"not been fufferM to do a Thing which I now faw 
. fo much Reafon .to believe would have been no lefs 
a Sin, than that of wilful Murder^ if I had com- 
mitted 



C %6f ] 

mitted it ; and I gave moft humble Thanks on my 
Knees to God, that had thus delivered me from 
Blood-guiltinefs ; befeeching him to grant me the 
Prote&ion of his Providence, that I might not fall 
into the Hands of the Barbarians ; or that I might 
not lay my Hands upon them, unlefs I had a more 
clear Call from Heaven to do it, in Defence of my 
own Life. 

In this Difpofition I continued for near a Year 
after this ,• and fo far was I from defiring an Oc- 
casion for falling upon thefe Wretches, that in all 
that Time I never once went up the Hill to fee 
whether there were any of them in Sight, or to 
know whether any of them had been on Shore 
there, or not, that I might not be tempted to re- 
new any of my Contrivances againft them, or be 
provoked by any Advantage which might prefent it 
felf to fall upon them ; only this I did, I went and 
removed my Boat, which I had on the other Side 
the Ifland, and carried it down to the Eaft-End of 
the whole Ifland, where I ran it into a little Cove 
which I found under fome high Rocks, and where 
I knew, by reafon of the Currents, the Savages 
durft not, at leaft would not come with their Boats, 
upon any Account whatfoever. 

With my Boat I carried away every Thing that 
I had left there belonging to her, tho' not neceflary 
for the bare going thither, viz,. A Mall: and Sail 
which I had made for her, and a Thing like an An- 
chor, but indeed which could not be called either 
Anchor or Grapling ,• however, it was the beft I 
could make of its kind : All thefe I removed, that 
there might not be the leaft Shadow of any Difco- 
very, or any Appearance of any Boat, or of any 
humane Habitation upon the Ifland. 

Befides this, I kept my felf, as I faid, more re- 
tired than ever, and feldom went from my Cell, o- 

ther 



[ 20<$ J 

ther than upon my conftant Employment, vi£> Ttf 
milk my She-Goats, and manage my little Flock, in 
the Wood y which, as it was quite on the other Part 
of the Ifland, was quite out of Danger ,• far certain 
it is, that thefe favage People, who fometimes 
haunted this Ifland,never came with any Thoughts 
of finding any Thing here : and confequently never 
Wandred off from the Coaft,- and I doubt not, but 
they might have been feveral Times on Shore, after 
my Apprehenfions of them had made me cautious 
as well as before ; and indeed, I looked back with 
fome Horror upon the Thoughts of what my Con- 
dition would have been, if I had chop'd upon them* 
and been difcovered before that, when naked and 
unarmed, except with one Gun, and that loaden of- 
ten only with fmall Shot, I walk'd every where 
peeping, and peeping about the Ifland, to fee what 
I could get ; what a Surprize fhould I have been in, 
if when I difcover'd the Print cf a Man's Foot, I 
had inftead of that feen fifteen or twenty Savages, 
and found them purfuing me, and by the Swiftnefs 
of their Running, no Poffibility of my efcaping 
them. 

The Thoughts of this fometimes funk my very 
Soul within me, and diftrefs'd my Mind fo much, 
that I could not foon recover it, to think what I 
fhould have done, and how I not only fhould not 
have been able to refill them, but even fhould not 
have had Prefence of Mind enough to do what I 
might have done; much lefs, what now after fo 
much Confideration and Preparation I might be 
able to do : Indeed, after ferious thinking of thefe 
Things, I fhould be very Melancholy, and fome- 
times it would lafl a great while,- but I refolv'd it 
at laft all into Thankfulnefs to that Providence, 
which had delivered me from fo many unfeen Dan- 
gers, and had kept me from thofe Mifchiefs which 
4 I could 



[ ^07 ] 

I could no way have been the Agent in delivering' 
my felf from ; becaufe I had not the leaft Notion 
of any fuch Thing depending, or the leaft Suppo- 
sition of it being poffible. 

This renewed a Contemplation, which often had 
come to my Thoughts in former Time, when firft 
I began to fee the merciful Difpofitions of Heaven, 
in the Dangers we run through in this Life. How 
wonderfully we are delivered, when we know no- 
thing of it. How when we are in (a Quandary, as 
we call it) a Doubt or Hefitation, whether to go 
this Way, or that Way, a fecret Hint fliall dire<a 
us this Way, when we intended to go that Way ; 
nay, when Senfe, our own Inclination, and perhaps 
Bufinefs has cali'd to go the other Way, yet a ftrange 
Impreffion upon the Mind, from we know not what 
Springs, and by we know not what Power, fliall 
over-rule us to go this Way ; and it fliall afterwards 
appear, that had we gone that Way which we Ihould 
have gone, and even to our Imagination ought to 
have gone, we fhould have been ruin'd and loft : 
Upon thefe, and many like Reflections , I after- 
wards made it a certain Rule with me, That when- 
ever I found thofe fecret Hints, or Preffings of my 
Mind, to doing, or not doing any Thing that pre- 
fented ; or to going this'Way, or that Way, I never 
failed to obey the fecret Diftate ; though I knew no 
other Reafon for it, than that fuch a Preffure, or 
fuch a Hint hung upon my Mind : I could give ma- 
ny Examples of the Succefs of this Condud in the 
Courfe of my Life ; but more efpecially in the lat- 
ter Part of my inhabiting this unhappy Ifland ,• be- 
sides many Occafions which it is very likely I might 
have taken Notice of, if I had ken with the fame 
Eyes then, that I faw with now : But 'tis never too 
late to be wife ; and I cannot but advife all confi- 
dering Men, whofe Lives are attended with fuch ex- 
traordinary 



1 108 ] 

traordinary Incidents as mine, or even though not 
fo extraordinary, not to flight fuch fecret Intima- 
tions of Providence, let them come from what invisi- 
ble Intelligence they will, that I fliall not difcufs, 
and perhaps cannot account for ; but certainly they 
are a Proof of the Converfe of Spirits, and the fe- 
cret Communication between thofe embody'd, and 
thofe unembody'd ; and fuch a Proof as can never 
be withftood : Of which I fliall have occafion to 
give fome very remarkable Inflances, in the Re- 
mainder of my folitary Refidence in this difmal 
Place. 

I believe the Reader of this will not think 
ftrange, if I confefs that thefe Anxieties, thefe con- 
ilant Dangers I liv'd in, and the Concern that was 
now upon me, put an End to all Invention, and to 
all the Contrivances that I had laid for my future 
Accommodations and Conveniencies. I had the , 
Care of my Safety more now upon my Hands, than 
that of my Food. I car'd not to drive a Nail, or 
chop a Stick of Wood now, for fear the Noife I 
fliould make fliould be heard ; much lefs would I 
fire a Gun, for the fame Reafon ; and above all, I 
was intolerably uneafy at making any Fire , left the 
Smoak, which is vifible at a great Diftance in the 
Day, fliould betray me ; and for this Reafon I re- 
moved that Part of my Bufinefs which required Fire , 
fuch as burning of Pots and Pipes, &c. into my 
new Apartment in the Woods, where after I had 
been fome Time, I found, to my unfpeakable Confo- 
lation, a mere natural Cave in the Earth, which 
went in a vafi way, and where, I dare fay, no Sa- 
vage had been at the Mouth of it, would be fo har- 
dy as to venture in, nor indeed would any Man 
eife ; but one who, like me, wanted nothing fo much 
as a fafe Retreat, 

The 



[ 109] 

The Mouth of this Hollow was at the Bottom 
of a great Rock, where, by mere Accident ( I 
\frould fay, if I did not fee abundant Reafon to a- 
fcribe all fuch Things now to Providence) I was 
cutting down fome thick Branches of Trees, to 
make Charcoal ,• and before I go on, I muft obferve 
the Reafon of my making this Charcoal ; which 
was thus : 

I was afraid of making a Smoak about my Ha- 
bitation, as I faid before ; and yet I could not live ' 
there without baking my Bread, cooking my Meat* 
&c. fo I contrived to burn fome Wood here, as I 
had feen done in England under Turf, till it became 
Chark, or dry Coal ; and then putting the Fire out* 
I preferv'd the Coal to carry Home, and perform 
the other Services which Fire was wanting for at 
Home, without Danger of Smoak* 

But this by the by. While I was cutting down 
fome Wood here, I perceived that behind a very 
thick Branch of low Brufii-wood, or Under- wood, 
there was a kind of hollow Place ; I was curious to 
look into it, and getting with Difficulty into the 
Mouth of it, I found it was pretty large, that is to 
fay, fufficient for me to ftand upright in it, and per- 
haps another with me ; but I muft confefs to you, I 
made more Hafte out than I did in, when looking 
further into the Place, and which was perfe&ly 
dark, I faw two broad fliining Eyes of fome Crea- 
ture, whether Devil or Man, I knew not> which 
twinkled like two Stars, the. dim Light from the 
Cave's Mouth Aiming direftly in , and making the 
Refleftion. 

However, after fome Paufe, I recover'd my felf, 
and began to call my felf a thoufand Fools, and 
tell my felf, that he that was afraid to fee the De- 
vil, was not fit to live twenty Years in an Ifland all 
alone; and that I durft to believe there was no- 

P thing 



[ ZIO ] 

thing in this Cave that was more frightful than my 
felf ; upon this, plucking up my Courage, I took up 
a great Firebrand, and in I rufli'd again, with the 
Stick flaming in my Hand ; I had not gone three 
Steps in, but I was almoft as much frighted as I was 
before ; for I heard a very loud Sigh, like that of a 
Man in fome Pain, and it was followed by a broken 
Noife, as i( of Words half exprefs'd, and then a 
deep Sigh again : I flep'd back, and was, indeed, 
flruck with fuch a Surprize, that it put me into a 
cold Sweat ,• and if I had had a Hat on my Head, 
I will not anfwer for it, that my Hair might not 
have lifted it off. But ftili plucking up my Spirits 
as well as I could, and encouraging my felf a little, 
with confidering that the Power and Prefence of 
God was every where, and was able to proted me ; 
upon this I ftep'd forward again, and by the Light 
of the Firebrand, holding it up a little over my 
Head, I faw lying on the Ground a moft monflrous 
frightful old He-goat, juft making his Will, as we 
fay, and gafping for Life, and dying indeed of mere 
old Age. 

Iftir'd him a little, to fee if I could get him out, 
and he eflfay'd to get up, but was not able to raife 
himfelf ; and I thought with my felf, he might even 
lie there ; for if he had frighted me fo, he would 
certainly fright any of .the Savages, if any of them 
fliould be fo hardy as to come in there, while he 
had any Life in him. 

I was now recovered from my Surprize, and be- 
gan to look round me, when I found the Cave was 
but very fmall, that is to fay, it might be about 
twelve Foot over, but in no manner of Shape, ei- 
ther round or iquare, no Hands having ever been 
employ *d in making it, but thofe of mere Nature i 
I obferv'd alfo, that there was a Place at the fur- 
ther Side of it, that went in further, but was To 



t "I ] 

. low, that it required me to creep upon my tfaftds 
and Knees to go into it^ and whither I went I knew 1 
not ; fo having no Candle, I gave it over for fome 
Time ; but refolv'd to come again the next Day 
provided with Candles, and a Tinder-box, which 
I had made of the Lock of one of the Muskets, 
with fome Wild-fire in the Pan. 

Accordingly j the next Day I came provided with 

; fix large Candles of my own making ; for I made 
very good Candles now of Goats Tallow ; and go-* 
ing into this low Place, I was obliged to creep upon 
all Fours, as I have faid, almoft ten Yards ; which* 
by the way, I thought was a Venture bold enough, 
confidering that I knew not how far it might go* 
nor what was beyond it. When I was got through 
the Strait, I found the Roof rofe higher up, I be- 
lieve near twenty Foot ; but never was fuch a glo-- 
rious Sight, feen in the Ifland, I dare fay, as it was, 
to look round the Sides and Roof of this Vault or 
Cave ; the Walls reflefted a hundred thoufand 
Lights to me from my two Candles ; what it was in 
the Rock, whether Diamonds, or any other preci- 
ous Stones, or Gold, which I rather fuppos'ci it to 
be, I knew not. 

The Place I was in, was a mod delightful Ca- 
vity, or Grotto, of its kind, as could be expected, 
though perfe&Iy dark ; the Floor was dry and 
.level, and had a fort of fmall loofe Gravel upon 
it, fo that there was no naufeous or venomous 
C^ature to be feen, neither was there any Damp 
or Wet on the Sides or Roof : The only Difficul- 
ty in it was the Entrance, which, however, as it 
was a Place of Security, and fuch a Retreat as I 
wanted, I thought that was a Convenience ; fo 
that I was really rejoiced at the Difcovery, and re- 
folv'd, without any Delay, to bring fome of thofe 
Things which I was moft anxious about to this 

P 2 Place ; 



[ZI1] 

place ; particularly, I refolv'd to bring hither my 
Magazine of Powder, and all my fpare Arms, tite* 
Two Fowling-Pieces, (for I had three in all) and 
three Muskets, (for of them I had eight in all ; fo 
I kept at my Caftle only five, which flood ready 
mounted, like Pieces of Cannon* on my outmoft 
Fence ; and were ready alfo to take out upon any 
Expedition. 

Upon this Occafion of removing my Ammuni- 
tion, I took Occafion to open the Barrel of Pow- 
der which I took up out of the Sea, and which had 
been wet ,• and I found that the Water had pene- 
trated about three or four Inches into the Powder 
on every Side, which caking and growing hard, had 
preferv'd the infide like a Kernel in a Shell ,• fo that 
I had near fixty Pounds of very good Powder in the 
Centre of the Cask, and this was an agreeable Dip 
covery to me at that Time,- fo I'carry'd all &way 
thither, never keeping above two or three Pounds 
of Powder with me in my Caftle, for fear of a Sur- 
prize of any Kind : I alfo carry 'd thither all the 
Lead I had left for Bullets. 

I fancy '& my felf now like one of the ancient Gi- 
ants, which were faid to live in Caves and Holes 
in the Rocks, where none could come at them ; for 
I perfuaded my felf, while I was here, if five hurr- 
dred Savages were to hunt me, they could never 
find me out ; or if they did, they would not ven- 
ture to attack me here. 

The old Goat, who I found expiring, dy'd in 
the Mouth of the Cave, the next Day after I made 
this Difcovery ; and I found it much eafier to dig 
a great Hole there, and throw him in, and cover 
him with Earth, than to drag him out : So I 
interr'd him there, to prevent Oftence to my Nofe. 

I was 



I I was now in my twenty-third Year of Refi- 
<dence in this Ifiand, and was fo naturalized to the 
Place, and to the Manner of Living, that could 
I have but enjoyed the Certainty, that no Savages 
would come to the Place to difturb me, I could 
have been content to have capitulated for fpending 
the reft of my Time there, even to the laft Mo- 
ment, till I had laid me down and dy'd, like the old 
Goat in the Cave. I had alfo arriv'd to fome little 
Diverfions and Amufements, which made the Time 
pafs more pteafantly with me a great deal, than 
it did before ; as firft, I had taught my Poll^ as I 
floted before, to fpeak ; and he did it ib familiarly, 
and talk'd fo articulately and plain, that it was 
very pleafant to me : and he liVd with me no lefs 
than fix and twenty Years. How long he might 
live afterwards, I know not ; tho* I know they 
have a Notion in the Brajtls, that they live a hun- 
dred Years ; perhaps poor Poll may be alive there 
ftill, calling after Poor Robin Crufoe to this Day. I 
wifh no EngUJhman the ill Luck to come there and 
hear him ,• but if he did, he would certainly believe 
it was the Devil. My Dog was a very pleafant 
and loving Companion to me for no lefs than fix- 
teen Years of my Time, and then dy'd of mere 
old Age ; as for my Cats, they multiply 'd, as I have 
obferv'd, to that Degree, that I was obliged to fhoot 
feveral of them at firft, to keep them from devour- 
ing me and all I had ; but at length, when the 
two old ones, I brought with me, were gone, and 
after fome Time continually driving them from me, 
and letting them have no Provifion with me, they 
all ran wild into the Woods, except two or three 
Favourites, which I kept tame ; and whofe Young, 
when they had any, I always drownM ; and thefe 
were Part of my Family. Befides thefe, I always 
kept two or three houfhold Kids about me, which I 

P 3 taught 



[ 2.1+] 

taught to feed out of my Hand ; and I had two 
more Parrots which talked pretty well, and would ail 
cail Robin Crufoe, but none like my firft ; nor, indeed, 
did I take the Pains with any of them that I had 
done with him. I had alfo feveral tame Sea-Fowl?, 
whofe Names I know not, who I caught upon the 
Shore, and cut their Wings ; and the little Stakes 
which I had planted before my Caftle-Wall being 
now grown up to a good thick Grove, thefe Fowls all 
liv'd among thefe low Trees, and bred there, which 
was very agreeable to me ; (o that, as I faid above, 
I began to be very well contented with the Life I 
led, if it might but have been fecund from the 
Pread of the Savages. 

But it was otherwife directed ; and it may not be 
amifs for all People who fhall meet with my Story, 
to make this juft Obfervation from it, viz.. How 
frequently, in the Courfe of our Lives, the Evil 
which in itfelf we feek moft to fliun, and which, 
when we are fallen into, is the moft dreadful to us, 
is oftentimes the very Means or Door of our Deli-? 
verance, by which alone we can be rais'd again from 
the Affliction we are fallen into. , I could give many 
Examples of this in the Courfe of my unaccountable 
Life ; but in nothing was it more particularly re-* 
parkable than in the Circumftancesof my laft Yearns 
folitary Residence in this Wand. 

It was now the Month of December, as I faid a- 
jbove, in my twenty-third Year ,* and this being the 
fouthern Solftice, for Winter I cannot call it, was 
the particular Time of my Harveft, and required 
piy being pretty much abroad in the Fields ,• when 
going out pretty early in the Morning, even before 
it was thorpw Pay-light, Jwas furpriz'd with fee- 
ing a Light of fome Fire upon the Shore, at a Di- 
stance from me, of about two Miles, towards the 
]End pf the lil^nd, where I had obferv'd fome Sa- 

ya§?$ 



[115] 

vages had been, as before, but not on the other 
Side ; but, to my great Affliction, it was on my 
Side of the Ifland. 

I was, indeed, terribly furpriz'd at the Sight, and 
ftep'd fhort within my Grove, not daring to go 
out, left I might be furpriz'd ; and yet I had no 
more Peace within, from the Apprehenfions I had, 
that if thefe Savages, in rambling over the Ifland, 
fhould find my Corn (landing, or cut, or any of my 
Works and Improvements, they would immediate- 
ly conclude, that there were People in the Place, 
and would then never give over till they had found 
me out : In this Extremity I went back direftly to 
my Caftle, pulf d up the Ladder after me, and made 
all Things without look as wild and natural as I 
could. 

Then I prepared my felf within, putting my felf 
in a Pofture of Defence ; I loaded all my Cannon, 
as I call'd them j- that is to fay, my Muskets, which 
were mounted upon my new Fortification, and all 
my Piftols, and refolv'd to defend my felf to the 
laft Gafp, not forgetting ferioufly to commend my 
felf to the divine Prote&ion, and earneftly to pray 
to God to deliver me out of the Hands of the Bar' 
barians ; and in this Pofture I continued about two 
Hours, but began to be mighty impatient for In- 
telligence abroad, for I had no Spies to fend out. 

After fitting a while longer, and mufing what I 
fhould do in this Cafe, I was not able to bear fit- 
ting in Ignorance any longer ,• fo fecting up my 
Ladder to the Side of the Hill, where there was a 
flat Place, as I obferv'd before, and then pulling 
the Ladder up after me, I fet it up again, and 
mounted to the Top of the Hill ; and pulling out 
my Profpe&ive-GIafs, which I had taken on Pur- 
pofe, I laid me down flat on my Belly on the 
Ground, and began to look for the Place. I pre- 

P 4 fently 



[11(5] 

fently found there was no lefs than nine naked Sa- 
vages fitting round a fmall Fire, they had made, not 
tp warm them, for they had no need of that, the 
Weather being extream hot ; but, as I fuppos'd, to 
drefs fome of their barbarous Diet of humane Flelh, 
which they had brought with them, whether alive 
or dead, I could not know. 

They had two Canoes with them, which they had 
haled up upon the Shore ; and as it was then Tide 
of Ebb, they feem'd to me to wait for the Return 
of the Flood, to go away again ,• it is not eafy to 
imagine what Confufion this Sight put me into, 
efpecially feeing them come on my Side the Ifland, 
and fo near me too $ but when I obfervM their 
coming muft be always with the Current of the Ebb, 
I began afterwards to be more fedate in my Mind, 
being fatisfy'd that I might go abroad with Safety 
all the Time of the Tide of Flood , if they were 
not on Shore before : And having made this Ob- 
fervation, I went abroad about my Harveft Work 
with the more Compofure. 

As I expefted, fo it prov'd ; for as foon as the 
Tide made to the Weftward, I faw them all take 
Boat, and row (or paddle, as we call it) all away : 
I fhould have obferv'd, that for an Hour and more 
before they went off, they went to dancing, and I 
could eafily difcern their Poftures and Geftures by 
my Glaffes : I could not perceive, by my niceft Ob- 
fervation, but that they were ftark naked, and had 
not the leaft Covering upon them ; but whether they 
yvere Men or Women, that I could not diftinguifh. 

As foon as I faw them fhip'd and gone, I took 
two Guns upon my Shoulders, and two Piftols at 
my Girdle, and my great Sword by my Side, with- 
out a Scabbard, and with all the Speed I was able 
jp make, I went away to the Hill, where I had dif- 

cover'd 



[ »7 1 

cover'd the firft Appearance of all ; and as foon as 
I gat thither, which was not lefs than two Hours, 
(for I could not go apace, being fo loaden with Arms 
as I was) I perceiv'd there had been three Canoes 
more of Savages on that Place ; and looking out 
further, I faw they were all at Sea together, making 
over for the Main. 

This was a dreadful Sight to me, efpecially when 
going down to the Shore, I could fee the Marks of 
Horror which the difmal Work they had been about 
had left behind it, viz*. The Blood, the Bones, and 
Part of the Flefh of humane Bodies, eaten and de- 
voured by thofe Wretches, with Merriment and 
Sport : I was fo filf d with Indignation at the Sight, 
that I began now to premeditate the Deflruftion of 
the next that I faw there, let them be who or how 
many foever. 

It feem'd evident to me, that the ViCits which 
they thus make to this Ifland, are not very frequent ; 
for it was above fifteen Months before any more of 
them came on Shore there again ; that is to fay, I 
neither faw them, or any Footfteps, or Signals of 
them, in all that Time ; for as to the rainy Sea- 
fons, then they are fure not to come abroad, at 
lealt not fo far ,* yet all this while I liv'd uncomfort- 
ably, by reafon of the conftant Apprehenfions I was 
in of their coming upon me by Surprize ; from 
whence I obferve, that the Expe&ation of Evil is 
more bitter than the Suffering, efpecially ii there is 
no Room to fhake off that Expectation, or thofe 
Apprehenfions. 

During all this Time, I was in the murdering 
Humour ; and took op moil of my Hours, which 
fliould have been better employ 'd in contriving 
how to circumvent and fall upon them the very 
next Time I fhould fee them ; efpecially, if they 
{hould be divided, as they were the laft Time, in- 
to 



C *i8 1 

to two Parties ; nor did I confider 'at all, that if I 
kill'd one Party, fuppofe Ten or a Dozen, I was ilill 
the next Day, or Week, or Month, to kill another, 
and fo another, even ad infinitum, till I fhould be at 
length no lefs a Murderer than they were in being 
Man-eaters, and perhaps much more fo. 

I fpent my Days now in„ great Perplexity and 
Anxiety of Mind, expe&ing that I fhould one Day 
or other fall into the Hands of thefe mercilefs Crea- 
tures ; and if I did at any Time venture abroad, it 
was not without looking round me with the great- 
eft Care and Caution imaginable; and now I found 
to my great Comfort, how happy it was that T 
provided for a tame Flock or Herd of Goats ,* for 
I durft not, upon any Account, fire my Gun, efpe- 
cially near that Side of the Ifland where they ufu- 
ally came, left I fhould alarm the Savages; and 
if they had fled from me now, I was fure to have 
them come back again, with perhaps two or three - 
hundred Canoes with them in a few Days, and then 
I knew what to expeft. 

However, I wore out a Year and three Months 
more, before I ever faw any more of the Savages, 
and then I found them again, as I fhall foon obferve. 
It is true, they might have been there once or twice ; 
but either they made no Stay, or at leaft, I did not 
hear them ; but in the Month of May, as near as I 
could calculate, and in my four and twentieth Year, 
I had a very ftrange Encounter with them, of which 
in its Place. 

The Perturbation of my Mind, during this fif- 
teen or fixteen Months Interval, was very great ; 
I flept unquiet, dreamt always frightful Dreams, 
and often flarted out of my^ Sleep in the Night: In 
the Day great Troubles overwhelmed my Mind, 
and in the Night I dreamt often of killing the 

Savages, 



[ MS 3 

Savages, and of the Reafons why I might juftify 
the doing of it : But to wave all this for a while, 
it was on the Middle of May> on the fixteenth Day 
I think, as well as my poor wooden Calendar would 
reckon ; for I mark'd all upon the Poft flill ,• I fay, 
it was on the fixteenth of May, that it blew a very 
great Storm of Wind, all Day, with a great deal of 
Lightning and Thunder, and a very foul Night it 
was after it : I know not what was the particular 
Occafion of it ,• but as I was reading in the Bible, 
and taken up with very ferious Thoughts about my 
prefent Condition, I was furptiz'd with a Noife of 
# Gun, as I thought, fir'd at Sea. 

This was to be fure a Surprize of a quite diffe- 
rent Nature from any I had met with before ; for 
the Notions this put into my Thoughts were quite 
of another kind. I ftarted up in the greateft Hafte 
imaginable, and in a trice clapt my Ladder to the 
middle Place of the Rock, and puli'd it after me, 
and mounting it the fecond Time, got to the Top 
of the Hill, the very Moment that a Flafli of Fire 
bid me liften for a fecond Gun, which accordingly, 
in about half a Minute, I heard, and by the Sound 
knew that it was from that Part of the Sea where I 
was driven down the Current in my Boat. 

I immediately confider'd that this muft be fome 
Ship in Diftrefs, and that they had fome Comrade, 
or fome other Ship in Company, and find thefe Guns 
for Signals of Diftrefs, and to obtain Help : I had 
this Prefence of Mind at that Minute, as to think 
that though I could not help them, it may be they 
might help me ,* fo I brought together all the 
dry Wood I could get at hand, and making a good 
handfome Pile, I fet it on Fire upon the Hill ,• the 
Wood was dry, and blaz'd freely ; and though the 
Wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out ; that 
I was certain, i[ there was any fuf h Thing as a 

Ship, 



[ «o ] 

Ship, they muft needs fee it, and no doubt they did ; 
for as foon as ever my Fire blaz'd up, I heard ano- 
ther Gun, and after that feveral others, all from the 
fame Quarter. I ply'd my Fire all Night long, till 
Day broke ; and when it was broad Day, and the 
Air cleared up, I faw fomething at a great Diftance 
at Sea, full Eaft of the Ifland, whether a Sail, or a 
Hull, I could not diftinguifh, no not with my Glaf- 
fes, the Diftance was fo great, and the Weather 
ftill fomething hazy alfo ; at leaft it was fo out 
at Sea. 

I look'd frequently at it all that Day, and foon 
perceiv'd that it did not move ; fo I prefently con- 
cluded that it was a Ship at an Anchor ; and being 
eager, you may be fure, to be fatisfy'd, I took my 
Gun in my Hand, and run toward the South-Eafl 
Side of the Ifland, to the Rocks where I had 
formerly been carry'd away with the Current, and 
getting up there, the Weather by this Time being 
perfeftly clear, I could plainly fee, to my great Sor- 
row, the Wreck of a Ship caft away in the Night, 
upon thofe concealed Rocks which I found when I 
was out in my Boat ; and which Rocks, as they 
checked the Violence of the Stream, and made a 
kind of Counter-Stream or Eddy, were the Occa- 
iion of my recovering from the rnoft defperate hope- 
lefs Condition that ever I had been in in all my Life. 

Thus, what is one Man's Safety, is another Man's 
Deftru&ion ; for it feems thefe Men, whoever they 
were , being out of their Knowledge , and the 
Rocks being wholly under Water, had been driven 
upon them in the Night, the Wind blowing hard at 
£. and E.N,E. Had they feen the Ifland, as I muft 
neceffarily fuppofe they did not, they muft, as I 
thought, have endeavour'd to have fav'd themfelves 
on Shore by the Help of their Boat ; but their firing 
of Guns for Help, efpecially when they faw, as I 

imagin'd, 



[ill ] 

Imagine!, my Fire, fill'd me with many Thoughts : 
Firft I imaging, that upon feeing my Light, they 
might have put themfelves into their Boat, and 
have endeavoured to make the Shore ; but that the 
Sea going very high, they might have been caft 
away ; other times I imagined, that they might 
have loft their Boat before, as might be the Cafe 
many ways ; as particularly, by the Breaking of 
the Sea upon their Ship, which many times obli- 
ges Men to flave , or take in Pieces their Boat,- and 
fometimes to throw it over Board with their own 
Hands : Other times I imagined, they had fome 
other Ship or Ships in Company, who, upon the 
Signals of Diftrefs they had made, had taken them 
up, and carry 'd them off: Other whiles I fancy'd, 
they were all gone off to Sea in their Boat, and 
being hurry *d away by the Current that I had been 
formerly in, were carry \i out into the great Ocean, 
where there was nothing but Mifery and Perifhing ; 
and that perhaps they might by this Time think of 
Starving, and of being in a Condition to eat one 
another. 

As all thefe were but Conjectures at beft, fo in the 
Condition I was in, I could do no more than look 
on upon the Mifery of the poor Men, and pity 
them, which had flill this good Effeft on my Side, 
that it gave n\e more and more Caufe to give 
Thanks to God, who had fo happily and comfort- 
ably provided for me in my defolate Condition ,• and 
that of two Ships Companies who were now caft 
away upon this Part of the World, not one Life 
fliould be fpar'd but mine : I leaned here again to 
obferve, that it is very rare that the Providence of 
God cafts us into any Condition of Life fo low, or 
any Mifery fo great, but we may fee fomething or 
other to be thankful for ; and may fee others in 
worfe Circumftances than our own. 

Such 



[ 11X ] 

Such certainly was the Cafe of thefe Men, of 
whom I could not fo much as fee Room to fup-* 
pofe any of them were fav'd ; nothing could make 
it rational, fo much as to wiih or expert that they 
did not all perifh there, except the Poffibility only 
of their being taken up by another Ship in Com- 
pany ; and this was but mere Poffibility indeed ; for 
I faw not the leaft Signal or Appearance of any 
fuch Thing. 

I cannot explain, by any poffible Energy of Words, 
what a ilrange Longing or Hankering of Defires I 
felt in my Soul upon this Sight ; breaking out fome- 
times thus ; O that there had been but one or two; 
nay, or but one Soul fav'd out of this Ship, to have 
efcap'd to me, that I might but have had one Com- 
panion, one Fellow-Creature to have fpoken to me, 
and to have conversed with ! In all the Time of my 
folitary Life, I never felt fo earneft, fo ftrong a De- 
fire after the Society of my Fellow-Creatures, or fo 
deep a Regret ait the Want of it. 

There are fome fecret moving Springs in the Af- 
feftions, which when they are fet a going by fome 
Objed in View, or be it fome Objed, though not 
in View, yet render'd prefent to the Mind by the 
Power of Imagination, that Motion carries out the 
Soul by its Impetuofity to fuch violent eager Em- 
bracings of the Objeft, that the Abfence of it is 
infupportable. 

Such were thefe earneft Wifliings, That but one 
Man had been favM 1 that it had been but One ! I 
believe I repeated the Words , that it had been but 
One ! a thoufaild Times ; and the Defires were fo 
mov'd by it, that when I fpoke the Words, my 
Hands would clinch together, and my Fingers prefs 
the Palms of my Hands, that if I had had any foft 
Thing in my Hand, it would have crulVd it invo- 
luntarily ^ and my Teeth in my Head would ftrike 

together, 



together, and fet againft one another fo flrong, 
that for fome Time I could not part them again. 

Let the Naturalifts explain thefe Things, and 
the Reafon and Manner of them ; all I can fay to 
them is, to defcribe the Fad, which was even fur- 
priiing to me when I found it ; tho' I knew not from 
what it fhould proceed, it was doubtlefs the Effe& 
of ardent Wiflies, and of flrong Ideas form'd in my 
Mind, realizing the Comfort which the Converfa- 
tion of one of my Fellow-Chriftians would have 
been to me. 

But it was not to be ; either their Fate, or mine, 
or both, forbid it ; for till the laft Year of my be- 
ing on this Ifland, I never knew whether any were 
fav'd out of that Ship or no ,• and had only the Af- 
fliction fome Days after, to fee the Corps of a 
drown'd Boy come on Shore, at the End of the 
Ifland, which was next the Shipwreck : He had on 
no Cioaths, but a Seaman's Waftcoat, a Pair of open- 
knee'd Linnen Drawers, and a blew Linnen Shir£ ; 
but nothing to dired me fo much as to guefs what 
Nation he was of : He had nothing in his Pocket 
but two Pieces of Eight and a Tobacco-Pipe ; the 
laft was to me of ten times more Value than the 
firft. 

It was now calm, and I had a great Mind to 
venture out in my Boat to this Wreck ; not doubt- 
ing but I might find fomething on Board, that 
might be ufeful to me ; but that did not altogether 
prefs me fo much, as the Poffibility that there 
might be yet fome living Creature on board, whofe 
Lite I might not only fave, but might, by faving 
that Life, comfort my own to the laft Degree ; 
and this Thought clung fo to my Heart, that I 
could not be quiet, Night nor Day, but I mult 
venture out in my Boat on board this Wreck ,• and 
committing the reft to God's Providence, I thought 

the 



C "4 ] 

the Impreffion was fo ftrong upon my Mind, that 
it could not be refitted, that it muft come from 
fome invifible Direction, and that I fhould be wan- 
ting to myfelf, if I did not go. 

Under the Power of this Impreffion, I haften'd 
back to my Caftle, prepaid every Thing for my 
Voyage, took a Quantity of Bread, a great Pot 
for frefli Water, a Compafs to iteer by, a Bottle of 
Rum ; for I had ftill a great deal of that left ,• a 
Basket full of Raifins: And thus loading myfelf 
with every Thing neceflary, I went down to my 
Boat, got the Water out of her, and got her afloat, 
loaded all my Cargo in her, and then went Home 
again for more ; my fecond Cargo was a great Bag 
full of Rice, the Umbrella to fet up over my Head 
for Shade, another large Pot full of frefh Water, 
and about two Dozen of my ftnall Loaves, or 
Barley Cakes, more than before, with a Bottle of 
Goat's Milk, and a Cheefe ,• all which, with great 
Labour and Sweat, I brought to my Boat; and 
praying to God to dired my Voyage, I put out, 
and rowing or paddling the Canoe along the Shore, 
I came at laft to the utmoft Point of the Ifland 
on that Side, (viz,.) N. E. And now I was to launch 
out into the Ocean, and either to venture, or not 
to venture. I look'd on the rapid Currents which 
ran conftantly on both Sides of the Ifland, at a 
Diftance, and which were very terrible to me, 
from the Remembrance of the Hazard I had been 
in before, and my Heart began to fail me; for I 
forefaw that if I was driven into either of thofe 
Currents, I ftiould be carry M a vaft Way out to 
Sea, and perhaps out of my Reach, or Sight of 
the Ifland again ; and that then, as my Boat was 
but fmall, if any little Gale of Wind ihould rife, I 
fliould be inevitably loft, 

Thefe 



["5 3 

Thefe Thoughts fo opprefs'd my Mind, that I 
began to give over my Enterprize, and having ha- 
led my Boat into a little Creek on the Shore, I 
#ept out, and fate me down upon a little riling 
Bit of Ground, very penfive and anxious, between 
Fear and Defire about my Voyage ; when,as I was 
mufing, I could perceive that the Tide was turned 
and the Flood came on, upon which my going was 
for fo many Hours impra&icable. Upon this 
prefently it occur'd to me, that I fhould go up to 
the higheft Piece of Ground I could find, and ob- 
ferve, if I could, how the Sets of the Tide or Cur- 
rents lay, when the Flood came in, that I might 
judge whether^ if I was driven one Way out, I might 
not expeft to be driven another Way Home, with 
the fame Rapidnefs of the Currents : This 
Thought was no fooner in my Head, but I caft my 
Eye upon a little Hill, which fufficiently over- 
looks the Sea both Ways, and from whence I had 
& clear View of the Currents, or Sets of the Tide, 
and which Way I was to guide my felf in my Re- 
turn ; here I found, that as the Current of the Ebb 
fet out clofe by the South Point of the Ifland, fo 
the Current of the Flood fet in clofe by the Shore 
of the North Side, and that I had nothing to do 
but to keep to the North of the Ifland in my Re* 
turn, and I (hould do well enough. 

Encourag'd with this Obfervation, I refolv'd the 
next Morning to fet out with the firft of the Tide ; 
and repofmg my felf for the Night in the Canoe, 
under the great Watch-coat I mentioned, I launched 
out : I made firft a little out to Sea full North, till 
1 began to feel the Benefit of the Current, which fet 
Eaftward, and which carry'd me at a great Rate, 
and yet did not. fo hurry me as the Southern Side 
Current had. done before, and fo as to take from 
mc all Government of the Boat i but having a 

Q. ftrong 



flrong Steerage with my Paddle, I went at a great 
Rate, direftly for the Wreck, and in lefs than two 
Hours I came up to it. 

It was a difmal Sight to look at : The Ship, 
which by its Building was Sfanijh, ftuck faft, 
jaum'd in between two Rocks ; all the Stern and 
Quarter of her was beaten to Pieces with the Sea ; 
and as her Forecaftle, which ftuck in the Rocks, 
had run on with great Violence, her Mainmaft and 
Foremaft were brought by the Board ; that is to 
fay, broken fiiort off ; but her Boltfprit was found, 
and the Head and Bow appeared firm ; when I 
came clofe to her, a Dog appeared upon her, who 
feeing me coming, yelp'd and cry'd, and as foon 
as I callM him, jumpM into the Sea, to come to 
me, and I took him into the Boat, but found him 
almoft dead for Hunger and Thirft : I gave him a 
Cake of my Bread, and he eat it like a ravenous 
Wolf, that had been ftarving a Fortnight in the 
Snow : I . then gave the poor Creature fome frefh 
Water, with which, if I would have let him, he 
would have burft himfelf. 

After this I went on Board ; but the firft Sight 
I met with, was two Men drowned in the Cook- 
Room, or Forecaftle of the Ship, with their Arms 
faft about one another : I concluded, as is indeed 
probable, that when the Ship ftruck, it being in a 
Storm, the Sea broke fo high, and fo continually 
over her, that the Men were not able to bear it, 
and were ftrangled with the conftant ruftiing in of 
the Water, as much as if they had been under Wa- 
ter. Befides the Dog, there was nothing left in 
the Ship that had Life, .nor any Goods that I 
could fee, but what were fpoil'd by the Water. 
There were fome Casks of Liquor, whether Wine 
or Brandy, I knew not, which lay lower in the 
Hold; and which, the Water being ebb'd out, I 

could 



[ m i 

tould fee ; but they were too big to meddle with * 
I faw feveral Chefts, which I believ'd belonged to 
fome of the Seamen, and I got two of them into 
the Boat, without examining what was in them. 

Had the Stern of the Ship been fix'd, and the 
Forepart broken off, I am perfuaded I might have 
made a good Voyage ; for by what I found in thefe 
two Chefts, I had Room to fuppofe the Ship had 
a great deal of Wealth on Board ; and if I may 
guefs by the Courfe flie fteer'd, Ihe muft have been 
bound from the Buenos Ayres i or the Rio de la Plata, 
•in the South Part of America, beyond the Brajils, 
to the Havana, in the Gulph of Mexico, and fo per^ 
haps to Spain: She had, no Doubt, a great Treafure 
in her, but of no Ufe at that Time to any Body ; 
and what became of the reft of her People, I then 
knew not. 

I found, befides thefe Chefts, a little Cask full of 
Liquor, of about twenty Gallons, which I got into 
my Boat, with much Difficulty ; there were feveral 
Muskets in a Cabin, and a great Powder-horn, with 
about four Pounds of Powder in it ; as for the Mus- 
kets, I had no Occafion for them, fo I left them, 
but took the Powder-horn : I took a Fire-fhovel and 
Tongs, which I wanted extremely; as alfo two 
little Brafs-Kettles, a Copper Pot to make Choco- 
late, and a Gridiron ,• and with this Cargo, and the 
Dog, I came away, the Tide beginning to make 
Home again ; and the fame Evening, about an 
Hour within Night, I reached the Ifland again, 
weary and fatigued to the laft Degree. 

I repos'd that Night in the Boat,and in the Morn- 
ing I refolv'd to harbour what I had gotten in my 
new Cave, not to carry it Home to my Caftle. After 
refrefhing myfelf, I got all my Cargo on Shore, and 
began to examine the Particulars : The Cask of 
Liquor I found to be a kind of Rum, but not fuch 

Q 2 as 



[ii8] 

as we had at the Brafils ; and in a Word, not at 
all good ; but when I came to open the Chefts, I 
found feveral Things of great Ufe to me : For 
Example, I found in one a fine Cafe of Bottles, of 
an extraordinary Rind, and fill'd with Cordial Wa- 
ters, fine, and very good ; the Bottles held about 
three Pints each, and were tip'd with Silver : I 
found two Pots of very good Succades, or Sweet- 
meats, fo faftenM alio on Top, that the Salt Water 
had not hurt them ,• and two more of the fame, 
which the Water had fpoiTd : I found feme very 
good Shirts, which were very welcome to me, and 
about a dozen and a half of Linnen white Handker- 
chiefs, and coloured Neckcloths ; the former were 
alfo very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to 
wipe my Face in a hot Day ; befides this, when I 
cam to the Till in the Chefts, I found there three 
great Bags of Pieces of Eight, which held about 
eleven hundred Pieces in all ,• and in one of them, 
wrapt up in a Paper, fix Doubloons of Gold, and 
feme fmall Bars or Wedges of Gold ; I fuppofe they 
might all weigh near a Pound. 

The other Chefl I found had feme Cloaths in it, 
but of little Value ,• biit by the Circumftances it 
mult have belong'd to the Gunner's Mate, though 
there was no Powder inir, but about two Pounds of 
fine glaz'd Powder, in three fmall Flasks, kept, I 
fuppofe, for charging their Fowling-pieces on Qc- 
cafion : Upon the whole, I got very little by this 
Voyage, that was of any Ufe to me; for as to the 
Money, I had no Manner of Occafion for it ; 'twas 
to me as the Dirt under my Feet ,• and I would 
have given it all for three or four Pair of EngUJh 
Shoes and Stockings, which were Things I greatly 
wanted, but had not had on my Feet now for 
many Years: I had, indeed, gotten two Pair of 
Shoes now, which I tock off" of the Feet of the 

two 



[ "9 3 

two drown M Men, who I faw in the Wreck ; and 
I found two Pair more in one of the Chefts, which 
were very welcome to me ; but they were not like 
our Englijh Shoes, either for Eafe or Service, being 
rather what we call Pumps than Shoes : I found 
in this Seaman's Cheft about fifty Pieces of Eight 
in Royals, but no Gold ; I fuppofe this belonged 
to a poorer Man than the other, which feem'd to 
belong to fome Officer. 

Well, however, I lugged this Money home to 
my Cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before, 
which I brought from our own Ship ,* but it was great 
Pity, as I faid, that the other Part of this Ship had 
not come to my Share, for I am fatisfy'd I might 
have loaded my Canoe feveral Times over with Mo- 
ney, which, if I had ever efcap'd to England, would 
have lain here fafe enough till I might have come 
again and fetched it. 

Having now brought all my Things on Shore, 
and fecur'd them, I went back to my Boat, and 
row'd or paddled her along the Shore to her old 
Harbour, where I laid her up, and made the belt of 
my Way to my old Habitation, where I found 
every Thing fafe and quiet ,• fo I began to repofe 
myfelf, live after my old Fafhion, and take Care of 
my Family Aftairs ; and for a while, I liv'd eafy 
enough ; only that I was more vigilant than I us'd 
to be, look cl out oftner, and did not go abroad fo 
much ; and if at any Time I did ftir with any Free- 
dom, it was always to the Eaft Part of the Ifland, 
where I was pretty well fatisfy'd the Savages never 
came, and where I could go without fo many Pre- 
cautions, and fuch a Load of Arms and Ammuni- 
tion, as I always carry 'd with me if I went the 
other Way. 

I liv'd in this Condition near two Years more ; 
but my unlucky Head, that was always to let me 

Q 3 know 



[ *3o ] 

know it was born to make my Body miferable, 
was all the two Years filled with Projefts and De- 
figns how, if it were poflible, I might get away 
from this Ifland ; for fometimes I was for making 
another Voyage to the Wreck, tho' my Reafon 
told me that there was nothing left there worth the 
Hazard of my Voyage : Sometimes for a Ramble 
one Way, fometimes another ; and I believe verily, 
if I had had the Boat that I went from Sallee in, 
I fhould have ventured to Sea, bound any where, I 
knew not whither. 

I have been, in all my Circumftances, a Memento 
to thofe who are touched with the general Plague 
of Mankind, whence, for ought I know, one Half 
of their Miferies flow ; I mean, that of not being 
fatisfy'd with the Station wherein God and Na- 
ture hath plac'd them ; for not to look back upon 
my primitive Condition, and the excellent Advice 
of my Father, the Oppofiton to which was, as J 
may call it> my Original Sin, my fubfequent 
Miftakes of the fame Kind had been the Means of 
my coming into this miferable Condition ; for had 
that Providence, which fo happily had feated me 
£t the Brajtls, as a Planter, blefs'd me with con- 
jfin'd Defires, and I could have been contented to 
have gone on gradually, I might have been by thi$ 
Time, / mean, in the "Time of my being in this Ifland^ 
one of the moft considerable Planters in the Bra- 
fils ; nay, I am perfwaded, that by the Improve- 
ments I had made in that little Time I liv'd there, 
and the Encreafe I fhould probably have made, if I 
hajd ftay'd, I might have been worth an hundre4 
thousand Moyadores ; and what Bufinefs had I to 
l^ave a fettled Fortune, a well-ftock'd Plantation, 
improving and encreafing, to turn Sufra Cargo to 
Quinea, to fetch Negroes, when Patience and 
Time would have fo encreas'd our Stock at 

Home ? 



[ «I ] 

Home, that we could have bought them at our own 
Door, from thofe whofe Bufinefs it was to fetch 
them ? and though it had coft us fomething more, 
yet the Difference of that Price was by no Means 
worth faving at fo great a Hazard. 

But as this is ordinarily the Fate of young Heads, 
fo Reflefticn upon the Folly of it is as ordinarily 
the Exercife of more Years, or of the dear-bought 
Experience of Time > and fo it was with me 
now ; and yet fo deep had the Miflake taken Root 
in my Temper, that I could not fatisfy myfelf in 
my Station, but was continually poring upon the 
Means and Poffibility of my Efcape from this 
Place; and that I may with the greater Pleafure to 
the Reader bring on the remaining Part of my Sto- 
ry, it may not be improper to give fome Account 
of my firft Conceptions on the Subject of this foolifh 
Scheme for my Efcape; and how, and upon what 
Foundation I a&ed. 

I am now to be fuppos'd retired into my Caflle, 
after my late Voyage to the Wreck, my Frigate 
laid up, and fecur'd under Water, as ufual, and my 
Condition reftor'd to what it was before : I had 
more Wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was 
not at all the richer ; for I had no more Ufe for it, 
than the Indians of Peru had before the Spaniards 
came there. 

It was one of the Nights, in the rainy Seafon in 
March y the four and twentieth Year of my firft fet- 
ting Foot in this Ifland of Solitarinefs, I was lying 
jn my Bed, or Hammock, awake, very well in 
Health, had no Pain, no Diftemper, no Uneafinefs 
of Body, no, nor any Uneafinefs of Mind, more 
than ordinary ; but could by no Means clofe my 
Eyes ; that is 3 fo as to fleep ; no, not a Wink all 
Night long, otherwife than as follows; 

Q.4 fc 



C w 1 

It is as impoflible as needlefs, to fet down the 
innumerable Crowd of Thoughts that whirl's 
through that great" Thorowfair of the Brain, the 
Memory, in this Night's Time : I run over the 
whole Hiftory of my Life in Miniature, or by 
Abridgment, as I may call it, to my coming to thi$ 
Ifland; and alfo of the Part of my Life fince 1 
came to this Iflanc}. In my Reflexions upon the 
State of my Cafe, fince I came on Shore on this 
Ifland, I was comparing the happy Pofture of my 
Affairs, in the firft Years of my Habitation here, 
compared to the Life of Anxiety, Fear, and Care, 
which I had liv'd in ever fince I had feen the Print of 
a Foot in the Sand ,• not that I did not believe the 
Savages had frequented the Ifland even all the while, 
and might have been feveral Hundreds of them at 
Times on Shore there ; but I had never known it, 
and was incapable of any Apprehenfions about it ; 
my Satisfaction was perfed, tho' my Danger was 
the fame ; and I was as happy in not knowing my 
Danger, as if I had never really been exposed to it. 
This furriifVd my Thoughts with many very pro- 
fitable Reflexions, and particularly this one, How 
infinitely Good that Providence is, which has pro- 
vided in its Government of Mankind fuch narrow 
Bounds to his Sight and Knowledge of Things ; 
and tho' he wal[<s in the midft of fo many thoufand 
^Dangers, the Sight of which, if difcover'd to hirq, 
would diftraft his Mind, and fink his Spirits, he is 
kept ferene and calm, by having the Events of Things 
hid from his Eyes, and knowing nothing of the Dan- 
gers which furtound him'. 

After tjiefe Thoughts had for fome Time enter- 
tained me, I came to refled : fefioufly upon' the real 
Danger I had been in for fo many Years in this 
very Ifland ; and' how I had walk'd about in the 
greateft Security, and with all poffible Tranquili- 



[ m ] 

ty ; even when perhaps nothing but a Brow of a 
Hill, a great Tree, or the cafual Approach of 
Night, had been between me and the worft Kind ; 
of Deftru&ion, viz,. That of falling into the Hands 
of Canibals and Savages, who would have feiz'd 
en me with the fame View as I did of a Goat or 
a Turtle, and have thought it no more a Crime to 
kill and devour me, than I did of a Pidgeon or a 
Curlieu : I fhould unjuftly flander myfelf, i( I 
fhould fay I was not fincerely thankful to my great 
Preferver, to whofe fingular Protection I acknow- 
ledged, with great Humility, that all thefe tin- 
known Deliverances were due ,• and without which 
I muft inevitably fallen into their mercilefs Hands. 

When thefe Thoughts were over, my Head was 
for fome time taken up in confidering the Nature 
of thefe wretched Creatures, I mean, the Savages; 
and how it came to pafs in the World, that the 
wife Governour of all Things fhould give up any 
of his Creatures to fuch Inhumanity; nay, to fome- 
thing fo much below even Brutality itfelf, as to 
devour its own Kind ; but as this ended in fome 
(at that Time fruitlefs) Speculations, it occurM 
to me to enquire, what Part of the World thefe 
Wretches liv'd in ; how far off the Coaft was from 
whence they came; what they ventured over fo far 
from Home for ; what Kind of Boats they had ; 
and why I might not order myfelf and my Bufi- 
hefs To, that I might be as able to go over thither, 
as they were to come to me. 

I never fo much as troubled myfelf to confider 
what I fhould do with myfelf when I came thi- 
ther ; what would become of me, if I fell into the 
Hands of the Savages; or how I fhould efcape from 
them, if they attempted me ; no, nor fo much as 
how it was poffible for me to reach the Coaft, and 

not 



not be attempted by fome or other of them, with-r 
out any Poffibility of delivering myfelf ; and if I 
fhould not fall into their Hands, what I fliould do 
for Provifion, or whither I fhould bend my Courfe ; 
none of thefe Thoughts, I fay, fo much as came 
in my Way,- but my Mind was wholly bent upon 
the Notion of my paffing over in my Boat to the 
main Land : I look 'd back upon my prefent Condi- 
tion, as the moft miferable that could poffibly be ; 
that I was not able to throw myfelf into any thing 
but Death that could be call cl worfe ; that if I 
reach'd the Shore of the Main, I might perhaps 
meet with Relief, or I might coaft along, as I did 
on the Shore of Africk, \i\\ 1 caijie to fome inha-r 
bited Country, and where I might find fome Re- 
lief y and after all, perhaps I might fall in with 
fome Chriftian Ship that might take me in ; and 
if the worfe came to the worft, I could but die, 
which would put an End to all thefe Miferies at 
once. Pray note, All this was the Fruit of a dif- 
turb'd Mind, an impatient Temper, made as it 
were defperate by the long Continuance of my 
Troubles^ and the Difappointments I had met in 
the Wreck I had been on board of, and where I 
had been fo near the obtaining what I fo earneflly 
long'd for, viz,, fome Body to fpeak to, and to learn 
fome Knowledge from of the Place where I was, 
and of the probable Means of my Deliverance; 
I fay, I was agitated wholly by thefe Thoughts ; 
All my Calm of Mind in my Refignation to Pro- 
vidence, and waiting the Iffue of the Difpofitions 
of Heaven, feem'd to be fufpended ; and I had, as 
it were, no Power to turn my Thoughts to any 
Thing, but to the Project of a Voyage to the Main, 
which came upon me with fuch Force, and fuch an 
Impetuofity of Defire, that it was not to be refill- 
ed. 

When 



UJ5] 

When this had agitated my Thoughts for two 
Hours, or more, with fuch Violence, that it fet 
my very BJood into a Ferment, and my Pulfe beat 
as high as if I had been in a Fever, merely with 
the extraordinary Fervour of my Mind about it ; 
Nature, as if I had been fatigued and exhaufted 
with the very Thought of it, threw me into a 
found Sleep : One would have thought, I fliould 
have dreamt of it; but I did not, nor of any 
Thing relating to it ; but I dreamt, that as I was 
going out in the Morning, as ufual, from my Caftle, 
I faw upon the Shore two Canoes, and eleven Sava- 
ges coming to Land, and that they brought with 
them another Savage, who they were going to kill, 
in order to eat him ; when, on a fudden, the Sa- 
vage, that they were going to kill, jumped away, 
and ran for his Life ; and I thought in my Sleep, 
that he came running into my little thick Grove, 
before my Fortification, to hide himfelf ,• and that I 
feeing him alone, and not perceiving that the other 
fought him that Way , fhow'd myfelf to him, 
and, fmiling upon him, encouraged him; that he 
kneel'd down to me, feeming to pray me to affift 
him ; upon which I fhew'd my Ladder, made him 
go up, and carry 'd him into my Cave, and he be- 
came my Servant ; and that as foon as I had got- 
ten this Man, I faid to myfelf, now I may certain- 
ly venture to the Main Land; for this Fellow 
will ferve me as a Pilot, and will tell me what to 
do, and whither to go for Provifions ; and whi- 
ther not to go for fear of being devoured, what Pla- 
ces to venture into, and what to efcape: I wak'd 
with this Thought, and was under fuch inexpref- 
fible Impreffions of Joy at the Profped of my Efcape 
in my Dream, that the Difappointments which I felt 
upon coming to myfelf, and finding it was no 
pore than a Dream, were equally extravagant the 

other 



[ 2 3 6 ] \ 

other Way, and threw me into a very great Dejec- 
tion of Spirit. 

Upon this, however, I made this Conclufion, 
That my only Way to go about an Attempt for an 
Efcape, was, if poffible, to get a Savage into my 
Pofleffion ; and if poffible, it fhould be one of their 
Prifoners, whom they had condemned to be eaten, 
and fhould bring thither to kill ; but thefe Thoughts 
ftill were attended with this Difficulty, that it was 
impoffible to efted this, without attacking a whole 
Caravan of them, and killing them all ; and this 
was not only a very defperate Attempt, and might 
mifcafry ; but, on the other hand, I had greatly 
fcrupled the Lawfulnefs of it to me, and my Heart 
trembled at the Thoughts of (hedding fo much 
Elood, tho* it was for my Deliverance. I need 
not repeat the Arguments which occur'd to me 
againfl this, they being the fame mentioned before : 
But tho' I had other Reafons to offer now, (viz,.) 
that thofe Men were Enemies to my Life, and 
would devour me, if they could; that it was Self- 
prefervation in the higheft Degree, to deliver my- 
felf from this Death of a Life, and was a&ing in 
my own Defence, as much as if they were actually 
aflaulting me, and the like : I fay, tho' thefe Things 
argued for it, yet the Thoughts of fhedding hu- 
mane Blood for my Deliverance, were very terrible 
to me, and fuch as I could by no Means reconcile 
myfelf to a great while. 

However, at laft, after many fecret Difputes 
with myfelf, and after great Perplexities about 
it, for all thefe Arguments, one Way and another, 
ftruggled in my Head a long Time, the eager pre- 
vailing Defire of Deliverance at length mafterd 
all the reft, and I refolv'd, if poffible, to get one 
of thofe Savages into my Hands, coft what it 

would. 



C*37] 



would. My next Thing then was to contrive hov( ' 
to do it, and this indeed was very difficult to re-* 
folve on. But as I could pitch upon no probable 
Means for it, fo I refolv'd to put my felf upon the 
Watch, to fee them when they came on Shore, and 
leave the reft to the Event, taking fuch Meafures as 
the Opportunity {hould prefent, let be what would 
be. 

With thefe Refolutions in 4 my Thoughts, I fet 
my felf upon the Scout, as often as poffible, and 
indeed fo often till I was heartily tirM of it ; for 
it was above a Year and a half that I waited, and 
for great part of that Time went out to the Weft 
End, and to the South Weft Corner of the Ifland, 
almoft every Day, to fee for Canoes, but none 
appeared. This was very difcouraging, and began 
to trouble me much ,* though I can't fay that it did 
in this Cafe, as it had done fome Time before that, 
(viz,.) wear off the Edge of my Defire to the Thing. 
But the longer it feem'd to be delay'd, the more 
eager I was for it; in a word, I was not at firft fo 
careful to fhun the Sight of thefe Savages, and 
avoid being feen by them, as I was now eager to 
be upon them. 

Befides, I fancy 'd my felf able to manage one, 
nay, two or three Savages, i( I had them, fo as to 
make them entirely Slaves to me, to do whatever 
I (hould direcft them, and to prevent their being 
able at any Time to do me any Hurt. It was a 
great while that I pleas'd my felf with this Affair, 
but nothing ftill prefented ,• all my Fancies and 
Schemes came to nothing, for no Savages came near 
me for a great while. 

About a Year and half after I had entertained 
thefe Notions, and, by long mufing, had as it were 
refolv'd them all into nothing, for want of an Oc- 
cafion to put them in Execution, I was furpriz'd 

on* 



[ 138 ] 

one Morning early, with feeing no lefs than five 
Canoes all on Shore together on my Side the Ifland ; 
and the People who belonged to them all landed, 
and out of my Sight : The Number of them broke 
all my Meafures ,• for feeing fo many, and know- 
ing that they always came four or fix, or fometimes 
more, in a Boat, I could not tell what to think of 
it, or how to take my Meafures, to attack twen- 
ty or thirty Men fingle handed ; fo I lay ftill in 
my Caftle, perplexed and difcomforted : However 
I put my felf into all the fame Poftures for an At- 
tack, that I had formerly provided, and was juft 
ready for A&ion> if any Thing had prefented. Ha* 
ving waited a good while, liftening to hear if they 
made any Noife; at length, being very impatient 
I fet my Guns at the Foot of my Ladder, and 
clambsr'd up to the Top of the Hill, by my two 
Stages, as ufual ; ftanding fo* however, that my 
Head did not appear above the Hill fo that 
they could not perceive me by any Means : Here 
I obferv'd, by the Help of my Perfpeftive Glafs, 
that they were no lefs than thirty in Number, that 
they had a Fire kindled, that they had had Meat 
drefs'd ; how they had cook'd it, that I knew not* 
or what it was ; but they were all dancing in I 
know not how many barbarous Geftures and Fi- 
gures, their own Way, round the Fire. 

While I was thus looking on them* I perceived 
by my Perfpeftive two miferable Wretches drag'd 
from the Boats, where it feems they were laid by, 
and were now brought out for the Slaughter. I 
perceiv'd one of them immediately fell, being 
knocked down, I fuppofe with a Club or Wooden 
Sword, for that was their way, and two or three 
others were at Work, immediately cutting him open 
for their Cookery, while the other Viftim was left 
ftanding by himfelf, till they fhould be ready for 

him. 



him. In that very Moment this poor Wretch fee- 
ing himfelf a little at Liberty, Nature infpir'd hirfi 
with Hopes of Life, and he itarted away from 
them, and ran with incredible Swiftnefs along the 
Sands dire&ly towards me, I mean, towards that 
part of the Coaft where my Habitation was. 

I was dreadfully frighted (that I muft acknow- 
ledge) when I perceiv a him to run my Way ; and 
efpecially, when as I thought I faw him purfued 
by the whole Body; and now I expefted that Part 
of my Dream was coming to pafs, and that he 
would certainly take Shelter in my Grove ,• but I 
could not depend by any means upon my Dream 
for the reft of it, (viz,.) that the other Savages 
would not purfue him thither, and find him there. 
However I kept my Station, and my Spirits began 
to recover, when I found that there was not above 
three Men that followed him ; and ftill more was I 
encouraged, when I found that he outftript them 
exceedingly in running, and gain'd Ground of them, 
fo that if he could but hold it for half an Hour, 
I faw eafily he would fairly get away from them 
all. 

There was between them and my Caftle the 
Creek which I mentioned often at the firft Part of 
my Story, when I landed my Cargoes out of the 
Ship ; and this, I faw plainly, he muft neceflarily 
fwim over, or the poor Wretch would be taken 
there : But when the Savage efcaping came thi- 
ther, he made nothing of it, though the Tide was 
then up, but plunging in, fwam thro' in about 
thirty Stokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on 
with exceeding Strength and Swiftnefs ; when the 
three Perfons came to the Creek, I found that 
two of them could fwim, but the third could not, 
and that {landing on the other Side, he looked at 
the other, but went no farther; and foon after went 

foftlr 



[ 240 ] 

foftly back again, which, as it happend, was very 
well for him in the main. 

I obferv'd, that the two who fwam, were yet 
more than twice as long fwimming over the Creek, 
as the Fellow was that fled from them : It came 
now very warmly upon my Thoughts, and indeed 
irrefiftibly, that now was my Time to get me a, 
Servant, and perhaps a Companion, or Affiftant ; 
and that I was call'd plainly by Providence to fave 
this poor Creature's Life; I immediately run down 
the Ladders with all poflible Expedition, fetched 
my two Guns, tor tfiey were both but at the Foot 
of the Ladders, as I obferv'd above ,• and getting 
up again, with the fame. Hafte, to the Top of the 
Hiil 3 I crofs'd toward the Sea ; and having a very 
fhort Cut, and all down Hill, clap'd myfelf in 
the way, between the Purfuers, and the purfu'd ; 
hollowing aloud to him that fled, who looking 
back, was at firft perhaps as much frighted at me 
as at them ; but I beckon'd with my Hand to him, 
to come back, and in the mean Time, I flowly ad- 
vanced towards the two that follow'd,- then rufhing 
at once upon the foremoft, I knock'd him down with 
the Stock of my Piece ; 1 was loth to fire, becaufe 
I would not have the reft hear; though at that 
Diftance it would not have been eafily heard, 
and being out of Sight of the Smoak too, they 
wou'd not have eafily known what to make of it : 
Having knock'd this Fellow down, the other who 
purfu'd him ftopt, as if he had been frighted ; 
and I advanced apace towards him ; but as I came 
nearer, I perceiv'd prefently, he had a Bow and 
Arrow, and was fitting it to flioot at me ; fo I was 
then neceffitated to fhoot at him firft, which I did, 
and kill' d him at the firft Shoot ; the poor Savage 
who fled , but had ftop'd , though he faw both 
his Enemies fallen, and kiil'd, as he thought ; yet 



[ 241 ] 

toas fo frighted with the fire, and Noife of my 
Piece, that he flood flock flill, and neither came' 
forward or went backward, tho' he feem'd rather 
iticlind to fly fiill, than to come on ; I hollow'ci 
again to him, and made Signs to come forward, 
which he eafily underftood, and came a little Way, 
then ftop'd again ; and then a little farther, and 
ftop'd again; and I could then perceive that he 
flood trembling, as if he had been taken Prifoner, 
and had jufl been to be kill'd, as his two Enemies 
\frere. I beckoned him again to come to me, and 
gave him all the Signs of Encouragement that I 
could think of, and he came nearer and nearer, 
kneeling down every ten or twelve Steps, in'Tbken 
of Acknowledgment for my faving his Life : I fmil'd 
at him, and looked pleafantly, and beckon'd to him 
to come flill nearer,- at length he came clofe to me, 
and then he kneel'd down again, kifs'd the Ground, 
and laid his Head upon the Ground, and taking 
me by the Foot, fet my Foot upon his Head ; 
this, it feems, was in Token of fwearing to be my 
Slave for ever. I took him up, and made much of 
him, and encouraged him all I could: But there 
was more Work to do yet, for I perceiVd the Sa- 
vage, whom I knocked down, was not killed, but 
ftun'd with the Blow, and began to come to him' 
felf ; fo I pointed to him, and fhowing him the Sa- 
vage, that he, was not dead ; upon this he fpoke 
fome Words to me, and tho' I could not underftand 
them, yet I thought they were pleafant to hear, 
for they were the firft Sound of a Man's Voice that 
had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-five 
Years. But there was no Time for fuch Reflec- 
tions now; the Savage, who was knock'd down, 
recovered himfelf fo far, as to fit up upon the 
Ground, and I perceived that my Savage began to 
be afraid ; but when I faw that, I preferred my 

R - other 



C 141 ] 

other Piece at the Man, as if I wbuld (hoot hiifi ; 
upon this my Savage, for Jo I call him now, made a 
Motion to me to lend him my Sword, which hung 
naked in a Belt by my Side,- fo I did : He no {bon- 
er had it, but he runs to his Enemy, and at one 
Blow cut off his Head as cleverly, no Executioner 
in Germany could have done it fooner or better > 
which I thought very ftrange, for one, who I had 
reafon to believe, never faw a Sword in his Life be- 
fore, except their own wooden Swords ; however, 
it feems, as I learn'd afterwards, they make their 
wooden Swords fo (harp, fo heavy, and the Wood 
is fo hard, that they will cut off Heads even with 
them, aye and Arms, and that at one Blow too: 
When he had done this, he comes laughing to me 
in Sign of Triumph, and brought me the Sword 
again, and with abundance of Geftures, which I, 
did not underftand, laid it down with the Head of 
the Savage, that he had killed juft before me. 

But that which aftonifh'd him moft, was to know 
how I had killed the other Indian fo far off,- fo, 
pointing to him, he made Signs to me to let him go 
to him ; fo I bad him go, as well as I could ; when 
he came to him, he flood like one amaz'd, looking 
at him, turn'd him firft on one Side, then on t'other, 
look'd at the Wound the Bullet had made, which 
it feems was juft in his Breaft, where it had made a 
Hole, and no great Quantity of Blood had followed, 
but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead : 
He took up his Bow and Arrows, and came back, 
fo I turned to go away, and beckoned to him to fol-l 
low me, making Signs to him, that more might come| 
after them. 

Upon this he fign'd to me, that he ftould bury! 
them with Sand, that they might not be feen by thel 
*eft if they follow'd; and fo I made Signs again to I 
him to do fo ; he fell to work, and in an Inftant he I 

hadf 



C *4J. ] 

had fcrap'd a Hole in the Sand with his Hands, big 
enough to bury the firft in, and then drag'd him in- 
to it, and cover'd him, and did fo alfo by the other; 
I believe he had bury cl them both in a Quarter of 
an Hour; then calling him away, I carry 'd him, not 
to my Gaftle, but quite away to my Cave, on the 
farther Part of the Ifland ; fo I did not let my Dream 
come to pafs in that Part* viz,. That he came into 
my Grove for Shelter. 

Here I gave him Bread, and a Bunch of Raifins to 
eat, and a Draught of Water, which I found he 
was indeed in great Diitrefs for, by his Running ; 
and having refrefh'd him, I made Signs for him to 
go lie down and fleep, pointing to a Place where I 
had laid a great Parcel of Rice Straw, and a Blanket 
Upon it, Which I ufed to fleep upon myfelf fome- 
times ; fo the poor Creature laid down and went to 
fleep. 

He was a comely handfome Fellow, perfe&ly well 
made, with ftrait long Limbs, not too large, tall 
and well fhap'd ; and* as I reckon, about twenty-fix 
Years of Age. He had a very good Countenance, 
not a fierce and furly Afped^ but feem'd to have 
fomething very Manly in his Face, and yet he had 
all the Sweetnefs and Softnefs of an European in his 
Countenance too^ efpecially when he fmifd. His 
Hair was long and black, not curl'd like Wool; his 
Forehead very highj and large, and a great Vivacity 
and fparkling Sharpnefs in his Eyes. The Colour of 
his Skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and 
yet not of an ugly yellow naufeous Tawny, as the 
Bra/Warn^ and Virginians, and other Natives of 
America are^ but of a bright kind of a dun Olive 
Colour, that had in it fomething very agreeable, 
tho' not very eafy to defcribe^ His Face was round 
and plump* his Nofe fmall, not flat like the Ne- 
groes* a very good Mouth, thin Lips, and his 

R a fine 



[ *44 ] 

fine Teeth well fet, and white as Ivory. After he 
had fluinber'd, rather than flept, about half an 
Hour, he wak'd again, and comes out of the Cave 
to me, for I had been milking my Goats, which I 
had in the Enclosure juft by : When he efpy'd me, 
he came running to me , laying himfelf down 
again upon the Ground, with all the poflible Signs 
of an humble thankful Difpofition, making a many 
antick Geftures to fhow it : At laft he lays his 
Head flat upon the Ground, clofe to my Foot, and 
fets my other Foot upon his Head, as he had done 
before ; and after this, made all the Signs to me of 
Subje&on, Servitude, and Submiffion imaginable, 
to let me know how he would ferve me as long as 
he liv'd. 1 underftood him in many Things, and 
let him know I was very v/ell pleas a with him ; in 
a little Time I began to fpeak to him, aftd teach 
him to fpeak to me ; and firft, I made him know 
his Name fliould be. Friday, which was the Day I 
fav'd his Life ; I call'd him fo for the Memory of 
the Time ; I likewife taught him to fay Mafter, and 
then let him know that was to be my Name i I 
likewife taught him to fay Yes and No> and to know 
the Meaning of them ,* I gave him fome Milk in an 
earthen Pot, and let him fee me drink it before 
him, and fop my Bread in it); and I gave him 3, 
Cake of Bread to do the, like, which he quickly 
comply'd with, and made Signs that it was very 
good for him. 

I kept there with him all that Night, but as foon 
as it was Day, I beckon'd to him to come with 
me, and let him know I would give him fome 
Cloaths, at which he feem'd very glad, for he was 
fiark-naked : As we went by the Place where he 
had bury \i the two Men, he pointed exadly to the 
Place, and fhew'd me the Marks that he had 
made to find them again, making Signs to me 

that 



[ *45 ] 

tliat we fhould dig them up again, and eat them ; 
at this I appeared very angry, exprefs'd my Ab- 
horrence of it, made as if I would vomit at the 
Thoughts of it, and beckoned with my Hand to 
him to come away, which he did immediately, 
with great Submiffion. I then led him up to the 
Top of the Hill, to fee if his Enemies were gone ,* 
and pulling out my Glafs, I look'd, and faw plain- 
ly the Place where they had been, but no Appea- 
rance of them, or of their Canoes ; fo that it was 
plain that they were gone, and had left their two 
Comrades behind them, without any Search after 
them. 

But I was not content with this Difcovery, but 
having now more Courage, and consequently more 
Curiofity, I took my Man Friday with me,, giving 
him the Sword in his Hand, with the Bow and 
Arrows at his Back, which I found he could ufe 
very dexteroufly, making him carry one Gun for me, 
and I two for myfelf, and away we march'd to the ' 
Place where thefe Creatures had been ; for I had a 
Mind now to get feme fuller Intelligence of them : 
When I came to the Place, my very Blood ran 
chill in my Veins, and my. Heart funk within me 
at the Horror of the Spe&acle : Indeed it was a 
dreadful Sight, at leaft it was fo to me, tho' Friday 
made nothing of it : The Place was covered with 
humane Bones, the Ground dy'd with their Blood, 
great Pieces of Flefh left here and there, half 
eaten, mangled and fcorch'd ; and, in fhort, all the 
Tokens of the triumphant Feaft they had been 
making there, after a Vi&ory over their Enemies. 
I faw three Skulls, five Hands, and the Bones of 
three or four Legs and Feet, and abundance of other 
Parts of the Bodies ; and Friday, by his Signs, made 
me understand, that they brought over four Prifoners 
to feaft upon ; that three of them were eaten up, 
R 3 and 



[ H 6 ] 

and th^t he, pointing to himfelf, was the fourth ; 
That there had been a great Battle between them, 
and their next King, whofe SubjeSs it feems he had 
been one of; and that they had taken a great Num- 
ber of Prifoners, all which were carry M to feveral 
Places by thofe that had taken them in the Fight, 
in order to feaft upon them, as was done here by 
thefe Wretches upon thofe they brought hither. 

I caus'd Friday to gather all the Skulls, Bones, 
Flefh, and whatever remained, and lay them to- 
gether on a Heap, and make a great Fire upon it, 
and burn them all to Afhes : 1 found Friday had ftil 
a hankering Stomach after fpme of the Flefli, anc, 
was ftill a Cannibal in his Nature ; but I difcover'c , 
fo much Abhorrence at the very Thoughts of it, anc 
at the leaft Appearance of it, that he durft not dif- 
cover it ; for I had, by fome Means, Jet him know, 
that I would kill him if he offered it. 

When we had done this we came back to our 
Caflle, and there I fell to work for my Man Friday, 
and firfl of all I gave him a Pair of Linen Drawers, 
which J had out of the poor Gunner's Cheft I men- 
tioned, and which I found in the Wreck > and which, 
with a little Alteration, fitted him very well ; then 
I made him a Jerkin of GoatVskin, as well as my 
Skill wpulcl allow ; and I was now grown a tolerabje 
good Taylor ; and I gave him a Cap, which I hacj 
made of a Hare-skin, very convenient and fafhion- 
able enough ; and thus he was cloath'd, for the 
prefent, tolerably well, and was mighty well pleased 
to fee himfelf almpft as well clpath'd as his Mafter ; 
It is true, he went aukwardly in thefe Things at firfl ,- 
wearing the Drawers was very aukward to him, 
and the Sleeves of the Waftcoat gall'd his Shoulders, 
and the infide of his Arms; but a little eafing 
theni^ where he complained they hurt him, and 

ufing 



ufing himfelf to them, at length he took to them 
very well. 

The next Day after I canie Home to my Hutch 
with him, I began to confider where I fhould lodge 
him ; and that I might do well for him, and yet be 
perfe&ly eafy myfelf, I made a little Tent for him 
in the vacant Place between my two Fortifications, 
in the Infide of the laft, and in the Outfide of the 
firft : And as there was a Door or Entrance there 
into my Cave, I made a formal framed Door-cafe, 
and a Door to it of Boards, and fet it up in the 
Paflage, a little within the Entrance ; and caufing 
the Door to open on the Infide, I bar'd it up in the 
Night, taking in my Ladders too ,• fo that Friday 
could no way come at me in the Infide of my inner- 
moft Wall, without making fo much Noife in getting 
over, that it muft needs waken me ; for my firft 
Wall had now a compleat Roof over it of long 
Poles, covering all my Tent, and leaning up to the 
Side of the Hill, which was again laid crofs with 
fmaller Sticks inftead of Laths, and then thatch'd 
over a great Thicknefs with the Rice $traw, which 
was ftrong like Reeds ,- and at the Hole or Place 
which was left to go in or out by the Ladder, I had 
plac'd a kind of Trap-door, which, if it had been 
attempted on the Out-fide, would not have openM 
at all, but would have fallen down, and made a 
great Noife ; and as to Weapons, I took them all 
in to my Side every Night. 

But I needed none of all this Precaution ; for 
never Man had a more faithful, loving, fincere Ser- 
vant than Friday was to mej without Paffions, 
Sullennefs, or Defigns, perfe&ly oblig'd and en- 
gaged: his very Afte&ions were ty'4 to me, like 
thofe of a Child to a Father ; and I dare fay, he 
would have facrificed his Life lor the faving mine, 
uppn any Occafion whatfoever ; the many Teftimoj. 
R 4 nies 



[ MS 1 

pjes he gave me of this, put it out of Doubt, and 
foon convinced me, thatT needed to ufe no Precau- 
tions as to my Safety on his Account. 

This frequently gave me Occafion to obferve, 
2nd that with Wonder, that however it hadpleas'd 
God in his Providence, and in the Government of 
the Works of his Hands, to take from fo great a 
Part of the World of his Creatures, the befLUfes 
to which their Faculties and the Powers of their 
Souls are adapted ,• yet that he has beftow'd upon 
them the fame Powers, the fame R^afon, the fame 
Affections, the fame Sentiments of Kindnefs and 
Obligation, the fame Paffions and Refentments of 
Wrongs, the fame Senfe of Gratitude, Sincerity, 
Fidelity, and all the Capacities of doing Good, 
and receiving Good, that he has given to us ; and 
that when he pleafes to offer to them Occafions of 
everting thefe, they are as ready, nay, more rfeady 
to apply them to the right Ufes for which they 
were beitow'd, than we are. And this made me 
very melancholy fometimes, in reflecting, as the fe- 
veral Occafions prefented, how mean a Ufe we 
make of all thefe, even though we have thefe 
Powers enlightened by the great Lamp of Inftruc- 
tion, the Spirit of God, and by the Knowledge of 
his Word, added to our Under/tending ; and why 
it has pleas'd God to hide the like faving Know- 
ledge from fo many Millions of Souls, who (if I 
might judge by this poor Savage) would make a 
much better Vic of it than we did. 

From hence I fometimes was led too far to in- 
vade the Sovereignty of Providence ; and, as it were, 
arraign die Juftice of fo arbitrary a Pifpofition of 
Things, that fhpuld hide that Light from fome, 
and reveal it to others, and yet exped a like Duty 
from both : Put I fhut it up and checked my 
Thoughts with this ConcliUion, Firft } That we did 



[ M9 ] 

not know by what Light and Law thefe fhould be 
condemned ; but that, as God was neceflarily, and, 
by the Nature of his Being, infinitely holy and juft, 
fo it could not be, but that if thefe Creatures were 
all fentenc'd to Abfence from himfelf, it was on Ac- 
count of finning againft that Light, which, as the 
Scripture fays, was a Law to themfelves, and by 
fuch Rules as their Confciences would acknowledge 
to be juft, tho' the Foundation was not difcover'd 
to us : And, Secondly, That ftill as we are all the 
Clay in the Hand of the Potter, no Veflel could fay 
to him, Why haft thou form'd me thus ? 

But to return to my new Companion : I was 
greatly delighted with him, and made it my Bufi- 
nefs to teach him every Thing that was proper to 
make him ufeful, handy and helpful ,• but efpecially 
to make him fpeak, and underftand me when I 
fpake ; and he was the apteft Scholar that ever was, 
and particularly was fo merry, fo conftantly diligent, 
and fo pleased when he could but underftand me, or 
. make me underftand him, that it was very pleafant 
to me to talk to him ; and now my Life began to 
be fo eafy, that I began to fay to myfelf, that 
could I but have been fafe from more Savages, I 
cared not if I was never to remove from the Place 
while I livM 

After I had been two or three Days returned to 
my Caftle, I thought, that, in order to bring Friday 
off from his horrid Way of feeding, and from the 
Relifh of a Canibal's Stomach, I ought to let him 
tafte other Flefti ; fo I took him out with me one 
Morning to the Woods. I went indeed, intending 
to kill a Kid out of my own Flock, arid bring it 
home and drefs it: But as I was going, I faw 
a She Goat lying down in the Shade, and two 
young Kids fitting by her. I catch'd hold of- Friday, 
field, fays I, ftand ftill; and made Signs to him 

not 



[ 150] 

cot to flir, immediately I prefented my Piece* fhot 
and kill'd one of the Kids. The poor Creature, 
who had at a Diflance, indeed, feen me kill the 
Savage, his Enemy, but did not know, or could 
imagine, how it was done, was fenfibly furpriz'd, 
trembled and fhook, and look'd fo ama^'d, that I 
thought he would have funk down, He did not fee 
the Kid 1 had fhot at, or perceive I had kilfd it, 
but rip'd up his Waflecoat to feel if he was not 
wounded ; and, as I found, prefently thought I was 
refolv'd to kill him ,• for he came and kneel'd down 
to me, and embracing my Knees, faid a great 
many Things I did not underfland, but I could 
eafily fee that the Meaning was to pray me not to 
kill him. 

I foon found a Way to convince him that I would, 
do him no Harm, and taking him up by the Hand, 
Iaugh'd at him, and pointing to the Kid which I 
had kill'd, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, 
which he did; and while he was wondering an4 
looking to fee how the Creature was kill'd, I loaded 
my Gun again, and by-and-by I faw a great Fowl 
like a Hawk fit upon a Tree within fhot ; fo, to 
let Friday underfland a little what I would do, 
call'd him to me again, pointing at the Fowl, which 
was indeed a Parrot, tho' I thought it had be^n 3 
Hawk; I fay, pointing to the Parrot, and to my 
pun, and to the Ground under the Parrot, to let 
him fee I would make it fall, I made him under- 
hand that I would (hoot and kill that Bird j accor* 
dingly I fir'd, and bad him look, and immediately 
he faw the Parrot fall ,• he flood like one frighted^ 
again, notwithflanding all I had faid to him ; and j 
found he was the more amaz'd, becaufe he did not 
fee me put any thing into the Gun ; but thought 
that there muft be fome wonderful Fund of Death 
and Deftruftion in that Thing, abl? to kill Man, 

Eeaft, 



[151 ] 

Beaft, Bird, or any thing near or far off; and the 
Alipmfhment this created in him was fuch, as 
could pot wear off for a long Time ; and I believe. 
if I would have let him, he would have worfhip'd 
pie and my Gun : As for the Gun itfelf, he would 
not fo much as touch it for feveral Days after ; but 
would fpeak to it, and talk to it, as if it had an- 
fwer'd him, when he was by himfelf ; which, as I 
afterwards learned of him, was to defire it not to 
kill him. 

Well : After his Aftonifhment was a little over 
at this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the Bird 
I had fliot, which he did, but ftay'd fome Time,- 
for the Parrot not being quite dead, was flutterM 
a good way off from the Place where flie fell ,* how- 
ever, he found her, took her up, and brought her to 
jne ; and, as I had perceiv'd his Ignorance about the 
Gun before, I took this Advantage to charge the 
Gun again, and not let him fee me do it, that I 
might be ready for any other Mark that might pre- 
sent ; but nothing more offend at that Time ; fo I 
brought home the Kid, and the fame Evening I took 
the Skin off, and cut it out as well as I could ; and 
having a Pot for that Purpofe, I boifd or ftew'd 
fome of the Flefh, and made fome very good Broth ; 
and after I had begun to eat fome, I gave fome to 
my Man, who feem'd very glad of it, and lik'd it 
very well ,• but that which was ftrangeft to him, was 
to fee me eat Salt with it ; he made a Sign to me, 
that the Salt was not good to eat, and putting a 
Jittle into his own Mouth, he feem'd to naufeate it, 
and would fpit and fputter at it, waftiing his Mouth 
with frefli Water after it ; on the other Hand, I took 
fome Meat in my Mouth without Salt, and I pre- 
tended to fpit and fputter for want of Salt, as faft as 
he had done at the Salt ; but it would not do, he 

would 



[ ija ] 

would never care for Salt with his Meat, or in his 
Broth; at leaft, not a great while, and then but a 
Very little. 

Having thus fed him with boil'd Meat and Broth, 
I was refolv'd to feaft him the next Day with roaf- 
ting a Piece of the Kid ; this I did by hanging it 
before the Fire in a String, as I had feen many People 
do in England, fetting two Poles up, one on each 
Side the Fire, and one crofs on the top, and tying 
the String to the crofs Stick, letting the Meat turn 
continually : This Friday admir'd very much ; but 
when he came to tafte the Flefh, he took fo many 
ways to tell rhe how well he lik'd it, that I could 
not but underftand him ; and at lafl he told me he 
would never eat Man's Flefh any more, which I 
was very glad to hear. 

The next Day I fet him to work to beating fome 
Corn out, and lifting it in the Manner I ufed to do, 
as I obferv'd before ,• and he foon underftood how to 
do it as well as I, efpecially, after he had feen what 
the ' meaning of it was, and that it was to make 
Bread of; for after that I let him fee me make my 
Bread, and hake it too ; and in a little Time Friday 
was able to do all the Work for me, as well as I 
could do it myfelf. 

I began now to confider, that having two Mouths 
to feed inftead of one, I muft provide more Ground 
for my Harveft, and plant a larger Quantity of 
Corn than I ufed to do ; fo I marked out a larger 
Piece of Land, and began the Fence in the fame 
Manner as before, in which Friday not only work'd 
very willingly and very hard, but did it very 
chearfully ; and I told him what it was for, that it 
was for Corn to make more Bread, becaufe he was 
now with me, and that I might have enough for 
him and myfelf too : He appeared very feniible of 
that Part, and let me know, that he thought I had 

much 



[ i?? 3 

much more Labour upon me on his Account, than 
I had for myfelfj and that he would work the 
harder for me, if I would tell him what to do. 

This was the pleafanteit Year of all the Life I 
led in this Place : Friday began to talk pretty well, 
and understand the Names of almoft every thing I 
had Occafion to call for, and of every Place I had 
to fend him to, and talk a great deal to me ; fo 
that, in fhort, I began now to have fome ufe for my 
Tongue again, which indeed I had very little Oc- 
cafion for before ; that is to fay, about Speech ) Be- 
fides the Pleafure -of talking to him, I had a Angu- 
lar Satisfaction in the Fellow himfelf ,• his fimple 
unfeign'd Honefiy appear'd to me more and more 
every Day, and I began really to love the Creature; 
and on his Side, I believe he lov'd me more than it 
was poffible for him ever to love any Thing before. 

I had a Mind once to try if he had any hankering 
Inclination to his own Country again ,• and having 
learn 'd him Evglifh fo well, that he could anfwer 
me almoft any Queftions, I ask'd him whether the 
Nation that he belonged to never conquered in 
Battle ? At which 'he fmil'd, and faid, Yes, yes, we 
always fight the better ; that is, he meant always 
get the better in Fight ; and fo we began the fol- 
lowing Difcourfe. You always fight the better, faid 
I, How came you to be taken Prifoner then, Friday? 

Friday. My Nation beat much, for all that. 

Mafier. How beat ; if your Nation beat them, 
how came you to be taken ? 

Friday. They more many than my Nation in the 
Place w T here me was; they take one, two, three, 
and me ; my Nation over-beat them in the yonder 
Place, where me no was ; there my Nation take 
one, two, great Thoufand. 

Mafier. But why did not your Side recover yoqf 
from the Hands of your Enemies then ? 

* Friday, 



C 154 1 

Priday. They run one, two, three, and me, and: 
make go in the Canoe ; my Nation have no Canoe 
that Time. 

Mafter. Well, Friday, and what does your Na-' 
tion do with the Men they take, do they carry 
them away, and eat them, as thefe did ? 

Friday. Yes, my Nation eat Man's too, eat all 
up. 

Mafter. Where do they carry them ? 

Friday. Go to other Place where they think. 

Mafter. Do they come hither ? 

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other 
elfe Place. 

Mafter. Have you been here with them ? 

Friday. Yes, I been here ; [points to the N. W. Sidd 
of the Ifland, 'which, it feems, was their Side.'] 

By this I underftood, that my Man Friday had 
formerly been among the Savages > who ufed to 
come on Shore on the farther Part of the Ifland, on 
the faid Man-eating Occafions that he was noW 
brought for; and fome Time after, when I took the 
Courage to carry him to that Side, being the fame 
I formerly mentioned, he prefently knew the Place,* 
and told me, he was there once when they eat up 
twenty Men, two Women, and one Child : He 
could not tell twenty in Englifi ; but he numbered 
them by laying fo many Stones in a Row, and 
pointing to me to tell them over. 

I have told this Paffage, becaufe it introduces 
what follows ; that after I had had this Difcourfe 
with him, I ask'd him how far it was from our 
Ifland to the Shore, and whether the Canoes were 
not often loii ; he told me there was no Danger, 
no Canoes ever loft ; but that after a little Way out 
to the Sea, there was a Current, and a Wind al- 
ways one Way in the Morning, the other in the 
Afternoon. 



C i?5 ] 

This I underftood to be no more than the Sets of 
the Tide, as going out, or coming in ; but I after- 
wards underftood, it was occafionM by the great 
Draft and Reflux of the mighty River Oroonooko ; in 
the Mouth or the Gulph of which River, as I 
thought afterwards, our Ifland lay ,• and that this 
Land, which I perceiv'd to the TV. and N. W. was 
the great Ifland Trinidad, on the North Point of the 
Mouth of the River. I ask'd Friday a thoufand 
Queftions about the Country, the Inhabitants, the 
Sea, the Coaft, and what Nations were near ; he 
told me all he knew, with the greateft Opennefs 
imaginable. I ask'd him the Names of the feveral 
Nations of his fort of People, but could get no 
other Name than Caribs ; from whence I eafily un- 
derftood, that thefe were the Caribbees, which our 
Maps place on the Part of America, which reaches 
from the Mouth of the River Oroonooko to Guiand % 
and onwards to St. Martha : He told me that up a 
great Way beyond the Moon, that was, beyond 
the fetting of the Moon, which muft be IV. from 
their Country, there dwelt white bearded Men, 
like me ; and pointed to my great Whiskers, which 
I mentioned before $ and that they had killed much 
Mans, that was his Word : By all which I under- 
ftood, he meant the Spaniards, whofe Cruelties in 
America had been fpread over the whole Countries, 
and were remembered by all the Nations from Father 
to Son. 

I enquir'd if he could tell me how I might come 
from this Ifland, and get among thofe white Men ; 
he told me, Yes, yes, I might go in two Canoe ; I 
could not understand what he meant, or make him 
defcribe to me what he meant by two Canoe, till at 
laft, with great Difficulty, I found he meant it mull 
be in a large great Boat, as big as two Canoes. 

This 



This Part of Friday's Difcourfe began to relifi 
with me very well, and from this Time I entertained 
fome Hopes, that one Time or other, I might find 
an Opportunity to make my Efcape from this Place ; 
and that this poor Savage might be a Means to 
help me to do it. 

Daring the long Time that Friday has now been 
with me, and that he began to fpeak to me, and 
underftand me, I was not wanting to lay a Founda- 
tion of religious Knowledge in his Mind ; particu- 
larly, I ask'd him one Time, Who made him? 
The poor Creature did not underftand me at all, 
but thought I had ask'd who was his Father : But 
I took it by another Handle, and ask'd him who 
made the Sea, the Ground we walked on, and the 
Hills and Woods ? he told me it was one old jBe~ 
mmuckee, that liv'd beyond all : He could defcribe 
nothing of this great Per foil, but that he was very 
old; much older, he faid, than the Sea or the Land, 
than the Moon or the Stars : I ask'd him then, if 
this old Perfon had made all Things, why did not 
all Things worfhip him ? He look'd very grave, and 
with a perfeft Look of Innocence, faid, All Things 
faid to him : I ask'd him if the People, who die 
in his Country, went away any where ? He faid, 
Yes, they all went to Benamnckee : Then I ask'd 
him, Whether thefe they eat up went thither too ? 
He faid, Yes. 

From thefe Things I began to inftrud him in 
the Knowledge of the true God. I told him, That 
the great Maker of all Things liv'd up there, 
pointing up towards Heaven : That he governs 
the World- by the fame Power and Providence by 
which he had made it : That he was Omnipotent, 
could do every Thing for us y give every Thing to 
us, take every Thing from us; and thus, by de- 
grees, I open'd his Eyes. He liften'd with great At- 
tention* 



[157 1 

tfcntion, and recei/d with Pleafnre the Notion o^ 
Jefus Cbrift, being fent to redeem us, and of the 
Manner of making our Prayers to God, and his 
being able to hear us, even into Heaven. He told 
me one Day, that if our God could hear us up be-» 
yond the Suri, he muft needs be a greater God than 
their Benamuckee, who liv'd but a little Way off, 
and yet could not hear, 'till they Went up to the 
great Mountains where he dwelt, to (peak to him : 
I askM him if ever he went thither to fpeak to 
him. He faid, No, they never went that were 
young Men ; none Went thither but the old Men, 
who he call'd their Oowokakee, that is* as I made 
Jiim explain it to me, their Religious, or Clergy, 
and that they went to fay O y (fo he call'd faying 
Prayers) and then came back, and told them what 
feenamuckee faid. By this I obferv'd, That there is 
Prieficraft, even amongft the moft blinded ignoranc 
Pagans in the World ; and the Policy of making a 
fecret Religion, in order to preferve the Veneration 
of the People to the Clergy, is not only to be found 
in the Koman y but perhaps among all Religions in 
the World, even among the moft brutifh and barba- 
rous Savages. 

I endeavoured^ to clear up this Fraud to my 
Man Friday ', and told him, That the Pretence of 
their old Men going up to the Mountains to fay O 
:o their God Benamuckee, was a Cheat, and their 
3ringing Word from thence what he faid, was 
iluch more fo ; that if they met with any Anfwer, 
3r fpoke with any one there, it muft be with an 
ml Spirit: And then I entered into a long JDif- 
:ourfe with him about the Devil, the Original of 
lim, his Rebellion againft God, his Enmity to 
Vfan, the Reafon of it, his fetcing himfelf up in 
he dark Parts of the World to be worfhipM in- 
tead of God, and as God ; and the many Strata- 

S gems 



[ 158 1 

gems he made ufe of, to delude Mankind to their 
Ruin i how he had a fecret Accefs to our Paflions, 
and to our Affe&ions, to adapt his Snares fo to our 
Inclinations, as to caufe us even to be our own 
Tempters, and to run upon our Deflru&ion by our, 
own Choice. 

I found it was not fo eafy to imprint right No- 
tions in his Mind about the Devil, as it was about 
the Being of a God. Nature affifted all my Argu- 
ments to evidence to him even the Neceffity of a 
great firft Caufe and over-ruling governing Power, 
a fecret direfting Providence, and of the Equity 
and Juftice of paying Homage to him that made 
us, and the like. But there appeared nothing of all 
this in the Notion of an evil Spirit, of his Ori- 
ginal, his Being, his Nature, and above all, of his 
Inclination to do Evil, and to draw us in to do 
fo too. And the poor Creature puzzled me once 
in fuch a Manner, by a Queftion meerly natural 
and innocent, that I fcarce knew what to fay to 
him. I had been talking a great deal to him of 
the Power of God, his Omnipotence, his dreadful 
Averfion to Sin, his being a confuming Fire to the 
Workers of Iniquity ; how, as he had made us all, 
he could deftroy us and all the World in a Moment; 
and he liften'd with great Serioufnefs to me all the- 
while. 

After this, I had been telling him how the De- 
vil was God's Enemy in the Hearts of Men, and j 
ufed all his Malice and Skill to defeat the good, 
Deilgns of Providence, and to ruin the Kingdom 
of Chrifl in the World, and the like. Well, fays^ 
Friday, but you fay, God is fo ftrong, fo great, is 
he not much ftrong, much might as the Devil? 
Yes, yes, fays I, Friday, God is ftronger than the 
Devil, God is above the Devil, and therefore we ; 
pray to God to tread him down under our Feet, 

and' 



f *59 ] 

and enable us to refift his Temptations, and quench 
his fiery Darts. But, fays he again, if God much 
firong, much ?night as the Devil, why God no kill the De* 
vil) fo make him no more do wicked? 

I was ftrangely furpnVd at his Queftion, and 
after all, tho" I was now an old Man, yet I was 
but a young Do&or* and ill enough qualify'd for* 
a-Cafuift, or a Solver of Difficulties: And, at firft, 
I could not tell what to fay, fo I pretended not to 
hear him, and askM him what he faid ? But he 
was too earneft for an Anfwer to forget his Quef- 
tion; fo that he repeated it in the very fame broken 
Words, as above. By this Time I had recovered 
myfelf a little, and I faid, God will at lafl punijh 
him feverely ; he is refervd for the 'Judgment , and it 
to be cafi into the Bottomlefs Pit, to dwell with ever* 
lafting Fire. This did not fatisfy Friday, but he re- 
turns upon me, repeating my Words, Reserve 
at last, me no under/land, But, Why not kill the 
Devil now, not kill great ago ? You may as well ask 
me, faid I, Why God does not kill you and I, 
when we do wicked Things here that offend him* 
We are preferv'd to repent and be pardonM : He 
mufes a while at this ,• Well, well, fays he, mighty 
affe&ionately, that well; fo you, I, Devil^ all wick- 
ed, all preferve, repent, God pardon all. Here I wss 
run down again by him to the laft Degree^ and k 
was a Teftimony to me, how the meer Notions of 
Nature,, though they will guide reafonable Crea*' 
tures to the Knowledge of a God, and of a Wor- 
fhip or Homage due to the fupreme Being of God, 
as the Confequence of our Nature; yet nothing but 
divine Revelation can form the Knowledge of Je- 
fm Chrifi, and of a Redemption purchased for us, of a 
Mediator of the new Covenant, and of an Intercellbr, 
at the Foot Stool of God's Throne; I fay, nothing 
but a Revelation from Heaven can form thefe in 

S 2 the 



[ i*o ] 

the Soul ; and that therefore the Gofpel of our- 
Lord and Saviour Jefus Chrift> I mean, the Word . 
of God, and the Spirit of God, promised for the 
Guide and Sanctifier of his People, are the abfo- 
lutely neceflfary Inftru&ors of the Souls of Men, 
in the faving Knowledge of God, and the Means of 
Salvation. 

I therefore diverted the prefent Difcourfe be- 
tween me and my Man, rifing up haftily, as upon 
fome fudden Occafion of going out ; then fending | 
him for fomething a good Way off, I ferioufly prayed 
to God, that he would enable me to inftrud faving- 
ly this poor Savage, affifting by his Spirit the 
Heart of the poor ignorant Creature, to receive the - 
Light of the Knowledge of God in Chrift, recon- 
ciling him to himfelf, and would guide me to fpeak 
fo to him from the Word of God r as his Confci- . 
ence might be convinc'd, his Eyes open'd, and his 
Soul fav'd. When he came again to me, I enter'd 
into a long Difcourfe with him upon the Subjed of 
the Redemption of Man by the Saviour of the 
World, and of the Do&rine of the Gofpel preachM 
from Heaven, viz*, of Repentance towards God, 
and Faith in our bleffed Lord Jefus. I then ex- 
plain'd to him, as well as I could, why our Blefled 
Redeemer took not on him the Nature of Angels, : 
but the Seed of Abraham, and how for that Rea- 
fon the fallen Angels had no Share in the Redemp- 
tion; that he came only to the loft Sheep of the Houfe 
oilfrael, and the like. 

I had, God knows, more Sincerity than Know- 
ledge, in all the Methods I took for this poor 
Creature's Inftru&ion, and muft acknowledge what 
I believe all that act upon the fame Principle will 
find, That in laying Things open to him, I really 
inform'd and inftrufted myfelf in many Things, that 
cither I did not know, or had not fully confider'd 

before j 



[ **i 3 

before; but which occur'd naturally to my Mind, 
upon my fearching into them, for the Information 
of this poor Savage ; and I had more Affedion in 
my Enquiry after Things upon this Occafion, than 
ever I felt before ; (o that whether this poor wild 
Wretch was the better for me, or no, I had great 
Reafon to be thankful that ever he came to me : 
My Grief fet lighter upon me, my Habitation 
grew comfortable to me beyond Meafure ; and 
when I reflected that in this folitary Life which I 
had been confined to, I had not only been mov'd 
myfelf to look up to Heaven, and to feek to the 
Hand that had brought me there ; but was now 
to be made an Inltrument under Providence to fave 
the Life, and, for ought I know, the Soul of *» poor 
-Savage, and bring him to the true Knowledge of 
Religion, and of the Chriftian Doftrine, that he 
•might know Chrift Jefus, to know whom is Life eter- 
nal I fay, When 1 reflefted upon all thefe Things, 
a fecret Joy run through every Part of my Soul, 
and I frequently rejoic'd that ever I was brought to 
this Place, which I had fo often thought the raoft 
dreadful of all Affli&ions that could poffibly have 
befallen me. 

In this thankful Frame I continu'd all the Re- 
mainder of my Time, and the Converfation which 
employed the Hours between Friday and I, was 
fuch, as made the three Years which we liv'd there 
together perfectly and complearly happy, if any fuch 
Thing as ccmpleat Happinefs can be formd in afublu- 
nary State. The Savage was now a good Chriftian, 
a much better than 1 ; though I have Reafon to 
hope, and blefs God for it, that we were equally 
penitent, and comforted reftorM Penitents ; we 
had here the Word of God to read, and no farther 
eft' from his Spirit to inftruft, than if we had been 
in England. 

S 3 I always 



[ I** ] 

I always apply'd myfelf to reading the Scrip* 
ture, to let him know, as well as I could, the 
Meaning of what I read ; and he again, by his fe- 
rious Enquiries and Queftions, made me, as J 
faid before, a much better Scholar in the Scripture 
Knowledge, than I Ihould ever have been by my 
own private meer Reading. Another Thing I can- 
not refrain from obferving here alfo from Experi- 
ence, in this retired Papt of my Life, viz. How in- 
finite and inexpreffible a Bleffing it is, that the 
Knowledge of God, and of the Doctrine of Salva- 
tion by Chrift jefpity is fo plainly laid down in the 
Word of God, fo e^fy to be received and under- 
flood, that as the bare Reading the Scripture made 
me capable of under/landing enough of my Duty, 
%o carry me directly on to the great Work of 
iincere Repentance for my Sins, and laying hold 
of a Saviour for JLife and Salvation, to a ftated Re- 
formation in Pradice, and Obedienqe to all God's 
Commands, and this without any Teacher or Inftrucr 
tcr (I mean, humane) fo the fame plain Inftruftion 
fufficientiy ferv'd to the Enlightning this Savage 
Creature, and bringing him to be fuch a Chriftian ? 
as I have known few equal to him in my Life. 

As to all the Difputes, Wranglings, Strife, and 
Contention, which has happened in the World about 
Religion, whether Niceties in Dcdrines, or Schemes 
pi Church Government, they were all perfe&ly ufe- 
j.efs to us, as for ought I can yet fee, they have 
been to all the reft in the World : We had the Jure 
Guide to Heaven, viz,. The Word of God ; and we 
had, blijfed be God, comfortable Views of the Spi- 
rit of God, teaching and intruding us by his Word, 
ieadivg w into all Truth, and making us both wil- 
ling and obedient to the Inftru&ion of his Word ; 
pd I cannot fee the leaft Ufe that the greateft 

Know- 



[ *} ] 

Knowledge of the difputed Points in Religion, 
which* have made fuch Confufions in the World, 
would have been to us, if we could have obtained 
it : But I muft go on with the Hiftorical Part of 
Things, and take every Part in its Order. 

After Friday and I became more intimately ac- 
quainted, and that he could underftand almoft all 
I faid to him, and fpeak fluently, though in broken 
Englijh, to me ; I acquainted him with my own 
Story, or at leaft fo much of it as related to my 
fomirtg into the Place, how I had liv'd there, and 
how long. I let him into the Myftery, for fuch 
it was to him, of Gunpowder and Bullet, and 
taught him how to Ihoot : I gave him a Knife, 
which he was wonderfully delighted with, and I 
made him a Belt, with a Frog hanging to it, fuch 
as in England we 'wear Hangers in ; and in the Frog, 
inftead of a Hanger, I gave him a Hatchet, which 
was not only as good a Weapon in fome Cafes, but 
piuch more ufeful upon other Occafions. 

I defcrib'd to him the Country of Europe, and 
particularly England, which I came from ; how we 
liv'd, how we worfhipM God, how we behav'd to 
one another; and how we traded in Ships to all 
Parts of the World : I gave him an Account of the 
Wreck which I had been on board o^ and fhew'd 
him as near as I could the Place where {he lay ; 
but fhe was all beaten in Pieces before, and gone. 

I fhew'd him the Quins of our Boat, which we 
loft when we efcap'd, and which I could not ftir 
with my whole Strength then, but was now fallen 
almoft all to Peices : Upon feeing this Boat, Friday 
flood mufing a great while, and faid nothing ; I 
^sk'd him what it was he ftudy'd upon; atlaft, fays 
he, me fee fuch Boat like come to Place at my Nation. 

I did not underftand him a good while ; but at 
laft, when I had examin'd farther into it, I under- 

S 4 flood 



.[ *5\ ] 

flood by him, that a Boat, fuch as that had been, 
came on Shore upon the Country where he liv'd ; 
that is, as he explain'd it, was driven thither by 
Strefs of Weather : I prefently imagined, that fome 
European Ship muft have been call away upon their 
Coalt, and the Boat might get loofe, and drive 
afhore, but was fo dull, that I never once thought 
of Men making efcape from a Wreck thither, much 
lefs whence they might come ; fo I only enquired 
afcer a Defcription of the Boat, 

Friday defcrib'd the $>oat to me well enough ; but 
brought me better to understand him, when he ad- 
ded with fcrrje Warmth, wefave the white Mans from 
drown : Then I prefently ask'd him, if there was any 
white Mans, as he calf d them, in the Boat : Yes, 
Jie faid, the Boat full of white Mans : I ask'd him how 
many ; he told upon his Fingers feventeen ; I ask'd 
him then what became of them ; he told we, they 
live, they dwell at my Nation* 

This put ney/ Thoughts into my Head ,• for J 
prefently imagined, that thefe might be the Men 
belonging to the Ship that was caft away in Sight 
of my Ifland, as I now call it ; and who, after the 
Ship was ftruek on the Rock, and they faw her in- 
evitably loft, had fav'd themfelves in their Boat, and 
were landed upon that wild Shore, among the Sa^ 
vages. 

Upon this, I enquired of him more critically 
what was become of them i he affur'd me they 
liv'd flill there ; that tlifcy had been there about 
four Years ; that the Savages let them alone, and 
gave them Victuals to live. I ask'd him, how it 
came to pafs they did not kill them and eat them ; 
he faid, Nb y they make Brother with them ; that is, 
as I underflood him, a Truce : And then he ad^ 
ded, They no eat Mans but when make the War fight : 
%\i$\ is co fay, they never eat any Men, but 



[ 169. 1 

fuch as come to fight with them, and are taken in 
Battel. 

It was after this, fome considerable Time, that 
being on the Top of the Hill, at the Eaft fide 
of the Iiland, from whence, as I have faid, I had 
in a clear Day difcover'd the Main or Continent 
of America ; Friday, the Weather being very ferene, 
looks very earneftly towards the main Land, and 
in a kind of Surprize falls a jumping and dancing, 
and calls out to me, for I was at fome Diftance 
from him : I ask'd him what was the Matter ; O 
Joy ! fays he, Glad ! Tloere fee my Country, then 
my Nation ! 

I obferv'd an extraordinary Senfe of Pleafure ap- 
peared in his Face, and his Eyes fparkled, and his 
Countenance difcover'd a ftrange Eagernefs, as if 
he had a Mind to be in his own Country again; 
and this Obfervation of mine put a great many 
Thoughts into me, which made me at fir/i not fo 
eafy about my new Man Friday as I was before ; 
2nd I made no Doubt, but that if Friday could get 
back to his own Nation again, he would not only 
forget all his Religion, but all his Obligation to 
me y and would be forward enough to give his 
Countrymen an Account of me, and come back per- 
haps, with a hundred or two of them, and make a 
Feaft upon me, at which he might be as merry as 
he ufed to be with thofe of his Enemies, when 
they were taken in War. 

But I wrong'd the poor honeft Creature very 
much, for which I was very forry afterwards. 
However, as my Jealoufy increased, and held me 
fome Weeks, I was a little more circumfped, and 
not fo familiar and kind to him as before; in 
yrhich I was certainly in the Wrong too, the ho- 
ped grateful Creature having no Thought about it, 
fc>ut what confifted with the belt Principles, both 

as 



t x66 ] 



as a religious Chriftian, and as a grateful Friend, 
as appeared afterwards to my full Satisfaction. 

While my Jealoufy of him lafted, you may be 
fure I was every Pay pumping him to fee if he 
would difcover any of the new Thoughts, which I 
fufpefted were in him ; but I found every Thing 
he faid was fo honeft, and fo innocent, that I 
could find nothing to nourifh my Sufpicion ; and, 
in fpite of all my Uneafinefs, he mad^ me at lafl 
entirely his own again ; nor did he in the leaft per- 
ceive that I was uneafy, and therefore I could not 
fufpeft him of Deceit. 

One Day walking up the fame Hill, but the 
Weather being hazy at Sea, To that we could not 
fee the Continent, I call'd to him, and faid, Fri- 
day, do not you wifh yourfelf in your own Coun- 
try, your own Nation ? Tes, he faid, / be much Q 
glad to be at my own Nation. What would you dQ 
there, faid I, would you turn wild again, eat Mens 
Fiefh again, and be a Savage as you were before ? 
He look'd full of Concern, and fhaking his Head, 
faid, No, no, Friday tell them to live good, tell them 
to pray God, tell them to eat Corn-bread, Cattle-Flejh^ 
Milk, no eat Man again : Why then, faid I to him, 
"f hey will kill you. He look'd grave at that, and 
then faid, No, they no kill me, they willing love learn: 
He meant by this, they would be willing to learn. 
He added, they learn'd much of the bearded Mans 
that came in the Boat. Then I askM him if he 
would go back to them ? He fmil'd at that, and 
told me he could not fwim fo far. I told him I 
would make a Canoe for him. He tpld me, he 
would go, if I would go with him. I go ! fays I, 
why, they will eat me if I come there : No, no y 
fays he, me make they no eat you, me make they much 
love you. He meant, he would tell them how I had 
kill'd his Enemies, and fav'd his Life^ and fo he 

would 



[ ^7 ] 

would make them love me ,* then he told me, as 
welj as he could, how kind they were to feventeen 
white Men, or bearded Men, as he call'd them, 
who came on Shore there in Diftrefs. 

From this Time, I confefs, I had a Mind to 
venture over, and fee if I could poffibly join with 
thefe bearded Men, who, I made no doubt, were 
Spaniards or Portuguefe ; not doubting but, if I could, 
we might find fome Method to efcape from 
thence, being upon the Continent, and a good 
Company together, better than I could from an 
Ifland 40 Miles off the Shore, and alone without 
jHelp. So, after fome Days, I took Friday towork 
again, by way of Difccurfe, and told him I would 
give him a Boat to go back to his own Nation ; 
and accordingly I carry'd him to my Frigate, 
which lay on the other fide of the Ifland, and ha- 
ving cleared it of Water, for I always kept it funk 
in the Water, I brought it out, fhew'd it him, and 
we both went into it. 

I found he was a moft dextrous Fellow at ma- 
naging it, would make it go almoft as fwift atffl 
faft again as I could ,• fo when he was in, I faid to 
him, Well, now, Friday, fliall we go to your Na- 
tion ? He looked very dull at my faying fo, which, 
it feems, was becaufe he thought the Boat too 
fmall to go fo far. I told him then I had a bigger ; 
fo the next Day I went to the Place where the 
firfl Boat lay which I had made, but which I could 
not get into Water ; He faid that was big enough ,• 
xit then, as I had taken no Care of k, and it had 
ain two or three and twenty Years there, the Sun 
lad fplit and dry'd it, that it was in a Manner 
rotten. Friday told me, fuch a Boat would do ve- 
ry well, and would carry much enough Vittle> Drink, 
Bread, that was his Way of Talking. 

Upon 



[2tf8] 



Upon the whole, I .was by this Time fo fix'd 
upon my Defign of going over with him to the 
Continent, that I told him we would go and make 
one as big as that, and he fliould go home in it. 
He anfwer'd not one Word, but looked very grave 
and fad : 1 ask'd him what was the Matter with 
him ; he ask'd me again thus, Why you angry mad 
with Friday, what me done ? I ask'd him what he 
meant ; I told him I was not angry with him at all. 
No angry ! No angry ! fays he, repeating the Words 
feveral times, Why fend Friday home away to my 
Nation ? Why, fays I, Friday, did you not fay you 
wifti'd you were there ? Tes,yes, fays he, wifh be both 
there, no wijh Friday there, no Mafier there. In a 
word, he would not think of going there without 
me : I go there, Friday, fays I, what fiiall I do 
there ? He turned very quick upon me at this : Ton 
do great deal much Good, fays he, you teach wild Mans 
be good fiber tame Mam; you tell them know Gody 
fray God, and live new Life. Alas, Friday, fays I, 
thou knoweft not what thou fay'ft, I am but an 
igttbjant Man my felf. Tes, yes, fays he, you teachee 
me* Good, you teachee them Gocd. No, no, Friday, 
fays I, you flhall go without me, leave me here to 
live by my felf, as I did before. He looked confus'd 
Vagain at that Word, and running to one of the 
Hatchets which he usd to wear, he takes it up 
haftily, and gives it me ; what muft I do with this? 
foys I to hirfi : Ton take kill Friday, fays he : What 
mull I kill you for ? faid I again. He returns ve- 
ry quick, What you fend Friday away for ? take kill 
Friday, no fend Friday away. This he (poke fo 
earneftly, that I faw Tears ftand in his Eyes. In 
a word, I fo plainly difcover'd the utmoft Affeftion 
in him to me, and a firm Refolution in him, that j 
I told him then, and often after, that I would ne-' 
ver fenll him away from mc 3 if he was willing to 
ftay with me. Upon 



[z« 9 ] 

Upon the whole, as I found by all his Difcourfc 
a fettled Afteftion to me, and that nothing fhould 
part him from me, fo I found all the Foundation 
of his Defire to go to his own Country, was laid 
in his ardent Afte&ion to the People, and his Hopes 
of my doing them good ,- a Thing, which as I had 
no Notion of my felf, fo I had not the leaft Thought 
or Intention, or Defire of undertaking it. But ftill 
I found a ftrong Inclination to my attempting an 
Efcape, as above, founded on the Suppofition ga- 
thered from the Difcourfe, (viz,.) That there were 
feventeen bearded Men there, and therefore, with- 
out any more Delay, I went to work with Friday 
to find out a great Tree proper to fell, and make a 
large Periagua or Canoe to undertake the Voyage. 
There were Trees enough in the Ifland to have 
built a little Fleet, not of Periagua's and Canoes, 
but even of good large Veflels. But the main Thing 
I look'd at, was to get one fo near the Water that 
we might launch it when it was made, to avoid 
the Miftake I committed at firft* 

At laft, Friday pitched upon a Tree, for I found he 
knew much better. than I what Kind of Wood was 
fttteft for it ; nor can I tell, to this Day, what Wood 
to call the Tree we cut down, except that it was 
very like the Tree we call Fuflic, or between that 
and the Nicaragua Wood, for it was much of the 
fame Colour and Smell. Friday was for burning the 
Hollow or Cavity of this Tree out to make it for 
a: Boat : But I fhew'd him how rather to cut it out 
with Tools, which after 1 had fhew'd him how 
to ufe, he did very handily, and in about a Month's 
hard Labour we finifh'd it, and made it very 
frandfome, efpecially when with our Axes, which 1 
fhew'd him how to handle, we cut and hew'd the 
Out-fide into the true. Shape of a Boat ; after this, 
however, it coft us near a Fortnight's Time to get 

her 



[i7°I 

her aldhg, as it were, Inch by Inch tipon great 
Rpwlers into the Water. But when fhe was in, fhe 
would have carry'd twenty Men with great 
Eafe. 

When fhe was in the Waterj and tho' fhe was fo 
big, it amaz'd me to fee with what Dexterity and 
how fwift my Man Friday would manage her, turn 
her, and paddle her along ; fo I ask'd him if he 
would, and if we might venture over in her ,• Tes, he 
faid, he venter over in her very well, though great blow 
Wind. However, I had a farther Defign that he 
knew nothing of, and that was to make a Maft and 
Sail, and to fit her with an Anchor and Cable : As 
to a Maft, that was eafy enough to get ,• fo I pitched 
upon a ftrait young Cedar-Tree, which I found 
aear the Place, and which there was great Plenty 
of in the Ifland; and I fet Friday to Work to cut it 
down, and gave him Directions how to fhape and 
order it. But as to the Sail, that was my particular 
Care ; I knew I had old Sails, or rather Pieces of 
old Sails enough ,• but as I had had them now 
26 Years by me, and had not been very careful 
to preferve them, not imagining that I fhould ever 
have this kind of Ufe for them, I did not doubt 
but they were all- rotten ; and indeed mofi of them 
were fo > however, I found two Pieces which ap- 
peared pretty good, and with thefe I went to work, 
and with a great deal of Pains, and aukward tedi- 
ous ftitching (you may be fure) for Want of Needles, 
I at length made a three-corner'd ugly Thing, like 
what we call in England^ a Shoulder of Mutton 
Sail, to go with a Boom at Bottom, and a little 
fiiort Sprit at the > Top, fuch as ufually our Ships 
Long-Boats fail with, and fuch as I beft knew ho\tf 
to manage ; becaufe it was fuch a one as I had to 
the Boat in which I made my Efcape from Barhary f 
as related in the firft Part of my Story, 

I was 



C W 3 

I was near two Months performing this laft I 
Work, viz,, rigging and fitting my Mail: and Sails ; 
for I finifh'd them very compleat, making" a fmall 
Stay, and a Sail, or Forefail to it, to aflift, if we 
fhould turn to Windward ; and which was more 
than all, I fix'd a Rudder to the Stern of her, to 
fteer with ; and though I was but a bungling Ship- 
wright, yet as I knew the Ufefulnefs, and even 
Neceifity of fuch a Thing, I apply M myfelf with 
fo much Pains to do it, that at laft I brought it to 
i pafs, tho* conlidering the many dull Contrivances 
I had for it that failed, I think it cofl me almoft as 
much Labour as making the Boat. 

After all this was done too, I had my Man Fri- 
day to teach as to what belonged to the Navigation 
ot my Boat ; for though he knew very well how to 
paddle a Canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to 
a Sail and a Rudder, and was the mod amazM 
when he faw me work the Boat too and again in 
the Sea by the Rudder, and how the Sail gyb'd, and 
fill'd this Way or that Way, as the Courfe we fail'd 
changed : I fay, when he faw this, he flood like 
one aftonifh'd and amaz'd : However, with a little 
Ufe, I made all thefe Things familiar to him ; and 
he became an expert Sailor, except that as to the 
Compafs, I could make him understand very little 
of that. On the other Hand, as there was very little 
cloudy Weather, and feldom or never any Fogs in 
thofe Parts, there was the lefs Occafion for a Com- 
pafs, feeing the Stars were always to be feen by 
Night, and the Shore by Day, except in the rainy 
Seafons, and then no Body cared to ftir abroad, ei- 
ther by Land or Sea. 

1 vas now enteral on the feven and twentieth 
Year of my Captivity in this Place ; though the 
three laft Years that I had this Creature with me, 
ought rather to be left out of the Account, my. Ha- 
bitation 



bitation being quite of another Kind than in all the 
reft of the Time. I kept the Anniverfary of my 
landing here with the fame Thankfulnefs to God 
for his Mercies, as at firft ,- and if I had fuch Caufe 
of Acknowledgment at firft, I had much more (o 
now, having fuch additional Teftimonies of the 
Care of Providence over me, and the great Hopes 
I had of being effectually and fpeedily delivered ; 
for I had an invincible Impreffion upon myThoughts, 
that my Deliverance was at Hand, and that I fiiould 
not. be another Year in this Place : However, I went 
on with my Husbandry, digging, planting, fencing, 
as ufual ; I gather'd and cur'd my Grapes, and did 
every neceffary Thing, as before. 

The rainy Seafon was in the mean time upon 
me, when I kept more within Doors than at other 
Times ; fo I had ftow'd our new Veffel as fecure as 
we could, bringing het up into the Creek, where, 
as I faid, in the Beginning I landed my Rafts from 
the Ship, and haling her up to the Shore, at high 
Water Mark, I made my Man Friday dig a little 
Dock, juft big enough to hold her, and juft deep 
enough to give her Water enough to float in ; and 
then, when the Tide was out, we made a ftrong 
Dam crofs the End of it to keep the Water out ; 
and fo fhe lay dry, as to the Tide, from the Sea; 
and to keep the Rain off, we laid a great many 
Boughs of Trees fo thick, that fhe was as well 
thatch'd as a Houfe ,• and thus we waited for the 
Month of November and December, in which I dc* 
fign'd to make my Adventure. 

When the fettled Seafon began to come in, as 
the Thought of my Defign returned with the fair 
Weather, I was preparing daily for the Voyage ; 
and the firft Thing I did, was to lay by a certain 
Quantity of Provisions, being the Stores for our 
Voyage ; and intended, in a Week or a Fortnight's 

Time, 



[ >73 ] 

Time, to open the Dock, and launch out our Boat. 
I was bufy one Morning upon fomething of this 
kind, when I calfd to Friday, and bid him go to the 
Sea Shore, and fee if he could find a Turtle, or 
Tortoife, a Thing which we generally got once a 
Week, for the Sake of the Lggs, as well as the 
Fleih : Friday had not been long gone, when he 
came running back, and flew over my outer Wall, 
or Fence, like one that felt not the Ground, -or the 
Steps he fet his Feet on j and before I had Time to 
fpeak to him, he cries out to me, Mafter ! Ma- 
Jler ! Sorrow ! bad ! What's the Matter, Friday, 
fays I ^ yonder, there, fays he, one, two, three Canoe I 
one, two, three! By his way of fpeaking I conclu- 
ded there were fix $ but on Enquiry I found it was 
but three : Well, Friday 1 fays I, do not be frighted } 
fo I hearten'd him up as well as I could : However, 
I faw the poor Fellow was moft terribly fcar'd $ for 
nothing ran in his Head but that they were come to 
look for him, and would cut him in Pieces, and eat 
him} and the poor Fellow trembled fo, that I 
fcarceknew what to do with him : I comforted him 
as well as I could, and told him I was in as rnuth 
Danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as 
lim^ but, lays I, Friday, we muji refolve to fight them-> 
Can you fight, Friday ? Me /boot, fays he, but there 
come many great Number. No matter for that, laid 
I again, our Guns will fright them that we do not 
kill 5 fo T afkd him, Whether if I refolv'd to defend 
hint, he would defend me, and ftand by me, and do 
juft as I bid him ? He faid, Me die, when you bid die, 
Majicr% fo I went and fetched a good Dram of 
Rum, and gave him^ for I had been fo good a Huf- 
band of my Rum, that I had a great deal left : 
When he had drank it, I made him take the two 
Fowling-Pieces, which we always carry 'd, and load 
them with large Swan-Shot, as big as fmall Piftol 

T Bullets h 



C >74 ] 

Bullets-, then I took four Mufkets, and loaded them 
with two Slugs, and five fmall Bullets each ; and 
my two Piftols I loaded with a Brace of Bullets 
each : I hung my great SWord as ufual, naked by 
my Side, and gave Friday his Hatchet. 

When I had thus prepared my felf, I took my Per- 
fpedive Glals, and went up to the Side of the Hill, 
to fee what I could difcover \ and I found quickly, 
by my Glals, that there were one and twenty Sa- 
vages, three Prifoners, and three Canoes 5 and that 
their whole Bufinefs feem'd to be the triumphant 
Banquet upon thefe three human Bodies, (a barba- 
rous Feaft indeed) but nothing more than as I had 
obfervd was ufual with them. 

I obferv'd alfo, that they were landed not where 
■they had done when Friday made his Efcape, but 
nearer to my Creek, where the Shore Was low, and 
where a thick Wood came clofe almoft down to the 
Sea : This, with the Abhorrence of the inhumane 
Errand thefe Wretches came about, filfd me with 
fuch Indignation, that I came down again to Friday 
and told him, I was refolv'd to go down to them, 
and kill them all ^ and afk'd him if he would ftand 
by me > He had now gotten over his Fright, and 
his Spirits being a little rais'd with the Dram I had 
given him, he was very chearful, and told me, as 
before, he would die, when I bid die. 

In this Fit of Fury, I took firft and divided the 
Arms which I had charged, as before, between us 
I gave Friday one Piftol to flick in his Girdle, ^nd 
three Guns upon his Shoulder-, and I took one Pi- 
ftol, and the other three my felf ^ and in thisPo- 
fture we marclfd out : I took a fmall Bottle of Rum 
in my Pocket, and gave Friday a large Bag with 
more Powder and Bullet • and as to Orders, I 
charged him to keep clofe behind me, and not to 
ftir, or flioot, or^do any thing, till I bid him-, and 

in 



C»7J] 

in the mean Time, not to fpeak a Word : In this 
Pofture i fetched a Compafs to my Right Hand of 
near a Mile, as well to get over the Creek, as to 
get into the Wood ^ To that I might come within 
Shot of them before I fhould be difcoveril, which 
I had leen by my Glafs it was eafy to do. 

While I was making this March, my former 
Thoughts returning, I began to abate my Refolu- 
tion 5 I do not mean, that I entertain'd any Fear 
of their Number 5 for as they were naked, unarmed 
Wretches, 'tis certain I was fuperior to them ^ nay, 
though I had been alone-, but it occurred to my 
Thoughts, What Call? What Occafion? much 
lefs, What NeceiTity I was in to go and dip my 
Hands in Blood, to attack People, who had neither 
done or intended me any Wrong? Who, as to me, 
were innocent, and whofe barbarous Cuftoms were 
their own Difafter, being in them a Token indeed 
of God's having left them, with the other Nations 
of that Part of the World, to fuch Stupidity and 
to fuch inhumane Courfes-, but did not call me to 
take upon me to be a Judge of their Aftions, much 
lefs an Executioner of his Juftice •, that whenever 
he thought fit, he would take the Caule into his 
own Hands, and by National Vengeance punifh 
them as a People for National Crimes-, but that, 
in the meantime, it was none of myBufinefs^ that 
it was true, Friday might juftify it, becaufe he was 
a declar'd Enemy, and in a State of War with thofe 
very particular People, and it was lawful for him 
to attack them •, but I could not fay the fame with 
tefpedt to me. Thefe Things were fo warmly 
prefs'd upon my Thoughts all the Way as I went, 
that I refolv'd I would only go and place rriyfelf 
near them, that I might obferve their barbarous 
Feaft, and that I would act then as God fhould 
dire&i but that unlefs fomething offer'd that was 

T 2 more 



C *7«] 

more a Call to me than yet I knew of, I would not 
meddle with thein. 

With this Refolution I enter'd the Wood, and 
with all poiftble Warynefs and Silence (Friday fol- 
lowing clofe at my Heels) I march'd till I came 
to the Skirt of the Wood, on the Side which was 
next to them •, only that one Corner of the Wood 
lay between me and them : Here I call'd foftly to 
Friday, and (hewing him a great Tree, which was 
juft at the Corner of the Wood, I bad him go to 
the Tree, and bring me Word if he could fee there 
plainly what they were doing -, he did fo, and came 
immediately back to me, and told me they might 
be plainly view'd there $ that they were all about 
their Fire, eating the Flelh of one. of their Prifo- 
ners •, and that another lay bound upon the Sand, 
a little from them, which he faid they would kill 
next, and which fir'd all the very Soul within me : 
He told me it was not one of their Nation, but one 
of the bearded Men, who he had told me of, that 
came to their Country in the Boat : I was fill'd 
with Horror at the very naming the white- bearded 
Man, and, going to the Tree, I faw plainly, by my 
Glafs, a white Man, who lay upon the Beach of 
the Sea, with his Hands and his Feet ty'd with 
Flags, or Things like ; Rufhes, and that he was an 
European, and had Cloaths on. 

There was another Tree, and a little Thicket 
beyond it, about fifty Yards nearer to them than 
the Place where I was, which, by going a little Way 
about, I faw I might come at undifcover'd, and 
that then I fhould be within half Shot of them ^ fo 
I with-held my Paffion, though I was indeed en- 
raged to the higheft Degree, and going back about 
twenty Paces, I got behind fome Bufhes, which held 
all the Way, till I came to the other Tree 5 and then 
I came to a little rifing Ground, which gave me a 

full 



C >77 ] 

full View of them, at theDiftance of about eighty 
Yards. 

I had now not a Moment to lofe 5 for nineteen 
of the dreadful Wretches fate upon the Ground, all 
clofe huddled together, and had juft fent the other 
two to butcher the poor Cbrijtian, and bring him, 
perhaps Limb by Limb to their Fire-, and they 
were ftoop'd down to untie the Bands, at his Feet ; 
I turn'd to Friday, Now, Friday, faid I, do as I bid 
thee ; Friday faid he would ^ then, Friday, fays I, 
do exactly as you fee me do, fail in nothing •, fo I 
fet down one of the Mufkets and the Fowling- 
Piece upon the Ground, and Friday did the like 
by his •, and with the other Mufket I took my 
Aim at the Savages, bidding him do the like 5 then 
afking him, If he was ready? he faid, Yes -, then 
fire at them, faid iy and the fame Moment I fir'd 
alfo. 

Friday took his Aim fomuch better than I, that 
.on the Side that he fhot, he kilfd two of them, 
and wounded three more •, and on my Side, I kill'd 
one, and wounded two : They were, you may be 
fure, in a dreadful Confternat ion -, and all of them, 
who were not hurt, jump'd up upon their Feet, 
but did not immediately know which Way to run, 
or which Way to look ; for they knew not from 
whence their Deftrudtion came: Friday kept his 
Eyes clofe upon me, that as I had bid him, he 
might obferye what I did •, fo, as foon as the firft 
Shot was made, I threw down the Piece, and took 
up the Fowling-Piece, and Friday did the like *, he 
fee me cock, and prefent, he did the fame again -, 
Are you ready ? Friday, faidl-, )res, fays he •, let 
fly then, fays I, in the Name of God, and with 
that I fir'd again among the amaz'd Wretches, and 
fo did Friday, and as our Pieces were now loaden 
With what 1 calfd Swan-Shot, or fmall Piftol Bul-^ 
T t> lets 



[ *7« ] 

lets, we found only two drop ^ but fo many were 
wounded, that they ran about yelling and lkream- 
Ing like mad Creatures, all bloody, and miferably 
wounded, moft of them 5 whereof three more fell 
quickly after, though not quite dead. 

Now, Friday, fays I, laying down the difcharg'd 
Pieces, and taking up the Mulket, which was yet 
loaden, follow me, lays I -, which he did, with a 
great deal of Courage 5 upon which I ruih'd out of 
the Wood, and (hew'd my felf, and Friday clofe at 
my Foot : As fo&n as I perceived they faw me, I 
fhouted as loud as I could, and bad Friday do fo 
too} and running as fail: as I could, which by the 
way was mt very f aft, being loaden with Arms as I 
was, I made dire&Iy towards the poor Victim, who 
was, as 1 faid, lying upon the Beach, or Shore, 
between the Place where they fat and the Sea y 
the two Butchers, who were juft going to work 
with him, had left him, at the Surprize of our firfl: 
Fire, and fled in a terrible Fright to the Sea-fide, 
and had jump'd into a Canoe, and three more of the 
reft made the fame Way: I turn'd to Friday, and 
bid him flep forwards, and fire at them * he under- 
flood me immediately, and running about forty 
Yards to be near them, he (hot at them, and I 
thought he had kilfd them all : for I fee them all 
fall of a Heap into the Boat •, though I faw two of 
them up again quickly : However, he kilTd two 
of them, and wounded the third •, fo that he lay 
down in the Bottom of the Boat, as if he had been 
dead. 

While my Man Friday fir'd at them, I pull'd out 
my Knife, and cut the Flags that bound the poor 
Vi&im-, and loofing his Hands and Feet, I lifted 
him up, and afk'd him in the Portuguese Tongue,- 
What he was ? He anfwer'd in Latin, Chriftiamis ; 
but was fo weak and faint, that he could fcarce 

ftand, 



[ 2 79 ] 

ftand or fpeak •, I took my Bottle out of my Poc- 
ket, and gave it him, making Signs that he fhould 
drink, which he did ^ and I gave him a Piece of 
Bread, which he eat-, then I afk'd him, What 
Countryman he was? And he faid, Efpagtiiole^ and 
being a little recovered, let me know by all the 
Signs he could pofnbly make, how much he was 
in my Debt for his Deliverance : Seig7iior, faid I> 
with as mijch Spain//) as I could make up, we will 
talk afterwards, but we muft fight now 5 if you 
have any Strength left, lake this Piftol and Sword, 
and lay about you. He took them very thankfully, 
and no (bondr had he the Anus in his Hands, but 
as if they had put new Vigour into him, he flew 
upon his Murderers like a Fury, and had cut two 
of them in Pieces in an inftant 5 for the Truth is, 
as the whole was a Surprize to them, fo the poor 
Creatures were fo much frighted with the Noife cf 
our Pieces, that they fell down for meer Amaze- 
ment and Fear, and had no more Power to at- 
tempt their own Efcape, than their Flefti had to 
refill our Shot •, and that was the Cafe of thole five 
that Friday ihot at in the Boat •, for as three of 
them fell with the Hurt they received, fo the other, 
two fell with the Fright.. 

I kept my Piece in my Hand {till, without firing, 
being willing to keep my Charge ready, beeaufe I 
had given the Spaniard my Piftol and Sword ^ lb I 
calVd to Friday, and bade him run up to the Tree 
from whence we firft fir'd, and fetch the Arms 
which lay there, that had been difcharg'd, which 
he did with great Swiftnefs 5 and then giving him 
my Mufket, I fat down my felf to load all the reft 
again, and bade them come to me when they want- 
ed : While I was loading thefe Pieces, there hap- 
pened a fierce Engagement between the Spaniard 
apd one of the Savages, who made at him with one of 

T 4 their 



[ >2o] 

their great wooden Swords, the fame Weapon that 
was to have kill'd him before, if I had not pre vent- 
ed it: The Spaniard, who was as bold and as brave 
as could be imagin d, though weak, had fought 
this Indian a good while, and had cut him two 
great Wounds on his Head ; but the Savage being 
a ftout lufty Fellow, doling in with him, had 
thrown him down (being faint) and was wringing 
my Sword out cf his Hand, when the Spaniard, tho* 
undermoft,wifely quitting the Sword, drew the Piftol 
from his Girdle, fhot the Savage through the Body, 
and Iciird him upon the Spot, before I, who was 
running to hdp him, could come near him. 

Friday being now left to his Liberty, purfud the 
flying Wretches with no Weapon in his Hand, but 
his Hatchet; and with that he difpatch'd thofe 
three, who, as I faid before, were wounded at firft 
and fall'n, and all the reft he could come up with •, 
and the Spaniard coming to me for a Gun, I gave 
him one, of the Fowling-Pieces, with which he 
purfud two of the Savages, and wounded them 
both 5 but as he was not able to run, they both got 
from him into the Wood, where Friday purfu'd 
them, and kilFd one of them -, but the other was too 
nimble for him •, and though he was wouiided, )^et 
had plung'd himfelf into the Sea, and fwam with 
all his might off to thofe two who were left in the 
Canoe, which three in the Canoe, with one wound- 
ed, who we know not whether he dy'd or no, were 
all that efca^'d our Hands of one and twenty : The 
Account of the reft is as follows •, 



2 



Kill'd at our firft Shot from the Tree. 
2 Kill'd at the next Shot. 
2 Kill'd by Friday in the Boat. 
2 Kill'd by Ditto, of thofe at firft wounded. 
I Kill'd by Ditto, in the Wood. 

? Kill'd 



[28.] 

3 KilFd by the Spaniard. 

4 KilFd, being found dropped here and there of 
their Wounds, or kill'd by Friday in his Chace 
of them. 

4 Efcap d in the Boat, whereof one wounded, if 
not dead. 

? i In all. 



Thofe that were in the Canoe, work'd hard^ to 
get out of Gun-Shot ^ and tho 3 Friday made two 
or three Shot at them, I did not find that he hit 
any of them : Friday would fain have had me took 
one of their Canoes, and purfo'd them ^ and indeed 
I was very anxious about their Efcape, leaft carry- 
ing the News Home to their People, they fhould 
come back, perhaps, with two or fhree hundred of 
their Canoes, and devour us by meet Multitude -, fo 
1 confented to purfue them by Sea, and running to. 
one of their Canoes, I jump a in, and bad Friday 
follow me •, but when I w r as in the Canoe, I was 
furpriz'd to find another poor Creature lie there a- 
live, bound Hand and Foot, as the Spaniard was, 
for the Slaughter, and almoft dead with Fear, not 
knowing what the Matter was ^ for he had not been 
able to look up over the Side of the Boat, he was 
ty'd fo hard, Neck and Heels, and had been ty'd fo 
long, that he had really little life in him. 

I immediately cut the twifted Flags, or Rufnes, 
which they had bound him with, and would have 
help'd him up-, but he could not (land, or fpeak, 
but groan'd moft piteoufly, believing, it feems, ftill 
that he was only unbound in order to be kill'd. 

When Friday came to him, I bade him fpeak to 
him, and tell him of his Deliverance, and pulling 
out my Bottle, made him give the poor Wretch a 

Dram, 



Pram, which, with the News of his being deli- 
vered, reviv d him, and he fat up in the Boat $ but 
when Friday came to hear him fpeak, and look'd 
in his Face, it would have moy'd any one to Tears, 
to have feen how Friday kifs'd him, embraced him, 
hugg'd him, cry'd, laughed, hollowed, jump'd a- 
tout, dane'd, fung, then cry'd again, wrung his 
Hands, beat his own Face and Head, and then 
fung, and jump'd about again, like a diftra&ed 
Creature : It was a good while before I cquld make 
him fpeak to me, or tell me what was the Matter ^ 
but when he caine a little to himfelf, he told me 
that it was his father. 

It is not eafy for me to exprefs how it mov'd 
me to fee what Extafy and filial AfFedtjon had 
work'd in this poor Savage, at the Sight of his Fa- 
ther, and of his being delivered from Death ^ nor 
indeed can I defcribe half the Extravagancies of his 
Affedtion after this 5 for he went into the Boat and 
out of the Boat & great many times: When he 
went in to him, he would fit down by him, open 
his Breaft, and hold his Father's Head clofe to his 
Bofom, half an Hour together, to nourilh it $ then 
he took his Arms and Ankles, which were numb'd 
and ftiff with the Binding, and chaffed and rubbed 
them with his Hands •, and I perceiving what the 
Cafe was, gave him fome Rum out of my Bottle, 
to rub them with, which did them a great deal of 
Good. 

This Aftion put an End to our Pinfuit of the 
Canoe, with the other Savages, who were now 
gotten almoft out of Sight •> and it was happy for . 
us that we did not •, for it blew fo hard within two' 
Hours after, and before they could be gotten a 
Quarter of their Way, and continued blowing fo . 
hard all Might, and that from the North ifejf, 
which was againft them, that I could not fuppofe 

their 



t »*} ] 

their Boat could live, or that they ever reached tq 
their own Coaft. 

But to return to Friday $ he >vas fo bufy about 
his Father, that I could not find in my Heart to 
take him off for fome Time : But after I thought 
he could leave him a little, I calfd him to me, 
and he came jumping and laughing, and pleas'd to 
the higheft Extream ^ then I alk'd him, If he had 
given his Father any Bread? He fhook his Head, 
and faid, None: Ugly Dog eat all up felf^ fo I gave 
him a Cake of Bread out of a little Pouch I cany d 
on Purpbfe 5 I alfo gave him a Dram for himfelf, 
but he would not tafte it, but carry 'd it to his Fa- 
ther : I had in my Pocket alfo two or three Bunches 
of my Raifins, fo I gave him a Handful of them 
for his Father. He had no (boner given his Fa- 
ther thefe Raifins, but I faw him come out of the 
Boat, and run away, as if he had been bewitch'd, 
he run at fuch a Rate $ for he was the fyifteft Fel- 
low of his Foot that ever I faw 5 I fay, he run at 
inch a Rate, that he was out of Sight, as it were, 
in an Inftant ^ and though I call'd" and hollow'd 
too after him, it was allone, away he went, and 
in a Quarter of an Hour, I faw him come back a- 
gain, though not fo faft as he went $ and as he 
came nearer, I found his Pace was flacker, becaufe 
he had fbmething in his Hand. 

When he came up to me, I found he had been 
quite Home for an Earthen Jugg, or Pot, to bring 
his Father fome frefh Water, and that he had got 
two more Cakes, or Loaves of Bread : The Bread 
he gave me, but the Water he carry 'd to his Father : 
However, as I was very thirfty too, I took a little 
Sup of it. This Water revived his Fatlier more 
than all the Rum or Spirits I had given him -, for 
he was juft fainting with Thirft. 

1 When 



[28 4 ] 

When his Father had drank, I call'd to him to 
know if there was any Water left - 5 he faid, Yes $ 
and I bad him give it to the poor Spaniard, 
who was in as much Want of it as his Father ^ 
and I fent one of the Cakes, that Friday brought, 
to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, 
and was repofing himfelf upon a green Place, under 
the Shade of a Tree, and whofe Limbs were alfo 
very ftiff, and very much fwelFd with the rude 
Bandage he had beenty'd with. When I faw that 
upon Fridays coming to him with the Water, he 
fat up and drank, and took the Bread, and be- 
gan to eat, I went to him, and gave him a Handful 
of Raifins 5 he look'd up in my Face with all the 
Tokens of Gratitude and Thankfulnefs that could 
appear in any Countenance-, but was fo weak, not- 
withftanding he had fo exerted himfelf in the Fight, 
that he could not ftand up upon his Feet $ he try'd 
to do it two or three Times, but was really not 
able, his Ankles were fo fwell'd and lb painful to 
him 5 fo I bad him fit frill, and caufed Friday to rub 
his Ankles, and batfoe them with Rum, as he had 
done his Father's. 

I obferv'd the poor affectionate Creature every 
twb Minutes, or perhaps lefs, all the while he 
was here, turn'd his Head about, to fee if his Fa- 
ther was in the fame Place and Bofture as he left 
him fitting-, and at laft hp found he was not to 
befeen-, at which h? ftarted up, and without 
fpeaking a Word, flew with that Swiftnefs to him, 
that one could fcarce perceive his Feet to touch 
the Ground, as he went : But when he came, he 
only found he had laid himfelf down to eafe his 
Limbs i fo Friday came back to me< prefently, and 
I then fpoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help 
him up if he could, and lead him to the Boat, and 
then he fhould carry him to our Dwelling, where 

I would 



[ >H ] 

I would take Care of him : But Friday, a lufty 
ftrong Fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon 
his Back, and carry 'd him away to the Boat, and 
fet him down foftly upon the Side or Gunnel ot the 
Canoe, with his Feet in the Infide of it, ard then 
lifted him quite in, and fet him clofe to his ra- 
ther, and prefently ftepping out again, launched 
the Boat off, and paddled it along the Shore falter 
than I could walk, tho' the Wind blew pretty 
hard too ^ fo he brought them both fate in*o« our 
Creek $ and leaving them in the Boat, runs away 
to fetch the other Canoe. As he pafs'd me, I 
fpoke to him, and aiVd him, whither he went, 
he told me, Go fetch more Boat -, fo away he went, 
like the Wind ^ for fure never Man or Horfe run 
like him, and he had the other Canoe in the Creek, 
almoft as foon as I got to it by Land ^ fo he wafted 
me over, and then went to help our new Guefts 
out of the Boat, which he did •, but they were nei- 
ther of them able to walk $ fo that poor Friday 
knew not what to do. 

To remedy this, I went to work in my Thought, 
and calling to Friday to bid them fit down on the 
Bank while he came to me, I foon made a Kind 
of Hand-Barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I 
carry 'd them up both together upon it between us : 
But when we got them to theOutfide of our Wall, 
or Fortification, we were at a worfe Lofs than be- 
fore 5 for it was impoflible to get them over •, and 
I was refolv d not to break it down : So I let to 
Work again-, and Friday and I, in about two Hours 
Time, made a very handfome Tent, covered with 
old Sails, and above that with Boughs of Trees, 
being in the Space without our outward Fence, 
and between that and the Grove of young Wood 
which I had planted : And here we made them two 
Beds of fuch Things as I had (viz.) of good Rice- 
Straw, 



t * 85 J 

Straw, with Blankets laid upon it to ]ye on, and 
another to cover them on each Bed. 

My Ifland was now peopled, and I thought my 
felf very rich in Subjects •, and it was a merry Re- 
fledtion which I frequently made, How like a King 
I look'd; Firft of all, the whole Country was my 
own meer Property * fo that I had an undoubted 
Right of Dominion. 2dZy, My People were per- 
feftly fubje&ed : I was abfolute Lord and Law- 
giver 5 they all ow'd their Lives to me, and were 
ready to lay down their Lives, if there had been Oc- 
cajionofit, for me. It was remakable too, we had 
but three Subjects, and they were of three different 
Religions. My Man Friday was a Proteftant, his 
Father was a Pagan and a Cannibal, and the Spaniard 
was a Papift : However, I allow'd Liberty of Con- 
ference throughout my Dominions : But this is by 
the Way. 

As foon as I had fecur'd ttiy two weak refcued 
Prifoners, and given them Shelter, and a Place to 
reft them upon, I began to think of making fome 
Provifion for them : And the firft Thing I did, I 
order'd Friday to take a yearling Goat, betwixt a 
Kid and a Goat, out of my particular Flock, to 
be kiird : When I cut off the hinder Quarter, and 
chopping it into fmall Pieces, I fet Friday to Work, 
to boiling and ftewing, and made them a very 
good Difh, I affure you, of Flefh and Broth* ha- 
ving put fome Barley and Rice alfo into the 
Broth ^ and as I cook'd it without Doors, for I 
made no Fire within my inner Wall, fo I carry 5 d 
it all into the new Tent ^ and having fet a Table 
there for them, I fat down^ and eat my own Din- 
ner alfo with them, and, as well as I cotild, cheard 
them and encouraged them : Friday being my Inter- 
preter, efpecially to his Father, and, indeed, to the' 



[ *8 7 ] 

Spaniard tooj for the Spaniard fpoke the Language 
of the Savages pretty well. 

After we had dined, or rather flipped, I ordered 
Friday to take one of the Canoes, and go and 
fetch our Mulkets and other Fire- Arms, which, for 
Want of Time we had left upon the Place of Battle * 
and the next Day I ordered him to go and bury 
the dead Bodies of the Savages, which lay open -to 
the Siln, and would prefently be offenfive $ and I 
alfo ordered him to bury the horrid Remains of 
their barbarous Feaft, which I knew were pretty 
much, and which I could not think of doing my 
felf 5 nay, I could not bear to fee them, if I went 
that Way : All which he punctually performed, and 
defac d the very Appearance of the Savages being 
there-, fo that when I went again, I could fcarce 
know where it was, other wife than by the Corner 
of the Wood pointing to the Place. 

I then began to enter into a little Converfation 
with my two new Subje&s $ and firft I fet Friday 
to enquire of his Father, what he thought of the 
JEfcape of the Savages in that Canoe, and whether we 
might expect a Return of them with a Power too 
great for us to refiffc : His firft Opinion was, that 
the Savages in the Boat never could live out theStorm 
which blew that Night they went off, but muft of 
Neceffity be drown a or driven South to thofe other 
Shores, where they were as fure to be devoured as 
they were to be drown'd if they were caft away ^ 
but as to what they would do if they came fafe on 
Shore, he faid he knew not •, but it was his Opini- 
ou that they were fo dreadfully frighted with the 
Manner of "their being attack'd, the Noife and the 
Fire, that he believ d they would tell their People, 
they were all kill' d by Thunder and Lightning, not 

I~ by the Hand of Man, and that the two which 
appeared, (vizj Friday and me, were two Heavenly 
Spirits 



[ 288 ] 

Spirits or Furies, come down to deftroy them anc 
not Men with Weapons: This he faid he kne\v 
becaufe he heard them all cry out fo in their Lan- 
guage to one another ^ for it was impoilible to them 
to conceive that a Man could dart Fire, and fpeak 
Thunder, and kill at a Diftance without lifting up 
the Hand, as was done now : And this old Savage 
was in the right •, for, as I underftood fince by 
others Hands, the Savages never attempted to go o- 
verto the Ifland afterwards $ they were fo terrified 
tvith the Accounts given by thofe four Men, (for it 
feems they did efcape the SeaJ that they believ'd 
whoever went to that enchanted Ifland would be 
deftroy 'd with Fire from the Gods. 

This however I knew not, and therefore was un- 
der continual Apprehenfions for a good while, and 
kept always upon my Guard , me and all my Army $ 
for as we were now four of us, I would have ven* 
tur'd upon a hundred of them fairly in the open 
Field at any Time. 

In a little Time, however, no more Canoes ap- 
pearing, the Fear of their Coming wore off, and 
I began to take my former Thoughts of a Voyage 
to the Main into Confideration, being likewife af- 
fur'd by Fridays Father, that I might depend upon 
good Ufage from their Nation on his Account, if 
I would go. 

But my Thoughts were a little fufpended, when 
I had aferious Difcourfe with the Spaniard, and 
when I underftood that there were fixteen more 
of his Countrymen and Portiiguefe, who having 
been caft away, and made their Efcape to that 
Side, liv'd there at Peace, indeed with the Sava- 
ges, but were very fore put to it for NeceflarieSj 
and indeed for Life: I aiVd him all the Par- 
ticulars of their Voyage, and found they were 
a Spattijf) Ship bound from the Rio <le la Plata 

to 



[ 28 9 ] 

to the Havana, being dire&ed to leave their Load- 
ing there, which was chiefly Hides and Silver, and 
to bring back what European Goods they could 
meet with there- that they had five Portugntfe Sea- 
men on Board, who they took out of another 
Wreck •, that five of their own Men were diowried 
when fitflrhe Ship was loft, and that thefe eftaped 
thro' infinite Dangers and Hazards, and arriv'd al- 
moft ftarvd on the CavtfibatCozft, where they ex- 
pedted to have been devour d every Moment. 

He told me, they had fome Arms with thfertt, 
but they were perfectly ufelefs for that they had 
neither Powder or Ball, the Wa{hing:of the' Sea 
having fpoifd all their Powder, but a little, which 
they ilfed at their firft Landing to provide them- 
felves fome Food. 

Iaik'dhim what he thought would become of 
them there, and if they had form'd no Defign of 
making any Efcape? He faid, They had many 
Confutations about it, but that having neither 
Veflel, or Tools to build one, or Provifions of any 
Kind,^ their Counfels always ended in Tears and 
Defpair. 

I afk'd him how he thought they would receive 
a Propofal from me, which might tend towards an 
Efcape: And whether, if they were all here, it might 
not be done? I told him with Freedom, I fear'd 
moftly their Treachery and ill Ufage of me, if I 
put my Life in their Hands * for that Gratitude was 
no inherent Virtue in the Nature of Man -, nor 
did Men always fquare their Dealings by the Obli- 
gations they had received, fo much as they did 
by the Advantages they expe&ed. I told him, it 
would-be very hard, that I fhould be the Inftrument 
of their Deliverance, and that they fhould after- 
wards make me their Prifoner in filetr Spain, where 
an Erglljbman was certain to be made a Sacri- 

U fice, 



[>90 ] 

fice, what Nepeffity, or what Accident foevcc 
brought him thither : And that I had rather be de- 
liver dug to the Savages,, and be devoured alive, 
than fall into the merrilefs Claws of the Priefts, ^nd 
be cafjy'd into the Inquijition. I added, Tha%o- 
therwife I was perfwaded, if they were all here, 
we might, with fomany Hands, build a Bark large 
enough to carry us all away, either to the Brafils 
Southward, or to the iflands or Spanifl) Coafl: 
Northward : But that if, in Requital they fhould, 
when I: had put Weapong into their Hands, carry 
me &y Force among their own People, I might be 
ill uled for my Kindnefs to them, an4 make my 
Cafe worfe than it was before. 

He anfwer'd yiritha great deal of Candor and In- 
genuity, lThat their Condition was fo miserable, 
and they werefb fenfijble oi it, that he believed 
they wpuld abhor the Thought of ufing any Man 
unkindly that fhould contribute to their uelive- 
ranee-, and that, if Ipleafed, he would go to them 
with the old Man, and difcourfe with them aboijt 
it, and return again, and bring me their Anfwer : 
That he would make Conditions with them upon 
their folemn Oath, That they fhould beabfoliite- 
ly under my Leading, as their Commander and 
Captain ^ and that they fhould.fwear upon the Holy 
Sacraments and the Gofpel, to be true to ijie, and 
to go to fuch thrift ian Country as that I fhould 
agree to, and no others and to be directed wholly 
and abfolutely by my Orders, 'till they were land- 
ed lafely in fuch Country as I intended •, and that 
he would bring a Contract from them under their 
Hands for that Purpofe. 

Then he told me, he woiuld firft fWear to me 

, himfelf, That he would never ftirfrommeas long 

as he livM, 'till I gave him Orders j and that be 

/woul4 take my Side to the laft Drop o£ his Blood, 

if 



if . there fhould happen the leaft Breach of Faith at 
mong his Countrymen. 

i He told me, tbjey were all of them very civil 
honeft Men, and they were under the gieateft Di- 
{Irpfs imaginable,, having neither ^eapons or 
Cloaths, nor any Food, but at the 1 Mfrrcy and Di- 
fc$etion of the Savages ■$ out of all Etopes of ever 
returning to their own Country * and^that he was 
fure, if I would undertake their Relief, they 
would live and die by me. 

Upon thefe AfTurances, I refolv'd to. venture to 
relieve them, if pofiible, and to fend the old Savage 
and this Spaniard over to them to treat : But when 
we had gotten all Things in a Readdnefs to go, the 
Spaniard himfelf ftarted an Obje&ion, which had 
fo muchjPrudence in it on one hand, and fo much 
Sincerity on the other hand, that I- could not but 
be very well fatisfy'd in it ^ and, by his Advice, put 
off the Deliverance of his Comrades for at leaft half 
a Year. The Cafe was thus: 
. He had been with us now about a Month -, du- 
ring which Time I had let him fee in what Man- 
ner I had provided, with the Ailiftance of Provi- 
dence, for my Support -, and he faw evidently what 
Stock of Corn and Rice I had laid up \ which, as 
it was more than fufficient fowmy fel£ fo it was 
not fufficient, at leaft without good Hufbandry, 
for my Family, now it was encreas'd to Number 
four : But .much lefs would it be fufficient, if 
his Countrymen, who were, as he faid* fourteen 
ftill alive, fhould come over h and leaft of all 
would it be fufficient to visual our VefTel, if we 
fhould build one, for a Voyage to any of the Chri- 
stian Colonies of America. So he told me, he thought 
it would be more advifable, to let him and the 
two other dig and cultivate fojne more Land, as 
piuch as I could fpate Seed to fow * and that we 

U 2 fljLQUld 



. [>9> ] 
fhould wait another Harveft, that we might have 
a Supply of Corn for his Country-men when they 
fhould come •, for Want might bt a Temptation to 
them todifagree, or not to thiwk themfelves deli- 
vered, otherwife than out of one Difficulty into 
another. You know, fays he, the Children of tf- 
rael, though they rejoyed at firft for their befog 
delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelPd even againft God 
himfelf that delivered them, when they came' to 
want Bread in the Wildernefs. 

His Caution: was fo feafonable, and his Advice 
fo good, that I could not but be very well pleas'd 
with his Propofal, as 'well as I was fatisfy'd with 
his Fidelity. So we fell to digging all four of us, 
as well as the wooden Tools we were furnifrul 
with permitted •, and in about a Month's Time, by 
the End of which it was Seed-Time, we had gotten 
as much Land cur'd and trimnul up, as we fow'd 
22 Bufheis of Barley on, and 16 Jarrs of Rice, 
which was, in fhort, all the Seed we had to fpare 5 
nor indeed did we leave ourfelves Barley fufficient 
for our own Food, for the fix Months that we had 
to exped our Crop, that is to fay, reckoning from 
the Time we fet our Seed afide for fowlng-, for it 
is not to be fuppos'd it is fix Months in the Ground 
in the Country. 

Having now Society enough, and our Number 
being fufficient to put m out of Fear of the Sava- 
ges, if they had come, unlefs their Number had 
been very great, we went freely all over thelfland, 
where-ever we found Occafion * and as here we had 
our Efcape or Deliverance upon our Thoughts, it 
was impoflible, at leaft for me, to have the 
Means of it out of mine •, to this Purpofe, 
I mark'd out feveral Trefes which I thought fit for 
our Work* and I fet Friday and his Father to cut- 
ting them down •, and then I caus'd the Spaniard* 

to 



l'-m 1 



to whom 1 imparted my Thought on that Affair, 
to overfee and dired their Work. I fhew'd therh 
with what indefatigable Pains 1 had hew'da large 
Tree into fingle Planks, and I caused them to d& 
the like, till they had made about a Dozen largfe 
Planks' of good Oak, near 2 Foot broad, 35 foot 
long, and from 2 Inches to 4 Inches thick: What 
prodigious Labour it took up, any one may ima- 
gine. 

At the fame Time I contrived to increafe my lit- 
tle Flock of tame Goats as much -as I could •, and 
to this Purpofe I made Friday and the Spaniard go 
out one Day, and my felf, with Friday, the ncifc 
Day ^ for we took our Turns : And by this Means 
we got above 20 young' Kids to breed up with the 
reft-, for whenever we fhot the Dam, we fav'd 
the Kids and added them to our Flock : But above 
ill, the Seafon for curing the Grapes comiiag on, 
I caus'd fuch a prodigious Quantity to he&frng -tip 
in the Sun, that I believe, had webeerit atAtidant, 
where; the Raifins of the Sun are cured, we could 
have ftll'd 60 or 80 Barrels f> and thefe, with our 
Bread, was a great Part of our Food, and very good 
living too, I aflure you-, for it is an exceeding noit- 
rifhing Food. 

It was now Harveftyand our Crop in good Or- 
der •, it was riot the moft plentiful Encreafe I had" 
feen in the Ifland, but however it was enough to 
anfwer our End; for from our 22 Bufliels of Bar- 
ley, we brought in and threftVcl out ahove 220 
Bulhels} and the like in Proportion of the Rice, 
which was Store enough foY^our Food to the next 
Harveft, tho' all the 1 6 Spaniards had been on Shore 
with me-, or if we had been ready for a Voyage,' 
it would very plentifully have vi&ualfd our Ship, 
to have carry'd us to any Part of the World, that 
is to fay, of America. 

U 3 When 



[ *94 ] 

When We had "thus Ijcus-d and, fecihM our Ma- 
gazine of Com, we feU to work to make more 
Wicker Work, vi%. greaT ballets in which we kept 
it ^ and the Spaniard was very h$ndy and dexterpps 
at this Part, and often biam'd jne thatt I did not 
make fome Things for , Defence, ot this Kind of 
"Work ^ but I faw no Need ot it. 

And now having a full Supply of food for all 
the Guefts I expected, I gave the Spaniard Leave 
to go over to the Main,, to-lee what he co ■vjd do 
with thofe he had lert behind him there. I f,ave 
him a ftri£t Charge in Writing, not to bring any 
Man with him, who would not firft fwear in the 
Prefence of himfelf and of the old Savage, That 
he would no Way injure, fight with , or attack the 
Perfon he fhould find in the Ifland, who was fo 
kind to fend for; them in order to their Delive* 
ranee v; but that they would ftand by and defend 
him iagainft all ;fuch Attempts, and where-ever 
they went, would t>e entirely under and fbbje&ed 
to his Commands; and that this fhould be put in 
Writing, and fign'd with their Hands : How we 
were to htfve this done, when I knew they had 
neither Pen or Ink, that, indeed, was a Queftiori 
which we never afk'd. 

Under thefe Inftru&ions, the Spaniard, and the 
old Savage (the Father of Friday) went away in one 
of the Canoes, which they might be faid.tp rcome 
in, or rather were brought in, when they came as 
Prifoners to be devour'd by the Savages. 

I gave each of them a Mufket with a Firelock; 
on it, and about eight Charges of Powder, and 
Bpll, charging them to be very good Hiifbands of 
both, and not to life either of them but upon ur- 
gent Occafion. 

This was a chearful Work, being the firft Mea-* 
fures ufed by me in View of my Deliverance for 

now 



C- «>J ] 



*' 



ho*r if Years arifl fome Days; I gavethemProvi- 
fibhs 6f Bread, and of dry Grapes, fufficient for 
themfelves for many Days, and fufficient for all 
thejur Codntry-men for about eight Days Tinte - and 
wifhing them a good Voyage, I fee them go/ a- 
greeing with them about a Signal they ftibuld hang 
out at their Return, by which 1 fhonid know them 
again, when they came back, at a Diftance^ before 
they came on Shore. 

They went away with a fair Gale on the Day 
that the Moon was at Full *, by my Account-in the 
Month of Offober •, but as for an exadi Reckoning 
of Days/ after I had once loft it, I could never re- 
cover it again • nor had I kept even the Number of 
Years fo pun&ually, as to be fure that I was right, 
tho', as it proVd, when I afterwards examined my Ac- 
count, I found I had kept a true Reckoningof Years. 
It was no lefs than eight Days I had waited for 
them, when a ftrange and unforefeen Accideht in- 
tervened, of which the like has not, perhaps, been 
heard of in Hiftory. I was faft afleep in my Hutch 
one Morning, when my Man Friday came running 
in to me, and calFd aloud, Majler, Mafler, tbey 
are come., they are come. 

Ijupip'dup, and, regardlefs^of Danger, I went 
out as foon as I could get my Cloaths on, thro' 
my little Grove, which (by the Way) was byftfus 
Time grown to be a very thick Wood : I fay, re- 
gardlefs of Danger, I went without my Arms, 
which was not my Cuftom to do •, but I was fur- 
priz'd, when turning my Eyes to the Sea, I pre- 
fently faw a Boat at about a League and Half s Di- 
ftance, {landing in for the Shore, with a Shoulder of 
Mutton Sail, as they call it, and the Wind blow- 
ing pretty fair to bring them in ^ alfo I bbferv'd 
prefently, that they did not come from that Side 
which the Shore lay on, but from the Souther- 
U 4 moll 



[ *9« ] 

rnofl End of the Ifland : Upon this I ciiy A Friday 

in, and bid him lie clofe, for thefe were pot tht 
People we looked for, and that we pi ght not know 
yet whether they were Friends or £nemies. 

In the next Place, I went in to fetch my Per- 
fpe&ive-Glafs, to fee what I could pake of them •, 
and 'having taken the Ladder out, I climb'd up to 
the Top of the Hill, as I ufed.to do when I was 
apprehenfive of any Thing, and to take my View 
the plainer without being difcover'd. 

I h^d fcarce fet my Foot on the Hill, when my 
Eye^plaiply difcover'd a Ship lying at an Anchor, 
at about two Leagues and an halifs pittance from 
me Sputh-foutlveaft, but not above a League and 
an half from the Shore, By my Obfervation it ap- 
peared plainly to be an EvgUJl) Ship, and the Boat 
append to be an Englijh Long- Boat. 

I cannot exprefs the Confufion I was in, tho' the 
Joy of feeing a Ship, and one who J had Reafon to 
believe was mann a by my own Country- men, and 
confequently Friends, was fuch as I cannot de* 
fcribe •, but yet I had fome fecret Doubts hung a- 
bout me, I cannot tell from whence they came, 
bidding me keep upon my Guard. In the firft 
Place, it occurred to me to conflder what Bufinefs 
an Evglijb Ship could have in that Part of the World, 
fince it was not the Way to or from any Part of the 
World, where the Evglijh had any Traffick •, and I 
knew there had been no Storms to drive them in 
there, as in Diftrefs^ and that if they were Evg* 
lijk really, it was moft probable that they were 
here upon no good Defign •, and that I had better 
continue as I was, than fall into the Hands of 
Thieves and Murderers. 

Let no Man defpife the fecret Hints and Notices 
of Danger which fometimes are given him, 
whpn he may think there is no Poflibility of its ber 

ing 



[ *9? 1 
ing real. That fuch Hints and Notices are given 
us, I believe few that have made any Obfervati* 
ons of Things can deny ^ that they are certain DiC 
coveries of an inviiible World, and a Convcrfe o£ 
Spirits, we cannot doubt ^ and if the Tendency 
of them feems to be to warn us of Danger, why 
ftiQuld we not fuppofe they are from fome friendly 
Agent, (whether fupreme, or inferior and fubor- 
dinate, is not the Queftion) and that they are gi- 
ven for our Good ? 

The prefent Queftion abundant ly-confirms me in 
the Juftice of this Reafoning ^ for had I not be$n 
made cautious by this fecret Admonition, come it 
from whence it will, I had been undone inevitably, 
and in a far worfe Condition than before, as you 
will fee prefently. 

I had not kept my felf long in thisPofture, but 
I faw the Boat draw near the Shore, as if they 
look'd for a Creek to thruft in at for the Conveni* 
ence of Landings however, as they did not come 
quite far enough, they did not fee the little Inlet 
where I formerly landed my Rafts v but run their 
Boat on Shore upon the Beach, at about half a 
Mile from me, which was very .happy for me y for 
otherwife they would have landed juft, as I may 
fay, at my Door, and would foon have beaten me 
out of my Caftle, and, perhaps, have plundered me 
of all I had. 

When they were on Shore, I was fully fatifyM 
that they were Bnglllb Men \ at leaft moft of them * 
one or two I thought were Butch \ but it did not 
prove fb ; There were in all eleven Men, whereof 
three of them I found were unarmM, and, as I 
thought, bound-, and when the firft four or five of 
them were jump'd on Shore, they took thofe three 
out of the Boat as Prifoners :' One of the three I 
could perceive ufing the moft paflionate Geftureg of 

Entreaty, 



[ » 9 * } 

lntreaty, Affliftion and Defpair, eVen to a kind of 
Extravagance'; the other two, L could perceive*, 
lifted up their Hands fometimes, ahd appeared con- 
cern d indeed, but not to fuch a Degree as the 
firft. 

I was "perfectly confounded at the Sight, and 
knew not what the Meaning of it Ihould be. Fri* 
daycalYd out to, me in EngliJI), as well as he coulcJ, 
O Mafter! Toil fee Englifh Mam eat Prifoner as well 
as. Savage Mans, Why, fays T, Friday, do you 
fhink they are a going to eat them then ? Tes r lays 
Friday, They will eat them: No, no, fays I, Friday, 
lam afraid they will murder them, indeed, but 
you may be Fure they will not eat them. 

All this while I had no Thought of what the 
Matter really was •, but flood trembling with the 
Horror of the Sight, expe&ing every Moment when 
the three Prifoners fhould be kill'd \ nay, once I faw 
one cf the Villains lift up his Arm with a great Cut- 
lafh, (as the Seanien call it) or Sword, to ftrike one 
of the poor Men * and I expedted to fee him fall 
every Moment, at which all the Blood in my Body 
feem'd to run chill in my Veins. 

I wifh'd heartily now for my Spaniard, and the 
Savage that was gone with him •, or that I had a? 
ny Way to bave come uiidifcover'd within Shot of 
them, that I might have refcu d the three Men 1 
for I faw no Fire Arms they had among them-, bat 
it fell out to my Mind another Way. 

After I had ob fervid the outragiousUfage of the 
three Men by the infolent Seamen, I obferv'd the 
Fellows run fcattering about the Land, as if they 
wanted to fee the Country :.' I obferv'd th^t the 
three other Men had Liberty to go' alfo where they 
pleas'd ; but they fate down all three upon the 
Ground very penfive, and look\T like Men in 
Defpair. 

This 






[ 2 99 ] 

This put me in Mind of the firffi Time when I 
tame on Shore, and began to look about me h how 
I gave my (elf over for loft, how wildly I look'd 
round me, what dreadful Apprenfions I had, and 
how I lodg'd in the Tree all Night for fear of 
being devoured by wild Beafts. 
- As I knew nothing that Night of the Supply I 
was to receive by the providential Driving of the 
Ship nearer the Land, by the Storms and Tide, by 
which I have fince been fo long nouriftui and (up* 
ported-, fothefe three poor defolate Men knewnc* 
thing how certain of Deliverance and Supply they 
were, how near it was to them, and how effectu- 
ally and really they were in a Condition of Safety, 
at the fame Time that they thought themfelves loft, 
and their Cafe defperate. 

So little do we fee before us in the World, and 
fo much Reafon have we to depend chearfully upon 
the great Maker of the World, that he does not 
leave his Creatures fo abfolutely deftitute, but that 
in the worft Circumftances they have always fome- 
thing to be thankful for, and fometimes are nearer 1 
their Deliverance than they imagine -,nay, are even 
brought to their Deliverance by the Means by 
which they feem to be brought to their Deftru- 
ftion. 

It was juft at the Top of High- Water when thefe 
People came on Shore, and while partly they ftood 
>arlying with the Prisoners they brought, and part- 
y while they rambled about to fee what kind of a 
>lace they were in, they had carelefly ftaid till the 
Tide wasfpent,and the Water-was ebb'd confidera- 
)ly away, leaving their Boat a-ground. 

They had left two Men in the Boat, who as I 
ound afterwards, having drank a little too much 

Iirandy, fell a-fleep •, however, one of them waking 
boner than the other, and finding the Boat too faft 
a-ground 



[ 5 oo ] 

a- ground for him to ftir it, hollo wM for the* reft 
who were ftraggling about, upon which' they ail 
foon came to the Boat-, but it was paft all their 
Strength to launch her, the Boat being very heavy, 
and the Shore on that Side being a loft oiily Sand, 
almoft like a Quick-Sand. 

In this Condition, like true Seamen, who are, per- 
hapSj the leaft of all Mankind given to Fore-thought, 
they gave it over, and away they ft rolfd about thfc 
Country again- and I heard one of them fay aloud 
to another, (calling them off from the Boat) Wty, 
Ift her alone, Jack, cant ye, fie 11 float vext Tide-, by 
which I was fully confirmed in the main Enquiry, 
Of what Countrymen they were > 

All this while I kept myfelf very clofe, not once 
daring to ftir out of my Caftle, any farther than to 
my Place of Obfervation, near the Top of the HilJ ^ 
and very glad I was, to think how well it was forti*- 
fy'd: I knew it was no lefs than ten Hours before 
the Boat could be on float again, and by that Time 
it would be dark, and I might be at more Liberty 
to fee their Motions, and to hear their Difcourfe, if 
they had any. 

In the mean Time, I fitted myfelf up for a -Bat- 
tle, as before •, tho' with more Caution, knowing 
I had to do with another Kind of Enemy than I had 
8t firft : I order'd Friday alfo, who I had made an 
excellent Markf man with his Gun, to load him- 
felf with Arms : I took myfelf two Fowling-Pieces, 
and I gave him three Mufkets. My Figure, indeed, 
was very fierce •, I had my formidable Goat-fkiii 
Coat on, with the great Cap I have mentioned, a 
naked Sword by my Side, two Piftols in my Belt,' 
and a Gun upon each Shoulder. 

It was my Defign, as I faid above, not to have 
made any Attempt 'till it was dark : But about 
two a-Clock, being the Heat of the Day, I found 

that 



that in fhort they were all gdne ftragglihg itito the 
Woods, and, as I thought; wete laid down to Sleep. 
The three poor diftrefled Men, ' tod'arciious for theit 
Condition to get any Sleep, were, : however, fet 
tlown under the Shelter of a great Tree, at about 
a quarter of a Mile from me, arid, as I thought, out 
of Sight of any of the reft, s 

Upon this I refolv'd to difcover my* felf 4o them, 
and learn fomething of their Condition : Immedi- 
ately I march'd in the Figure as above, my Man 
Friday at a good Diftance behind me, as formidable 
for his Arms as I, but not making quite fo flaring 
a Specirelike Figure as I did. 

I came as near them undifcover'd as I could, 
and then before any of them faw me, I calPd aloud 
to them mSpaftiJb, What are ye Gentlemen ? 
- They ftarted up at the Noife, but were ten 
times more confeunded when they faw me, and 
the uncouth Figure that I made. They made no 
Anfwer at all; but I thought I perceived them juft 
going to fly from me, when I fpoke to them in 
Euglijh : Gentlemen, laid I, do not be furpriz'd at 
me v perhaps you may have a Friend near you 
when you did not e-xpeft it. He muft be fent di- 
reftly from Heaven then, /aid one of them very 
gravely to me y avd pulling off bis Hat at the fdfHe Time 
toim, for our Condition is paft the Help of Man. 
All Help is from Heaven, Sir, faid I. But can 
you put a Stranger in the Way how to help you, 
for you Teem to me to be in fome great Diftrefs ? 
I Faw you when you landed, and whfcn you feem'd 
to make Application to the Brutes that came with 
y'6u, I faw one of them lift up his Sword to kill 
•yon. 
I The po6r Man, with Tears running dt&n his 
Face, and tremblings looking like one aftonifh'd, 
returned, Am I talking to God, or Man ! Is it a real 

Man 



[ 5° * } 

Man, *r att Angd ! E^ in no fear about that, S\t 9 
faid J, , if God had feijt an Angel to relieve you, he 
would have come better cloath'd, and arm'd after 
another Manner than you fee me in-, pray layafide 
your Fears, I am a Man, ,an Efiglijhman, and dif- 
pos'dto aiTiftjou^ you fee * I have one Servant 
only-, we have Arms and Ammunition $ tell- us 

freely, Can we ferve you > — What is your 

tafe ' 



e t: 

Our Cafe, faid he, Sir, is too long to tell you, 
while our Murderers are To near-, but, in fhort, 
Sir* I was Commander of that Ship, my Men 
have mutiny'd againft me, they have been hard- 
ly prevail'd on not to murder me, and at la ft 
frave fet me on Shore in thi? defolate Place, with 
thefe two Men with me, one my Mate, the other 
a PafTenger, where we expected to perifh, believ- 
ing the Place to be uninhabited, and know not yet 
what to think; of it. 

fi Whejre are thqfe Brutes, your Enemies, faid I ; 
po you knpw where they are gone ? There they lye, 
Sir, faid he, pointing to a Thicket of Trees, wy 
Heart tre?nbles for fear they have feettus, and heard 
yo\t fyeak ; if they have, they will certainly murder us 
all 

Have they apiy Fire- Arms, faid I ? He anfwer'd, 
they h^d only two Pieces, and one which they 
left in the Boat. Well then, faid I, leave the reft 
to me \ I fee they are all afieep, it is an eafy 
thing to kill them all * but (hall we rather take 
them Prifoners? He told me, there were two do- 
fperate Villains among them that it was fcarce 
fafe to fhew pny Mercy to -, but if they were fe- 
cund, he believ'd all the reft would return to 
;their J)tfty. "J afk'd him, which they were? He 
told me, he could not at that Diftancte defcribs 
tbems but he would obey my, Orders in any thing 

I would 



[ J°3 ] 

I would dired. . Well, lays I, let us retreat out of 
their View or Hearing, leaft they awake, and we 
will refolve farther-, fo they willingly went back 
withnie, till the Woods covered us from them. 

Look you, Sir, faid I, if I venture upon your 
Pejiveranqe, are you willing to make two Condi- 
tions with me \. he anticipated my Propofals, by 
telling me, that both he and the Ship, it recovered, 
fhpuld be wholly directed and commanded by me 
.in every thing * and if the Ship was not recoverd, 
.he would live and &e with me in- what Part of the 
Worid foever I would fend him •, and the two other 
Men faid the fame. 

WeB 9 fays I, my Conditions are but two. i. That 
•while you flay on this Iiland with me, you will not 
jyretend to any Authority here ^ and if I put Arms 
into your Hands, you will upon all Occafions give 
them up to me, and do no Prejudice to me or mine, 
upon this Ifland, and in the mean time be govern^ 
!|>y my Orders. 

2. That if the Ship is, or maybe recover'cL 
you wiU carry me and my Man to England Pat 
fage-free. 

I He gave me all the Aflurances. t ha t the Invention 
.and Faith of Man could devife, that he would com- 
,ply with thefe moft re^fonable Demands, and be- 
t |ides would owe his Life to me, and acknowledge 
it upon all Occafrons-^s long as he liv'd. 

Well then, faid I, here are three Mufkets for 
you, with Powder and Ball * tell me next what you 
think is proper to be done. He fhewed all the 
.Teftimony \of his Gratitude that he was able^ 
but offend to be wholly t guided by me. I told him^ 
I thought it was hard venturing any Thing $ but 
[{the beft Method I could think of was to fire upofi 
"km at once, as they lay $ and if any was npt 

ilTd at the foft Volley, and joffoed to fubmit, 

we 



[ 3°4 ] 

we might fave them, and fo put it wholly upon 
God s Providence to direct the Shot. 

He faid very modeftly, That he was loth to 
kill them, if he could help itf but that thofefwo 
were incorrigible Villains, and had been the Au- 
thors of all the Mutiny in the Ship, and if they 
cfcaped, we {hould be undone ftill y for they would 
go on Board, and bring the whole Ship's Com- 
pany, and deftroy us all. Well then, {ays I, Afc- 
cejity legitimates my Advice •, for it is the oiily 
Way to fave our Lives. However,* feeing him ftill 
cautious of (bedding Blood, I told him they fhtould 
go themfelves, and manage as they found con- 
venient. 

In the Middle of this Difcourfe we heard Come 
of them awake, and foori after 'we faw two of 
them on their Feet. I afk*d him, if either of them 
were the Men who he had faid were the Heads 
of the Mutiny? He faid, Not Well then, faid I, 
you may let them elcape, and Providence feems to 
have waken'd them onPurpofe to fave themfelves. 
Now, fays I, if the reft efcape you, it is your 
Fault. 

Animated with this, he took the Mufket I 
had given him in his Hand, and a Piftol in 
his Belt, and his two Cbmrades with him, with 
each Man a Piece in his Hand. The two Men 
who were with him going firft, made fome 
Uoife, at which one of the Seamen, who was 
awake, tunvd about, and feeing them coming, 
cry'd out to the reft •, but it was too late then •, for 
the Moment he cry'd out, they fif'd * I mean the two 
Men, the Captain wifely referving his own Piece : 
They had fo well aim'd their Shot at the Men they 
knew, that one of them was killVIon the Spot, and 
the other very much wounded * but not being dead, 
he ftarted up upon his Feet, and calTd eagerly for 

Help, 



[505]. 

help to the^ther - ? but the Captain ftepping to him, 
told him, 'twas too late to cry for Help, he fhould 
call upon God to forgive his Villany, and with that 
Work knocked him down with the Stock of his- 
' Mulket j fo i hat he never fpoke more : There were 
three more in the Company, and one of them was 
alfo flightly wounded : By this Time I was come .5 
and when they faw their Danger, and that it was 
in vain to refill:/ they begg d for Mercy : The Cap- 
tain told them, he would {pare their Lives, if they 
would give him any AfTurance of their Abhorrence 
of the Treachery they had been guilty of, and would 
iwear to be fairhful to him in recovering the Ship, 
and afterwaids in carrying her back to Jamaica^ 
i torn whence they came : They gave him all the 
Proteftations qf their Sincerity that could be defied, 
and he was willing to believe them, and fpare their 
Lives, which I was not againft * only I obliged him 
to keep them bound Hand and Foot while they were 
upon the Ifland. 

While this was doing, I fent Friday with the 
Captain's Mate to the Boat, with Orders to fecure 
her, and bring away the Oars and Sail, which 
they did ♦, ,and by and by, three ftraggling Men that 
were (happily for them) parted from the reft, came 
back upon hearing the Guns fir'd, and feeing their 
Captain, frho before was their Prifoner, now their 
Conqueror, they fubmitted to be bound alfo, and 
fo our Victory was compleat. 

It now remained, that the Captain and I fhould 
enquire into one another's Circumftances : I began 
firft, and told him my whole Hiftory, which he 
heard with an Attention ev?n to Amazement, and 
particularly at the wonderful Manner of my being 
fiimiih'd with Provifions and Ammunition •, and, 
indeed, as my Story i$ a whole Collection of Won- 
ders, it affefted him deeply h but when he reflefted 
X from 



r 3 o«] 



from thence upon himfelf, and how I feem'd to 
have been preferv d there on purpofe to fave his 
Life, the Tears ran down his Face, and he could 
not fpeak a Word more. 

After this Communication was at an End, I car- 
ry 'd him and his two Men into my Apartment, 
leading them in juft where I came out, viz. at the 
Top of the Houfe, where I refrelh'd them with 
fuch Proviiions as I had, and fhew'd them all the 
Contrivances I had made, during my long, long, 
inhabiting that Place, 

AU I fliew'd them, all I faid to them, was per- 
fectly amazing^ but above all the Captain admir'd 
my Fortification, and how perfectly I had concealed 
my Retreat with a Grove of Trees, which having 
been now planted near twenty Years, and the Trees 
growing much fafter than in England, was become 
a little Wood, and fo thick, that it was unpafTable 
in any Part of it, but at that one Side, where I 
had referVd my little winding PafTage into it : I 
told him, this was my Caftle and my Refidence ^ 
but that I had a Seat in the Country, as mod Prin- 
ces have, whither I could retreat upon Occafidn* 
and* I would fhew him that too another Time s 
but at prefent our Bufineis was to confider how to 
recover the Ship : He agreed with me as to that ± 
but told me, he was perfectly at a Lofs what Mea- 
fures to take ^ for that there were ftill fix and twen- 
ty Hands on Board, who having entered into a 
curfed Confpiracy, by which they had all forfeited 
their Lives to the Law, would be hardened in it 
now by Defperation •, and would carry it on, know- 
ing that if they were reduc'd, they fhould be 
brought to the Gallows as foon as they came to 
England, or to any of the Englijh Colonies ^ and 
that therefore there would be no attacking them 
with fo fmall a Number as we were. 

I mufed 



[ 3°7 3 



I mufed for fome Time upon what he had faid, 
and found it was a very rational Conclufion $ and 
that therefore fomething was to be refolv'd on ve- 
ry fpeedily, as well to draw the Men on Board in- 
to Fome Snare for their Surprize, as to prevent their 
Landing upon us, and dertroying us ^ upon this it 
i prelently occurred to me, that in a little while, the 
Ship's Crew wondering what was become of their 
Comrades and of the Boat, would certainly come 
on Shore in their other Boat, to fee for them, and 
that then, perhaps, they might come arm' d, and be 
too fhrong for us : This he allow'd was rational. 

Upon this I told him, the firft Thing we had to 
do, was to ftave the Boat, which lay upon the 
Beach, fo that they might not, carry her off ^ and 
. taking everything out of her, leave her fo far ufelefs 
as not to be fit to fwim ^ accordingly we went on 
Board, took the Arms which were left on Board, 
out of her, and whatever elfe we found there, 
which was a Bottle of Brandy, and another of 
Rum, a few Bilket- Cakes, a Horn of Powder, and 
a great Lump of Sugar, in a Piece of Canvas ^ the 
Sugar was five or fix Pounds ^ all which was 
very welcome to .me, efpecially the Brandy and 
Sugar, of which I had had none left for many 
Years. 

When we had carry'd all thefe Things on Shore, 
(the Oars, Maft, Sail, and Rudder oi the Boat, 
were carry 'd away before, as above) we knocked a 
great Hole in the Bottom, that if they had come 
ftrong enough to mafter us, yet they could not car- 
ry off the Boat. 

Indeed, it was not much in my Thoughts, that 
we could be able to recover the Ship 5 but my View 
was, that if tney went away without the Boat, lilid 
not much qrieftion to make hfir fit again, to carry us 
away to the Leeward IJlands, and call upon our 

X 2 Friends 



[ 3 o8] 

Friends the Spaniards, in my Way, for I had them 
ftiil in my Thoughts. 

While we were thus preparing our Defigns, and 
had fir ft, by main Strength, heavd the Boat up 
upon the Beach, fo high that the Tide would riot 
fleet her off at High- Water-Mark, and, befides, 
had broke a Hole in her Bottom, too big to be 
quickly ftopp'd, and were fat down muftng what 
we lhould do, we heard the Ship fire a Gun, arid 
faw her make a U aft with her Antient, as a Signal 
for the Boat to come on Board •, but no Boat ftirr'd ^ 
and they fir'd feveral times, making other Signals 
for the Boat. 

At laft, when all their Signals and Firings prov'd 
fraitlefs, and they found the Boat did not ftir, we 
faw them, by the Help of my Glaffes, hoift another 
Boat out, and row towards the Shore ; and we 
found as they approached, that there was no lefs 
than ten Men in her, and that they had Fire- Arms 
with them. 

As the Ship lay almoft two Leagues from the 
Shore, we had a full View of them as they came, 
and a plain Sight of the Men, even of their Faces, 
becaufe the Tide having ftt them a little to the Eajt 
of the other Boat, they row'd up under Shore, to 
come to the fame Place, where the other hid land- 
ed, and where the Boat lay. 

By this Means, I fay, we had a full View of them, 
and the Captain knew the Perfons and Characters 
of all the Men in the Boat •, of whom he faid, that 
there were three very honeft Fellows, who he was 
fure were led into this Confpiracy by the reft, be- 
ing over-pbvfrer'd and frighted. 

But that as for theBoatfwain, who it feems was 
th^chief Officer among them, and all the reft, they 
were as outragious as any of the Ship s Crew, and 
Were no doubt made defperate in their new Enter- 
prize \ 



[ 3°9 ] 

prize ^ and terribly apprehenfive he was, that they 
would be too powerful for us. 

I fmil'd at him, and told him, that Men in our 
Circumftances were paft the Operation of Fear: 
That feeing almoft every Condition that could be 
was better than that which we were fuppos'd to be 
in, we ought to expedt that the Confequence, whe- 
ther Death or Life, would be fure to be a Delive- 
rance. I aiVd him, What he thought of the Cir- 
cumftances of my Life ? And, whether a Delive- 
rance were not worth venturing for ? And where, 
Sir, faid I, is your Belief of my being prelerv'd here 
on purpofe to iave your Life, which elevated you 
a littie while ago? For my Part, faid I, there feems 
to be but one Thing amifs in all the Profpeft of it : 
Wh&t\ that Mays he $ why, faid I, 'Tis that, as you 
lay^tliere are three or four honed Fellows among 
them, which fhoud befpar'd i had they been all of 
the wicked Part of the Crew, I fhould have thought 
Gods Providence had finglcd them out to deliver 
them into your Hands • for depend upon it, ever)^ 
Man of them that comes a-fhore are our own, and 
Avail die, or live, as they behave to us, 

As I fpoke this with a raised Voice and chearful 
Countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him j fo 
we let vigorously to our Buflnefs : We had, upon the 
firft Appearance of the Boat's coming from the Ship, 
-confider'd of feparating our Prifoners, and had in- 
deed fecur'd them efFedtually. 

Two of them, of whom the Captain was lefs af- 
filed than ordinary, I fent with Fiiday, and one of 
the three (deliver d Men) to my Cave, where they 
were remote enough, and out of Danger of being 
heard or difcovera, or of finding their -Way out of 
the Woods, if they could have deliver 'd themfelves. 
Here they left them bound, but gave them Provisi- 
ons, and promisVl them if they continued there 
X 3 quietly, 



[ 3 io ] 

quietly, to give them their Liberty in a Day or 
two ^ but that if they attempted their Efcape, they 
fhould be put to Death without Mercy. They pro- 
mis'd faithfully to bear their Confinement with 
Patience, and were very thankful that they had 
fuch good Ufage as to have Provifions, and a Light 
left them * for Friday gave them Candles (fuch as 
we made our felves) ior their Comfort- and they 
did not know but that he flood Centinel over them 
at the Entrance. 

The other Prifoners had better Ufage ^ two of 
them were kept pinion d indeed, becaufe the Cap- 
tain was not free to truft them •, but the other two 
were taken into my Service upon their Captain's 
Recommendation, and upon their folemnly enga- 
ging to live and die with us ^ fo, with them and the 
three honeft Men, we were leven Men, well arm' d \ 
and I made no doubt we fhou'd be able to deal well 
enough with the Ten that were a coming, confi- 
dering that the Captain had faid, there were three 
or four honeft Men among them alfo. 

As foon as they got to the Place where their o- 
ther Boat lay, they run their Boat into the Beach , 
and came all on Shore, haling the Boat up after 
' them, which I was glad to fee ^ for I was afraid 
they would rather have left the Boat at an Anchor, 
fome Diftance from the Shore, with fome Hands . 
in her, to guard her > and fo we fnould not be able 
to feize the Boat. 

Being on Shore, the firft Thing they did, they 
ran all to the other Boat, and it was eafy to fee 
that they were under a great Surprize, to find her 
ftripp'd as above, of all that was in her, and a great 
Hole in her Bottom. 

After they had mus'd a while upon this, they 
fet up two or three great Shouts, hollowing with 
all their Might, to try if they could make their 

Companions 



Companions hear ^ but all was to no Purjpofe : Then 
they came allclofe in a Ring, and fir'd a Volley of 
f heir finall Arms, which indeed we heard, and the 
Echoes made the Woods ring $ but it was all one, 
thofe in the Cave we were fure could not hear, and 
thofe in our Keeping, though they heard it well e- 
npugh, yet durft give no Anfwer to them. 

They were fo aftonifh'd at the Surprize of this, 
. that as they told us afterwards, they refolv'd to go 
all on Board -again to their Ship, and let them know 
there, that the Men were all murder'd, and the 
Long-Boat ftav'd j accordingly they immediately 
launch'd their Boat again, and got all of them 
on Board. 

The Captain was terribly amaz'd, and even con- 
founded at this, believing they would go on Board 
the Ship again and fet Sail, giving their Comrades 
for loft, and fo he (hould ftill lofe the Ship, whigh 
he was in Hopes we (hould have recovered ; but he 
was quickly as much frighted the other way. 

They had not been long put off with the Boat, 
but we perceiv'd them all coming on Shore again-, 
but with this newMeafure in their Conduct, which 
it feems they confulted together upon, viz. To 
leave three Men in the Boat, and the reft to go orf 
Shore, and go up into the Country to look for their 
Fellows. 

This was a great Difappointment to us: for now 
we were at a Lofs what tD do-, for our feizing 
thofe feven Men on Shore would be no Advantage 
jo us, if we let the Boat efcape, becaufe they would 
jtfae'cf row away to the Ship, and then the reft of 
them would be fure to weigh and let Sail, *tnd fo 
our recovering the Ship would be loft. 

However, we had no Remedy but to wait and 

fee what the Iffue of Things might prefent: The 

feven Men came on Shore, and the three who re- 

X 4 main'd 



C 3 12 } 



main'd i}f the Boat, put her off to a good Dittance 
from the Shore, and came to an Anchor to wait ffcr 
them ^ fo that it was impcifible for us to come at 
them in the Boat. 

Thofe that came on Shore, kept clofe together, 
marching towards the Top of the little Hill, under 
which my Habitation lay ^ and we could fee them 
plainly, tho' they could not perceive us : We 
could have been very glad they would have come 
nearer to us, fo that we might have find at them, 
or that they would have gone farther ofl^ that we 
might have come Abroad, 

But when they were come to the Brow of the 
Hill, where they could fee a great Way into the 
Valleys and Woods, which lay towards the North- 
Eaft Part, and where the Ifknd lay loweft, they 
ihouted and hollowed till they were weary •, and 
not caring, it feems, to venture far from the Shore, 
nor far from one another, they fat down together 
under a Tree, to confider of it : Had they thought 
fit to have gone to fieep there, as the other Party 
of them had done, they had done the Jobb for us; 
but they were loo full of Apprehenfions of Danger, 
to venture to go to fleep, tho 3 they could not tell 
what the Danger was they had to fear neither. 

The Captain made a very juft Propofal to me, 
upon this Confutation of theirs,' viz. That per* 
haps they would all fire a Volle)^ again, to endea- 
vour to make their Fellows hear, and that we 
fliould all fally upon them, juft at the Jufidure 
when their Pieces were all difcharsfd, and they 
w r ou!d certainly yield, and we (hould have fheni 
without Blood- fhed : I liFd the Propofal, provided 
it was done while we were near enough to come 
up to them, before they could load their Pieces 
again. 

But 



But this Event did not happen, and we lay ftill 
a long Time, very if refolute what Courfe to take j 
at length I told them, there would be nothing to 
be done in my Opinion till Night, and then if they 
did not return to the Boat, perhaps we might find 
a Way to get between them and the Shore, and ib 
might ufeXome Stratagem with them in the Boat, 
to get them on Shore. 

We waited a great while, tho° very impatient 
for their removing, and were very uneafy 5 when, 
after long Confultatsons, we Taw them ftart all up, 
and march down toward the Sea : It feems they 
had fuch dreadful Apprehenfions upon them, of 
the Danger of the Place, that they refolv'd to go 
on Board the Ship again, give their Companions 
over for loft, and lo go on with their intended 
Voyage with the Ship. 

Asfoon as I perceived them go towards the Shore, 
I imagined it to be as it really was, That they had 
given over their Search, and were for going back 
again ^ and the Captain, as foqn as I told him tny 
Thoughts, was ready to fink at the Apprehenfions 
of it ^ but I prefently thought of a Stratagem to 
fetch them back again, and which anfwer'd my 
End to a Tittle. 

I ordered Friday, and the Captain's Mate, to go 
over the little Greek Weftward towards the Place 
where the Savages came on Shore, when Friday was 
irefcud-, and as loon as tluycame to a little rifing 
Ground, at about half a Mile Diftancc, I bad them 
hollow, as loud as they could, and wait till they 
found the Seamen heard them $ that as foon as ever 
they heard the Seamen anfwer them, they fhould 
return it again, and then keeping out of Sight, tafce 
aRound, always anfwering when the other hollow'd, 
to draw them as far into the Jfiand, and among the 

Woods, 



[3>4] 

Woods, as poflible, and then wheel about again to 
me, by fuch Wa}^ as I diredted them. 

They were jufr going into the Boat, when Fri* 
Jay and theMatehollow'd, and they prefently heard 
them, and anfwering, run along the Shore Weft- 
ward, towards the Voice they heard, when they 
were prefently ftoppd by the Creek, where the 
Water being up, they could not get over, and 
calFd for the Boat to come up ? and let them over, 
as indeed I expected. 

When they had fet themfelves over, I obferv'd, 
that the Boat being gone up a good Way into the 
Creek, and, as it were, in a Harbour within the 
Land, they took one of the three Men out of her 
to go along with them, and left only two in the 
Boat, having fatten d her to the Stump of a little 
Tree on the Shore. 

This was what I wifh'd for, and immediately 
leaving Friday and the Captaias Mate to their Buf i- 
nefs, I took the reft with me, and croffing the 
Creek out of their Sight, we furpriz*d 'the two 
Men before they were aware, one of them lying 
on Shore,' and the other being in the Boat ^ the 
Fellow on Shore was between Heeping and waking, 
and going to ftart up, the Captain, who was fore- 
moft, ran in upon him, and knocked him down,' and 
then called out to him in the Boat to yield, or he 
was a dead Man. 

There needed very few Arguments to perfwade 
a fingle Man to yield, when he faw five Men upon 
him, and his Comrade knbck'd down •, befides, this 
was, it feems, one of the threie who were not fo hear- 
ty in the Mutiny as the reft; of the Crew, and there- 
fore was eafily perfwaded, not only to*yield, but 
afterwards to join very fincerely with us. 

In the mean Time, Friday and the Captain's Mate 
fib well managed their Bufinefs with the reft, that 

they 






[,3*5] 

they drew them, byHollowing and Anfwering,from 
one Hill to another, and from one Wood to ano- 
ther, 'till they not only heartily tir'd them, but left 
them where they were very lure they could not 
reach back to the Boat before it was dark h and in- 
deed they were heartily tir'd themfelves alfo by 
the Time they came back to us. 

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them 
in the Dark, and to fall upon them, fo as to make 
fure Work with them. 

It was feveral Hours after Friday came back to 
me, before they came back to their Boat •, and we 
could hear the Foremoft of them long before they 
came quite up, calling to thofe behind to come 
along, : and could alfo hear them anfwer, and com- 
plain how lame and tyr'd they were, and not able 
to come any fafter, which was very welcome News 
to us. 

At length they came up to the Boat •, but 'tis 
impoffible to exprefs their Confufion, when they 
found the Boat faft a*ground in the Creek, the 
Tide ebb'd ' out, and their two Men gone : We 
could hear them call to one another in a molt la- 
mentable Mannet, telling one another they were 
gotten into an inchanted Illand * that either there 
were Inhabitants in it, and they fhotild all be mtfr- 
der'd s or clfe there were Devils and Spirits in it, 
and they fhould be all carry 'd a^ay and devour'd. 
: They hollow'd again, and calfd their two Coirie- 
rades by their Names a great many Times, but 
no Anfwer. ^After fome Time, we could fee them, 
by the little Light there was, run about wringing 
their Hands, like Men in Defpair 5 and that fome- 
times they would go and fit down in the Boat to 
reft themfelves, then come afhore again, and walk 
about again, and fo the fame Thing over again. 

My 



[ 3'6] 

My Men would fain have me give them Leave 
to fall upon them at once in the Dark ^ but I wds 
willing to take them at fome Advantage, fa to 
fpare theip, and kill as few of them as I Could - 7 
and efpecially I was unwilling to hazard the kil- 
ling any of our own Men, knowing the other were 
very well arm'd. I refolv d to wait to fee if they 
(Jid not feparate j and therefore to make fure of 
them, I dr£w my Ambufcade nearer, and ordered 
Friday and the Captain to creep upon their Hand& 
and Feet as clofe to the Ground as they could, 
that they might not be difcoverd, and get as near 
them^as the)' could poinbly, before they ofter'd to 
fire. 

They had not been long in that Poftyre, but that 
the Boatfwain, who was the principal Ringleader 
of the Mutiny, and had now fhewn himfelf the 
moft dejected and difpirited of all the reft, came 
walking towards them with two more of their 
Crew-, the Captain was fo eager, as haying this 
principal Rogue fo much in his Power, that he 
could hardly have Patience to let him come fo 
near as to be fure of him-, for they only heard* 
his Tongue before : But when they came nearer, 
the Captain and Friday darting up on their Feet, 
let fiy at them. 

The Boatfwain was kilfcl upon <the Spot \ the 
next Man was (hot into the Body, and fell juft by 
him, tho' he did not die till an Hour or two after * 
and the third run for it. 

At the Noife of the Fire, I immediately ad-? 
yane'd with my whole Army, \#hich was now 
eight Men, viz. myfelf Generalimmo, Friday my 
Lieutenant-General, the Captain and his two Men, 
and the three Prifoners of War, who we had milled 
with Arms. 

We 



[5'7l 

We came upon them indeed in the Dark, fo that 

they could not fee our Number * and I made the 
Man they had left in the Boat, who was now one 
of us, to call them by Name, to try if I could 
bring them to a Parley, and fo might perhaps re- 
duce them to Terms, which fell out juft as we- de- 
fied : For indeed it was eafy to think, as their 
Condition then was, they would be very willing 
to capituUte ^ fo he calls out as loud as he could, 
to one of them, Tom S?nith, Tom Smith $ Tom Smith 
anfwer'd immediately, Who's that, Robinfon ? For 
it feems he knew his Voice : T other anfwer'd, Ay, 
ay ; for God's Sake 7 Tom Smith, throw down your 
Arms, and yield, or you are all dead Men this Mo- 
ment. 

Who mujl we yield to ? Where are they ? (fays Smith 
again * ) Here they are, fays he, here's our Captain, 
and fifty Men with him, have been hunting you 
this two Hours ^ the Boatfwain is kill'd, Will Fry* 
is wounded, and I am a Prifoner ^ and if ycu do 
not yield, you are all loft. 

Will they give us Quarter then, (fays Torn 
Smith) and we will yield > Fll go wd afk, if you 
fjomife to yield, fays Robinfon $ fo he afk'd the Cap- 
tain, and the Captain himfelf then calls out, You 
Smithy you know my Voice, if you lay down your 
Anns immediate^, and fubmit, you lhall have 
your Lives, all but Will. Atkins. 

Upon this, Will. Atkins cry'd out, For Gjd'sSake, 
Captain, give me Quarter, what have I done f They 
have been all as bad as I-, which by the Way was not 
true neither ^ for it feems this Will. Atkins was the 
firft Man that laid hold of the Captain, when they 
firft mutiny 'd," and ufed him barbaroufly, in tying 
his Hands, and giving him injurious Language. 
However, the Captain told him he muft lay down 
his Arms at Difcretion, and truft to the Gover- 
nor's 



hour's Mercy, by which he meant me-, for they 
all call'd me Governour. 

In a Word, they all laid down their Arms, and 
begg'd their Lives ^ and I fent the Mau that had 
parly 'd with them, and two more, who bound 
them all*, and then my great Army of 50 Men, 
which particularly with thofe three, were all but 
eight, came up and feiz'd upon them all, and up- 
on their Boat, only that I kept myfelf and one 
more out of Sight, for Reafons of State. 

Our next Work was to repair the Boat, and to 
think of feizing the Ship •, and as for the Captain, 
now he had Leifure to parly with them : He expo- 
ftulated with them upon the Villany of their Pra- 
ctices with him, and at length, upon the farther 
Wickednefs of their Defign, and how Certainly it 
muft bring them to Mifery andDiftrefs in the End, 
and perhaps to the Gallows. 

They all appear'd very penitent, and begg'd hard 
for their Lives : As for that, he told them, they 
were none of his Prifoners, but the Commander's of 
the Ifland ^ that they thought they had fet him on 
Shore in a barren uninhabited Ifland, but it had 
pleas'd God fb to direft them, that «the Ifland 
was inhabited, and that the Governour was an 
EngliJImian -, that he might hang them all there, if 
he pleas'd :, but as he had given them all Quarter, 
he fupposM he would fend them to England, to be 
dealt with there, as Juftice recjuir'd, except At- 
kins, who was commanded by the Governour to 
advife to prepare for Death \ for that he would be 
hang'd in the^Morning. 

Though this was all a Fiction of his own, yet 
it had its defied Effect ^ Aikim fell upon his Knees 
to beg the Captain to intercede with the Gover- 
nour for his Life, and all the reft begg'd of him 

for 



[5'9J 

for God's fake, that they might not be fent td 
England. 

It now occurrM to him, that the Time of our 
Deliverance was come, and that it would be amoft 
eafy thing to bring thefe Fellows in, to be hearty 
in getting Poffeflion of the Ship •, fo I retired in the 
Dark from them, that they mighti not fee what 
Kind of a Governour they had, and call'd the Cap- 
tain to me * when I call'd, as at a good Diftance, 
one of the Men was order'd to fpeak again, and fay 
to the Captain, Captain, the Commander calls for 
yon ^ and prefently the Captain reply'd, Tell his 
Excellenly, 1 am juft a coming : This more perfectly 
amus'd them-, and they all believ'd that the Com- 
mander was juft by with his fifty Men. 

Upon the Captain's coming to me, I told him 
my Project for feizing the Ship, which he lik'd of 
wonderfully well, and refolv a to put it in Execu- 
tion the next Morning. 

But in Order to execute it with mere Art, and 
fecure ofSuccefs, I told him, we muft divide the 
Prifoners, and that hefhould go and take Aikins 
and two more of the worft of them, and fend them 
pinioned to the Cave where the others lay : This 
was committed to Friday and the two Men who 
came on Shore with the Captain. 

They convey'd them to the Cave, as to a Pri- 
fbn •, and it was, indeed, a difmal Place, efpecially 
to Men in their Condition. 

The other I order'd to my Bower, as I call'd it, 
of which I have given a full Defcription \ and as 
it was fene'd in, and they pinion'd j the Place was 
fecure enough^ confidering they were upon their 
Behaviour. 

To thefe in the Morning I fent the Captain, who 
was to enter into a Parley with them, in a Word, 
to try them, and tell me, whether he thought they 

might 



[ 3 20 ] 

tfiight be trufted or no, to go on Board and furprize 
the Ship. He talked to them of the Injury done 
him-, of the Condition they were brought to-, and 
that though the Governour had given them Quar- 
ter for their Lives, as to the prefent Adion, yet 
that if they were fent to England, they would all 
be h^ng'd in Chains, to be fiire ^ but that if they 
Would join in fo juft an Attempt, as to recbver the 
Ship, he would have the Governour's Engagement 
for their Pardon. 

Any one may guefs how readily fuch a Propofal 
would be accepted by Men in their Condition 5 
they fell down on their Knees to the Captain, and 
promifed with the deepeft Imprecations, that they 
would be faithful to him to the laft Drop, ' and 
that they fhould .owe their Lives to him, and 
would go with him all over the World ^ that they 
would own him for a Father to them as long as 
they liv'd. 

Well, fays the Captain, I itiufl: go and tell the 
Governour what you fay, and fee what I can do 
to bring him to confent to it : So he brought me 
an Account of the Temper he found them in - y 
and that he verily believd they would be faith- 
ful. 

However, that we might be very fecure, I told 
him he fhould go back again, and chufe out thofe 
five, and tell them, they might fee that he did not 
want Men •, that he would take out thole five to be 
his Afliftants, and that the Governour would keep 
the other two, and the three that were fent Prifi> 
ners to the Caftle (my Cave) as Hoftages, for the 
Fidelity of thofe five •, and. that if tfiey prov'd un- 
faithful in the Execution, the five Hoftages fhould 
be hang'd in Chains alive upon the Shore. 

This 



[ pi ] 

This look'd fevere, and convince! them that the 
Governour was in Earneft $ however, they had no 
tVay left them but to accept it$ and it was now 4 
the Buflnefs of the Prifoners, as much as of the 
Captain, to perfwade the other five to do their 
Duty. 

Our Strength Was now thus ordered for the Ex- 
pedition : i. The Captain, his Mate, and PafTenger. 
2. Then the two Prifoners of the firft Gang, to 
whom, having their Characters from the Captain, 
I had given their Liberty, and trtifted them with 
Arms. 3. The other two, who I had kept till now 
in my Bower, pinionM, but, upon the Captain's 
Motion, had now released. 4. Thefe five releas'd 
at laft ^ fb that they were twelve in all, befides five 
we kept Prifoners in the Cave for HoftageS. 

I aik'd the Captain, if he was willing to ven- 
ture, with thefe Hands on Board the Ship * for, 
as for me and my Man Friday, I did not think 
it was proper for us to ftir, having feven Men 
left behind $ and it was Employment enough for 
lis to keep them afunder, and fupply them with 
Victuals. 

As to the five in the CaVe, t refolv'd to keep 
them faft •, but Friday went in twice a Day to them, 
to fupply them with Necefiaries 5 and I made the 
other two carry Provisions to a certain Diftance, 
where Friday was to take it. 

When I ihew'd my felf to the two Hoftages, it 
was with the Captain, who told them, I was the 
Perfon the Governour had ordered to look after 
them, and that it was the Governour s Pleafure they 
fhould not ftir any where but by my Direction ^ 
that if they did, they ihould be fetch'd into the 
Caftle, and be laid in Irons-, ^o that as we ne* 
ver fuffered them to fee me as Governotir, fo I 
now appcar'd as another Perfon, and fpoke of the 
£ Gover* 



Governour, the Garrifon, the Cattle, and the like, 
upon all Occafions. 

The Captain now had no Difficulty before him, 
but to furnifh his two Boats, flop the Breach of 
one, and man them. He made his Paflenger 
Captain of one, with four other Men \ and him- 
felf, and his Mate, and five more went in the o- 
ther : And they contrived their Bufinefs very well y 
for they came up to the Ship about Midnight. As 
foon as they came within Call of the Ship, he made 
Robhfov hale them, and tell them they had brought 
off the Men and the Boat, but that it was a long 
Time before they had found them, and the like 5 
holding them in a Chat 'till the)^ came to the Ship a 
Side ^ when the Captain and the Mate, entering 
firft with their Arms, immediately knocked down 
the fecond Mate and Carpenter with the But-end 
of their Mufkets, being very faithfully feconded 
by their Men •, they fecur'd all the reft that were 
upon the Main and Quarter Decks, and began ta 
fatten the Hatches to keep them down who were 
below, when the other Boat and their Men entering 
at the fore Chains, fecur'd the Fore-Gaftle of the 
Ship, and the Scuttle which went down in the 
Cook-Room, making three Men they found there 
Prifoners. 

When this was done, and all fafeupon Deck, the 
Captain order'd the Mate with three Men to break 
into the Round Houfe, where the new Rebel Cap- 
tain lay -, and, having taken the Alarm, was gotten 
tip, and with two Men and a Boy had gotten Fire- 
Arms in their Hands ^ and when the Mate with a 
Crow fplit open the Door, the new Captain and 
his Men find boldly among them, and wounded the 
Mate wjth a Mulket-Ball, which broke his Arm, 
and wounded two more of the Men, but kill'd no 
Body. 

The 



[3*3] 

The Mate calling For Help, rufh'd however in- 
to the Round-Houfe, wounded as he was, and with 
his Piftol fhot the new Captain through the Head, 
the Bullet entering at his Mouth, and Came out 
again behind one of his Ears •, fo that he nevefc 
fpoke a Word -, upon which the reft yielded, and 
the Ship was taken effectually, without any more 
Lives loft. 

As foon as the Ship was thus fecur'd, the Cap- 
tain order 'd feven Guns to be fir'd, which was the 
Signal agreed upon with me, to give me Notice 
of h ; s Siiccefs, which you may be fure I was very 
glad to hear, having fate watching upon the Shore 
for it till near two of the Clock in the Morning. 

Having thus heard the Signal plainly, I laid me 
down -, and it having been a Day of great Fatigue 
to me, I flept very found, till I was fomething fur- 
priz'd with the Noife of a Gun $ and prefently 
ftarting up, I heard a Man call me by the Name 
of Governour, Governour, and prefently I knew the 
Captain's Voice, when climbing up to the Top of 
the Hill, there he flood, and pointing to the Ship, 
he embraced me in his Arms, My dear Friend and 
Deliverer, fays he, there s your Ship, for fie is all yours, 
and fo are we and all that belong to her. I caft my Eyes 
to the Ship, and there fne rode within little more 
than half a Mile of the Shore ^ for they had weigh'd 
her Anchor as foon as they were ?vlafters of her 5 
and the Weather being fair, had brought her to an 
Anchor juft againft the Mouth of the little Creek 5 
and the Tide being up, the Captain had brought 
the Pinnace in near the Place where I firft landed 
my Rafts, and fo landed juft at my Door. 

I was at firft ready to fink down with the Sur- 
prize : For I faw my Deliverance indeed vifibly . 
put into my Hands, all Things eafy, and a large 
Ship juft ready to carry me away whither I plea- 
Y 2 "fed 



t 3 2 4 ] 

fed to go. At firft, for fome Time, I was not able 
to anfwer him one Word •, but as he had taken me 
in his Arms, I held faft by him, or I ihould have 
fallen to the Ground. 

He perceivd the Surprize, and immediately 
pulls a Bottle out of his Pocket, and gave me a 
Dram of Cordial, which he had brought on pur- 
pofe for me ^ after I had drank it, I fat down up- 
on the Ground - 5 and though it brought me to my 
felf, yet it was a good while before I could fpeak 
a Word to him. 

All. this while the poor Man was in as great an 
Extafy as I, only not under any Surprize, as I was$ 
and he faid a thoufand kind tender Things to me, 
to compofe and bring me to my felf-, but fuch 
was the Flood of Joy in my Breaft, that it put all 
my Spirits into Confufion •, at laft it broke out 
into Tears, and in a little while after 1 recover d 
my Speech. 

Then I took my Turn, and embraced him as 
my Deliverer •, and we rejoyc d together. I told 
him, I look'd upon him as a Man ferit from Hea- 
ven to deliver me, and that the whole Tranfadion 
feeirTd to be a Chain of Wonders •, that fuch Things 
as thefe were the Teftimonies we had of a fecret 
Hand of Providence governing the World, and an 
Evidence, that the Eyes of an infinite Power could 
fearch into the remoteft Corner of the World, and 
fend Help to the Miferable whenever he pleafed. 

I forgot not to lift up my Heart in Thankful- 
nefs to Heaven •, and what Heart could forbear to 
blefs him, who had not only in a miraculous Man- 
ner provided for one in fuch a Wildernefs, and 
in fuch a defolate Condition, but from whom every 
Deliverance muft always be acknowledged to pro- 
ceed ! 

When 



When we had talk'd a while, the Captain told 
me, he had brought me fome little Refrefhment, 
fuch as the Ship afforded, and fuch as the Wretches 
that had been lb long his Malrers had not plunder'd 
him of: Upon this he calPd aloud to the Boat, and 
bid his Men bring the Things a-Shore that were for 
the Governour-, and indeed it was a Prefent, as if 
I had been one not that was to be carry 'd away 
along with them, but as if I had been to dwell 
upon the liland ftill, andthey were to go without 
me. 

Firft he had brought me a Cafe of Bottles full 
of excellent Cordial Waters, fix large Bottles of 
Madera Wine j the Bottles held two Qarts apiece ; 
two Pound of excellent good Tobacco, twelve good 
Pieces of the Ship's Beef, and fix Pieces of Pork, 
with a Bag of Peafe, and about a hundred Weight 
of Bifket. 

He brought me alfo a Box of Sugar, a Box of 
Flower, a Bag full of Lemons, and two Bottles of 
Lime-juice, and abundance of other Things: But 
befides thefe, and what was a thoufand times more 
u-fehil to me, he brought me fix clean new Shirts, 
fix very good Neckcloaths, two Pair of Gloves, 
one Pair of Shoes, a Hat, and one Pair of Stock- 
ings, and 3 very good Suit ofCloaths of his own, 
which had been worn but very little : In a Word, 
he cloathed me from Head to Foot. 

It was a very kind and agreeable Prefent, as any 
one may imagine, to one in my Circumftances : 
But never was any thing in the World of that Kind 
fo unpleafant, awkard, and uneafy, as it was to 
me to wear fuch Cloaths at their firft putting on. 

After thefe Ceremonies paft, and after all his 
good Things were brought into my little Apart- 
ment, we began to confult what was to be done 
with the Prifoners we had 5 for it was worth con- 

Y 3 fidering 



[ i*6 ] 

fidering, whether we might venture to take them 
away with us or no, efpecially two of them, who 
we knew to be incorrigible and refraftory to the 
laft Degree ^ and the Captain faid, he knew they 
were fuch Rogues, that there was no obliging 
them, and if he did carry them away, it muft be 
in Irons, as Malefa&ors to be delivered over to Ju- 
ftice at the firft Evglzfl) Colony he could come at r 
and I found that the Captain himfelf was very 
anxious about it. 

Upon this, I told him, that if he defied it, I 
durft undertake to bring the two Men he fpokeof, 
to make it their own Requeft that he fhould leave 
them upon the Ifland : I fioirfd be very glad of that, 
fays the Captain, with all my Heart. 

Well, fays I, I will fend for them up, and talk 
with them for you • fo I caus'd Friday and the two 
Hoftages, for they were now difcharg'd, their Com- 
rades having performed their Promife^ I fay, Icau- 
fed them to go to the Cave, and bring up the five 
Men pinion'd, as they' were, to the Bower, and 
keep them there 'till I came. 

After fome Time, I came thither drefs'd in my 
new Habit, and now I was calfd Govcrnour again ^ 
being all met, and the Captain with me, I caus'd 
the Men to be brought before me, and I told them, 
I Jiad had a full Account of their yillanious Beha- 
viour to the Captain, and how they had ran away 
with the Ship, and were preparing to commit far- 
ther Robberies, but that Providence had eii- 
fnar'd them in their own Ways, and that they 
were falln into the Pit which they had digg'd for 
others. 

I let them know, that by my Dire&ion the Ship 
had been feiz'd, that {he lay now in the Road, and 
^hey might fee by and by, that their new Captain 

had 



[ 3 2 7 ] 

had receiv d the Reward of his Villainy ^ for that 
they might fee him hanging at the Yard- Arm. 

That as to them, I wanted to know what they 
had to fay, why I fhould not execute them as Pi- 
rates taken in the Fadt, as by my Commiilion they 
could not doubt I had Authority to do. 

One of them anfwer'd in the Name of the reft, 
That they had nothing to fay but this, That when 
they were taken the Captain promised them their 
Lives, and they humbly implor'd my Mercy : But 
I told them, I knew not what Mercy to ihe w thepi ^ 
for, as for myfelf, I had refolv'd to quit the 
Ifland with all my Men, and had taken PafTage 
with the Captain to go for England : And as tor 
the Captain, he could not carry them to England, 
other than as Prifoners in Irons to be try'd for 
Mutiny and running away with the Ship > the 
Confequence of which they muft needs know 
would be the Gallows •, fo that I could not tell 
which was beft for them, unlefs they had a Mind 
to take their Fate in the Ifland-, if they defir'd that, 
I did not care, as I had Liberty to leave it, I had 
fbme Inclination to give them their Lives, if they 
thought they could lhift on Shore. 

They feemM very thankful for it, faid they 
would much rather venture to ftay there, than to 
be carry'd to England to be hang'd^ fo I left it on 
that Ilfue. 

However, the Captain feem'd to make fome 
Difficulty of it, as if he durft not leave them 
there: Upon this I feem'd a little angry with the 
Captain, and told him, That they were my Prifo- 
ners, not his ^ and that feeing I had offered them 
fb much Favour, I would be as good as my Word ^ 
and that if he did not think fit to confent to it, I 
would fet them at Liberty as I found them $ and 

Y 4 if 



if he did not like it, he might take them again if 
he could catch them. 

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I 
accordingly fetthemat Liberty, and bade them re- 
tire into the Woods, to the Place whence they came, 
and I would leave them fome Fire Arms, fome 
Ammunition, and fome Diredtions how they ihould 
live very well, if they thought fit. 

Upon this, I prepaid to go on Board the Ship, 
but told the Captain, that I would {lay that flight 
to prepare my Things, and defir'd him to go on 
Board in the mean Time, and keep all right in 
the Ship, and fend the Boat on Shore the next Day 
for me-, ordering him, in the mean time, to caufe 
the new Captain who was kilFd, to be hang'd at 
the Yard- Arm that thefe Men might fee him. 

When the Captain was gone, I lent for the Men 
up to me to my Apartment, and entered ferioufly 
into Difcourfe with them of their Circumftances ^ 
I told them, I thought they had made a right 
Choice •, that if the Captain carry 'd them away, 
they would certainly be hang d. I fhew'd them 
the new Captain, hanging at the Yard Arm of the 
Ship, and told them they had nothing lefs to expert. 

When they had all declared their Willingnefs to 
flay, I then told them, I would let them into the 
Story of my living there, and put them into the 
Way of making it eafy to them. Accordingly I 
gave them the whole Hiftory of the Place, and of 
my coming to it -, fhew'd them my Fortifications, 
the Wa)' I made my Bread, planted my Corn, cu- 
red my Grapes h and in a Word, all that was ne- 
cefTary to make them eafy : % I told them the Story 
alfo of the fixteeh Spaniards that were to be expedi- 
ent ; for whom I left a Letter, and made them pro- 
xnife to treat them in common with themfelves. 

Heft 



[ 3*9 ] 

I left them my Fire Arms, viz. Five Mufkejtjs, 
three Fowling Pieces, and three Swords. I had 
above a Barrel and half of Powder left , for after 
the firft Year or two, I us'd but little, and wafted 
none. I gave them a Defcription of the Way I 
managed the Goats, and Dire£lions to milk and 
fatten them, and to make both Butter and Cheefe. 

In a Word, I gave them every Part of my own 
Story -, and I told them, I would prevail with the 
Captain to leave them two Barrels of Gun-Powder 
more, and fome Garden- Seeds, wh^ch I told them 
I would have been very glad of-, alfo I gave them 
the Bag of Peafe which the Captain had brought 
me to eat, and bade them be fure to fow and en- 
creafe them. 

Having done all this, I left them the next Day, 
and went on Beard the Ship : We prepar'd imme- 
diately to fail, but did not weigh that Night : 
The next Morning early, two of the five Men 
came fwimming to the Ship's Side, and making a 
moft lamentable Complaint of the other three, 
begg'd to be taken into the Ship, for God's Sake, 
for they fhoud be murder'd, and begg'd the Cap- 
tain to take them on Board, tho' he harig'd them 
immediately. 

Upon this, the Captain pretended to have no 
Power without me ^ but after fome Difficulty, and 
after their folemn Promifes of Amendment, they 
were taken on Board, and were fome time after 
foundly whipp'd and pickl'd ^ after which, they 
prov'd very honeft and quiet Fellows. 

Some time after this, the Boat was order'd on 
Shore, the Tide being up, with the Things promi- 
fed to the Men, to which the Captain, at my Inter- 
ccfTion, caus'd their Chefts and Cloaths to be add- 
ed, which they took, and were very thankful for$ 
I alfo encourag'd them, by telling them, that if 

it 



[ 33° 1 

it lay in my Way to fend any Veflel to take then* 
in, I would not forget them. 

When I took Leave of this Ifland, I carry 'd on 
Board for Reliques the great Goat's Skin Cap I 
had made, my Umbrella, and one of my Parrots ; 
alfo I forgot not to take the Money I formerly men- 
tioned, which had lain by me fo long ufelefs, that 
it was grown rufty, or tarnifh'd, and could hardly 
pafs for Silver, till it had been a little rubVd. and 
handled -, as alfo the Money I found in the Wreck 
of the SpamJI) Ship. 

And thus I left the Ifland, the Nineteenth of 
December, as I found by the Ship's Account, in the 
Year 1686, after I had been upon it eight and 
twenty Years, two Months, and nineteen Days ^ 
being delivered from this fecond Captivity the fame 
Day of the Month, that I firft made my Efcape, in 
the Barco-Longo, from among the Moors oiSallee. *' 

In this Veflel, after a long Voyage, I arriv'd in 
England, the Eleventh oi June, in the Year 1687, 
having been thirty and five Years abfent. 

When I came to England, I was as perfect a 
Stranger to all the World, as if I had never been 
known there. My Benefa&or and faithful Stew- 
ard, who I had left in Truft with my Money, was 
alive-, but had had great Misfortunes in the World, 
was become a Widow the fecond Time, and very 
low in the World : I made her eafy as to what (he 
qw'd me, afluring her, I would give her no Trouble $ 
fcut on the contrary, in Gratitude to her former 
Care and Faithfulnefs to me, I relieved her* as my 
little Stock would afford, which at that Time would 
indeed allow me to do but lktle for her •, but I af- 
fur'd her, I would never forget her former Kindnefs 
to me •, nor did I forget her, when I had fufficient 
to help her, as lhall be obferv'd in its Place. 

I went 



[ 35'.] 

I went down afterwards into Torkjlme ^ but my 
Father was dead, and my Mother, and all the Fa- 
mily extin£t, except that I found two Sifters, and 
two of the Children of one of my Brothers ^ and as 
I had been long ago given over toy dead, there had 
fceen no Provifion made for me$ fo that, in a Word, 
1 found nothing to relieve or ailift me $ and that 
little Money I had, would not do much for me, as 
to fettling in the World.^ 

I met with one Piece of Gratitude indeed, which 
I did not expect •, and this was, That the Mailer 
of the Ship, who V had fo happily delivered, and 
by the fame Means fav d the Ship and Cargo, ha- 
ving given a very handfome Account to the Own- 
ers of the Manner how I had fav'd the Lives of 
the Men, and the Ship, they invited me to meet 
them, and fome other Merchants concern'd, and 
all together made me a very handfome Complement 
upon the Subject, and a Prefent of almoft two 
hundred Pounds Sterling. 

But after making feveral Reflexions upon the 
Circumftances of my Life, and how little Way this 
would go towards fettling me in the World, I re- 
folv 5 d to go to Li/hov, and fee if I might not come 
by fome Information of the State of my Plantation 
in the Brajils, and of what was become of my Part- 
ner, who I had Reafon to fuppofe had fome Years 
now given me oyer for dead. 

With this View I took Shipping for Lift>on y 
where I arrived in April following •, my Man Fri- 
day accompanying me very honeftly in all thefe 
Ramblings, and proving a moft faithful Servant 
upon all Occafions. 

When I came to Lifbon, I found out, by Enqui- 
ry, and to my particular Satisfaction, my old Friend 
the Captain of the Ship, who firft took me up at 
Sea, off of the Shore of Afrkk : Jle was now. 

growp 



CJJ 



] 



grown old, and had left off the Sea, having put 
his Son, who was far from a young Man, into his 
Ship 5 and who ftill ufed the Brajil Trade. The 
old Man did not know me, and, indeed, I hardly 
knew him $ hut I foon brought him to my Re- 
membrance, and as foon brought myfelf to his Re- 
membrance, when I told him who I was. 

After fome paifionate Expreifions of the old Ac- 
quaintance, I enquired, you may be fure, after my 
Plantation and my Partner : The old Man told me 
he had not been in the Brajils for about nine Years 5 
but that he could affure me, that when he came 
away, my Partner was living, but the Truftees, 
who I had join d with him to take Cognizance of 
my Part, were both dead $ that however, he be- 
liev'd that I would have a verp good Account of 
the Improvement of the Plantation 5 for that upon 
the general Belief of my being ca'ft away and 
drown'd, my Truftees had given in the Account of 
the Produce of my Part of the Plantation, to the 
Procurator Fifcal 5 who had appropriated it, in 
Cafe I never came to claim it, one Third to the 
King, and two Thirds to the Monaitay of St. Au~ 
ptjUne, to be expended for the Benefit of the Poor, 
and for the Converfion of the Indians to the Catho- 
lick Faith •, but that if I appeared, or any one for 
me, to claim the Inheritance, it fliould be reftor'd ^ 
only that the Improvement, or annual Produ&ion, 
being diflributed to charitable Ufes, could not be 
reftorch, but he afTur'd me, that the Steward of 
the King's Revenue (from Lands) and the Provedi- 
dore, or Steward of the Monaftery, had taken great 
Care all along, that the Incumbent, that is to fay, 
my Partner, gave every Year a faithful Account of 
the Produce, of which they received duly my 
Moiety. 



[335 1 

I afVd him if he knew% what Height of Im- 
provement he had brought the Plantation ? And* 
whether he thought it might be worth looking af- 
ter ^ or whether, on my going thither, I fhould 
meet with no Obftru&ion to my polTeffing my juft 
Right in the Moiety ? 

He told me, he could not tell exa&ty to what 
Degree the Plantation was improved ^ but this he 
knew, that my Partner was grown exceeding rich 
upon the enjoying but one Half of it ^ and that, to 
the beft of his Remembrance, he had heard, that 
the King's Third of my Part, which was, it feems, 
granted away to fome other Monaftery, or reli- 
gious Houfe, amounted to above two hundred 
Moidores a Year •, that as to my being reftor'd to a 
quiet PoiTeffion of it, there was no Qiieftion to be 
made of that, my Partner being alive to witnefs my 
Title, and my Name being alfo enrolled in the 
Regifter of the Country h alfo he told me, that 
the Survivors cf my twoTruftees, were very fair 
honed People, and very wealthy ^ and he believ'd 
I would not only have their Alliftance for putting 
me in PoffefTion, but would find a very confiderable 
Sum of Money in their Hands, for my Account •, 
being the Produce of the Farm, while their Fathers 
held the Truft, and before it was given up, as a- 
bove, which, as he remembered, was for about 
twelve Years. 

I fhew'd myfelf a little concern 'd, and uneafy 
at this Account, and enquired of the old Captain, 
how it came to pafs, that the Truftees fhould thus 
difpofe of my Effects, when he knew that I had 
made my Will, and had made him, the Portu- 
guefe Captain, my univerfal Heir, Cfc. 

He told me, that was true •, but that as there 
was no Proof of my being dead, he could not aft 
as Executor, until Ibme certain Account fhould 

come 



[334] 

tome of my Death h and that befides, he was not 
willing to intermeddle with a Thing fo remote : 
That it was true, he had regifter'd my 'Will, 
and put in his Claim ^ and could he have given 
any Account of my being dead or alive, he would 
have adted by Procuration, and taken Pofleffion of 
ihehgcmo, (fo they calfd the Sugar-houfe) and had 
given his Son, who was now at the Brajils, Order 
to do it. 

But, fays the old Man, I have one Piece of 
News to tell you, which, perhaps, may not be fo 
acceptable to you as the reft, and that is, That 
believing you were loft, and all the World believ- 
ing fo alfo, your Partner and Truftees did offer 
to accompt to me in your Name, for fix or eight 
of the firft Years of Profits, which I receivd j 
but there being at that Time, fays he, great Dif- 
burfements for increafing the Works, building an 
tvgemo, and buying Slaves, it did not amount to 
iiear fo much as afterwards it produce! : However* 
fays the old Man, I fhall give you a true Account 
of what I have received in all, and how I have 
difpos'd of it. 

After a few Days farther Conference with this 
ancient Friend, he brought me an Account of the 
fix firft Years Income of my Plantation, fign'd by 
my Partner, and the Merchants Truftees, being 
always deliver'd in Goods, viz. Tobacco in Roll, 
and Sugar in Chefts, befides Rum, Molofliis, &c. 
which is the Confequence of a Sugar- Work $ and 
I found, by this Account, that every Year the In- 
come confiderably increased ; but, as above, the 
Difburfement being large, the Sum at firft was 
fmall : However, the old Man let me fee, that he 
was Debtor to me 470 Moidores of Gold, befides 
60 Chefts, of Sugar, and 15 double Rolls of To- 
bacco, which were loft in his Ship 5 he having been 

fhip- 



[555] 

fhip- wrecked coming Home to Lifbon, about n 
Years after my leaving the Place. 

The good Man then began to complain of his 
Misfortunes, and how he had been oblig'd to make 
Ufe of my Money to recover his Lofles, and buy 
him a Share in a new Ship : However, my old 
Friend, fays he, you lhall not want a Supply in 
your Neceflity $ and as foon as my Son returns, 
you fhall be fully fatisfy'd. 

Upon this, he pulls out an old Pouch, and gives 
me 160 Portugal Moidores in Gold $ and giving 
me the Writing of his Title to the Ship, which 
his Son was gone to the Brafds in, of which he 
was a Quarter Part Owner, and his Son another, 
he puts them both into my Hands for Security of 
the reft. 

I was too much mov d with the Honefty and 
Kindnefs of the poor Man, to be able to bear this* 
and remembering what he had done for me, how 
he had taken me up at Sea, and how g&neroufly he 
had ufed me on all Occasions, and, particularly, 
how fincere a Friend he wds now to me, I could 
hardly refrain weeping at what he faid to me 2 
Therefore, firft I aik'd him, if his Circumftances 
admitted him to fpare fo much Money at that Time, 
and if it would not ftraiten him > He told me, he 
could not fay but it might ftraiten him a little 5 
but however, it was my Money, and I might want 
it more than he. 

Every thing the good Man faid was full of Af- 
fection, and I could hardly refrain from Tears 
while he fpoke : In fhort, I took 100 of the Moi- 
dores, and calfd for a Pen and Ink to give him a 
Receipt for them $ then I returned him the reft, and 
told him, if ever I had PoiTeffion of the Plantation, 
I would return the other to him alfo, as indeed I 
afterwards did 3 and that as to the Bill of Sale of 

his 



C 33«J 



his Part in his Son's Ship, I w6uld not take it fcy 
any Means •, but that if I wanted the Money, I 
found he was honeft enough to pay me $ and if I 
did not, but came to receive what he gave me Rea- 
fon to expeil, I would never have a Penny more 
from him. 

When this was pafs'd, the old Man began to afk 
me, if he fhould put me in a Method to make my 
Claim to my Plantation ? I told him, I thought to 
go over to it myfelf : He faid, I might do lb if I 
pleased $ but that if I did not, there were Ways e* 
nough to fecure my Right, and immediately to ap- 
propriate the Profits to my Ufe $ and as there were 
Ships in the River of Li(bo% juft ready to go away 
to Brajil) he made me enter rily Name in a publick 
Regifter, with his Affidavit, affirming upon Oath 
that I was alive, and that I was the fame Perlbn 
who took up the Land for the Planting the faid 
Plantation at firft. 

This being regularly attefted by a Notary, and 
a Procuration affix'd, he diredted me to fend it with 
a Letter of his Writing, to a Merchant of his Ac- 
quaintance at the Place, and then proposed my 
flaying with him 'till an Account came of the Re- 
turn. 

Never anything was more honourable than the 
Proceedings upon this Procuration $ for in lefs than 
feven Months I receiv'd a large Packet from the 
Survivors of my Truftees the Merchants, for whoit 
Account I went to Sea, in which were the follow- 
ing particular Letters and Papers enclos'd. 

Fir/t y There was the Account Current of the 
Produce of my Farm or Plantation, from the Year 
when their Fathers had balanced with my old Por- 
tugal Captain, being for fix Years j the Balance 
appeared to be 117 4 Moidores in my Favour. 

Secondly, 



[ 357 ] 

Secondly There was the Account of four Years 
more, while they kept the Effefrs in their Hands, 
before the Government claim'd the Adminiltra- 
tion, as being the Effe&s of a Perfon not to be 
found, which they call Civil Death $ and the Bal- 
Jance of this, the Value of the Plantation encrea- 
fing, amounted to Cruifacjoes, which made 

3*41 Moidores. 

Thirdly, There was the Prior of the Aiigajiives 
Account, who had received the Profits for above 
fourteen Years ^ but not being to account for what 
was difpos'd to the Hofpital, very honeftly declar'd 
he had 872 Moidores not diftributed, which he 
acknowledge to my Account * as to the King's 
Part, that refunded nothing. 

There was a Letter of my Partner's, congratula- 
ting me very affectionately upon my being alive, 
giving me an Account how the Eftate was im* 
prova, and what it produced a Year, with a Par- 
ticular of the Number of Squares or Acres that it 
contain^ * how planted, how many Slaves there 
were upon it ^ and making two and twenty Crofles 
for Bleilings, told me he had faid fo many Ave Ma- 
rias to thank the BlefFed Virgin that I was alive * 
inviting me very paffionately to come over and 
take Pofleffion of my own, and in the mean time 
to give him Orders to whom he fhould deliver my 
Effe&s, if I did not come my felf^ concluding 
with a hearty Tender of his Friendfhip, and that 
of his Family, and fent me, as a Prefent, ^tvtn 
fine Leopard's Skins, which he had, it feems, recei- 
ved from Africa, by ibme other Ship which he had 
fent thither, and who, it feems, had made a better 
Voyage than I : He fent me alfb five Chefts of ex- 
cellent Sweatmeats, and an hundred Pieces of Gold 
uncoind. not quite fo large as Moidores, 

Z By 



[ J3«] 

Ify the fame Fleet, my two Mercharft-Truftees 
fhipp'd me 1200 Chefts of Sugar, 800 Rolls of To- 
bacco, and the reft of the whole Accompt in Gold. 

I might well fay now, indeed, That the latter 
End of Job was better than the Beginning. It is 
impoffible to exprefs the Flutterings of my very 
Heart, when I look'd over thefe Letters, and efpe- 
cially when I found all my Wealth about me -, for 
as the Brafd Ships come all in Fleets, the fame 
Ships which brought my Letters, brought my 
Goods 1 and the Effects were fafe in the River be- 
fore the Letters came to my Hand. In a Word, 
I turn'd pale, and grew fick ^ and had not the old 
Man run and fetched me a Cordial, I believe the 
fudden Surprize of Joy had overfet Nature, and I 
had dy'd upon the Spot. 

Nay, after that I continued very ill, and was £0 
fome Hours, n till a Phyfician being fent for, and 
fomething of the real Caufe of my Illnefs being 
known, he ordered me to be let Blood $ after 
which I had Relief, and grew well : But I verily 
believe, if it had not been eas'd by a Vent given 
in that Manner to the Spirits, I fhould have 
dy'd. 

I was now Matter, all on a fudden, of above 
5:000 /. Sterling in Money, and had an Eftate, as 
I might well call it, in the Brqfls, of above a 
thoufand Pounds a Year, as fure as an Eftate of 
Lands in Evglavd: And, in a Word, I was in a 
Condition which I fcarce knew how to underftand, 
or how to compofe my felf for the Enjoyment 
of it. 

The firft Thing I did, was to recompenfe my 
original Benefa&or, my good old Captain, who 
had been firft Charitable to me in my Diftrefs, 
Kind to me in the Beginning, and Honeft to me at 
the End : I fhew'd him all that was fent me ; I 

told 



[33?] 

told him, that next to the Providence of Heaven, 

which difpofes all Things, it was owing to him$ 

and that it now lay on me to reward him, which 

I would do a hundred fold : So I firft returned to 

him the hundred Moidores I had received of him, 

then I fent for a Notary, and caus'd him to draw 

up a General Releafe or Difcharge for the 470 

Moidores, which he had acknowledg'd he ow'd me, 

in the fulleft and firmeft Manner polTible -, after 

which, I caus'd a Procuration to be drawn, im- 

powering him to be my Receiver of the annual Pro? 

"fits of my Plantation, and appointing my Partner 

to accompt to him, and make the Returns by the 

ufual Fleets to him in my Name ^ and a Claufe in 

the End, being a Grant of 100 Moidores a Year to 

him, during his Life, out of the Effects, and 50 

Moidores a Year to his Son after him, for his Life : 

And thus I requited my old Man. 

I was now to confider which Way to fteer my 
Courfe next, and what to do with the Eftate that 
Providence had thus put into my Hands ^ and, in- 
deed, I had more Care upon my Head now, than 
I had in my filent State of Life in the Ifland, 
where I wanted nothing but what I had, and 
had nothing but what I wanted : Whereas I had 
now a great Charge upon me, and my Bufinefs 
was how to fecure it. I had ne er a Cave now to 
hide my Money in, or a Place where it might lye 
without Lock or Key, 'till it grew mouldy and 
tarnifh'd before any Body. would meddle with it: 
On the contrary, I knew not where to put it, or 
who to truft with it. My old Patron, the Cap- 
tain, indeed was honeft, and that was the only 
Refuge 1 had. 

In the next Place, my Intereft in the Brafih 
feem'd to fummon me thither -, but now I could 
not tell how to think of going thither, 'till I had 
Z 2 fettled 



£ 340 ] 

fettled my Affairs, and left my Kffedb in fome fafe 
Hands behind me. At firft I thought of my old 
Friend the Widow, who I. knew was honeft and 
would be juft to me y but then fhe was in Years, 
and but poor, and, for ought I knew, might be in 
Debt 5 fj that, in a Word, I had no Way but to 
go back to England my felf, and take my Effects 
with me. 

It was fome Months however before I refolv'd 
upon this •, and therefore, as I had rewarded the 
old Captain fully, and to his Satisfaction, who had 
been my former Benefactor, fo I began to think of 
my poor Widow, whofe Hufband had been my 
firft Benefactor, and {he, while it was in her Power* 
my faithful Steward and Inftru&or. So the firft" 
Thing I did, I got a Merchant in Lijbon to write to 
his Correfpondent in London, not only to pay a 
Bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in Mo- 
ney an hundred Pounds from me, and to talk with 
her, and comfort her in her Poverty, by telling her 
Hie fhould, if I liv'd, have a farther Supply : At 
the fame time I fent my two Sifters in the Coun- 
try, each of them an hundred Pounds, they being, 
though not in Want, yet not in very good Circnm- 
ftances ^ one having been marry \1, and left a Wi- 
dow, and the other having a Hufband not fo kind 
to her as he fhould be. 

But among all my Relations or Acquaintances, 
I could not yet pitch upon one, to whom I durft 
commit the Grofs of my Stock, that I might gp 
away to the Brajils, and leave Things fafe behind 
me | and this greatly perplex d me. 

I had once a Mind to have gone to the Brajih, 
and have fettled my felf there • for I was, as it 
were, naturaliz'd to the Place ^ but I had fome lit- 
tle Scruple in my Mind about Religion, which in*\ 
fenfibly drew me back, of which I fhall fay piore, 

preftntly* 



[ 34.1 ] 

prefently. However, it was not Religion that 
'kept me from going there for the prefent -, an*] as 
I had made no Scruple of being openly of the Re- 
ligion of the Country, all the while I was among 
them, fo neither did I yet ^ only that now and 
then having of late thought more of it, (than for- 
merly) when I began to think of living and dying 
among them, I began to regret my having profefe <i 
my felf a Papift, and thought it might not be the 
beft Religion to die with ; 

But v as I have laid, this was not the main Thing 
that kept me from going to the Brajih^ but that 
really I did not know with whom to leave lrjy Ef- 
fects behind me-, fo I refolv'd at laft to go to Eng- 
land with it, where, if I arrived, I concluded I ftiould 
make fome Acquaintance, or find fome Relations 
that would be faithful to me $ and accordingly I 
prepared to go for England with all my Wealth. 

In order to prepare Things for my going Home, I 
firft (the Brajil Fleet being juft going away) refolv'd 
to give Anfwers fuitable to the juft and faithful Ac- 
count qf Things I had from thence * and firft to the 
Prior of St. Augajlhi I wrote a Letter fall of Thanks 
for their juft Dealings, and the Offer of the 872 
Moidores, which was indifposM of -, which I defir'd 
might be given, 500 to the Monaftery, and 372 to 
the Poor, as the Prior (hould direft, defining the 
good Padres Prayers for me, and the like. 

I wrote next a Letter of Thanks to my two 
Truftees, with all the Acknowledgment that fo 
much Juftice and Honefty calFd for ^ as for fend- 
ing them any Prefent, they were far above having 
any Occafion of it. 

Laftly, I wrote to my Partner, acknowledging 

his Induftry in the Improving the Plantation, and 

his Integrity in encreafing the Stock of the* Works, 

giving him InftrutHons for his future Gov^rn- 

Z 1 ment 



[34*] 

ment of my Part, according to the Powers I had 
left with my old Patron, to whom I defied him to 
fend whatever became due to me, 'till he fhould 
"hear from me more particularly ^ alluring him, that 
it was my Intention, not only to come to him, but 
to fettle niv felf there for the Remainder of my 
Life : To this I added a very handfome Prefent of 
fome Italian Silks for his Wife ancl two .Daughters, 
for fiich the Captain's Son inform d me he had ^ 
with two Pieces of fine Englijh Broad-Cloath, the 
beft I could get in Lijbon^vz Pieces of black Bays, 
and fome Flanders Lace of a good Value. 

Having thus fettled my Affairs, fold my Cargoe, 
and turn 'd all my Effects into good Bills of Ex- 
change, my next Difficulty was, which Way to go 
to England : I had been accuftonul enough to the 
Sea, and yet I had a ftrange Averfion to going to 
England by Sea at that Time-, and though I could 
give no Reafon for it, yet the Difficulty encreas'd 
upon me fo much, that though I had once fhipp ? d 
my Baggage, in order to go, yet I altered my Mind, 
and that not once, but two or three times. 

It is true:, I had been very unfortunate by Sea, 
and this might be fome of the Reafons : But let 
no Man flight the ftrong Impulfes of his own 
Thoughtsin Cafes of fuch Moment : Two of the 
Ships which I had fingfd out to go in, I mean, 
more particularly fingVd out than any other, that 
is to fay, fo as in one of them to put my. Things on 
Board, and in the other to have agreed with the 
Captain ^ I fay, two of thefe Ships mifcarry'd, viz. 
one was taken by the Algerines, and the other was 
caft away on the Start near Torbay, and all the Peo- 
ple drown'd except three •, fo that in either of thofe 
Veffels I had been made miferable, and in which 
mofip it was hard to fay. 

Having 



[ 343 ] 

Having been thus harafs'd in my Thoughts, my 
old Pilot, to whom I communicated every thing' 
prefs'd me earneftly not to go by Sea •, but either 
to go by Land to the Groyne, and crofs over the 
Bay of Bifcay to Rochell, from whence it was but 
an eafy and fafe Journey by La*id to Paris, and fo 
to Calais and Dover-, or to go up to Madrid, and fb 
all the Way by Land through France. 

In a Word, I was fo prepoffefs'd againft my going 
by Sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that 
I refolv d to travel all the Way by Land -, which, 
as I was not in Hafte, and did not value the 
Charge, was by much the pleafanter Way $ and to 
make it more fo, my old Captain brought an £Wg- 
UJI) Gentleman, the Son of a Merchant in Lijbort, 
who was willing to travel with me : After which, 
we pick'd up two more EvgliJI) Merchants alfo, and 
two young Portuguese Gentlemen, the laft going to 
Paris only -, fb that we were in all fix of us, and 
five Servants: the two Merchants and the two 
Portuguese contenting themfelves with one Servant 
between two, to fave the Charge ; and as for me, 
I got an EngUJI) Sailor to travel with me as a Ser- 
vant, befides my Man Friday, who was too much 
a Stranger to be capable of fupplying the Place of 
a Servant on the Road. 

In this Manner I fet out from Lf/2W- V and our 
Company being all very well mounted and arm'd* 
we made a little Troop, whereof they did me the 
Honour to call me Captain, as well becaufe I was 
the oldeft Man, as becaufe I had two Servants, 
and, indeed, was the Original of the whole Jour- 
ney. 

As I have troubled you with none of my Sea 
Journals, fo I {hall trouble you now with none of 
my Land Journal : But fome Adventures that hap- 

Z 4 pen'd 



[344 ] 

pen'd to us in this tedious and difficult Journe}^ I 
muft not omit. 

When we came to Madrid, we being all of un 
Strangers to Spain, were willing to ftay ibrae Time 
to fee the Court of Spain, and to fee what was 
worth obferving •, but it being the latter Part of 
the Summer, we haften'd away, and fet out from 
Madrid about the Middle of OBober : But when we 
came to the Edge of Navarre, we were alar m'd at 
feveral Towns on the Way, with art Account, that 
fo much Snow was fallen on the French Side of the 
Mountains, that feveral Travellers were obliged 
to coitte back to Pampelima, after having attempted, 
at an extreme Hazard, to pafs on. 

When we came- to Pampelnm itfelf, we found it 
fo indeed $ and to me that had been always ufed 
to a hot Climate, and indeed to Countries where 
we could fcarce bear any Cloaths on, the Cold was' 
liifufferable'; nor, indeed, was it more painful thait 
it was furprizing, to come but ten Da^s before out 
of the Old Cafiile, where the Weather was not only 
warm, but very hot ;< and immediately to feel a 
Wind from the Pyrene'an Mountains, fa very keen, 
fo feverely coldt, as to be intolerable, and to en- 
danger benumbing and perifhing of our Fingers 
and Toes. 

Poor Friday was really frighted when he faw the 
Mountains all covered with Snow, and felt cold 
Weather, which he had never feen or felt before 
in his Life. 

To mend the Matter, when we came to Pdm- 
pelinia, it continue! In owing witb fo much Vio- 
lence, and fo long„ that the People faid, Winter 
was come before its Time, and the Roads, which 
were difficult before, were now quite impaflable * 
for, in a Word, the Snow lay in feme Places too 
thick for its to travel j and being not hard frozen, 

as 



[545] 

as is the Cafe in Northern Countries, there was n° 
going without being in Danger of being bury'd 
alive every Step. We ftaid no lefs than twenty 
Days at Pampefana y when (feeing the Winter com- 
ing on^ and no Likelihood of its being better, for 
it was the fevereft Winter all over Europe that had 
been known in the Memory of Man) I proposed 
that we fliould all go away to Fonterabia, and there 
take Shipping for Boiirdeanx, which was a very 
little Voyage. 

But while we were confidering this, there came 
in four French Genrlenien, who having been ftopp d 
on the French Side of the Pafles, as we were on the 
Spanijl), fcad found out a Guide, who tra verfing the 
Country near the Head of La7iguedoc, had brought 
them over the Mountains by fuch Ways, that 
they were not much incommoded with the Snow ^ 
and where they met with Snow in ahyQuantit)% 
they faid it was frozen hard enough to bear them 
and their Horfes- 

We fent for this Guide, who told te, he would 
undertake to carry us the fame Way, with no Ha- 
zard from the Snow, provided we were arm'd fiif- 
ficiently to protect us from wild Beafts-, for, he 
faid, upon thefe great Snows, it was frequent for 
fbme Wolves to fhow themfelves at the Foot of 
the Mountains, being made ravenous for Want of 
Food/ the Ground being cover'd with Snow: We 
told him we Were well enough prepared for fuch 
"Creatures as they were, if he would enfure us from 
a Kind of two legged Wolves, which, we were told, 
we were in 'moft Danger from, especially on the 
French Side of the Mountains. 

He fatisfy'd lis there was no Danger of that Kind, 
in the Way that we were to "go : So we readily a- 
greed to follow him, as did alfo twelve other Gen- 
tlemen, 



C H 5 3 

tlemen, with their Servants, fome French, fome Spa* 
nijl), who, as I faid, had attempted to go, and 
were oblig d to come back again. 

Accordingly^ we all fet out from PampelMia, with 
our Guide, on the fifteenth of November $ and in- 
deed, I was furpriz'd, when inftead of going for- 
ward, he came dire&ly back With us, on the fame 
Road that we came from Madrid, above twenty 
Miles •, when, being pafs'd two Rivers, and come 
into the plain Country, we found ourfelves in a 
warm Climate again, where the Country was plea- 
fant, and no Snow to.be feen •, but on a fudden, 
turning to the Left, he approach'd the Mountains 
another Way 5 and though it is true, the Hills and 
Precipices look'd dreadful, yet he made fo many 
Tours, fuch Meanders, and led us by fuch wind- 
ing Ways, that we were infenfibly pafs'd the 
Height of the Mountains, without being much 
incumber'd with the Snow^ and all on a fudden 
he fhew'd us the pleafant fruitful Provinces of Lorn- 
piedoc and Gaf coign, all green and flourifhing $ tho' 
indeed it was at a great Diftance, and we had fome 
rough Way to pafs yet. 

We were a little uneafy however, when we found 
it fnow'd one whole Day, and a Night, fo faft, 
that we could not travel •, but he bid us be eafy, 
we fhould foon be pa ft it all : We found, indeed, 
that we began to defcend every Day, and to come 
more North than before -, and fo depending upon 
our Guide, we went on. 

It was about two Hours before Night, when 
our Guide being fomething before us, and not juft 
in Sight, out rufti'd three monftrous Wolves, and 
after them a Bear, out of a hollow Way, adjoyn- 
ing to a thick Wood.-, two of the Wolves flew up- 
on the Guide, and had he been half a Mile before 
us, he had been devoured indeed, before we could 

have 



[ 347 ] 

have help'd him : One of them faften'd upon his 
Horfe, and the other attacked the Man with that 
Violence, that he had not Time, or not Prefence 
of Mind enough to draw his Piftol, but hollow'd 
and cry'd out to us moft luftily-, my Man Friday 
being next to me, I bid him ride up, and fee what 
was the Matter •, as foon as Friday came in Sight 
of the Man, he hollow'd as loud as t'other, Ma- 
Jfer! Mafter ! But like a bold Fellow, rode di- 
rectly up to the poor Man, and with his Piftol 
fhotthe Wolf that attacked him into the Head. 

It was happy for the poor Man, that it was my 
Man Fridays for he having been ufed to that 
kind of Creature in his Country, had no Fear upon 
him •, but went clofe up to him, and fhot him, as 
above •, whereas any of us would have fi^'d at a far- 
ther Diftance, and have, perhaps, either mifs'd the 
Wolf, or endangered {hooting the Man. 

But it was enough to have terrify'd a bolder 
Man than I, and indeed it alarm'd all our Compa- 
ny, when with the Noife of Fridays Piftol, we 
heard on both Sides the difmalleft Howling of 
Wolves, and the Ndife redoubled by the Eccho of 
the Mountains, that it was to us as if there had 
been a prodigious Multitude of them ^ and perhaps, 
indeed, there was not fuch a few, as that we had 
no Caufe of Apprehenfions. 

However, as Friday had kill'd this Wolf, the o- 
ther, that had faften'd upon the Horfe, left him im- 
mediately, and fled ^ having happily faften'd upon 
his Head, where the BofTes of the Bridle had ftuck 
in his Teeth ^ fo that he had not done him much 
Hurt : The Man, indeed, was moft hurt:, for the 
raging Creature had bit him twice, once on the 
Arm, and the other Time a little above his Knee * 
and he was juft as it were tumbling down by the 

Diforder 



fft J' ' 

Diforder of his Hprfe, when Friday came up and 
lhot the Wolf. 

It is eafy, to fuppofe, that at the Noife of Frl 
Says Piftol, we all mended our Pate, and rid up as 
fait as the Way (which was Very difficult) would 
give us Leave, to fee what Was the ' Matter * ks foori 
as we came clear of the Tre6s, Which blinded us 
before, we faw clearly what h&d.been the Cafe, 
^nd how Fiiday had difengag'd the poor Guides 
though we did not prefently difcern what Kind of 
Creature it was he had kilfd. 

But never was a Fight managed fo hardily, and 
infuch a.furp'rizing Manner, as that which follow^ 
between Friday and the Bear, which gave us all 
(though %t fTrft we were flirpriz'd and afraid for 
him) the greateft Diverfion imaginable. As the 
Bear is a heavy, clumfey Creature, and does not 
gallop as the Wolf does, who is fwift and light ^ 
10 he has two particular Qualities, which generally - 
are the Rule of his Adions \ Firft; As to Men, who 
are not his proper Prey, I fay, not his proper Prey, 
J)ecaufe, tho' 1 can't fay what cxceifive Hunger tai^ht 
do, which was now their Cafe, the Ground being 
all covered with Snow jj but as -tft Men, he does not 
ufually attempt them, unlefs they firft attack him : 
On the contrary, if you meet him in the Woods; if 
you don t meddle with him, he won t meddle with 
you • but then you muft take Care to be very civil 
to him, and give him the Road-, for he is a very 
nice Gentleman, he wont go a Step out of his Way 
for a Prince j nay, if you are really afraid your 
beft Way is to look another, Way, and keep going 
on •, for fometimes, if you ftbp, and ftand ftill,. and 
look fteadily at him, he take§ it for an Affront •, but 
if you throw or tofs anything at him, and it hits 
him, though it were but a Bit of a Stick as big as 
your Finger, he takes it tor an Affront, and fets all 



[ 549 ] 

his other Bufinefs afide to purfue his Revenge * 
for he will have Satisfaction in Point of Honour.* 
that is his fir ft Quality : The next is, That if he 
be once affronted, he will never leave you, Night 
or Day, till he has his Revenge ^ but follows at 
a good round Rate, till he overtakes you. 

My Man Friday had deliver'd our Guide, and 
when we came up to him, he was helping him off 
from his Horfe^ for the Man was both hurt and 
frighted, and indeed the laft more than the firft * 
vvhen on the fudden, we fpy'd the Bear come out 
of the Wood, and a vaft monftrous one it was, the 
biggeft by far that ever I fa w. We were all a little 
furpriz'd when we faw him $ but when Friday faw 
him, it was eafy to fee Joy and Courage in the Fel- 
low's Countenance 5 ! 0! 0! fays Friday, three 
Times, pointing to him ^ Majier ! Ton give me te 
Leave ', me Jhahee te Hand, with Uim\ me make you good 
laugh. 

I was furpriz'd to fee the Fellow" fo pleased $ Tou 
Fool you, fays I, he will eat you up : Eatee me up ! 
Eateeme up! fays Friday, twice over again; 'Me 
fateehimvp : Me make you good Laugh: You all J} ay 
here, me Jliow you good Laugh : So down he fits, and 
gets his Boots off in a Moment, and put or} a Pair 
of Pumps, (as we call the flat Shoes they wear) 
and which he had in his Pocket, gives my other 
Servant his Horfe, and, with his Gun, away he flew, 
fwift like the Wind. 

The Bear was walking foftly on, and offend to 
meddle with no Body, till Friday coming pretty 
near, calls to him, as if the Bear could underftand 
him:, Hark ye, hark ye, fays Friday, 7nefpeakee wit 
you : We followed at a Diftance ; for now being 
come down on the Gafcoign Side of the Mountains, 
we were enter'd a vaft great Foreft, where the Coun- 
try was plain, and pretty open, tho 5 many Trees 
in it fcatter'd here and there. F) iaaj 



[ 35° ] 

Friday, who had, as we fay, the Heels of the Bear, 
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great 
Stone, and throws at him, and hit him juft on the 
Head •, but did him no more Harm, than if he had 
thrown it againft a Wall ^ but it anfwer'd Fridays 
.End ; for the Rogue was fo void of Fear, that he 
did it purely to make the Bear follow him, and 
Ihow us fome Laugh, as he calfd it. 

As foon as the Bear felt the Stone, and faw him, 
he turns about, and comes after him, taking devi- 
lifh long Strides, and fhuffling along at a ftrange 
Rate, fo as would put a Horfe to a middling Gal- 
lop -, away runs Friday, and takes his Courfe, as if 
he run towards us for Help^ fo we all refolvd to 
fire at once upon the Bear, and deliver my Man * 
tho ? I was angry at him heartily for bringing 
the Bear back upon us, when he was going about 
his own Bufinefs another Way -, and efpecially I 
was angry that he had turn d the Bear upon us, and 
then run away ^ and I call'd out, Tou Dog, faid I, 
is this your maldng us laugh ? Come away, and take your 
Horfe \ that we may Jlwot the Creature •, he hears me, 
and cries out, No fioot, no Jlwot, Jiand /fill, you get 
much Laugh. And as the nimble Creature run two 
Foot for the Beaft's one, he turn'd on a fudden, on 
one Side of us, and feeing a great Oak-Tree, fit for 
his Purpofe, he beckon'd to us to follow, and dou- 
bling his Pace, he gets nimbly up the Tree, laying 
his Gun down upon the Ground, at about five or 
fix Yards from the Bottom of the Tree. 

The Bear foon came to the Tree, and we fol- 
low'd at a Diftance ^ the firft Thing he did, he 
ftopp'd at the Gun, fmelt to it, but let it lie, and 
up he fcrambles into the Tree* climbing like a Cat, 
tho' fo monftroufly heavy : I was amaz'd at the 
Folly, as I thought it, of my Man, and could not 
for my Life fee any Thing to laugh at yet, till fee- 
ing 



— — - -— — — — — v 



[ 35« ] 

ing the Bear get tip the Tree, we all rode nearer to 
him. 

When we came to the Tree, there was Friday 
got out to the fmall End of a large Limb of the 
Tree, and the Bear got about half Way to him* 
as foon as the Bear got out to that Part where the 
Limb of the Tree was weaker, Ha, fays he to us, 
now you fee me teachee the Bear dance $ fo he falls a 
jumping and fhaking the Bough, at which the Bear 
began to totter, but flood ftill, and began to look 
behind him, to fee how he fhould get back •, then 
indeed we did laugh heartily : But Friday had not 
done with him by a great deal ^ when he fees him 
(tend ftill, he calls out to him again, as if he had 
fuppos'd the Bear could fpeak bnglifi ^ What, you 
no come farther ? Pray you come farther $ fo he left 
jumping and fhaking the Bough-, and the Bear, juft 
as if he had underftood what he faid, did come a 
little farther, then he fell a jumping again, and 
the Bear flopped again. 

We thought now was a good Time to knock him 
on the Head, and I call'd to Friday to ftand ftill, 
and we would fhoot the Bear •, but he cry 'd out 
earneftly, pray! Opray! no fwot, me (l)oot by and 
then • he would have faid, by and by. However, to 
fhorten the Story, Friday danc'd fo much, and 
the Bear ftoodfo ticklifh, that we had laughing 
enough indeed, but ftill could not imagine what 
the Fellow would do ^ for firft we thought he de- 
pended upon fhaking the Bear offY and we found 
the Bear was too cunning for that too^ for he 
would not go out far enough to be thrown down, 
but clings faft with his great broad Claws and 
Feet, fo that we could not imagine what would 
be the End of it, and where the Jeft would be at 
M. 

But 



[35*] 

But Friday put us out of Doubt quickly $ for 
feeing the Bear cling faft to the Bough, and^that 
he would not be perfwaded to come any farther $ 
Well, well, fays Friday, you no come farther, me go, 
Tne go -, you rto come tome, me go comet o you ; and upon 
this, he goes out to the fmalleft End of the Boiagh, 
where it would bend with his Weight, and gently 
lets himfelf down by it, Hiding down the Sough, 
till he came near enough to jump down on his Feet, 
and away he run to his Gun, takes it up, and 
ftands ftill. 

Well, faid I to him, Ftiday, What will ypu do 
now ? Why don't you fhoot him? No fioot, fays 
Friday, wo yet, mejlwot now, me no kill ^ me ft ay, give 
you one more Laugh : And indeed fo he did, as you 
will fee prefently ; for when the Bear fee his Ene- 
my gone, he comes back from the Bough where he 
flood j but did it mighty leifurely, looking behind 
him every Step, and coming backward till he got 
into the Body of the Tree * then with the fame 
hinder End foremoft, he come down the Tree, 
grafping it with his Claws, and moving one Foot 
at a Time, very leifurely ; at this Jun&ure, and juft 
before he could fet his hind Feet upon the Ground, 
Friday \ ftepp'd clofe to him, clapp'd the Muzzel of 
his Piece into his Ear, and fhot him dead as a 
Stone. 

Then the Rogue turn'd about, to fee if we did 
not laugh, and when he faw we were pleas'd by 
our Looks, he falls a laughing himfelf very loud ; 
So we kill Becn r in my Country, fays Friday •, fo you 
kill them, fays I, why you have no Guns: No, 
fays he, no Gun, but fioot great much long Arrow. 

This was, indeed, a good Diverfion to us-, but 
we were ftill in a wild Place, and our Guide very 
much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew^ the 
Howling of Wolves run much in my Head •, and in- 
deed, 






{Ml 

deed, except the Noife I once heard on the Shor? 
of Africa, of which I have fa id fomething alreaci; 
I never heard any thing that filFd me with fo much 
Honour. 

Thefe Things and the Approach of Night, cal- 
led us off, or elfe, as Friday would have had us, 
we ihould certainly have taken the Skin of this 
monftfous Creature off, which was worth laving ^ 
but we had three Leagues to go, and oiir Guide 
haften'd us ^ fo we left him, and went forward on 
our Journey. 

The Ground was ftill covered with SiioWv tho' 
hot fo deep and dangerous as on the Mountains* 
and the ravenous Creatures, as we heard after- 
wards, were come down into the Foreft and plain 
Country, prefs'd by Hunger to feek for Food ^ and 
had done a great deal of Mifchief in the Villages^ 
where they furpriz'd the Country People, kilFd a 
great many of their Sheep and Horfes, and fome 
People too. 

We had one dangerous Place to pafs, which 
bur Guide told us, if there were any lilore Wolves 
in the Country, We (hotild . find them there \ and 
this was in a fmall Plain, furroiinded with Woods 
on every Side, and a long narrow Defile or Lane^ 
which we were to pafs to get through the Wood^ 
and then We fhottld come to the Village where we 
were to lodge. 

It was within half an Hour of Sun-fet when we 
fenter'd the firft Wood, and a little after Sun-fetj 
When We carhe into the Plain/ We met with no- 
thing in the firft Wood, except, that in a little 
Plain within the Wood, which was not above two 
fiirlongs over, We faw five great Wolves crofs the 
jRoad, full Speed one after another, as if they had 
J teen in Chace of fome Prey, and had it in View, 
A a thejr 



[ 354] 



they took no Notice of us, and were gone, and 
out of our Sight in a few Moments 

Upon this our Guide/ who, by the Way, was a 
wretched fainthearted Fellow, bid us keep in a 
ready Fofture \ for he believ'd there were more 
Wolves a coming'. 

We kept cur Arms ready, and cur Eyes about us, 
but we faw no more Wolves, 'till we came thro' 
that W r ood which was near half a League, and en- 
tered the Plain : As ioon as we came into the Plain, 
we had Oecafion enough to look about us •, the 
firft Glrjedt we met with was a dead Horfe^ that 
is to fay, a poor Horfe which the Wolves had 
kilFd, and at lead a Dozen of them at Work ^ we 
could not fay eating of him, but picking of his 
Bones rather, for they had eaten up all the Flelh 
before. 

We did not think fit to difturb them at their 
Feaft ^ neither did they take much Notice* of us : 
Friday would have let fly at them, but I would 
not fuffer him by any Means •, for 1 found we 
were like to have more Bufinefs upon our Hands 
than we were aware of. We were not gone half 
over the Plain, but we began to hear the W r olves 
howl in the Wood on our Left, in a frightful 
Manner, and prefently after we faw about a hun- 
dred coming on dire£lly towards us, all in a Body, 
and mod of them in a Line, as regularly as an 
Army drawn up by experienc'd Officers. I fcarce 
knew in w r hat Manner to receive them •, but found 
to draw our felves in a clofe Line was the only 
Way- fo we form'd in a Moment : But that we 
might not have too much Interval, I order'd, 
that only every other Man fhould fire, and that 
the others who had not fir'd fhould ftand ready- 
to give them a fecond Volley immediately, if 
they continued to advance upon us, and that then 

thofe 



[?5j] 

thole who had fir'd at firft, fhould not pretend t5 
load their Fufces again, but ftand ready with every 
one a Pillol :, for we were all arm'd with a Fulee^ 
and a Pair of Piftols each Man ^ fo we were by 
this Method able to fire fix Volleys, half of us at 
a Time •, however, at prefent we had no Neceffi- 
ty 5 for upon firing the firft Volley, the Enemy 
made a full Stop, being terrify 5 d as well with the 
Noife as with the Fire 5 four of them being fliot 
into the Head, dropp'd^ feveral others were wound- 
ed, and went bleeding off, as We Could fee by the 
Snow : I found they Itopp'd, but did not immedi- 
ately Retreat; whereupon remembring that I had 
been told, that the fierceft Creatures were terri- 
fy 'd at the Voice of a Man, I caus'd all our Com : 
pany to hollow as loud as we could, and I found 
the Notion not altogether miftaken •, for upon our 
Shout, they began to retire, and turn about ^ then 
I prder'd a fecond Voiley to be fir'd in their Rear 3 
which put them to the Gallop, and away they 
went to the Woods. 

This gave us Leifure to charge otir Pieces again* 
and that we might lofe no Time, we kept going* 
but we had but little more than loaded our Fufees. 
and put our felves into a Readinefs, when we heard 
a terrible Noife in the fame Wood, .on our Left, 
only that it was farther onward the fame Way wd 
Were to go. 

The Night was coming on, and the Light be- 
gan to be dufky, which made it worfe on our Side : 
But the Noife encreafing, we could eafily perceive 

I that it was the howling and yelling of thofe hel- 
lifh Creatures $ and on a fudden, we perceiv d twd 
or three Troops of Wolves, one on oiir Left^ one be- 
hind us, and one on our Front •, fa that we feem'd to 
be furrounded with em -, however, as they did not 
fall upoft us, we kept our Way forward, as faft as 
A a 2 vrt 



[ JJ«] 

we could make our Horfes go, which, the Way be- 
ing very rough, was only a good large Trot 5 and 
in this Manner we came in View of the Entrance 
of a Wood, through which we were to pafs, at the 
farther Side of the Plain-, but we were greatly fur- 
priz'd, when coming nearer the Lane, or Pafs, we 
law a confus'd Number of Wolves {landing juft at 
the Entrance. 

On a fudden, at another opening of the Wood, 
we heard the Noife of a Gun <, and looking that 
Way, out rufh'd a Horfe, with a Saddle and a 
Bridle on him, flying like the Wind, and fixteen 
or feventeen Wolves after him, full Speed -, indeed, 
the Horfe had the Heels of them 5 but as we fup* 
pos'd that he could not hold it at that Rate, we 
doubted not but they would get up with him at laft, 
and no'queftion but they did. 

But here we had a mod horrible Sight ^ for ri- 
ding up to the Entrance where the Horfe came out, 
we found the Carcafs of another Horfe, and of two 
Men, devour d by the ravenous Creatures, and one 
of the Men was no doubt the fame who we heard 
fir d the Gun ; for there lay a Gun juft by him, fir'd 
off-, but as to the Man, his Head and the upper 
Part of his Body was eaten up, 

This filFd us with Horror, and we' knew not 
what Courfe to take, but the Creatures refolv'd us 
foon \ for they gathered about us prefently, in Hopes 
of Prey, and I verily believe there were three hun- 
dred of them J It happened very much to our Ad- 
vantage, that at the Entrance into the Wood, but 
a little Way from it, there lay fome large Timber 
Trees, which had been cut .down the Summer be- 
fore, and I fuppofe lay there for Carriage: I drew* 
my little Troop in among thofe Trees, and placing 
our felves in a Line, behind one long Tree, I ad- 
vis'd them all to light, and keeping that Tree be* 

for* * 



[357] 

fore us, for & Breaft-Work, to ftand in a Trian- 
gle, or three Fronts, enclofing our Horfes in the 
Center. 

We did fb, $nd it was well we did ^ for never 
was a more ftjrious Charge than the Creatures 
made upon us in the Place ^ they came on us with 
a growling kind of a Noife (and mounted the Piece 
of Timber, which, as I faid, was our Breaft-Work) 
as if they were only rufhing upon their Pj^ey $ and 
this Fury of theirs, it feems, was principally occa- 
fion'd by their feeing our Horfes behind us, which 
was the Prey they aim'd at : I ordered oijr Men to 
fire as before, every ether Man 5 and they took 
their Aim fo fure, that indeed they kilfd feveral 
pf the Wolves at the firfi: Volley $ but there was a 
Necefllty to keep a continual Firing 5 for they 
came on like Devils, thofe behind pufihingon thofe 
before. 

' When we had fir'd our fecond Volley of our Fu- 
fees, we thought they ftopp'd a little, and I hop'd 
they would have gone off ^ but it was but a Mo- 
ment } for others came forward again 5 fo we fir'd 
two Volleys of pur Piftols, and I believe in thefe 
four Firings, we had kilFd feventeen or eighteen of 
them, and lam'd twice as many 5 yet they came on 
again. 

I was loath to fpend our laftShot too haftily ^ (b 
I calfd my Servant, not my Man Friday, for he was 
better employed $ for with the greateft Dexterity 
imaginable, he had charged my Fufee and his 
own, while we were engaged 5 but as I faid, I call'd 
my other Man, and giving him a Horn of Powder, 
t bad him lay a Train, all along the Piece of Tim- 
ber, and let it be a large Train : He did fo, and had 
but juft Time to get a^ay, when the Wolves came 
lip to it, and (bme were got up upon it \ when 
1 (happing an uncharged Piftel clofe to the Pow- 
A a 3 deif, 



[35»] 



der, fet it on fire-, thofe that were upon the Tim- 
ber were fcorchM with it, and fix or feven of them 
fell, or rather jump d in among us, with the Force 
and Fright of the Fire-, we difpatch'd thefe in 
an Inftant, and the reft were fo frighted with the 
Light, which the Night (for it was now very near 
Dark) made more terrible, that they drew back 
a little. 

Upon which I ordered our la ft Piftol to be fir'd 
off in -one Volley, and after that we gave a Shout * 
upon this the Wolves turn'd Tail, and we fally'd 
immediately upon near twenty lame ones, who 
we found ftruggling on the Ground, and fell a cut- 
ting them with our Swords, which anfwer'd our 
Expectation -, for the Crying and Howling they 
made was better underftood bj r their Fellows 3 fo 
that they all fled and left us. 

We had, firft and laft, kilfd about threefcore 
of them ^ and had it been Day-Light, we had 
killVi many more. The Field of Battle being thus 
clear d, we made forward again $ for we had ftill 
near a League to go. We heard the ravenous Crea- 
tures howl and yell in the Woods as we went, fe- 
veral Times • and fometimes we fancy VI we faw 
fome of them -, but the Snow dazling our Kyes, 
we were not certain : So in about an Hour more, 
we came to the Town where we were to lodge, 
which we found in a terrible Fright, and all in 
Arms •, for it feems, that the Night before, the 
Wolves and fome Bears had broke into the Village, 
and put them in a terrible Fright; and they were 
obliged to keep Guard Night and Day, but efpeci- 
ally in the Night, to preferve their Cattle, and 
indeed their People. 

The next Morning our Guide was fo ill, and his 
Limbs fwelFd witji the rankling of his two Wounds, 
that he could go no farther?, fo we were obliged to 

take 



[ iff;} 

take a new Guide there, and go to Tboloufe, where 
\vq found a warm Climate, a fruitful plealant Coun- 
try, and no Snow, no Wolves, or any Thing like 
them} hut when we told our Story at Iholovfe, they 
told us it was nothing but what was ordinary in the 
great Foreft at the Foot of the Mountains, efpeci- 
alty when the Snow lay on the Ground : But they 
enguir'd much what kind of a Guide wc had gotten, 
that would venture to bring us that Way in fuch 
a fevere Seafon $ and told us, it was very much 
we were not all devonr'd. When we told them how 
we plac'd onrfelves, and the Horfes in the Middle. 
they blauui us exceedingly, and told us it was fifty 
to ope but we had been all deftroyVt -, for it was the 
Sight of the Horfes which made the Wolves io fu- 
rious, feeing their Prey $ and that at other Times 
they are really afraid of a Gun-, but the being ex- 
cplfive hungry, and raging on that Account, the 
Eagernefs to come at the Horfes had made them 
fenfelefs of Danger ^ and that if we had not by the 
con ( tiniul Fire, and at laft by the Stratagem of the 
Train of Powder, mattered them, it had been great 
Odds but that we had been torn to Pieces •, where- 
as had we been content to have fat ftilj on Horfe- 
Ijafk, an4 fir'd as Horfemen, they would not have 
taken the Horfes for fo much their own, when Men 
were ojj thejr Backs, as otherwife $ and withal, 
they told us, that at laft, if we had flood altoge- 
ther, and left our Horfes, they would have been 
fo eager to have devourd them, that we might have 
come offfafe, efpecially haying our Fire Arms in 
our Hands, and being fo many in Number. 

For my Part, I was never fo fenfible of Danger 
in my Life j for feeing above three hundred Devils 
come roaring and open mouth'd to devour us, and 
having nothing to fielter us, or retreat to, I gave 
myfelf over for 1 ;ft ^ and as it was, I believe, I 
A a 4 ihall 



[ 3«o ] 

fnall never care to crofs the Mountains again ^ I 
think I would much rather go a thoufand Leagues 
b^ Sea, tho' I were fure to meet with a fetorm 
• ice a Week. 

I have nothing uncommon to take Notice of, in 

my PaiTage thro' France ^ nothing but what other 

vellefs have given an Acount of, with much 

j Advantage than I can. I tra\ iTd fromTTwtt- 

o Paris, and without any configurable Stay, 

Cattail and landed fafe at Dover, the 

a of January, after having had a fevere 

a Sea ion to travel in. 

I was now come to the Center of my Travels, 
and had in a little Time all my new difcover'd E- 
I iafe about me, the Bills of Exchange which I 
brought with me having been very currently paid. 

My principal Guide, and Privy Councellor, wa» 
my good ancient Widow, v/ho, in Gratitude for the 
Money I had fent her, thought no Pains too much, 
or Care too great, to employ for me $ and I trufted 
her fo entirely with every Thing, that I was per- 
fedly eafy as to the Security of my Effect's* and, 
indeed, I was very happy from my "Beginning, and 
now to the End, in the unfpotted Integrity of this 
good Gentlewoman. 

And now I began to think of leaving my Effe&s 
with this Woman, and felting out for Uijbon, and 
fo to the Brajih ^ but now another Scruple came in 
my Way, and that was Religion -, for as I had en- 
tertained fome Doubts about the Roman Religion, 
even while I was abroad, efpecially in my State of 
Solitude ; fo I knew there was no going to the Bra* 
fls for me, much lefs^oing to fettle there, unlcfs I 
refolv'd to embrace the Roman Catholick Religion, 
without any Referve-, linlefs, on the other Hand, 
I refolvd to be a Sacrifice to my Principles, be a 
Martyr for Religion, and die in the Ihquifition •, fo 

: I re- 



J refolv d to ftay at Home, an<| if I could find 
Means for it, to difjpofe of my Plantation. 

To this Purpofe, I wrote to my old Friend at 
JJifbon^ who in Return gave me Notice, that he 
could eafily difpofe of it there : But that if I 
thought fit to give him Leave to offer it in my 
Name to the two Merchants, the Survivors of my 
Truftees, who liv'd in the Brafds, who muft fully 
ui^derftand the Value of it, who Jiv d juft upon the 
Spot, and who I knew were very rich, fo that he 
believ'd they would be fond of buying it, he did 
not doubt, but I fhould make 4 or 5000 Pieces of 
tight the more of it. 

Accordingly I agreed, gave him Order to offer it 
to them, and he did fo^ and in about 8 Months 
inore, the Ship being then return'd, he fent me an 
Account that they had accepted the Offer, and 
had remitted 55000 Pieces of Eight to a Corre- 
fpondent of theirs at Lijbon, to pay for it 

In Return, I fign'd the Inftrumcnt of Sale in the 
Form which they fent from Li/bon, and fent it to 
my old Man, who fent me Bills of Exchange for 
5288000 Pieces of Eight to me, for the Eftate \ re- 
serving the Payment of ico Moidores a Year to 
him, the old Man, during his Life, and 50 Moi- 
dores afterwards to his Son for his Life, which I 
had promised them, which the Plantation wa& to 
make good as a Rent-Charge. And thus I have 
given t|ie firft Part of a Life of Fortune and Ad- 
venture, T a Life of Providences Checquer-Worlc, 
and of a Variety which the World will feldom be 
able to (how the like of: Beginning f oolifhly, but 
clofing much more happily than any Part of it ever 
gave me Leave fo much as to hope for. 

Any one would think, that in this State of com- 
plicated good Fortune, I was paft running any 
more Hazards ^ and fo indeed I had been, ii other 

Cir* 



Circumftances had concurr'd, but I was inurM to a 
wandring Life, had no Family, not many Rela- 
tions, nor, however rch, had I icont rafted much *Ac- 
quaintance ^ and tho' I had fold nry Iiltate in the 
Brafih) yet I could not keep the Country out of my 
Head, and had a great Mind ip be upon the Wing 
again, especially I could not refift theflrong Incli- 
nation I had to fee my -Iflpnd, and to know if jhe 
poor Spaniards were in Being there, and how the 
Rogues I left there had ufed them. 

My true Friend, the Widow, earneftly diflwaded 
Hie from it, and fofar prevail'd with me 7 that for 
almoft feven Years {he prevented my running 
Abroad $ during which Time, I took my two Ne- 
phews, the Children of one of my Brothers into 
my Care : The eldeft having fomething of his own, 
I bred up as a Gentleman, and gave him a Settle- 
ment of fome Addition to his Elfate, after my De- 
ceafe^ the other I put out to a Captain of a Ship ^ 
and after five Years, finding him a fenfible bold 
enterprifing young Fellow, I put him into a good 
Ship, and fent him to Sea : And this young Fel- 
low afterwards drew me in, as old as I was, to far- 
ther Adventures myfelf 

In the mean Time. I in part fettVd myfelf here ; 
for firft of all I marry 'd, and that not either to my 
Difadvantage or DifTatisfa&ion, and had three 
Children, two Sons and one Daughter : But my 
Wife dying, and my Nephew coming Home with 
good Succefs from a Voyage to Spain, my Inclina- 
tion to go Abroad, and his Importunity, prevailed 
andengag'dmetogoin his Ship, as a private Trader 
to the Eafl-hdies t This was in the Year 1694. 

In this Voyage Ivifited my new Colony in the 
Ifland, faw my Succeffors the Spaniards, had the 
whole Story of their Lives, and of the Villains I 
Mt tJfewe s how at firft they infulted the poor Spa- 

mat ds 7 



t 3*3 ] 

viards •, how they afterwards agreed, difagreed, uni- 
ted, feparated, how at laft the Spaniards, were 
obliged to ulTe Violence with them, how they were 
fubje&ed to the Spaniards^ how honeflly the Spa- 
niards ufed thein •, a Hiftory, if it were entred into, 
as full of Variety and wonderful Accidents, as my 
own Part, particularly alfo as to their Battles with 
the Caribeansj who landed feveral Times upon the 
Ifland, and as to the Improvement they made up- 
on the Ifland itfelf, and how five of them made au 
Attempt upon the main Land, and brought awa)^ 
eleven Men and five Women Prifoners, by which, 
at my coming, I found about twenty young Chil- 
dren on the Ifland. 

Here I ftay'd about twenty Days, left them Sup- 
plies of all necefTary Things, and particularly of 
Arms, Powder, Shot, Cloaths, Tools, and two 
Workmen, which I brought from England with 
me, viz. a Carpenter and a Smith. 

Befides this, I fhar'd the Ifland into Parts with 
'em, referv'd to myfelf the Property of the Whole, 
but gave them fuch Parts refpedfively as they a- 
greed on •, and having fettled all Things with them, 
and engaged them not to leave the Place, I left 
them there. 

From thence I touched at the Brafds, from whence 
I fent a Bark, which I bought there, with more 
People to the IflaiVd, and in it, hefide other Sup- 
plies, I fent feven Women, being fuch as I found 
proper for Service, or for Wives to fuch as would 
take them : As to the Engliffmen, I promised them 
to fend them fome Women from England, with a 
good Cargo'e of Neceffaries, if they would apply 
thetnfclves to Planting ; which I afterwards per- 
formV. And the Fellows proved very honefl: 
snd diligent after they \frere mafterM, and had 
their Properties fet apart for them. I fent them 

alfo 



[ 3*4 ] 

alfo from the Brafils five Cows, three of them be- 
ing big with Calf, fome Sheep, and fome Hogs ? 
which, when I came again, were confiderably in- 
creased. 

But all thefe Things, with an Account how 300 
Caribbees came and invaded them, and ruin'd their 
Plantations, and how they fought with that whole 
Number twice, and were at firft defeated, and 
three of them HUM •, but at laft a Storm deftroying 
their Enemies Canoes, they famifh'd or deftroy'd 
almoft all the reft, and renewed and recovered the 
Ppfleffion of their Plantation, and ftill liv'd upon 
the Ifland. 

All thefe Things, with fome very furprizing In- 
cidents in fome new Adventures of my own, for 
ten Years more, I may, perhaps, give a farther 
Account of hereafter. 



FINIS. 










BOOKS Printed for 
Wi lliam Taylor, 
ft&* Ship i# Pater-nofter Row. 



and Sold by 
at the Sign of 



i. A Near, beautiful, and correct Edition of Vlutanh's 
/\_ Morals, in y Vol. iimo. Tranflated from the Greek 
by feveral Hands. 

2. Oyid's Metamorphofis, in 2 Vol. 1 277*0. Adorned with 
Cuts. 

3. ft Epiftle, in iitoo. with Cuts. 

4. Poems by the Author of the Choice, izm*. 
?. Poems by the Lady Winchelfea, 8?o. 

6. Poems by Mr. Dryden, 6 Vol. \imo. 

7. -Mr. Cbngreye's Plays and Poems, 3 Vol. $vo. 

8. The New Atlantis, in 2 Vol. tiw. 

9. Dr. Garth's Difpenfary. With Cuts, and a compleat 
Key, n«o. 

10. Mr. /fcfdHn?<*W/?£'s Works in Pfofe and Verfe, 8 yo. 

11. The Adventures of Te!emacbtis y in 2 Vol. ximo, with 
Cuts. 

12. Boetitu of the Confolation of Philofophy, \imo, 

13. Bysjhe's Art of Englifij Poetry, in 4 Vol. Being a com- 
pleat Common-Place-Book ro the Works of our moil eminent 
Englifl* Poets. Continued to the Year 1718. 

14. Memoirs of the Court of Engl and y by Count De Grant- 
tnont. The fecond Edition, with a compleat Key, %yo. 

iy. Mr. Lawrence Ecbard's Translation of Vlautus's Comedies, 
with critical Remarks, iinto. 

16. Lord Clarendons Hiftory, in 6 Vol. in large and fmall 
Paper. 

17. The Adventures of Theagines and Charklia a Roma- 
na. Done from the Gretk of Heliodorwy in two Pocket Vo- 
lumes, 



*8* The 



Books Printed fur \V\ Taylor, 

tR. The Religious Philofopher, in 2 Vol. The third anct 
laft Vol. is in the Prefs, and will ihortly be publifh'd. 

19. The Annals of King George, in 4 Vol. Sro. 

20. Dr. Defagu'ierh Hydroltaticks, 8to. 

21. Biihop Beyeridges Thoughts, in 2 Volumes 8vo. wirh 
Cuts. 

22. The ft me in izmo. 

25. — His Sermons in 12 Vol. 9™. 

24. ■ ■' '" '■ His Thefantus, in 4 Vol. 8va. 

27. - His Neceflity of puoiick Prayer and frequent Com- 
munion. 

16. His Expofition of the 39 Articles of the Church 

of England. 

27. Mr.Sp'wckes's Tick Man vifited. Third Edition, 2y . 

28. Dr. Woodward's fair Warnings to a carelefs World. A- 
dorn'd with Cuts. 

2.9. Dr. Barrow of Contentment, Patience, and Refigmition 
to the Divine Will, iimo. 

30. Advice to a Son : Directing how to demean himfelf in 
the moft important Affairs of Life, nmo. 

ji. Mr. kettlewe'll's Works, in 2 Vol. in Folio. 

52. Bifhop Taylor's Holy Living and Dying, 8*0. 

33. His Golden Grove, iimo, 

34. 1 His Life of Cbrift will fhortly be put to the Pre A, 

with new Cuts, de/Ign'd by the beft Mailers, folio. 

3?. Biihop Patrick's Devotions, iimo. 

35. , His Chriftian Sacrifice, nwa. 

3-%. Archbifhop of Cambray^ of the Exigence of God, 
&c. 8to. 

38. Mr. WW {ion's Theological and Mathematical Works. 

39. Dr. Q*inc?s Compleat Engjlijb Difpenfatory, 8vo. 

40. CatOy a Tragedy. The ninth Edition. By Mr. Addi- 
fill) iimo. 

41. The Diftrefled Mother, a Tragedy. By Mr. FbiUips, 
iimo. 

42. The Carelefs Hufhand, a Comedy. By Mr. Cibber 9 

12M0. 

43. The Juftice of Peace's Fade Mecum, iimo. 

44. Militia Law. Being an Abftracl: of all the Acls of 
Parliament relating to the Militia, &e. iimo. 

47. The Compleat Sportfraan ; with all the Laws relating 
to the Game. 

46., The Country Gentleman's Fade Mecum^ iimo. 
47/The Turkifli Spy continued, Vol. I. iimo. 

48. Compleat Hiftory of Witchcraft^ Magick, and Sorcery,- 
1 %mo. 

49. Logick : 



at the Ship in Fater-nofter Row. 

49. Logick : Or, The Art of Thinking, 120*0. 

?o. Lawrence's Clergymen and Gentlemens Recreation, 

71. The Lady's Recreation in Gardening. By C. Erelin, Efq; 
8™. 

72. Vngdale\ Monaflicon Anglicanum. Tranflated ijito 
Englffi*) with above 100 Cuts, of Cathedrals, Abbies, Mona- 
ileries, and other religious Houfes, Folio. 

73. Tbeattum Scott*. Containing Profpedls of the moft 
coniiderable Places in Scotland, with above 60 Copper Plates, 
Folio. 

5*4. Pomponii Melse de fitn Orbis Libri tres. 

* Belgium Britannicum. Audtore GniL Mn'grave, F. R. S. 

77. Medulla Hi.it. Anglican*. Begun by Dr. Howell, and con- 
rihii'd to this Time, by an able, Hand. Adorn'd with Cuts of 
the moft remarkable Incidents. 

56. The genuine Works of St. Ojpridn, with his Life. 
Tran dated inro Ehgiiflj by Dr. Marjbal, Folio. 

5-7. Memoirs of the Affairs of Ireland, from the Reftora- 
tion. 

?8. Memoirs of the Affairs of Scotland. 

59. Revolutions of Sweden* By the Abbot Fertot* 

6q, Kerfefs Didtionarium Anglo Brit'annicnm. 

61. Wingate's Arithmetick, with a Supplement. By G m 
Shelley. 

62. Z.o?e's whole Art of furveying and meafuring of 
L?.nd. 

63. Swift's Mifcellanies, in Profe and Verfe. 

64. A Treatife of both Globes. To which is added. A Geo- 
graphical Defcri prion of our Earth, 12W0. 

67. Lex Mercatoria : Or, The Laws relating to Com- 
merce, 

66. Martin's Description of the Weftem Iflands of Scot- 
land. 

67. Wits Common-Wealth, for the Ufe of Schools. 

68. Afijmole's Order of the Garter abridg'd, with Cuts. 

69. The prefent State of France, in 2 Vol. in iimo. 

70. Epiftol* Abelardi & Heloijff*, 8yo. 
7.1. Ceorgii Bucbanani Epiftolae, %vo. 

72. Gulielmi Nicbolfri Hiftoriae Sicra?, iimo. 

73. Analyfis JEquationum. Auclore /. Rapbfon. M. A 
F, R. S. 

74. ■ ■ ■- Demonftratio de Deo, ab eodem Anclore. 

75-. De Chrifto Imitando, Auctore Tboma Kemprijio, cum 
Figuris Mne'vst 

76* Philips** 



Books Printed, Stc. 



*j6. Ihittps's World of Words, or Univerfal Engtijb Lficlid- 
iiary. 

77. « ^ ..,. The fame in Oclavo } abridged and improved. 
By J. Kerfey. 

78. Dr. Salmon's Englifh Herbal, or Hiftory of Plants, a- 
domed with Figures of the mbft confiderable Species, repre- 
fenting to the Life the true Forms of thofe feveral Plants, in 
an alphabetical Order. 

79. Mr. Bayle's large hiftorical and critical Dictionary, in 
4 Volumes. 

80. BiiTiop Hopkins's Works, collected into one Volume. 

St. The Works of the Reverend and Learned Dr. Ifaac Bar- 
row. ( Published by Archbifhop Tillotfon. 

%Z* A Report from the Committee of Secrecy, appointed 
by Order of the Houfe of Commons, to examine feveral 
Books and Papers laid before the Houfe, relating to the late 
Negociations of Peace and Commerce, &c. Reported on the 
9th of /rwf, 171 ?. By the Right Honourable Robert Wal- 
fole y Efq; Chairman of the faid Committee. Publiih'd by Or- 
der of the Houfe of Commons. With an Appendix of Origi- 
nal Papers. 

83. Sacred Geography, contained in 6 Maps. r. Shewing 
the Situation of Paradife, and the Country inhabited by the 
Patriarchs. 2. The Peopling of the World by the Sons of 
Noah) and the Israelites journeying in the. Wildeinefs. 3. A 
Plan of the City of Jerufalem, with a View of Solomon's 
Temple, and all the facred Utenfils therein. 4. The Holy 
Land, divided into the twelve Tribes of ifrael, in which is 
exadlly traced our Saviour's Travels. 5. The Land of Ca- 
naan. 6. The Travels of St. Paul, Xnd the reft of the ApofUes. 
The whole Very ufeful for the better Undemanding the Holy 
Bible. 

84. P"uniyiws Britamncus : Or, The Brhijh Architect, con- 
taining the Plans, Elevations, arid Sections of the regular 
Buildings, both publick and private, in Great Britain ; with 
Variety of new Defi^ns, in two hundred large Folio Plates, 
engraven by the heft Hands. In two Volumes. All deline- 
ated from the Buildings, or from the original Drawings of 
the Architects, who have mod generoufly promoted this ufefiil. 
Work. By Mr. CampbeL 

%. Pietas Londivenfis : Of, The prefent Ecclefiaftical State 
of London. By fames Pater fon, A. M. 

, 86. The Peerage of England : Or, an Hiftorical and Genea- 
logical Account of the prefent Nobility. 

87. An Enquiry into the Nature and Plate of Hell. f$y 
Tobias Svcinden. 



