
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the Copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to Copyright or whose legal Copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that 's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken Steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the file s We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's System: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in Copyright varies from country to country, and we can't off er guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
any where in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's Information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the füll text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



'#■■ 




':m^^'- 




-l,.^^' 







y ■}-^ 



-W?-.:'" ' 



, . r 



-v^. 



• r' ff . 



fi^ 



-r ,./ ^ • '^' 




AS d*£: jrh4 Pa^e f7i> VoLLi^/iiÄ^ A^'/^/y^-^ / 



THE 

I F E 

Afid Strange Surprifing 

ADVENTURES 

O F 

ROBINSON CRUSOEj 

Of Tork^ Mariner: 

Who lived Eight-and-twenty Years all alone 
in an uninhabiced Ifland on the Coaft of America^ 
ncar the Mouth of the Great River Orooncque ; 
having been call on Shore hy Shipwreck, wherc- 
in all the Mcn periflied but Him'elf. 

With an ACCOUNT how he was at laft as (Irangelf 
dclivcredby PIRAT ES. 

Written by Himself. ^ 

The TwiLFTH Edition» Adorned wirk Cut 
IN TWO VOLUME S. 
V O L, L 

L O N D O N: 
Printed for C. Hitch and L. Hawes, J. Buck- 

I.AND, B. DOD, J. RiVINGTON, R. BaLDWIN, 

W. Johnston, T. Longman, T. Caslon, 
S. Crowder and Co. B. Law and Co. and 
L Morgan. 





T H e 

P R E F A C E. 

/F ever the Story of any pri-- 
vate Mans Adventures in the 
World were worth making pub-^ 
lic^ and were acceptable when pub- 
lißjdj the Bditor of this Account 
thinks this will be fo. 

The Wonders of this Mans 
Life exceed all that (he thinks) ii 
to be found extant\ the Life of 
one Man being fcarce capable of a 
greater Variety. 

The Story is told with Modeßy^ 

with Serioufnefsj and with a reli^ 

gious Application of Events to the 

Ufes to which wife Men always 

A 2 af ^Vy 



' P R E F A C E- 

upply them ; viz. to the InßruSiiqn 
cf othersj by this Jßxample^ and to 
j^ßify and hönour the TVifdom of 
Providence in all the Variety of 
Circumßances^ let them tappen how 
thßy mll. . . . ^-. 

The Editor helieves the Thing t^ 
he a juß Hißory of Fa&s ; neither 
is there any Appearance of FiSiion 
in it : And however thinksy becaufe 
all fuch Things are difputed^ that 
the Improvement of it^ as well to 
the Diverßon^ as to the InßruEiion 
of the Reader^ will be the fame\ 
and as fuch^ he thinks^ without 
farther Compliment to the Wörld^ 
he does them a great Service in the 
Publication. 



THE 




THE 

L I F E 

AND 

ADVENTURES 

O F 

Robinson Crusoe. 




WAS born in thcYear 1632, in the Ci3 
ty of Torf, of a good Family, tho' n. t 
of that Country, my Father being a Fo- 
reigner of BremtHy who fettled £rft at 
Hüll: He got a good £flate by Mer* 
chandize, and leaving ofF bis Trade, 
lived afcerwards' at Tork^ from whence he had married 
my Mother, whofe Relations were named Robinfon^ a 
very good Family in that Country, and from whom \ 
was cailed Rohinfon Kreutxnaer ; bnt by the ufuai Corrup« 
ticB of Words in Englanti, we are now cailed, nay, we 
crll ourfelves, and write our Name» Qrußei and fo my 
Couipanions always cailed me. 



6 Thi Life ani Adventüäes of 

I had two eider Brothers, one of which was Lieute» 
Hant-Colonel to an Engliß Regiment of Foot in Fianders^ 
formerly conimanded hy the famons Col. Lockhart^ and 
was killed at the Battle near Dtmkirk againft the Spanianls: 
What became of my iecond Brother, I never kn^w, any» 
more than ny Father er Mother did know what was be« 
comc of mc. . 

Being the thircf Sön of the Family, and not bred to any 
Trade, my Head began to be ülled very early wich ram- 
büng Thoughts: My Fathefi whe was vtry antient, had 
given me a competenc Share öf L^arning, as far as Houfe- 
cducation and a Country Free-fchool generally gocs, and 
deiigned me for the Law ; bat I would be fatis£ed with 
nothitig but going to Sea ; and my Inclination tä this led 
me fo ftrongly againft the Will, nay, the Comroands, 
of my Father, and againd all the Intreaties and Perfua- 
fjons of my Mother and othcr Friends, that there feemed 
to be fomething fatal in that Propenfion of Natare, tend« 
log direAJy to the Life of Mifery which was to befal me. 
i^y Father, ft ^tk asd grave Man, gave me feriooB 
and excellent Counfel againft what he forefaW was my 
Dcfign. He called me one Mcrning into his Chamber, 
where he was confined by the Gout, and exj^flulated 
very warmly with me upon ihis SubjcÄ : He aflced me, 
what Reafons, . more than a mere wandering Inclinationf 
3 hnd for leavirg my Father's Houfe and my native Coun- 
try, wheVe I might be well intrcdüced, and had a Prof- 
pcd of raifing my Fortune by Application and Induftry, 
-wiih a Life Of £afe and Fleafure : He told me, it was 
;K'ien of defperate Fortanes on one hand, or of afpiring 
foperior Fortunes on theother, andwhowent abroad up- 
on Adventures, to rife by Enterprizc, and make them- 
felves famous in Undertakings of a Nature out of tjio 
common Koad ; that thiefe things were all either too far 
above me, or too far betow tat} that mine was the 
Iniddle State, or what might be cafled the upper Station 
of Loiü Life, whiehh« had found, by long ExpcrienceT, 
was the bell State \h tht World ; the moft fuited to hn- 
marv Happinefs, not expofed to the Miferies and Hard- 
ihip», ihe Labonr and Suffeiings of the mechanic Part 
of Mankind, and not embarrafled with the Pride, Lux- 
»fjr,: Ambition, and Envyof the upper Part of Man- 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 
feiml. He told mc, I might judgc of ihc Happinefs o 
this State, by this one thing ; njiz. That this was the 
State of Life which all other People envied » that Kings 
bave frequencly lamented the miferable Confeq.^ences of 
being born co great things, and wiihed they had been 
placed in the Mrddle of the tiyo £xtremes, betwecn che 
Mean and the Great ; that the wife Man gave his Tefti- 
mony to this, as the juft Standard of true Felicity, whcn 
he prayed to bave neither Poverty nor Riches. 

He bad nie obferve it, and i (hoald always find, that 
the Calamltics of Life were ihared among the upper and 
lower Part of Mankind ; bat that the middle Station 
had the fewefl Difa^ers, and was not expofed to fo ma^ 
ny Viciffitudcs as the higher or lower Part of Mankind ; 
nay, thcy were not fubjcfted to (o many Diftempers and 
Uneafinefs, eithtr of Body or Mind, asthoiewcre^ who, 
by viciÖQS Living, Luxury, and Extra vagancies, on onc 
band, or by hard Laboar, want of Ncccflarits, and 
snean or infofHcient Diet, on the other band, bring Dif- 
temper» npon themfeives by the natural Confeqcences of 
their way of Lifving f that the middle Station of Life 
was calcula.ed for all klnd of V^irtoes, and alt kind of 
Enjoymentä ; that Peace and Plenty were the Handanaids 
ef a oriddle Fortnne; that Temperance, Moderatioii, 
Quietnefs^ Health, Soeiety, all agreeable Diverftons, and 
all de£rable Pleafures, were the Bleilings attending the 
iniddle Station of Life ; that this way Men went filently 
«nd fmoothly thro' the Wprld, and comfbrtably out of it ; 
oot embarrafled with the Labours of the Hands, or of the 
Head ; not fold to a Life of Slavery for daily Bread, or 
baraiTed with perplexed Circumflances, which rob the 
Soitl of Peace, and the Body of Red ; nor enraged with 
the Pailion of Envy, or the fecret barning Luft df Ambi^ 
tioa for great things ; bat in eafy Circamftances, (liding 
gently thro' the World, and fenfibly talling the Sweets of 
jiving'without the Bitter ; feeling that they are happy, and 
learningbyeveryDay'sExperiencetoknowitmorelenfibly. 

After this he preiTed me earneflly, and in the mqil af. 
fe£liona:e manner, not to play the -young Man, nor to < 
precif itate myfclf into Miferies^ which Nature, and the 
Station of Life I was born in, feemed to have provided 
agaiaH ; that I was ander no Itect&x^ ^l &««ax%xm^ 
A 4 '^\^^^^ 



8 7he Life and Adventüres 9/ 

Bread ; that he would do well for me» and endeavonr td 
enter mc fairiy into the Station of Liie which he had 
been jud recommending to me ; and that If I was not 
very eafy and happy in the World, it muft be my mere 
Fate, or Fault, that mud hinder it ; and that he ihould 
have nothing to anfwer for, having thus difcharged his 
Duty in warning me againd Mcafores which he knew 
would be to my Hurt : In a word, that as he would do 
very kind things for mc, if 1 would ftay and fettle at 
home, as he diredled ; fo he would not have fo much 
Hand in my Misfortunes, as to give me any Encourage- 
inent to go away : And to clol'e all, he told me, 1 had 
my eider ßrothcr for an Example, to whom he had ufed 
the fame earnefl Perfuafions to keep him from going into 
the Low-Country Wars,^but could notprevail, his young 
Defires prompting him to run into the Army, where be 
was killed ; and thotrgh he faid he would not xeafe to 
pray for me, yet he would venture to fay to mc, that it 
I did take this fooli(h Step, God would not blefs me s 

*and I would have Lei füre hereafter to tt^tß. upon hav- 
log negledled bis Counfel, when there might be none to 
affift in my Recovery. 

I obferved in this lad Part of his Difcourfe,' which was 
truly prophetic, tho' I fuppofe my Father did not know 
it to be fo himfelf ; I fay, I obferv'd the Tears run down 
his Face vtry plentifully, efpecially when he fpoke of my 
Brother who was killed ; aud that wben he fpoke of my 
having Leifure tö.repent, and none to aflid me, he was 
fo moved, that he broke off* the Difcourfe, and told me» 
his Heart was (a füll, he could fay no more to nie. 

I was fincerely afiii£led with this Difcourfe, as indeed 
who could be otherwife ? And I refolved not to think 
of going abroad any more, but to fettle at home accord- 
ing to my Father's Defire : But alas ! a few Days wore 
it all ofFj and, in (hört, to prevent any of my Father's 
fartber Importunities, in a few Wceks after, I refolved 
to run quite away from him. However, 1 did not a£t 

' fo haftily neither, as the firft Heat of my Refolution 
pionipred, but I took my Mother at a ^Time when I 
thought her alittle pleafanter than ordinary; and told her, 
That my Thoughts were fo int rtly bent upon feeing the 
Woridj that I ihottld ncver fetde to any thing wkh Re- 

folution 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9 

(blutjon enoogh to So throngh with it f and my Fathe'^ 
had better give me his Confent» than force me to go 
wkhout it ; that 1 was now eighceen Years old, whicJi 
was too la:e. to go Apprentice to a Trade, or Clerk to 
an Atiorney ; that I was füre, if I did, I (hoald never 
Ibrve out my Time, but I fhould certainly run away 
frcm my Malier before my Timewas out, and go to 
Sea ; and if (he would fpeak to my Father to let me go. 
one Voyage abroad, if 1 came home again, and did not 
Lke it, I would go no roore, and I would promife by a 
double Diligence to recovcr the Time that I had lod. 

This put my Mocher into a greit Paffion : She told 
me, (he koew it would be to no l'urpofc to fpeak to my 
Father upoa any fuch Subjcd ; that he knew too well 
what was my Interell, togi\re hisConfent to any thing fo 
pßuch for my Hurt; and that (hc wondcr'd how I couid 
think of any fuch. thing, afcer the Difcourfe I had had 
>yith my Father, and fuch kind ^nd te^der Expreflions, 
fis ihe koe^ .n^y Father hadus'd t'ö me ; and that, in 
ihort, if I woi;|ld ruin myfclf, there was no Help for me ;. 
)}iu I might depend l (hould nevcr have their Confent to 
it: That, for her part, (he would not luve fomuch Hand 
ia my Delluidlion ; and I (hould never have it to fay, that 
my Mother was willing, when my Father was not. 

Though my Mother rcfus'd to move it to.my Father,. 
yet T heard afterward s, that (he rep(M*teda]l the Difcourfe 
10 him ; and that my Father, after (hewing a great Con- 
cem at it,, faid to her, with a Sigh ; That ßoy might be. 
iiappy, if he would llay at home ; but if he goes abroad, 
be will be the moft miferable Wretch-thatever was born ;» 
I can give no Confent to iL ^ 

. It was not tili almofba Year after this that I brokc 
loofe, though in. the. mean Time I coptinued obftinately 
deaf to all Propofals of fcttling to Bufinefs, and frequendy 
expoftulating with my Father and Mother, about their 
bcinc; fo po(itively detcrmin'd againfl what tht y knew 
my Tnclinations prompted me to. But being one Day 
at Hu//, . whither I went caruaüy, and wicriout any. 
Purpofe of raaking.an Elopemem that Ti r.e ; bur, I Tay, 
being there, and onc of my Companions being going- 
by Sca to lA>nJon, in his Fath^r's Ship, and prompcing 
«CLto go with, ijießi, with the common AUuT«;mcnt of a^ 
: ' . A 5 ' ^^^^« 



lö The Life and Ad^entüres of 
^eararing Man; That it fhould coli me notliing for my 
Paflage, 1 confulted ncither Father or Mother any morc, 
nor fb much as fent them Word of it ; but leaving them 
to hear of It, as thcy might, wiihout afking GodV ßlcf- > 
fing, or mjr Father's, wiihout any Confidcration of Cir- 
camlbnccs or Confequences, and in an ill Hoor, God 
knows, on the fi rft of September 1651, I went on board 
a Ship boand for London : Nevcr any young Adventorer's 
Misfortunes, l belicvc, bcgan fooner« or continu'd longer, 
than mine : The Ship was no fooncr got out of the Humber^ 
but the Wind began to blow, and theSea to rife in a moft 
frightful Manner ; and as I had never bcen at Sea befbre, 
I was moll inexpreflibly fick in Body, and tcrrificd in 
Mind : I began now feriöufly to refledt upon what I had 
done, and how juftly I was overtaken by the Judgment 
of Heaven for roy wicked leaving my Father's Houfe» 
and abandoning my Daty ; all the good Counfel of itiy 
Parents, my Father*8 Tears, and my Mother^s Intreaties, 
came now freili into my Mind; and mv Confcience» which 
was not yet comc to the Pitch of Hardnefs to which it has 
been fmce, reproach*d me with the Contempt of Advieei 
and the Brcacn of my Dyty to God and my Father. 

All this while the Storm increafed, and the Sea went 
very high, tho' nothing like what I have fcen many Times 
fmce; no, nor what I faw a few Days aftör : But it was 
«nough to affe^ me then, who was but a young Sailor« 
and had never known any thing of the Matter. I expefled 
every Wave would have fwallow*d us qp, ahd that tirtry 
Time the Ship^eiFdown, as I thought it did, in theTrough 
(Or Hollow of the Sea, we (hould never rife roore : In thid 
Agony of Mind, I made many Vows and Refolutions, 
that if it would pleafe Godto fpare «ly Life in this one Voy- 
age, if ever I got once rtiy Foot upon ^ry Land again, I 
.woutd go direSty home to my Father, and never fct it 
into a Ship again while I lived ; that I would take hi« 
ildvice, and never run myfelf into fuch Miferies as theAi ^ 
any more. Now I faw plainly the Goodnefs of his Ob- 
/ervations aboot the middle Station of Life, how eafy, 
^ttw comfortable he had lived all his DayS, and never 
Md beeil expos*d to Tempefts at Seaf, or Trouble on 
(Köre ; and, m ihort, I ijefolvM that I would^ like a true 
ijgDeataog Prodigalj go home to my Father. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. ii 

Thefe wifeand foberThougbtscondnued all che while 
tlieStorm conti nued, and indeedfome Time after; butthe 
Rext Day the Wind was abated, and the Sea calmer, and 
1 began to be a little inur'd to it. However, I was ver/ 
grave for all thatDay, beingalfo a little Seafick ftijl ; bat 
to.vards Night *the Weather dear'd up, the Wind was 
quice over, and a charming fine Evening followM, the Sün 
went down perfedly clear, and rofe fo the next Morn- 
fng ; and having little or no Wind, and a fmooth Sea, 
the Sun (hining apon it, the Sight was, as I thought, the 
icoil deliehtful thatever I faw. 

I had flept well in the Night, and was now no more 
Sea-ück, but vcry chearful ; looking with Wonder opoi» 
the Sea, thac was fo rough and terrible the Day. befbi-e, 
and could be fo calm and fo pleafant in fo little a. Timd 
after : And now, left my good Refoluti6ns ihould conti^ 
cde, my Companion, who had indeed intic'd me awayü 
comes to itae, well, Boi, fays he, clapping me apon. the 
Shoulder, how do you do after it ? I Warrant you wend 
frighted, wer*n*tyou, laft Night, when it blew but aCapi 
füll of Wind ^ A Cap-full d^e call it? faid 1, .'tw«s »ver- 
rible Storm: A Storm, youFool you ! rcplie) he: Do yoa 
call that a Storm ? Why it was nothing ac all ;;. give us but 
a good Ship, and Sea-room, and we.think nothing of fuch 
a Squall of Wind as that ; bat, yoa^e bat w freftuwatev 
Sailor, B»^^ Come, let us make a Bowl of Punch, and 
we*ll forget all that: D'yc fee what charming Weather *tis 
now? To make ihort thls fad Part of my Story, we went 
the Way of all Sailors; the Punch was made, and I w&t 
m^de halfdrunk with'it, and in thatone Night's Wicked<> 
nefs I; drowned all my Repentance, all my Refleäions 
ofon my päd Coodu^l, all my Refolutioos for the fature: 
in a Wcrd, as^ the Sea was return'd to its Soioothnefs of 
Sarface, and fettied Calmrefs, by tll« Abatement of jihat 
Storm, fo the Hurry of my Thoughts being over, my Feart 
dnd Apprehenfions of being fwallow'd up bySea bsin^ 
forgotten, and the Currentof Iny former Defires return'd, 
1 intirely forgot che Vows and Promiies that I made in 
my Diftrefs. I foundindeed fome Intervals of Reflc^ion^ 
and the ferious Thooghts did, as it were, endeai^our^e« 
retarn again fometimes ; bm I ihook them off, androas'^ 
»yfelf mm them, a»it were from a Dilkmper ; and ^pi 
A d "^V^^ 



12 The Life and Advent URES^ 
plying tnyfelf to Drinking and Company, foon mafler*d 
the Return ofthofeFits (for/o I caU'd them); and I had, 
in five or fix Days, got a complete Viftory ovcr my Con* 
fcience, as any youne Fellow ihat rcfolv'd not lo be trou- 
bled wich it, could deüre : Bat l was to have anorher 
Trial for itilill ; and Providence, as in fach Cafes gcne- 
rally it does, refolv'd to Icavc me intirely without Excufe: 
For if I would not take this for a Dcliverance, the next 
was to be fuch an one, as the worft and möft hardened 
Wretch among us would confefs both the Danger and ther 
Mcrcy. 

The fixth Day of our being at Sea, we came into Tar^ 
mouth Roads ; the Wind having been contrary, and the 
Wcather calm, we had made out little Way fince the 
Storm. Here we were obliged to come to an Anchor, 
and here we iay, the Wind continuing contrary, <z;/z. 
at South-weft, for fcvea or eight Days ; during which 
Time, a great many Ships from Nenjucaflk came into the 
üime Roads, as the commob Harbour where the Ships 
might wait ioT a Wind for the River. 

-We^adnot however rid here folongjbüt weihouldhave 
tided it up the River, but that the Wind blew. too frefh ; 
and, after we had lain four or five Days, blew very hard. 
However,the Roads being rcckon'd as good asan Harbour, 
the Anchorage good, and ourG round -tackle vcry ftfong, 
cur Mea wereunconcernM, and not in the leafl apprehen« 
five of Danger ; but fpent the Time in Reft and Mirtb, 
after the Manner of the Sea ; but the eighth Day in tiie 
Morning, the Wind increafed, and we had all Hands at 
work to flrike cur Top-mails, and make every thing fnug 
and clofe that the Ship might ride as eafy as poflible. B/ 
Noon, the Sea went very high indeed, and our Ship rid 
Evre-caftltin, fhipp'd feveral Seas, and we thought once or 
twice our Anchor had come home; upon whlch, our Mafter 
ordcr'd oot the Sheet anchor ; fo that we rode wich two 
Anchorsahead, and theCables veer'd out to the betterEnd. 
. By this Time, it blew a terrible Storm indeed ; and, now 
I began to fee Terror and Amazement in the Faces even 
jof the Seameli themfelves. The Mafter, tho' vigilant in 
the Bufmcfs of preferving the Ship, yct as he went in and 
.rut of his Cabin by me, I could hear him, foftly to him- 
fclf, fay feverai Times; Lord, bc mmiful to us \ ^Kifiall he 

all 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. rj 

aUhßi njoeßaUht aüuHdon€\ and thelike: Durlog thefe 
£rll Hurries, I was fiupiü, lying Hill in my Cabin, which 
was in the Steerage, and cannot defcribe my Texnper. I 
could ill refume äe firfl Penitence which I had fo appa- 
rently trampled upon, and hardened myfclf againil : T 
thooght the Bitternefs of Death had been pafl ; and thaC 
this would be nothing too, like the firft. But when the 
Mafier hlmfelf came by me, as Ifaid juft now, and faid 
we (hould-be all lofl, I was dreadfully frighted : I got up 
out ' of iny Cabin, and* looked oat ; buc fuch a difmal 
Sight I never faw: The Sea went Mountains high, and 
broke upon us tytxy three or four Minates : When I could 
look about, I could fee nothing but Diftrefs round us : 
TwoShips that rid near us, we found, had cot their Mads 
by the Board, being deep loaden ; and our Men cried 
out, that a Ship which rid about a Mile ahead of us, was 
founder'd. - Two morc Ships, bcing driven from their An- 
chors, were rnn out of the Roads to Sea, at allAdven- 
tures, and that not with aMaft flanding. The light Ships 
fared the bell, as not fo much labouringin the Sea, buC 
two or three of them drove, and came clo(e hy us, running 
away with only their Sprit-fail out, beforc the Wind. 

Towards the Evening, the Mate and ßoatfwain begg'd 
the Malier of oufShip to let them cut away the Fore-mafl, 
which he was very unwilling to do : But the ßoatfwain 
protefling to him, that~if he did not, the Ship would 
founder, he confented ; and when they had cut away the 
Fore-mafl, the Main^mafl flood fo loofe, and fhook the 
Ship fo mach, they were obliged to cut her away alfo, 
and make a clearDeck. 

Any one mufl judge what a Condition I mufl be in at 
all this, who was buc a young Sailor, and who had becn 
in fuch a Fright before at but a little. But if I can exp'refs 
at this Dillance the Thoughts I had about me at that Time, 
J was in tenfold more Horror of Mind upon Account of 
my former Convidlions, and the having rcturned from 
thtm to the Refolutions I had wickedly taken at ürft, than 
I was at Death itfelf ; and thefe, added to the Terror of 
the Storm, put me into fuch a^ Condition, that I can b/ 
no Woids defcribe it. But the woril was not come yet • 
the Storm continued with fuch Fury, that t^e Scamen 
chemfelres acknowledged they had never feen a worfe. 



14 7Är Lirt and Adventures of 
We had a good Ship, but (he was deep loaden, and wat- 
lowed in the Sea, that the Seamen every now-and-thea 
cried out, (he would founder. It was my Advantage in one 
refpe^t, that I did not know what they meant by founder, 
tili I inquir*d. However, the Storni was fo violent, that 
I faw wnat is not often feen, the Mafter» the BoatCwain, 
and foxne others naore fenüble than the reft, at their Pray ers» 
and expeding every Moment when the Ship would go 
to the Bottom. In the Middle of the Night, and under 
all the reft of oar DiflrciTes» one of the Men that had 
been down on Purpofe to fee, cried out we had fprnng a 
Leak ; another fatd, there was foar Feet Water in the 
Hold. Then all Hands w^re caird to the Pump. At that 
▼ery Wordmy Heart, as I thooght, died within me; and 
I feil backWards upon the Side of mj Bed where I Tat, 
into the Cabin. However, the Men rou^M me, and told 
me, that i that was able to do nothing before, was as well 
able to pump as another; at which 1 flirr'd up, and went 
1^ the Pump, and workM wtry heartily. While this was 
doing, the Maller feeing fome light Colliers, who, not ab'e 
to ride out the Storm, were obliged to (lip and run away 
to the Sea« and would come near us, orderM to fire a Gua 
as a Signal of Dillrefs. I, who knew nothing what they 
meant, was fo furprisM, that I thought the Ship had 
broke, or fome dreadfnl thing happen a. In a Word, I 
was fo furpris*d, that I feil down in a Swoon. As this was 
a Time when tvtry Body had his own Life to think of, 
nobody minded me, or what was become of me ; but 
another Man (lept up to the Pump, and, thrulling me 
afide with his Foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead ; 
and it was a great while before I came to myi'elf. 

We work'd on, but the Water increaiing in the Hold, 
it was apparent, that the Ship would founder ; and tho** 
the Storm began to abate a Httle, yet as it was not pof- 
fible (he could fwim tili we might run into any Port, fo 
the Maftercontinu'd firing Guns for Help; and a light 
&hip, who had rid it ont jn(l ahead of us, ventured a 
Boat out to help us. It was with the utmod Hazard 
the Boat came near us ; but it was impoifible for us to 
get on board, or for the Boat to lie near the Ship-fiJe, 
tili at laft the Men rowing ytty heaitüy, and venturing 
their Lives to faT« our»» oor. Men caft them aRope over 

the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 15 

tTie Stern with a Buoy to it, and then vcered Ic out a 
great Length, which tbey, afcer moch Labour and Ha- 
zard, Cook hold of, and we baled them dofe ander cur 
Stern, and got all into their Boat. Je was to noPurpofe 
for tbem or us, after we were in the Boat, to think of 
reaching to their own Ship ; fo all agreed to let her drive, 
and only to pull her in towards Shore as much as we 
conld ; and nur Mafter promisM then^ That if the Boat 
was ftav*d upon Shore, he would make it good to their 
Mafter : So partly rowing, and partly driving, onr Boat 
went away to the Northward, floping towards the Shore, 
almoft as hr as IVint^tonneJfe, 

We were not much more than a Quarter of an Hour 
ont of our Ship, bat we faw her fink :• And then I un- 
derftood for the firil Time, what was meant by a Ship 
foundering in the Sea. I muft acknowledge I had hardly 
Eyes to lock up, when the Seamen told me (he was fink- 
ing ; for, from that Moment they rather put me into the 
Boat, than that I might be faid to go in ; my Heart was 
as it were dead within me, partly wich £righc, partly 
with Horror of Mind, and the TTioughts of what was yet 
before me. 

While we were in this Condition, the Men yet la- 
bouring at the Oar to bring the Boat near the Shore, we 
could fee (when our Boat mounting the Waves, we were 
able to fee the Shore) a great many People running 
along the Strand to affift us when we (hould come 
near : Bat we made but flow Way towards the Shore ; 
nor were we ab)e to reach the Shore, tili being paft the 
Light- houfe at WinUrtony the Shore falls off'to theWeft* 
ward towards O-0/v^ ; and fo the Land broke ofF a little 
the Violence of the Wind. Here we got in, and, tho' 
not wichout much Difiiculty, got all fafe on Shore, and 
walk^d afterwards on Foot to Yarmovtb^ where, as un- 
fortunate Men, we were ufcd with great Hamanity, as 
well by the Magiftrates of the Town, who aflign*d us eood 
Quarters, as by particular Merchants and Owners ofShips ; 
4ind had Money given ns fufficient \o carry us either to 
L^nJon^ or back to Huli^ as we thought fit. 

Had I now had th6 Senfe to have gone back to HuH^ 
and have gone home, I had been happy, and my Father, 
an Emblem of pur Blefled Savioor's Parable, had even 



i6 Thi Life and Adventürbs ef 

killed tbe fatied Calf for mc ; för^ Hearing thc Ship I went 
away in, was caft away in Tarmouth Road, it was a great 
wbile before he had any AfTurances, chati was not diown*d% 

But my ill Fate puih'd me on now, wjth an Obüinacy 
that nothing could refift ; and tho* 1 had feveral Times 
loud Calls from my Rcafon, and my more compofecfc 
Jadgment» to go home, yet I had no Power to do it : 
I know not what to call this, nor will I urge, that it-ia^ 
a fecret over-ruling Decree, that hurries us on to be the 
Inftruments of our own Deftruäion» even tho* it be before 
U3, and that we pufli upön it with our. Eyes open* Cer*. 
tainly, nothing butfome fuch decreed unavoidable Mifer/ 
attending, and which it was impolliblc forme.to efcape, 
<:ould have puftied mc forward againft the calm Reafon^ 
ings and Perfuafions of my moii retired Thoughts, and 
againft two fuch vifibkLÜifb-uälons-as I had met with in 
my firft Attempt. 

My Comrade, wh» had help'd to- harden me beforcj 
and who was the Mafler*s Son^ was now lefs forward 
than I. The. firft Time he fpoke to mc after we were 
at Yarmouthy which was not tili two or three Days ; 
for we were feparated in the Town to feveral. Qiiarters ; 
I fay, the firft Time he faw m«, ife appeared bis Tone 
was altercd ; and, looking ver.y melancholy, and fhaking 
his Head, a(k*d me how I did : And telling his Faiher 
who \ was, and how I had come this Voyage only for 
aTrial, in order to go ferthcr abroad ; his Father turnr 
ing to me with a very grave afid concern'd Tone, Young 
Man^ fay 8 he, you ought ntmer ' to go to Sea any more ; y:u 
ougbi to take this for a fiain and "Sifible Token^ that you 
are not to be a ^afaring Man, Why, Sir, faid I, will 
you go to Sea no more ? *Jbat is amther Cafty faid he ; 
it is my Callingy and therefore- my Duty ; but asygu madt 
this Voyage for aTrial ^ you ße ijoiat a Tafle Hea'ven has 
gt'venyouy ofivbat youare to expeäl^ tf you perfft \ ptrhaps 
aJl this has befallen us onyour Account, like. Jonah in the 
Ship of Tarfhißi. Pray, jcontlnues he, 'whatareyou? Jnd 
en*what Account did you go to Sea^ Upon that I told him 
fome of my Story ; at the End of which, he burft out with 
a ürange Kihdof Paflion ; what had I done, fays he, that 
fuch an unhappy Wretch ihould come into my Ship ! I 
would not fet my Föot iathe.fame.Ship wiih thee agaia 

for 



ROBINSON. CRUSOE. 17 • 

for a thoufand Poands: This indeed was, as I faid, an 
£xcurfion of his Spirits, wbich were yct agitated by thc 
Senfe of bis Lofs, and was further than he coold have 
Aathority to go : However, he afcerwards talked very 
gravely to me, exhortkig me to go back to my Father» 
and not tempt Providence to my Ruin ; told roe^ I mighc 
fee a vifible Hand of Heaven againft me: And^ywng Mati^ 
faid he, d'fend uf9n itj ifyou do nai go hdck^ tuhere-ever you 
go, you fwill meet tvitb nothing but Dijaflen and Di/affcint' 
nunts, tili yonr Father* s Words arefulfilUdvfon you, 

We parted foon after $ for I made him Iktle Anfwer» 
and I faw him lio more; which Way he went, 1 know 
not. As for me, having fomc Money in my Pocket, I tra- 
velled to London by Land ; and thcre, as well as on the Road, 
had^many Struggles with myfelf, what Courfe of Life I 
ihould take, and whetherl ihould go home» or go to Sca. 

As to going^home, Shame oppofed the bell Motions 
that ofiered to my Thoughts ; and it immediately occur- 
red to me how I (hould be laughed at among the Neigh- 
bonrs, and ihould be aiham'd to fee, not my Father and 
Mother only, but even cvery Body elfe : From whencc 
J have fince often obferved how incongrnous. and irra- 
tional the common Temper of Mankind is, efpecially of 
Youthi to that Reafon that ought to guide them in fuch 
Cafes ; <«Ä. That they are not afiiamed to (in, and yet 
are afhamed to repent'i not aihamed of the Adlion, for 
i^hichtbey ought juilly to be efteemed Fools ; but are 
aihamed of the Returning, which only can make them 
clleemed wife Men. 

In this State of Life, however, Irematn'd fomeTime, 
nncertain what Meafurea to take, and what Courfe of 
Life to lead. An irrefiftible Reluäance continued to 
going home ; and as I flayM awhile, thc Remcmbrarce of 
the DiÜrefs I had been in wore off; and as that abated, 
the liccle Motion I had in my Defires to a Return, wore 
off with it, tili at lall I quite laid afide the Thoughts of 
it, ar.d lookM out for a Voyage. 

That evil Irfluence, which carried me firft away 

from my Father's Hcufe, which harried me into the wild 

and ipdigefled Notion of raifing my Fortune, and that 

. ifiipref^'d thofe Conceits fo forcibly upon me, as. to make 

me deaf to all goöd Advice, and to Üit \tkU^^U«j *»A. 



i8 Thi Life «»li^nvENTüÄEs af 
even the Commands, of my Pather; liky» the fame Jn^ 
fioence, whatever ic wat, preiented the moft unfortunate . 
of all Enterprifes to my View ; and I went on board a 
Veflel boand to the CoaH of J/rüa, or, as oar Sailort. 
Tulgarly call it, a Voyage to Guinea, 

It was my great Misfortune, that im all theie AAvtt^ 
tures I did not ihip myfelf as aSailor ; whereby though I 
inight indeed have workM a little harder than ordinary, 
yet at the fame Thne I had ]earii*d the Daty and OiHce 
of a Forema(lman$ and in Time might have qualifiedf 
jnyfelf for a Mate or Lieutenant, if not for a Malier. 
Bat as it was always my Pate to choofe for the worfe, k} 
I did here; for, having Money in my Pocket, and good 
Ooaths OD my Back, 1 would iilways go on board in the 
Habtt oi a Gentleman ; and f6 I neither had any Bi»liDeft 
in the Ship, nor learnM to do any. 

It was my Lot firil of all to fall fnto prctty good Qom.« 
pany in Londv»^ which does not always happen to fucb 
loofe and ur^uided young FeMows as I then was ; the De» 
vil generaUy not omitting to lay fome Snare for them very 
cariy : Bat it was not fo with me ; I firft h\\ accj^uainted 
with the Mailer of a Ship who had been on the Coad df 
Guheay and who, having had very good Succefs therc, 
was refolvM to go again ; thia Captain, taking a Faney 
to my Converfation, which was not diiagreeable at that 
Time, hearing me Tay I had a Mind to iiee the World, 
told me, if I would go the Voyage witli him, I (hould be 
at noEdcpence; I ihould be hisMefibiale, and his Com- 
panion ; and if 1 could carry any thing with me, I (hould 
have all the Ad van tage ofit that the Trade would admit ; 
and perhaps 1 might meetwith fome Encoaragement. 

I embrac'd the Offier, and> entcring into a ftrift Friend- 
(bip with this Captain, who was an honeft ^lain-dealing 
Man, went the Voyage with him, and carirted a fmall 
Adventure with me, which, by the difinterefted Honefty 
of my Friend the Captain, I incr<?afed very confiderably ; 
for 1 carried about 40 /, in fuch Toys and Trifles as the 
Captain dij-e^ted me to bny. This 40 /. I had muftercd 
togetber by the AfliftaHCe of fome of my Relations, whom 
.1 corrcfponded with, and who, I believe, gotmy fatber, 
oratleaft, my Mother» to contribute (b mtkdi as tliar, 
to my £rfi Adventure. 

This 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 19 
Thi« wa« tlte only Voyagc which I may Tay was foc- 
Cefsful in all my Adventures, and which I owe to cfie In- 
tcgrity and Honedy ^f my Frfcnd thc Captain ; nnder 
whom I got a conapetent Knowledge of the Mathematics» 
and the Rales of Navigation ; leamM how to keep an 
Account of the Ship's Conrfe, take an Obfervation, and^ 
in ihorty to nnderlland ibme things that were needfnl to 
be anderftood by a Sailor : För, as he took Delight tO 
introdoce me, I took Delight to learn ; and, in a Word, 
this Voyage made me both a Sailor and a Merchant : For 
I broaeht home Ave Ponnds nineOunces of Golddud for 
my Adventare, which yielded me in Lündtn, at my Re* 
tum» almofl 300 /. and this filled me with thofe afpihng 
Thooghts which have fince fo completed my Rain. 

Yct, evcn in this Voyage, I had Miifortanes too ; 
)>articular]y that I was continually fick, being thrown into 
a violent Calenture by the exceflive Heat of the Climate ; 
cor p/ineipal Trading being upon the Coail, from thc 
Lat. of 15 Degrees N. even to thc Line itfelf. 

1 was Bow iet ap for a Gt^/^^iiTrader; and my Fricnd« 
to my great Misfortune, dying foon after bis Arrival, I 
refolv*d to go the fame Voyage again ; and I embark*d 
In the fame Vefi!el with one who was bis Mate in the 
Former Voyage, and bad now got the Commänd of the 
8hip; This was the unhappieft Voyage that ever Man 
made ; for tho* I did not carry quite 100 /. of my new- 
gain*d Wealth, fo that I had 200 /. left, and which 1 lodg- 
ed with my Friend's Widow, who was very juft to me, 
yet I feil into terrible Misfortunes in this Voyage ; and 
the iirfl was this ; 'vix. Oar Ship, making her Courfe to- 
wards the Camtry Fdands, or rather between thofe Idands 
and the Afrlcan Shore, was furpris'd in the Grcy of the 
Morning by a Moortß Rover of Salkiy who gave Chace 
to OS with all the Sail ihe could make. We crouded alfo 
as much Canvas as oor Yards wonld fpread, or cur Mails 
carry, to havc got clcar ; but finding the Pirate gain'd 
npon US, and would certainly comc up with as in a few 
Floars, we prepar'd to fight ; oar Ship having twelve 
Guns, and the Rover cighteen. About thrce in the Af- 
ternoon hecanie up with us, and, bringing to, by Mi; 
ftake, juft athwart onr Quarter, inllcad of athwart our 
Stern, as he mrended^ we broujht c'^^\vi o5 cr^t Ci^Ktv-s Xft 



20 The LlTE anJ ADYEtlTVKES of 

bear on that Side, and pour'd ia a Bfoadfide upon hrm» 
which made him (beer off agaio, afcer returning oar Fire» 
and pouring in alfo his Small.(hot from near 200 Men which 
he had on board . However, we had not a Man touch'd, all 
our Men keeping dofe : He prepar'd to attack us again» 
and we to defendourfelves ; bat, laying us on board the 
next Time upon our other Quarter, he entered 90 Mea 
upon our Decks/ who immediately feil to cutting and 
liacking the Decks and Rigging. We ply'd them wich 
SmallSiot, Halfpikes, Powder-chefts» and fuch-like, 
and clear'd oür Deck of them twice. However, to cur 
fhort this melancholy Part of our Story, our Ship being 
difabled, and three of our Men kiird, and eigfat wounded^ 
we were obliged to yield 5 and were carry 'd all Prifoners 
into SalUe^ a Port belongjng to the Moors, 

The Ufage I had there was not fo-dreadfal as at firfl I 
apprehended ; nor was I carried up the Country, to the 
Empeior's Cuurt, as the reft of our Men were« t>ut was 
. kept by the'Captain of the Rover, as his proper Prize, 
and made his Slave, being young and nimble, and fit for 
his Bufmefs At thn furprifing Change of my Circuoi- 
fiances, from a K'.rAL.'nt to a miferable Slave, f ' wa^? 
perfeäly overwhelna^ü ; and nowl look^jd back. upon \\\f 
Father's propbetic Difcourfe to me, that I fiiould be mife- 
rable, and have none to relieve me ; which I thought was 
now fo efFeäually brought to pafs, that I could not be 
worfe ; that now the Hand of Heaven had overtaken me, 
and I was undone without Redemption. Hut alas ! this 
was but a Tafle of the Mifery I was to go thro*, a&will ap- 
pear in theSequel of this Story. 

As mv new Patron or .Mailer had taken me home to his 
Houfe, io I was in hopes, that he would take me with him 
when he wen( to Saa again, believing that it would be 
ferne Time or other his Fate to be taken by a Spaniß Of 
PortugalMzxi ofWar; and that then I (hould be fetat Li- 
berty. Bat this Hope of mine was foon taken away ; for 
when he went to Sea, he left me on Shore tolook afcer his 
little Garden, and do the Drudgery of Slaves about his 
Houfe ; and when he came home again from his Cruize, h« 
order'd me to lie in the Cabin, to look afcer the Ship. 

Here I meditated nothing but my Efcape, and what 
Method I might uk« to e&S it ; but faund ne Way thait 

had 



1l O BTNS'O K' fc R Ü S O E. it 

liad the leaftProbability init : Nothing prefented to make 
tbe Sappofidon of it rational; for I had nobody to com- 
municate it to, ^ th&t would embark with me, no Fellöw 
Slstvtf' nöEfigiißman, IrißmanovScotJman xhtrc, but my- 
felf ; fo that for two Ycars, tho' I oftcn pleafed myfelf 
wich the Imagination» yet I never had the leafl encourag- 
ing Profped of putting it inPra£tice. 

After about two Years, an odd CircumHance prefented 
itfelf, which put the old Thoughts of making fome At- 
tempt for iny Liberty aeain in my Head: My Patron lying 
at home longer than o(ual, without fitting out his Ship» 
which, as I heard» was for Want of Money, he ufedcon- 
ilantly once or twice a Week, fometimes oftener, if the 
Weathcr was fair^ to take the Ship's Pinnace, and go out 
into the Road a iifliing ; and as he always took me and a 
yonr.g Marefco with him to row the. Boat, we made him 
very merry, and I provM very dextrous in catching Fi(h ; 
infomuch, that fometimes he would fend me with a Moor, 
one of his l^infmen» and the Youth the Marefio, as they 
caird him» to catch a Difh of Fi(h for him. 

It happened one Time» that going a fiOiing with him 
in acalm Morning, a Fog rofe fo thick, that thö* we were 
not half a League from the Shore, we loft Sight of it ; 
and» rowing we knew not whither» or which Way, we 
labourM all Day, and all the next Night ^ and when the 
Morning carae» we foand we had puird ofF to Sea, in« 
ftead of puUing in for the Shore ; and that we were at 
leaft two Leagues from the Land : However» we got well 
in a^in» tho' with a greac deal of Labour, and fome 
Danger; for the Wind began to blow pretty frefh in the 
Morning ; but particularly we were all vtry hungry. 

Bat our Patron» warn'd by this Difailer» refolv*d to take 
fnoreCare of himfelf for the future ; and having lying hj 
him the Long-boatof our£v^/^Ship which he had taken» 
he refolvM he would not go a fiihing any more without a 
Compafs and fome Proviüon ; fo he ordernd the Carpenter 
of his'Ship» who alfo was an Engliß? Slave» to build a lit- 
tle State-room or Cabin in the Middle of the Long-boat» 
like that of a Bärge» with a Place to dand behind it to 
fleer» and haul home the Main-fheet ; and Room before 
for an Hand or two to iland and work the Sails. She . 
iaU'd with that w^ call a Shottlder.of*Mauoii-S9iV\ '«tw^ 



aa Th Lite tfw# AjttWM.TWJigy ^ 

the Boom }ibb*d over the Top of the Cabin, whic:h lajT 
very fnug.and low» afidlMd ut ii Room fot him to lie, with 
a Slave er two, and a Table to eat •»». mA ibme Imail 
Lockers to put in fomeBottles of fuch Liquor as he tbcutghr 
£t to drink; parcicularly his Bread» Ric«, and CojFee. 

We were frequently ouc with this Boat a fifliing ; and 
as I waä^ moft dextrous to catch Fi(h for hixn, he never 
went wichout me, ]t happened one Day, that he had 
appointed to go out in this Boat;« either for PleaAire or 
for Fi(h, with two or three Moors of fome Piäin^ion« 
and for whom he had provjded extraordinarily ; and had 
therefore fent on board the Boat over Night a larger 
Store of Provifions than ufual ; and had ordered me to 
get ready three Fafiis with Ppwder ^nd Shot, which 
were on board his Sbip ; for that they deü^ned fome 
Sport of Fowliog, as well as Fifhing. 

I got all things ready, as he h.id dire^ed ; and waited 
the next Morning with the Boat wa(hed clean» her An* 
cieot and Pendants out, and every thing to accommodate 
his Guefti ; when by andby my Patron come on board 
alone, and told me his Gueds had put ofF goin^, upoa 
fome Bufinefs that feil out ; and order'd me, with the 
JMan and Boy, as ufual, to go out with the Boat, and 
catch them fome Fiifh, for that his Friend$ were to fup at 
his Houfe ; he commanded me too^ that a« foon as I had 
got fome Fiih, I ihould bring it Jiome to his Houfe : Ali 
which IprcparM to do. 

This Moment my former Notions of Deliverance darted 
into my Thoughrs ; for now I found I was like to have a 
Ii::le Ship at my Command ; and roy Mafier being gone, 
.1 prepar'd to furnifh myfelf, not for fifhing Bufmels, but 
für a Voyage ; tho' I knew not, neither did I fo much.as 
confider, wbithcr I would fleer; for, any wherc to gctout 
of that Place was my Way. 

My firft Contrivance was to make a Pretence to fpeak 
to this Moor, to get fomethii;ig for our Subfidence on 
board ; for I told him we muH not prefuxne to eat of cur 
Patron's Bread : He faid, (hat was true ; fo he brought a 
jarge ßafket of Rulk, or Bifcuk of thcir Kind, and chrce 
Jars with frefh Water, into the Boat : I kn€W where my 
Patron's Cafe of Bottles llood, which it was evident by the 
Make, were taken out of fome Eng/iß ?nzet and I con- 

v»yed 



R O B I N S O N C R U S O E. 23 

veytd Chem into Hie 3oat» while the Moor was on Shore, 
«s if chey had bcicu thcre before« for our Malier : I con- 
veyed al/o a great Lump^of ßees-wax into the Bv)ac, wbich 
.V. weigh*d about half an hundred Wcight, with a Parcel of 
Twine or Ihread, a& Hatchet, a S<iw, an.l an Hammer» 
all which werc of greac Ufe to us afce^wards ,* efpecially 
the Wax to nvike Candle«. Anoitier Trick I tried upon 
htm, which he innocently came inco alfo : His Name was 
Jfmael^ whom chey call Mtdey, or Moloy; fo I call'd to bim, 
Moloy^ faid I, cur Pacron^s Guns are all on board the 
Boat : Can you not get a little Powder and Shot : It may 
be we may kill Tome AUamies (a Fowl like our Cur/tws) for 
ourfelves; for I know he keeps the Gunner's Stores in the 
Ship. Ycs, fays he, I'll bring fome : Accordingly he 
brought a great Leather Poach, which held aboat a round 
and an half of Powder, or rather more ; and another with 
Shoc, that had fiveor fix Pounds, with fome Bullets, and 
pot all into the Boat : At the fameTime 1 had fo und fome 
rowder, of my Mafter's, in the great Cabin, with which 
1 filJed one of the large Bottles in the Cafe, which was 
-almoft empty ; pouring what was in it into another : 
And thus /orniih'd with every thing needful, we faiied 
out of the Port to fi(h. The CaiUe, which is at the £n- 
trance of the Port, knew who we were, and took no No- 
tice of US ; and we were not above a Mile out of the Port, 
befpre we haulM in oar Sali, and fat us down to fifh. The 
Wind blcw from theN. N. E. which was contrary to my 
Dcfires for had it blown Southerly, I had been füre to 
have made the Coad of Sfasn,. and at leaft reach'd to the 
Bay of CaJiz ; bat my Refolutions were, blow which Way 
it would, 1 would be gone from that horrid Place where I 
was, and leave the reil to Fate. 

After we had fiihed fome Time, and cacched nothing 
(fpr when I had Filh on my Hook, I would not pull them 
up, that he might not fee them) I faid to the Moor, 
This will not do ; our Mafter will not be thus ferved i 
we mufl iland farther off: He, thinking no Harm, a« 
greed; and being in the Head of the Boat, fet the Sails ; 
and as I had the Helm, I ran the Boat out near a League 
farther, and then brought her to, as if I would fifli ; 
when, giving the Boy the Helm, I ilept forward to where 
the iEbor was; aad, making as if I ftoop'd for {orcL^vVv.\ti<r 



24. 75^ LiFfi tf»i Advkntüres tf 
l^hind him, I took him by Sorpriie with my Arm ur.d«r 
his l'wift, and tofs*d fiim clear over board into the Sea \ 
hc fofe immediatcly, for he fwam like a Cork, and caird 
to me, beggM to be taken in, told nie he would go all 
over the World wiih me : He fwam fo ßrong afrcr ih« 
Boat, that hc would have reach*d me very quickly, therc 
being but lictle Wind ; upon whicfa I (lepped into th« 
Cabin> and, fetching one o'f the Fowling-pieces, I prc- 
fented it at him, ^nd told him» I haddone him no Hart» 
and, if he would be quiet, 1 woald do him none : £ut, 
fkid I, you fwim well enoügh to reach the Shore, and the 
Sea is calm ; makc the beft of your Way to Shore, and I 
will do you no Harm; but if you come ncar.the Boat, I 
will fhoot you through the Head \ for I am refolv'd to 
have my Liberty. So he turn*d himfelf about, and fwam 
for the Shore, and 1 make no doubt but he reachM it with 
Eafe, for he vyas an excellent Swimmer. 

I could have been content to have taken this Moor 
with me, and have drown'd the Boy ; but there was no 
venturing to truft him : When he was gone, T turn^d to 
the Boy, whom thcy callM Xury^ and faid to him, Xury^ 
rf you will be faithful to me, I will make you a great 
Man ; but if you will noi flroke your Face to be true to me, 
tbfth^ ßwear by Mahomet, and bis Fatkrs Bcard, I muft 
thraiv you into the^^a too. The Boy fmiled in my 
Face; and fpoke fo Innocently, that I could not miftrull 
him ; and fwore to be faithful to me, and go all over 
the World with me. 

While I was in the View of the Moor that was fwim- 
ming, I ftood out direftly to Sea, with the Boat rather 
ftretchingto Wind ward, that they might think me gone 
towards x\icSire}ghts Mouth (as indeed any one that haJ 
bcen in their Wirs mult have been fuppofed to do) ; for 
who would have (uppofed vve were fail'd on to the South- 
ward, to the truly Darbarian CoaÜ, where whole Natioos 
of Ncgrocs were fuie to farround us with their Canoes, 
and dellroy us ; where we could never once go on Shore, 
but we Ihould be devourM by favage Beails, or more mer- 
cilefs Savages of human Kind ? 

But a.s foon as it grew dufk in the Evening, I chang'd 
my Courfe, and fteer'd diredly South and by Eaft, bend- 
mg my Courfe a little towards the £aft, that 1 xnight 

kccp 



ROBINSONCRUSOE. 25 

kcep in with the Shore ; and having a fair frefti Gale of 
Wind, and a fmooth quiet Sea, I madc fuch Sau, that 
I believe by the next Day atThrce o'Clock in the After- 
noon, when I firft made the Land, I could not be Icfs 
than 150 Miles South of Sallee^ quite bcyond the Enipe- 
ror of Morocco^s Dominions, or indeed of any other King 
thereabouts, for we faw no People. 

•Yet fuch was the Fright 1 had taken at the Mcors^ and 
the ^readful Apprehenfions 1 had of falling into their 
Hands, that I would not ft3p,or go on Shore, or comc 
to an Anchor, the Wind continuing fair, tili I had fail'd 
in that manner five Days; and ihen the Wind fhifting 
to the South ward, I conclude alfo, that if any of our 
Veflcls were in Chace of me, they alfo would now give 
o\'er ; fo I ventur'd to make to the Coaft, and came to 
an Anchor in the Mouth of a little River, I knew not 
what or where ; neither what Latitude, what Country,- 
what Nation, or what River ; I neither faw, or defired 
to fee, any People ; the principal Thing I wanted was 
frefh Warer. We came into this Creck in the Evening, 
refolvlng to Avim on Shore as foon as it was dark, and 
difcover the Country ; but as foon as it was quite dark, 
we heard fuch dreadful Ncifes of the Barking, Roaring, 
and Howling of wild Creaturey, of we knew not what 
kinds, that the poor Boy was ready to die with Fear, and* 
begg'd of me not to go on Shore tili Day. Well, Xury^ 
faid I, then I won't ; but it may be we may fee Men by 
Dav, who will be as bad to us as thofe Lions : Then ive 
fray gi^e them the ßpoot Ja», fays Xury^ laughing, make 
them run ijufiy ; fuch Engliß Xury fpoke by converfihg a- 
mong US Slaves. However, I was glad to fee the Boy 
fo chearful, and I gave him a Dram (out of our Patron'a 
Cafe of Bottles) to chear him up: After all, Xwy'z Ad- 
vice was good, and f took it ; we droppM our little 
Anchor, and lay Hill all Night 5 I fay ftill, for we flept 
none ; for in two or three Hours we faw vafl great Crea- 
tures, we knew not what to call them, of many Sorts, 
cnme down to the Sea- (höre, and run into the Water 
wallowing and waßiing themfelves, for the Pleafure of 
cooling themfelves ; and they made fuch hideous HowU 
iiigs and Yellin-s, that I never indeed heard the Ük^ 

Vol. L B XuA 



a6 Thg Life and Adventures of 

Xury was drcadfully frighted, and indced fo was I too: ' 
But we wcrc both worfe frighted when we heard onc 
jnighty Creature come fwimming towards our Boat ; we 
could not fee him, but we might hear him by his blow- 
ing, to be a monftrous, huge, and furious ßeaft ; Xury 
faid it was a Lion« and it might be for aught I know : 
Poor Xury crid out to me to weigh the Anchor, and row 
away. No> fays I, Xury^ we can flip our Cable with 
a Bi'oy to it, and go to Sea, they cannot follow us far. 
I had no fooner iaid fo, but I perceived the Creature 
(whatever it was) within two Oars Length, which fome- 
thing furprifed me ; however, I immediately fiept to the . 
Cabm-door, and raking up my Gun, firM at him ; upon 
which he immediately turn'd about, and fwam towards 
the Shove again. 

But it was not poffible to defcribe the horrible Noifes, 
and hideous Cries and Howlings, that wer6 raifed as 
well upon the Edge of th« Shore, as higher within the 
Country, upon the Noife or Report of a Gun, a Thing 
I have fome Reafon to b^lieve thofe Creatures had never 
iKard before. This convinced me, that there was no 
goinfi; on Shore for us in the Night upon that Coail ; 
and now to venture on Shore in the Day, was another 
Queilion too ; for to have fallen into the Hands of any 
of the Savages« had been as bad as to have fallen into 
the Paws of Lions and Tigers ; at lead we were equally 
apprehenilve of the Danger of it. 

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on Shore 
fomewhere or other for Water, for we had not a Pint 
Jeft in the Boat ; when or whcrc to get to it, was tht 
Püint : Xury faid, if I would let him go on Shore wich 
one of the Jars, he would find if there was any Water, 
and hring fome to me. I aiked him, why he would go? 
why I fhould not go, and he ftay in the Boat ? The Boy 
anfwered with fo much AffeAion, that made me love 
him cvcr aftcr : Says he, Jf *mld Mans come^ they eat 
at^ you go wey. Well, Xury, faid I, we will both go, 
and if the wild Mans come, we will kill them, they 
{hall eat neithcr of us. So I gave Xury a Piece of Rufk- 
bread to eat, and a Dram out of our Patron*s Cafe of 
Bottles, which I mentioned before, and we hal'd the 
Boat in as near che Shore» as we thought was proper, 

and 



ROBINSONCRUSOE. 27 

and waded on Shore, carrying nothing bat our Arms, 
and two Jars of Water. 

I did not carc tp go out of Sight of the Boat, fearing 
the Coming of Ccinoes with Sa*vages down the River : 
But fhc Boy, feeing a low Place, about a Mile up the 
Country, rambled to it, and by-and-by I faw him comc 
running tovvards inc : I thought he was purfued by fomc 
Savage, or frighted wich fome wild Beaft, and I ran 
ibrward towards him, to help him ; but when I came 
Dcarer to him, I faw fomething hanging over bis Shoul- 
ders, which was a Creature thac he had fhot like a Hare, 
but diiFercnt in Colour, and longcr Legs ; however, we 
were \'ery glad of it, and it was very good Meat ; but 
the great Joy that poor Xury came with, was to teil mo 
he had found good Water, and fcen no wild Mans. 

But we found afterwards, that we need not take fuch. 
Pains for Water ; for a little higher up the Creek wher« 
we were, we found the Water fi elh when the Tide was 
out, which flows bat a little Way up ; fo we filled our 
Jars, and feafted on the Hare we had killed, and prcpar- 
cd to go on oar Way, having feen no Footfteps of any 
human Creature in that Part of the Country. 

As I had been one Voyage to this Coaft before, I knew 
very well, that the Iflands of the Canariesy and the Cape de 
Verd Iflands alfo, lay notfar off from the Coaft. But as E 
had no Inftruments to take an Obfervation to know what 
Latitade we were in, and did not exaflly know, br at leaft 
not remember, what Latitude they were in, I knew not 
where to look for them, or when to ftand ofF to Sea to- 
wards them, othcrwife I might now eafiiy have found 
fome of thefe Iflands. But my Hope was, that if I ftood 
along this Coaft tili I came to that Part where the Engliß 
traded, I fliould £nd fome of theirVeflels upon their ufu- 
al Dtfign of Trade, that would relicve and take us ia. 

By the beft of my Caiculation, that Place where I now 
was, muft be that Country, which, lying between the 
Emperor of Ifiorocco^^ Dominions and the Negroes^ lies 
wafte and uninhabited» except by wild Beafts ; the Nt» 
groes having abandoned it, and gcne farther South, for 
fear of the M&ors ; and the Moors not thinking it worth 
inhabiting, by reafon of its Barrennefs ; atvd indtt^ V^c^>^ 
htüking k b€fAii& of the prodigious l^umW^ ^f *\\- 
B 2 S^^^v 



28 The Lite and Adv ei^t v res of 

gers, Lions, Leopard?, and other furious Creatores 
which harbour ihere ; fo that the Moors ule it for their 
humingonly, whcre they go like an Army, two or threc 
thoufand Men at a time ; and indeed for near an huh- 
dfcd Miles togcther upon this Coall, \ve faw nothing but 
a warte uninhabitcd Country by Day, and heard nothing 
but Howlings and Roarings of wild Bealls by Night. 

Once or twice in the Day.time, J thought I faw the 
TicQ of Teneriffgy being the high Top of the Mountain 
Teneriffe in the Canariej j and had a great Mind to ven- 
ture out, in Hopes of reaching thither; but, having tried 
twice, I was forced in again by contrary Winds, the S<ia 
alfo going too high for tny little Vellitl ; fo I refolved to 
purfuc my fiTÜ. Defign, and keep along the Shore. 

Several times we wcrc obliged to land for freih Wa- 
tpr, after we had left this Place ; and once in particular, 
being early in the 'Morning, we came to an Anchor un- 
der a little Point of Land, wh'.ch was pr<:tty high ; and 
the Tide beginning to flow, we lay ftill to go farfher in. 
Xury, whofe Eyes wcre more about him than, it feems, 
ipine were, calls foftly to me, and teils me, thst we had 
bell go farther ofr the Shore ; for, fays Ke, look yonder 
lies a dreadful Monfter on the Side of that Hillock, faft 
afleep. I look'd where he pointed, and faw a dreadful 
Mcniler indeed ; for ic was a tcrrible great Lion, that 
lay on the Side of the Shore, under the Shade of a Piece 
of the Hill, that hung as it were a little over him. Xury, 
faid I, you (hall go on Shore and kill him: J^ry look'd 
frighted, and faid, Me kill! he eat me at one Mouth^ 
one Mouthful he meant ; however, I faid no more tp the 
Boy, but bad him be ftill, and took our b'ggell Gun, 
which was almofl Mufquet bore, , and loaded n wich a 
eood Charge of Powder, and with two Slugs, and laid 
\t down; then I loaded another Gun with two BuUets, 
and the third (for we had 'three Pieces) I loaded with 
five fmaller Bullets. I took the befl Aim I could with 
the firfl Piece to have (hot him in the Head ; but he 
lay fo with his L^g laifed a little above his Nofe, that 
the Slug hit his Leg about the Knee, and broke the 
Bone. He. ftarted up growling at fiffl ; but finding his 
Leg broke, feil down again, ard then got up upon three 
Lt^s, and ga\c the moft tiideous Roar üiat ever I heard. 



ROBINSONCRUSOE. 29 

I was a little furprifed that I had not hit him on the 
Hea J ; howe%'er, I took up the fecond Piecc immediately, 
and, tho' he began to move ofF, ür'd again, and (hothim 
into the Head ; and had the Pleafure to fee him drop, 
and making bct little Noi^e, he lay Hniggling for Life. 
Then Xury took Htarr, and would have me let him go 
on Shore. Well, go, faid I. So the EoyjumpM into the 
Water, and taking the little Gun in one Hand, fwam to 
the Shore wich the other Hand ; and Coming clofe to the 
Creat'jre, put the Muzzleof the Picce to his Ear, and fliot 
him into the Head ugain, which difpaich*d him quite. 

)'his was Game indeed to us, but this was no Food ; 
and F was very forry to lofe threc Charges of Fowdcr 
and Shot, upon a Creature that was good for nothing to 
US. However, Xury faid, he wouid hai'c fome of him ; 
fo he comes on board, and afked me to give him the 
Hatchet. For what, Xury ? faid I. lAt cut off his Head, 
faid he. Howevcr, Xury could not cut ofF his Head, but 
he cut off a Foot, and brought it with him, and it was 
a monftrous great one. 

1 bethought myfelf howevcr, that perhnps the Skin of 
him might one way or other be of fome Value to us ; 
and I refolvM to take off his Skin, if I could. So Xury 
and I went to work with him ; but Xury was much rhe 
better Workman atlt, for 1 knew ve y ill how to do it. 
In^ed it took us up (both) the whole Day ; but at laft 
WC got off the Hide of him, and, fprcading it on the Topv 
of our Cabin, the Sun effeftually dried it in two Days . 
.time, and it afcerwards fervM me to lie upon. 

After this Stop, we made on to the Southward corti- 
nually for ten or twelve Days, living vcry fparingly on 
our Provifions, which began to abate very much, and 
going no oftencr into the Shore than we wcrc obliged td 
for frcfh Warcr. My Dcfign in this was, to make the 
River Gamhra or Senegal, that is to fay, any whcre about 
the Cape de- Ferd, wherc I was in Hopes to mcct with 
fome European Ship ; and if I did not, I knew not what 
Courfe 1 had to take, but to feek for the Iflands, or pe- 
rifh thete among the Negroes, I knew that all the Ship» 
from Europe, which faiPd cither to the Coaft of Gutmy^ 
or to BrafJy or to the Eafl-Inäies^ made this Cape, or 
thofe lüacds; and^ in i Word» I put l\i« vi\tfA^ ^'l \cc) 
B 3 "ScdVo.^« 



30 The Life ^W Adventüres §f 

Fortune upon this fingle Point, eitber that I mufl mect 
wiih fome Ship, or murt perifli. 

When I had purfued this Refolutioh about ten Dayi 
longer, as I ha^'e faid» I began co fee that the Land was 
inhablted ; and in two or three Places as we failed by, 
we faw People (land upon the Shore to look at us ; wc 
could alfo perceive they were qulte blaclc, and ftark na- 
ked. I was once inclined to havc gone on Shore to them ; 
bttt Xury was my better Coanfellor, and faid to me, No 
ga^ tto go : However, I hal'd in nearer the Shore, that I 
might talk to them, and I found they ran along theSh'ore 
by me a good way. I obferv'd they had no Weapons in 
their Hands, except one, who had a long flender Siick, 
which Xury faid was a Lance, and that they woald throw 
them a great way with good Aim -, fo 1 kept at a Dif- 
tance, but talk'd with them by Signs as well as I could, 
and particdarly made Signs for fomething to eat. They 
beckon'd to me to ilop my Boat, and they would fetch 
xne fome Meat. Upon this I lowcr'd the Top of my Sail^ 
and lay by ; and two of them ran up into the Country, 
and in lefs than half an Hour can^e back, and broaght 
with them two Pieces of dry Flefh, and fome Corn, fuch 
as IS the Produce of their Country ; but we neither knew 
what the one or the other was ; however, wc were wil« 
lins to accept it. But how to come at it was our next 
Dilpute; for I was not for venturing on Shore to them» 
and they were as much afraid of us ; but they took a fafe 
way for us all ; for they brought it to the Shore, and laid 
!t down, and went and (lood a great way o£F, tili wt 
fetch'd it on board, and then came clofe to us again. 

We made Signs of Thanks to them, for we had no- 
thing to make them amends : But an Opportonity oiFerr 
cd that very Inllant, to oblige them wonderfuUy ; for 
while we were.lying by the Shore, came two mighty 
Creatures, one purfuing the other (as we took it) with 
great Fury, from the Mountains towards the Sea ; whe- 
ther it was the Male purfuing the Female, or whethcr 
they were in Sport, or in Rage, we could not teil, any 
more than we could teil whether it was ufual or ftrange ; 
but I believe it was the latter, becaufe, in the firft Place, 
thofe ravenous Creatures feldom appear but in the 
N^ht ; and^ in the fecond Place, w« found the People 

tcrriblf 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. . 31 

tcrribly frightcd, . efpccially the Women. The Man that 
had the Lance or Dart did not fly from them, bat the 
rcft did ; howevcr, as the two Creature^ ran directly intcr 
the Water, they did not feem to ofFer to fall apon the Ne- 
grofi, butplung'd themfelves into the Sea, anJ fwam about 
as if they had come for thcir Diveriiün -, at laft one of 
them begin to come nearer our Boat than at firft I expe^- 
cd ; Lut I lay ready for him ; for I had loaded iny Guol 
with all po/Iible Expedition, and bid Xupy load both the 
other. As foon as he camefairly within my Reach, I fir'd, 
and (hot him direäly into the Head : Immediately he funk 
down into the Water, but rofe inilantly, and plung'd up 
and down as if he was flruggling for Life ; and fo indeed 
be was: He immediately made to the Shore ; but between 
the Wound, which was his mortal Hurt, and the ftrang- 
ling of the Water, he died juft before he reacb'd the Shore. 
Ii is impoffible to exprefs the Ailonifhmcnt of thefe 
poor Crcatures, at the Noife and Fire of my Gun ; fome 
of them were ready even to die for Fear, and feil down 
as dcad with the very Terror. But when they faw the 
Creatore dead, and funk into tl e Watcr, and that 1 made 
Signs to them to come to the Shore, they took Heart,t 
and camc to the Shore, and began to fearch for the Crea« 
ture. J found him by his Blood ilaining the Water, and 
by ihc Help of a Rope^ which I flung round him, and 
gave the Negroes to hale, they dragg'd him on Shore, and 
found that it was a rooft cnrious Leopard, fpotted and 
fine, to an admirable Degree ; and the Negroes held up 
their Hands with Admiration^ to think what it was I 
kilPd him with. 

Thß other Creature, frigbted with the Flafh of Fire, 
and the Noife of the Gun, fwam to the Shore, and ran 
up dircdly to the Mountains, from whcnce they came, 
Aor couid J at that Didance know what it was. I found 
^oickly the Negroes were for eating the Flefli of thil 
Creature ; fo I was willing to have them take it as » 
favour from me, which, when 1 made Signa' to them, 
that they mighc take it, they were very thankful for^ 
Immediately they feil to Work with him ; and tho' they 
had no Knife, yet with a fharpened Piece of Wood, they 
took ofF his Skin ak readily, nay much more readily thaii- 
we wotild have donc vflih a Knife; thty oSefdusAl^Tsi!^ 



32 The Lite and Adveutvres d/'" 
• of the Fiefh, which I declin'd, making as if I would g^v%. 
k them ; but made Signs for the Skin, which they gavc 
jne very freely, and brought me a great deäl morc of 
their Provifion, which, tho' I did not underftand, yet I 
accepted. Then 1 made Signs to them for fome Watejf, 
and held out one of my Jais to'them, turning its Bo€- 
tom upward, to fhew that ic was empty, and that I want* 
ed to have it filled : They callM immediately to fome of 
their Friends, and there came two Women, and brought 
a great VefTcl.made of Earth, and burnt, asIfu|pofe, ia 
the Sun ; this the^ fet down for me, as before, and I fent 
JCurj on Shore wiih my Jars, and filled them all three. 
The Women were as ftark naked as the Meh. 

1 was m)w furniOied with Roots and Com, fuch as it 
was, arid Water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes^ I 
made forwar^ for about eleven Days more, without of- 
fering to go ncar the Shore, tili 1 faw the Land run out 
a great Length into the Sea, at about the DiAancfe of foui 
or hve Leagues before me ; and the Sea being very calm^ 
I kept a large Ofiing to make this Point ; at length, 
doubling the Point at about two Leagues from the Land-» 
I faw plainly Land on the other Side to Sea^ward ; then 
I concluded, as it was moß certain indeed, that this was 
the Cape deVerd^ andtbofe the IJIands, called from thence 
Cape de Verd _ Iflands. However, they were at a great 
Diüan/ce, and I could not well teil what j had bell to do; 
fcr if \ ihould be taken with a Frefli of Wind, I might 
seither reach one or other. 

In this Dilemma, as I was very pcnflve, I ftept into 
the Cabin, and fat me down, Xury having the Helm j 
whcn on a fudden the Boy cry'd out, Maßer, Maßer, a 
Ship 'was a Sail f and the foolifli Boy was frighted out of 
Jiis Wits, thinking it muft needs be fome öf his Mafter's 
Ships fent to purfue us, when I knew we were gotten far 
enough out of their Reach. I jump'd out of the Cabin, 
and immediattly faw not only the Ship, but what (he was; 
wiz, that it wasa Portugueje Ship, ar.d, as I thcught, was 
bcund to the Cöaft of Guiney for Negroes. But when I ob» 
ferv'd the Courfe /he ftcered, I was foon convinc'd they 
were bound fome other Way, and did not cefign tb go 
ary nearer the Shore; upon which 1 ilretched out to Sea 
as much as I could, vefolving to fpeak with them, if 
poJStlc. ' Witk 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 33 

With all the Sail I could make, I found I (hould not 
be ablc to come in their Way, but that they would be 
gone by before I could make any Signal to them ; but 
aftcr I had crouded to the ucmoft, and began to defpair, 
thcy, it feems, faw me by the Help of thcir Perfpedivc- 
glafles, and that it was ferne European Boat, which they 
fappos'd muft belong to fonrie Ship that was loft ; fo thcy 
(horten'd Sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with 
this ; and as I had my Patron's Ancient on board, I made 
a Waft of it to thcni for a Signal of Diftrefs, and fir'd a 
Gun, both which they faw ; for they told me they faw 
the Smoke, tho' they did not hear the Gun : Üpon thefe 
Signals they very kindly brought to, and lay by for mc, 
and in about threc Hours time I came up with them. 

They afk'd me what I was, in Portuguefe, and in 5/^- 
mß>j and in French ; but I ünderftood none of them ; 
but at lad a ^cots Sailor, who was on board, calFd to 
me, and I anfwer'd him, and told him I was an 'Engiiß^ 
man^ that had made my Efcape out of Slavery from the 
Moors at fallet ; then they bid me come on board^ and 
vcry kipdly took me in, and all my Goods. 

It was an inexpreffible Joy to me, that any one will be- 
lieve, that I was thns delivered, as I efteemed it, from fuch 
a miferable and almofl hopelefs Condition as I was in : 
I immediatcly ofFerM all I had to the Captain of the Ship, 
as a Return for my Deliverance ; but he gencroufly told 
me, he would take nothing from me, but tbat all I had 
/hould be delivered fafe to me when I came to the Bra-^ 
fils : Tor, fays he, / have fani' d your Life on no other Terms^ 
tban as I ijüoidii be glad to he fa'v' d myfeJf i and it may one 
time or other he my Lot to he taken up in the fame Condition ; 
hefides^ fays he, ivhen I carry you fo the Brafils, fo great a 
Way fromyour otun Countty, if I ßould take from you nvhat 
little you have^ you woill he ßar*vcd there^ and then I only 
take aijoay that Life 1 hcnje gi'uen, No, no, fays he, Signor 
Inglefe [A/r. Englifhman,] I ivill carry youthither in Cha» 
rity ; and theje ihings nvitl heip you to htiy your Suhßßencg 
there, and your Pafage home agatn. 

As he was charitable in this Propofaf, fo he was jufl in, 
the Performance to a Tittle ; for he ordered the Seamen, 
that none (hould ofFer to touch any thing I had \ then hd 
took cvcry Th'ing into his own Pofijti&oii^ «cvdi 'jgkN^ te^^ 
' B 5 \i^sX 



34 77>e Life anJ Adventürbs of 

back an exad Inventory of theni, that I might hare 

thein agaiti, even fo much as my three Earthen Jars. 

As to my Boat, it was a very good one, and that he 
faw, and told me he would buy it of me for the Ship'« 
üfe, ai d aflt'd xne what I wou!d have for it. 1 told him 
he had becn fo generous to me in every Thing, that I 
cou d not oiFcr to make a y Pr.ce of ihc Boat, but Icft ic 
inürtly to him ; upon whicb he told nie ho would give 
mc a Note of hib Hand to pay me 80 Pieces of Eight 
for it ai JSraJt/ i and when ii came thcre, if any one offcr'd 
tp givc more, he woulo make it up : He ofFer'd me alfa 
60 Piei es of E:ght more for my Boy Xury, which 1 wai 
loth to takc ; not that I was not willing to let the Captain 
have him, but 1 was very loth to feil the poor Boy 's Li- 
berty, who had alüfted me fo faithfully in procuring my 
own. However, when I let him know my Reafon, he 
own'd it to be juft, and offer'd me.this Medium, that he 
would give tne Boy an Obligation to fct him free in te^ 
Ycars, if he turned Chrillian. Upon this, and Xury faying 
be was willing to go to him, 1 let the Captain have him. 

We had a very good Voyage to the Brafils^ and arriv'd 
in the Bay de totios los Santos, ox JII Saiftts Bay, in about 
22 Diiys after. And now I was once more deliver'd from 
the moil miferable of all Conditions of Life; and what 
to do next with m> ielf, I was to confider. 

The generous Trtatment the Captain gave me, I can 
^cver enough remember : He would take nothing of me 
fbr my PaSfage, gave me 20 Ducats for the Leopard'» 
Skin, and 40 for the Lion's Skin, which I had in the 
Boat; and caufed every Thing I had in the Ship to-be 
pundtually deiivered me ; and what I was willing to feil» 
he bought ; fach as the Cafe of Bottles, two of my Guns» 
and a Piece of the Lump of Bees Wax« for I had made 
Candles of the reft; in a Word, I made about 220 Pieces 
cf Eight of all my Cargo, and with this Stock I went on 
Shore in xYitcBrafils, 

I had not been long here, bat being recommended to 
the Houfe of a good honeil Man like himfelf, who had 
an Ingenioy as thcy call it, that is, a Plantation, and a 
Sugar-houfe, IlivM with hitn fome time ; and acquainc-« 
cd myfejf,, by that means, with the Männer of their 
PlaiitinK^ aod.making of Sugar ; and feeing how well tha 

Planters 



Plantfcrs liv*d, and howr they grew rieh fuddcnly, I re- 
folv'4, if I could get Licence to fcttle there, I would' 
t«irn Planter among them ; refolving, in the mean time, tO' 
find out fome way to get my Money which I had lefc- 
in London, remicced to me. To this purpofe, getting a* 
kind of a Letter of Naturali:tation, I pufchafed as much' 
Land thai -was uncur'd, as my Möney woald reach;- 
and forni*d a Plan for my Plantation and Settlement, and* 
foch an one as might be fuitable to the Stock which I pro^ 
pofed to myfelf to receive from England. 

I had a Neighbour, a Portuguefi of Lißon^ bat bom* 
of ^»^/(/ÄParents/whofe Name v^k^ Wells, and in mucbi 
flieh Circumftanccs as I was : I call him Neighbour, he^ 
caufe his Plantation lay next to mine ; and we went oti 
vcry fociably together ; my Stock was- but low, as wdl«^ 
as his; and we rathcr planted for Food, than any thingr. 
elfe, for about two Ycars. However, we began to in-- 
oreafe, and our Land began to come into Order ; fo that 
che third Year we planted fome Tobacco, and roadceach^ 
of as a large Piece of Ground ready for planting Canes 
iD the Year to come; but we both wanted Help ; and: 
Bow I foond more than bsfore, 1 had done wrong in* 
parting with my Boy Xury, 

But alas! for me to do wrong that never did right; 
was no great Wonderj I had no Remedy but to go pn:- 
P was gotten into an Employment quite remote to mj: 
Genius, and direftly contrary to the Life I delighted in,, 
amd for which I forfook my 'Father's Houfe, and brok^ 
thro* all his good Advice; nay, I was Coming into the* 
vcry middle Station, or upper Degree of low Life, which» 
my Father advifed me to before, and which if I refolved- 
to go on witb, I might as well have flaid at home, and^ 
lieber fatigu'd myfelf in the World, as I have done ; andl 
r ufed often to fay to myfelf, I could have done this> 
M well in England Simong my Friends, as have goti^ 5000» 
Miles ofF to do it among Strangers and Savages ift a Wil-- 
demeis, and at fach a Diftance, as never to hear from an y^' 
Part of the World, that had the leaft Knowledge of nie. 

In this manner I ufed to look upon my Condicion: 

with the utmofl Rcgrct. I had nobody to convcrfe with,. 

but now-and-then this Neighbour ; no Work to be done: 

bitf by the Labou^ of my Hands *, and l \a&4 v^ ^^n ^ ^^ 

B>6 \\H^V 



36 71>i Life ani Adi'bnturfs »f 

livM juft likc a Man caft away upon fome dclolate Iftand* 
that had r.obody the«c but hiiurelf. But ho w juft hab it 
bccn, and how (hould all Meu rerie^, that, when they 
ccinpare thcir prelept Kondition u iih cthcKe that are worfc, 
Hujven may oblige ihcm to m. kc the Exchange, and be 
convinccd of thcir furnitr F<;:ici:y, by ihcii Expcricnce [ 
J fay; how jill it ha beeu, ihat ihe rruly Iblltary Life I 
rcfici^ed on ip an Ifland, or mere Dcfrution, iViOiild be 
my Lot, uho had fo often unjuAly comp» red it with the 
Life which I thcn led, in which had I continued, 1 had, 
in all Probttbility, bcen e.xcecding profperous and rieh ! 

I was in fome Dcgrce fetltd in my Meafures for carry- 
ing on the 1 lar.tation, bcfore my kind Friend the Cap* 
tain ef the Ship, that took me up at Sea, went back ^ 
for the Ship remained there in pioviding her Loading» 
and prcparing für her Vov age, near three Months ; wheti 
tclling h.m what little S;ock 1 had lefc behiod me in 
LiKätm^ he gave me this fiicndly ard fincere Advice; 
Sigmar Ingltw^ fays he (fcr fo he-alwa>s calFd me») if yoa 
will give me Letwrs, and a Piocuration here in Form 
to me, wich Orcers to the Perfon who has }cur Money in 
Z,Mt/«#y to fend your E^c^s to Ujhnt to fach Pencns 
as I fliall dirc^, and in fich Goods as a:e proper for 
th,s Countr)*, 1 will bring )Oü the Produce of t: em, God 
wüling, at my Rcturn ; but ür.ce human Adfairs are all 
(ubject to Changes ar.d DifalUrs, I would have you give 
Orders but for tcc/. SurL w*hich you fay is half )our 
Stock» and let tbe Hazard be run for the ürll; fo that if 
it comcs fafe, you may order the refl the fame way ; and 
if it mifcarry, you may have the other half to have re- 
oourfe to for your Sup;:ly. 

'I his was fo whoLbme Ad vice, and look'd fo fnendly» 
that I could not but be convinc^d it was the bell Courle 
1 could take ; fo I accordimgly prepared Letters to the 
Gectiewoman with whcm I had !eft my Mcney, and a 
Procuration to the PunugLeji Captain, as he deiired. 

I wrote the Etgii/^ Captain's Widow a füll Account 
of all my Adventurcs, my Slavery, Efcfpe, and how l 
had m^t'with the F;rtijM Captain at Sca, tfce Huma- 
J^Ky of his Behaviour, and what Conditio n l was now in^ 
witk a!l other ncceiTary Diredions tbr my Supply ; 
«Kd whca tkia hooeil Captain caac to LiitM, he fvucd 
£*... ttcaii^ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^ 

.Bieans, by.fome of the Engliß Merchants ihcre, to fcnd 
over not the Order only, but a füll Account of my Stoiy, 
to a Merchant ac London, wbo prefented it effe^ually to 
her ; whereupon> fhe not only delivered the Money, bat 
out of her own Pocket fent the Portugal Captain a very 
handfome Prefcnt for-his Humanity and Charity to me. 

The Merchant in London vefted this loo/. in EngUfi 
Goods^ fuch as .the Captain h^d written for; fent them 
dire^ly to him at Lifion^ and he broaght them all fafe to 
me to the Braßls\ among which, without my Diredtion 
(for I was too young in my ßuiinefs to think of them) 
he had taken care to have all Sorts of Tools, Iron-work, 
and Utenfils neceflary for my Plantation, and Whichwere 
of great Ufe to me. 

When this Cargo arrivM, [ thoaght my Fortune madc; 
for I was furpris'd with the Joy of it ; and my good Stew- 
ard the Captain had laid out the j/. which my Friend 
had fent him for a Prefent for himielf, to pnrchafe, and 
bring me over a Servant under Bond for fix Years Ser- 
vice ; and would not accept of any Confideration, except 
a little Tobacco, which 1 wonld have him accept, being 
of my own Produce. 

Neither was this all ; bat my Goods being all Engliß^ 
Manufadlores, fuch as Cloth, StufF, Bays, and Things par-* 
ticularly valuable and deüräble in the CounO-y, I found 
means to ftll them to a very great Advantage ; fo that I 
may fay, I had more than four'times the Value of my firft 
Cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor Neigh- 
bour, I mean in the Advancement of my Plantation ; for 
the firH Thing I did, I bought me a Negro Slave, and an 
European Servanf alfo.; I mean anotber beAdes thatVhich 
the Captain brought me from Lifion, 

But.as abufed Prof^erity is oftentimes made the very 
Means of our greateft Adveriity, fo was it with me. I 
went on the next Year with great Succefs in my Planta- 
tion : I raifed 50 great Roll» of Tobacco, on my own 
Ground, more than I had difpofed of for NecefTarifls 
among my Neighbours ; and thefe 50 Rolls being e.ich 
of above ioo/£ fFeighi, were well cured, and laid by, 
againft the Return of the Fleet from Lfßon, And now 
increafing in Bufinefs and W6alth, my Head began to be 
füll of Proje^s and Undertakings beyond m)r Reachs 



38 ^e Life and ÄD\rrNTüKEs öf 

(uch m are indeed ofcen the Ruin of the bell Heads fn 

tafinefs. 

Had I continoed in tlie Station I was now In, I had 
fooin for all the happy Things to have yet befallen me, 
for which my Fathcr fo carncftly recommended a quict 
retired Life, and which he had fo fenfibly delcribed the 
niiddle Station of Life to be fall of ; but other Tliings 
atcended me, and I was fHll to be the wilful Agent of all 
my own Miferies : And particularly to increafe my Fault, 
ftttd double the ReAedions upon myfelf which in my fu« 
ture 'Sorrows I ihould have Leifure to make ; all thefe 
Mifcarriages were procnred by my apparent obftinate ad- 
bering to my foolifh Inclination of wandering abroad» 
and purfuing that Inclination, in Contradidion to the 
deareft Views of doing myfelf good in a fair and piain 
Purluit of thofe Profpeds, and thofe Meafures of Life, 
which Nature and Providence concurred to prefent me 
Wi^> and to make my Duty. 

As 1 had once done thus in breaking away from my 
Parents, fo I coold not be content now, bat I muft go 
and leave the happy View I had of being a rieh and 
thriving Man in my ncw Plantation,, only to purfue &> 
»a(h and immoderate Deiire of rifing fader than the Na- 
tmrc of the Thing admitted ; and thus 1 call myfelf down 
ftgain into the deepeft Gulph of human Mifery that ever 
Man feil into, or perhaps conld be confiftent with Life, 
and a State of Health in the World. 

To come then by jaft Degrees to the Particulars of 
this Part of my Story : You »ay fuppofe, that having 
Bow lived almoft four Years in the Braßh^ and beginnin? 
to thrive and profper very well upon my Plantation, I 
had not only learned the Language, but had contraded 
Acquaintaiice and Friendihip among my Fellow- Planters, 
as well as among the Merchants at Zt. Zalvmdore^ which 
was our Port ; and that, in my Difcourie among them, 
I had frequently given them an Account of my two Voy- 
ages to the Coaft of Guinea, the Manner of tradtng with 
the Negroes there, and how eafy ii was to purchafe upon 
the Coart, for Trifles (fuch as Beads, 'Toys, Kniofes, Scijars^ 
Haichtts, Bits of Giajs, and the like) not only GqU Duß^ 
Guiney Grains, Elephants Teetk^&t, bat Nerrots for the Ser- 
vice of ihc Brafi/s^in grcat Noinbers. 

Thej 



I 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 39 

They liÄened always vcry attentively to my Dlfcoarfe» 
on thc/e Heads, but efpccially to that Part whick related^ 
to the buying N^groes, whick was a Trade at that time not 
only not far entered into^ bat, as far as it was, had beeile 
carried on by che AJßentoi, or Permiifion of the King of 
^päin and Portugmh^ and engrofs'd in the publick Stock f> 
fo that few Negroes were bought, and thofe exceiTive dear. 

It^ happen'd, being in Company one Day with fome 
Merchants and Planters of my Acquaintance, and talking 
of thofe Things very earneftly, three of them canie to noe 
the next Morning, and told nae, they had been mufing. 
very much upon whac I had difcourfed of with them the 
laft Night; and they came to make a.fecret Propofal to 
me; and, after enjoining me Secrecy^ they told me, that 
they had a Mind to fit out a Ship to go to Guiney ; that 
they had all Plantations as well as I, and were ilreighp- 
cned for nothing fo much as Servants ; that as it was ^ 
Trade that could not publickly feil the Ntgroes when they 
came home, fo they defired to make but one Voyage, 
to bring the Negroa on Shore privately, and divide themr. 
among their own Plantations ; and, in a word, the Que« 
flk>n was, Whether I could go their Supercargo in the. 
Sh'p, to manage the Trading Part upon the Coafl of 
Guineyf And they offer'd me, that I (hould have my^ 
equai Share of the Negroes^ witLoat providing any Part ot 
the Stock. 

This was a fair Propofal, it muß be confefsM, had it 
been made to any one that had not had a Settlement and 
Plantation of his own to look after, which was in a fair 
way of Coming to be very confiderable, and wkh a good- 
Stock upon it. But for me, that was thus e(labliih*d, 
and had nothing to do bat go on as I had begun for three 
or foör Years more, and to have fent for the other loo/. 
from England, and who in that time, and with that little 
Addition, could fcarce have fail'd of being worth 3 or 
4000/. Sterling, and that increafing too; forme to think 
of fach a Voyage, was the 11 oft prcpofterous Thing that 
ever Man, in fuch Circumftances, could be guilty of. 

Bat I, that was born to be my own Deäroyer, could 
HO more refifl the. Offer, than I could reibrain my firft 
Jiambliog Defigos, when my Father's good Counfel was 

loft 



40 The Life and Advbntüres of 

loft upon me. In a word, I told thcm I woald go with 
all my Heart, if thcy wonld undertake to look aftcr ray 
Plantation in my Abfence» and would difpofe of it to 
fuch as 1 ihould dircft, if I mifcarried. This thcy all 
engaged to do, and entercd into Writings, or Covenants, 
to do fo ; and I madc a formal Will, difpofing of my 
Plantation and EfFefts, in cafe of my Death, making the 
Captain of the Ship that had fav'd my Life, as before^ 
jny UDiverfal Heir, but obliging him to difpofe of my Ef- 
ftfls as I had diredled in my Will ; onc Half of the Produce 
bcing to himfelf, and the other to bc (hipp'd to England, 

In (hört, I took all poflible Caution to prcfcrve my 
EfFefts, and to keep up my Plantation. Had I ufed half 
as much Prudencc to have look'd into my own Intercft, 
and have made a Judgmcnt of what I ought to havc 
done, and not to have done, I had certainly never gone 
away from fo profperous an Undertaking ; leaving all the 
probable Views of a thriving Circumftance, and gone ap- 
on a Voyage to Sea; attended with all its common Ha- 
zards ; to lay nothing of the Reafons I had to expedb 
particular Misfortunes to myfelf. 

But I was hurry^ on, and obcyM blindly the Di^lates 
of my Fancy, raiher than my Reafoa ; And, accord- 
ingly, the Ship being fitted out, and the Carg;o finifh'd, 
and all Things done as by Agreement, by my Partners in 
the Voyage ; I went on board in an evil Hour again, the 
ift of September 1659, being the famc Day eight Ycars 
that I went from my Fathcr and Mother at Hüll, in Order 
to a6l the Rebcl to their Authority, and the Pool to my 
own Intercft. 

Oiwr Ship was abont 120 Tons Barden, carried (tx 
Guns, and fourteen Men, beüdes the Mafter, hisBoy, 
and myfelf: We had on board no large Cargoof Goods, 
exccpt of fach Toys as wcre fit for^our Trade with the 
Negrees ; fuch as Beads, Bits of Glafs, Shells, and odd 
Trifles; efpecially little Looking-glafles, Knivcs, Scif- 
fars, Hatchets, and the like. 

The fame Day I went on board, wc fet Sali, ßanding 
away to the Northward upon our own Coafts, with 
Defign to ftretch over for the African Coail, when thcy 
came into about 10 or 12 Degrees of Northern Lati- 
tttde; ^hicb» it feems» was the Männer of their Courie 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 4, 
in thofc Days : We had vcry good Weather, only excef- 
five hot, all the Way lipon our own Coaft, tili we camc 
to the Hcight of Cape St Augufiino ; f rom whence, keep- 
ing farther off ,at Sea, we loll Sight of Land, and fleer'd 
as if .we were bound for the lile Fernand de Noronha^ hold- 
ing our Courfe N. E. by N. and leaving thofe Iflcs on 
the Eaft. In this Courfe we paiTed the Line in about 12 
Days time, and were by our laft Obfervation in 7 De- 
grees 22 Min. Northern Latitude, when a violent 7#r- 
nado or Hurricane took us qui-e out of our Knowledge ; 
it began from the Soüth-Eaft, came aboüt to the North- 
Wcft, and then fettled into the North- Eaft, from whence 
it blew in fuch a terrible Manner, that for 1 2 Days to- 
gether, we could do nöthing but drire ; and fcndding 
away before it, let it carry us where-ever Fate and th« 
Fury of the Winds dircÄed ; and during thefc 1 2 Days I 
need not fay, that I expe6ted every Day to be fwallowcd 
up, nor did any in rtie Ship expeä to fave their Lives. 

In this Diflrefs we had, befides the Terror of a Storni, 
one of our Men died of the Calenture, and a Man and a 
Boy waih'd oyerrboard. About the X2th Day, the Wea- 
ther abating a Httle, the Mafier made an Obfervation as 
well as he could, and foand that he was in abont 1 1 De- 
greesof North Latitude, but that he was 22 Degrees of 
Longitude Diffcrence Weil from Cape St, Augvßino ; fo 
that he found he was gotten upon the Coafl of Guiana^ 
or the North Part of Brafil, beyond the River Jmazofiest 
tpwards tha( of the River Oroonoqtte, commonly callcd th« 
Great Rfver ; and now he began to cenfult with me what 
Courfe he (hould take ; for the Ship was leaky, and very 
much difabied; and he was for going diredly back to 
the Coaft of BrafiL 

I was pofitively againft that, and, looking over the 
Charta of the Sea-coafl of y/zr#r/VÄ wich him, wc concluded 
there was no inhabittd Country for us to have Recourfe 
to, tili we came wichin tho Circle of rhe Carihbee Ißandsi 
and therefore refclved to fhnd away for Barhadoes^ which 
b> keeping ofF at Sea, to avoid the Indraught of the 
Bay or Gulph of Mexico, we. might eafily perform, as WC 
hoped, in about fifteen Days Sail ; whereas we cöuld 
not poffibly niake our Voyage to the Coaft of /4/rica^ 
without fome Ailiilance both to our SW\o ^LtidiX'C) ^\a(^N^'^'' 



4^ The Life ä«/ Adventüres cf 

With this De£gn wc changed oar Courfe, and ftccrci 
«way N. W. by W. ih order to reach fome of our Eng- 
kfif Iflands, where I hoped for Relief; but our Voyage 
was otherwife detexmincd ; fbr, being in the Laticude of 
12 Dee. i8 Min. a fec6nd Storni came upon ns, which 
carryM us away with the famc Impetuoficy Weftward, 
and drove us fo oot of the very Way of all human Com- 
«erce, that had all our Lives been faved, as to the Sea» 
W€ wcre rather in Danger of being devourcd by Savage«^ 
tliaii ever returning to cur own Country. 

lo thia Diftrcfs, the Wind ftill blowing very hard, one 
of our Men, early one Morning, cry*d out Uind\ and 
we had no focner run out of the Cabin to look out, in 
Hopes of feeing whereaboats in the World we were, bat 
the Ship ilrack upon a Sand, and in a Moment, her Mo- 
tion being fo ftopp'd, the Sea broke over her in fuch a 
Manner, thatwe expedted we (hould all have perifhM im« 
mediately; and we were even driven into our elofe Quar* 
tcr», to (heiter us from the very Foam and Spray of tiie Sea. 

It is not eafy for any one, who has not oeen in the 
like Condition, to defcribe or conceive the ConfternatioA 
of Men in fuch Circumiiances ; we knew noching where 
WC wcre, or upon what Land it was wc were driven^ 
whethex an Ifland or the Main, whetfier inbabited or 
not inbabited : And, as the Rage of the Wind was Hill 
great, though rather lefs than at ürft^ we could not fo 
moch as hope to havc the Ship hold many Minutes with« 
out breaking in Pieces, unlefs the Winds, by a kind of 
Miracle, Aiould turn immediately about. in a wcrd, 
we fat looking one upon another, and expe^ing Death 
cvery Moment, aBcl every Man afting accordingly, as 
prcparing for another World ; for there was little or 
nothing more for u» to do in this : That which was 
our prefent Comfort, and all the Com fort we had, was,. 
that, contrary to our £xpe6lHtion, the Ship did not 
b*-eak yct, and that the Malier faid the Wind began to 
ftbatc. 

Now, though we thought that the Wind did a little 
ftbate, yet the Ship having thus ftruck upon the Sand> 
and fiicking too faft for us to expeft her getting off, 
WC were in a dreadful Condition indeed, and had no- 
tbin^ to jdo bi«c to think oi faving oiv Lives as well as 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 43 

we could. We had a Boat at our Stern, juft before tho 
Storm ; but fhe was firfl (laved by dafhing againd the 
Ship's Rudder,. and in che next Place (he brokt away, 
and either funk, or was driven ofF to Sea ; fo thcre wsl% 
no Hope from her : We had another Boat on board, 
buc how to get her off into che Sea was a doubtfal thing| 
however, therc was no room to debate ; for we fanry'd 
thc Ship would break in Pieces every Minute ; and fonie 
told US (he was adually broken already. 

In chis Diilrcfs the Mate of our Veß'el lays hold of the 
Boat, and with the Help of the reft of the Men, they 

fot her flang over the Ship's Slde, and gettiog all into 
er, let go, and coniniitted ourfclves, being eleven in 
Number, to God s Mercy, and the wild Sea j for though 
the Storm was abated conftderably, yet the Sea wenC 
dreadfully high upon the Shore, and might well be caird 
Den iji'ilä ZeCy as the Dtäcb call the Sea in a S:orm. 

And now our Cafe was very difmal indeed ; for we all 
faw plainjy, tbat the. Sea went fo kigh, that the Boat 
could not efcape» and that we fhould be inevitably drown* 
•d. As to making Sail, we had none, nor, if we had^ 
coold we havc done any thing with it ; fo we work'd ^ 
the Oar towards the Land, tho' with heavy Hearts, like 
Men going to Execution ; for we all knew, that whea 
the Boat came near the Shore, fhe would be dafhed in a 
thoufand Pieces by the Breach of the Sea. Howevert 
we committed our Souls to God in the moft earneft 
Manner, and the Wind driving us towards thc Shore, 
we haftened our Deftrudion with our own Hands, pulling, 
as well as we could, towards Land. 

What the Shore was, whether Rock or Sand, whether 
Steep or Shoal, we knew not i the only Hope that co«ld 
rationally give us the leaft Shadow of Expeftation, was, 
if WC might happen inio fome Bay or Gulph, or the 
Mouth of forae River, where by grcat Chance we might 
have run our Boat m, or got undcrthe Lee of the Land; 
and perhaps made fmooth Water. But rhere was nothing 
of this appear'd ; but as we made near>;r and nearet 
the Shore, the Land lookM more frightful than tha 
Sea. 

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a Lcagao 
and an haif^ as we reckoned it, a ta]ni\^^^N^^ \^Q.M\k« 



44 7^^ Life and Adventures of 
tain-likc, camc rolling aftern of as, and plainly bid n^ 
exped thc Coup de Grace, In a word, ic toolc ns with 
fuch a Fury, that it overfet the Boat at once, and fepa- 
i'ating US as well from thc Boat as from che another, 
gavc US not Time hardly to fay, O God ! for wc were 
t'l fwallowed up in a Moment. 

Noihing can defcribe the Confufion of Thought which 
1 feit when I funlc into the Water ; for tho' I fwam very 
well, yet I could not deliver, myfelf from the Waves {o 
äs to draw Breath, tili that Wave having driven me, or 
rather carried me a vaft Way on towards the Shöre, and 
having fpent itfclf, went back, and lefc me upon the 
Land aln:oft dry, but half dead with the Water I took 
in : I had fo much Prefence of Mind, as well as Breath 
left, that feeing myfelf nearer the main Land than I ex- 
pe£led, I got upon my Feet, and endeavourcd tö make 
on towards the Land, as fad as I could, before another 
Wave fliould rerurn, and take me up again. But I foon 
fbund it was impolfible to avoid it ; for I faw the Sea 
come after me as high as a great Hill, and as furiousas 
an Enemy, which 1 had no Means or Scrength to contend 
with ; my ßufmefs was to hold my Breath, and raife my- 
felf upon the Water, if I could, and fo by Swimming ta 
preferve my Breathing, and pilot myfelf towards thc 
Shore, if poffible; my greateft Concern now being,-that 
the Wave, as it would carry me a great Way towardi 
the Shore when it came on, might not carry me back a« 
gain with it, when it gave back towards the Sea. 

The Wave that came upon me agnin, buried me at 
once 20 or 30 Pect deep in its own Body, and I could 
fecl myfelf carried with a mighty Force and Swiftnefa 
towards the Shore, a very great Way ; but I held my 
Breath, and affifted myfelf to fwim ftill forward with 
all my Might. I was ready to burft with holding my 
Breath. when, as I found myfelf rifing up, fo, to my 
immediate Relief, I found my Head and Hands (hoot 
out above the Surface of the Water ; and though it was 
not two Seconds of Time that I could keep myfelf fo, 
yet it reüeved me greatly, gave me Breath and new 
Courage. I was covcred again with Water a good 
while, but not fo long but I held it out; and findingthe 
Water had fpent itfclf, and began to return, I ftruck 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 45 

^ ibrward againft ihe Return of the Wavcs, and feit 
Ground again with roy Feet. I ftood Hill a few Moments 
to recover ßreath, and tili the Waters went from me, and 
then I took to my Hecls, and ran with what Strength I 
had, further towards the Shore. But neither would this 
deliver me from the Fury of the Sea, which camc pour« 
ing in afcer me again, and twice more 1 was lifted up b/ 
the Waves,. and carricd forwards as before, the Shore be« 
ingvcry flat. 

The lall Time of thefe two had well near bcen fatal 
to me ; for the Sea, having hurricd me along as before, 
landed me, or raiher dafhed me, againd a Piece of a 
Rock, and that with fach Force, as it left me fenfelefs, 
and indeed helplefs, as to my own Deliverance ; for the 
Blow, taking my Side and Breall, bcat the Breath as 
^it were quite out of my Body ; and had it returned again 
immediately, I muft have been flrangled in the Water ; 
b*it I recovered a little before the Return of the Waves; 
and feeing I (hould be covered again wich the Water, I 
refolved to hold fafl by a Piece of the Rock, and fo to 
hold my Breath, if poffible, tili the Wave went back. 
Now as the Wave« were not fo high as at firil, being 
near Land, I hcld my Hold, tili the Wave abated ; and 
then fetched another Run, which brought me fo near the 
Shore, that the next Wave, tho' it went over me, yet 
did not fo fwallow me up, as to carry me away ; aod the 
next Run I took, I got to the main Land, where, to my 
great Comfort, 1 clamber'd up the Clifts of the Shore, 
and fat medown upon the Grafs, free from Danger, and 
quite out of the Reach of the Water. 

I was now landed, and fafe on Shore, and began to 
Jook up and thank God, that my Life was faved in a 
Cafe wherein there was, fome Minutes before, fcarce any 
room to hopc. I believe it is impoflible to exprefs to 
the Life, what the Extafies and Tranfports of the Soul 
are when it is fo faved, as I may (ay, out of the very 
Grave ; and I do not wonder now at ihat Cuftom, «u/^. 
That when a Malefadtor, who has the Halter about his 
Neck, is tied up, and juft going to be turned ofF, and 
has a Reprieve brought to him ; I fay, I do not won- 
der, that they bring a Surgeon with it, to let him Blood 
that vcr>^ Moment ihey teil hinxof ii, tii^\.\\i^ ^^\^^V^ 



46 The Life and Advestuke» of 

tAay not drive the animml Spirits from the Heart^ and 

#vcnvhclm him. 

For fuddtn JoySf liki Griefs^ cwfound at ßrß» 

I willced about on the Shore, lifcing up my Hands, 
and my wholc Being, as 1 may fay, wrapt up in the 
Contemplation of my Deliverance, making a thpufand 
Geftures and Motions, which I cannot defcribe, refledt. 
ing upon all my Comrades that were drowned, and chat 
there (hould not be one Soul fav'd but myfelf ; for as for 
tiiem, 1 never faw them afterwards, or any Sign of them, 
«xcept three of their Hats, one Cap, and two Shoes, thac 
were not Feilows. 

I caft my Eycs to the ftranded Vcflel, when the Breach 
and Froth of che Sea being fo big, I could hardlyfee it, 
it lay fo far off; and confidered, Lord ! how was it pof- 
fible I could get on Shore ! 

After l had folac'd my Mind with the corofortable 
Part of my Coadition, I began to look round me, to fcc 
what kind of Place t was in, and what was next to be 
done$ and I foon fbund my Comforts abate, and diat, in 
m Word, I had a dreadful Deliverance ; for I was wet, 
had no Ck>aths to fiiift me« nor any thing eitber to eat 
or driak, to comfbrt me ; neither did I fee aoy Profpe£i 
befbre me, bnt that of periOiiog with Hanger, mt being 
deYonrM by wild Beaib : And that which was particu- 
larly afRi^Hng to me was, that I had no Weapon eitber 
tv hnnt and kOl any Creature for my Suftenance, or to 
defend myfelf agaiiid any other Creatare that might de-^ 
ttft 10 kill me for theirs ; In a word» I had nothing about 
me bat a Knife, a Tobacco-f ipe« and a littie 1 obacco 
ia a Bo^t : tkis was all my Pronfion : and tbb threw me 
iato terrible Agonies of Mind, tbat for a wbile I ran a* 
b««t iike a Miämaa« Nigh( com ag vpon ne, I began, 
witk an heaYY Heart» to coafider wkat wooki be aay Lot, 
tf likcre were any i«vt»oas Saalb in tkat Couatry, ieeia^ 
aa Night tbey aUays 01a abtoad fer their Pre^. 

AU iW Rcvaedy that adfet'd to mr TWvgkts at tkat 
TSnawaa» 10 get op iato a tkkk bvbby T?«« Iure a Fir, 
teft iImot» Wkkk mw a«ar ■»« aod wkete I relchrM 
I» HattN^H «iJcMftte ilit «Oft fiay w4ttlltadi 

M V 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 47 

I (hould die; for, as yet, I faw no Profpefl of Life. I 
walkM about a Furlong from the Shore, to fee if I coold 
find any frcQi Water to drink, which I did to my grcat 
]oy ; and having drank, and put a little Tobacco in mj 
Mouih, to prcvent Hunger, I went to the Tree ; and, 
getcing up inco it, endeavoured to place myfelf fo, zt 
that, if I (hould fleep, I might not fall ; and» having 
cut me a fhort Stick like a Truncheon, for my Defence, 
1 took up my Lodging; and, having been exceflively 
facigued, I feil fall aäeep, and üept as comfortably as l 
believe few could have done in my Condition ; and 
found myfelf the moft refreflied with it, that I think I 
evcr was on fach anOccafion. 

When I wak'd it was broad Day, the Weather cJear, 
and the Storm abated, fo that the Sea did not rage and 
fwell as before : But that which furprifed me moft was, 
that the Ship was lifted ofF, in the Night, from the Sand 
where (he läy, by the fwelling of the Tide, and was 
driven up almoil as far as the Rock, which I firft men- 
tioncd, where I had been fo bruifed by the dalhing mc 
againft it ; this beingwithin about a Mile from the Shore 
where I was, and the Ship feeming to (land upright fiill, 
I wiih'd myfelf on board, that, at leail, I might fave 
fome neceflary Things for my üfe. 

When I cam'c down from my Apartment in the Tree, 
I look'd about me again ; and the drü. Thing I found 
was the Boat, which lay as the Wind and the Sea had 
tolfed her upon the Land, about two Miles to my right 
Hand. I walkM as far as I could upon the Shore, to 
have got to her ; bot found a Neck or Inlet of Water 
between me and the Boat, which was aboat half a Mile 
broad ; fo I came back, for the prefent, being more in« 
tent upon getting at the Ship, where I hoped to find 
fomething for mj prefent Subfiftence. 

A little aiter Noon I found the Sea very calm, and 
the Tide ebb'd fo far out, that I could come within z 
Quarter of a Mile of the Ship: And here I found a frefli 
Renewing of my Grief ; for I faw evidently, that if we 
had kept on board, we had been all fafe ; that is to fay, 
we had all got fafe on Shore, and I had not been fo mi- 
ferable as to be lelt intirely delHtote of all Comfort and 
. Company, as 1 now was : This feiced Teaj% it^m tu^ 



48 The Life anJ Adventures 0/ 

Eyes again ; but as there was lictle Relief in that, I re- 
folved« if pofliblc, to get to thc Ship; Co I pulled ofFmjr 
Cloaths. for the Weather was bot to Extremity, and took 
totheSVaterj but, whenl came to the Ship, my Difiicul- 
ty was ibll greater to know how to get on board ; as (he 
lay aground, and high out of the V\ ater, there was no- 
thing within my Reach, to lay hold of ; I fwam round 
her iwicc, and the fecond timc 1 efpy'd a fmall Picce of 
Kope, which I wondered I did not fee ac firft, hang 
down by the Fore-chains, fo L w, as with great Difficulty 
I got hold of it, and, by the Help of that Rope, got ap 
into the Pore caftle of the Ship. Here I fonnd that the 
Ship was bulged, and a great deal of Water in her Hold, 
but (hat llie lay fo on the Slde of a Dank of hard Sand, 
Of rather Earth, that her Stern lay lifted up npon thc 
Bank, and her Head low ?.!moft to the Wa:er ; by thij 
means alt her Quarter was free, ard all that was in that 
Part was d^y ; tOT yoü may be fnrc my Work was to* 
iearch, and co tee what was fpoil: and what was free : 
And örrt l four.d. that all the Sh-.y< Prorifions were dry, 
and ontouched by the Wator : snd, b.ing vcry well diü 
po:eJ to ca:, I \\;:nc 10 the Sresi-rooas, isd clVd my 
recke:* with Bifcuit, a:;i ea.t it a» I wen: aboct «her 
Thirgs. f.^r 1 hij rj Ticie ::> :o e. 1 a!:b faurd tVir.c 
Rcnii:: th<r v:^it CjlV.c, of* uhich T :o-?k a -:^^e Drsjn, 
ard xih'ch 1 bj:d *nieci N«\i er:jc^h cf, :o fpLi: mc 
fx^»- uhji: v\a> bcrore r:e No-^ I \iin:i-i nc:'*::r? rc: a 
B.a:. :o run.i.h =.v.V,: v.;.h r:i-^Y liiln^s iLic.i I fire- 
fjiw wou-d Sr '.fvV.cv^e.y,:-' :." - e. 

1: W15 ;i! Ti.r to :: n* I irc u \ 'or w'iJir »-:i5 Eot 

We '"AU uv^r^I V,; ;f Vi vi<. 1 d :«J er :li-??c lar^e 
Sj\ir$ cf W^vc. JLTC JL rr^r? l>r Tii er cuo in :he 

a^ ::ri"> or rhcui o«-xr ^ci-i a* ! crji csiri^e «vr ij^ir 
Wc^^h:. :^*""^ e*;fv v.ve i»-:h a R.'yc. i'iit iJüy =-"^r.r 
RCC i : ? j:wo : *t5=; n.$ *is i.vr^. I «e-: i^wn ie 
>ii ."^ >.Je. JL c* r-^-'i: -"-==^ "- 2^*» * ry'ifTitret 

5ft<' bVf-^ vV a ^.i*:; AJ^i. **a*.:»^ r^v? >>• :'--« ucrc 

iViLZk cpoe :: ver^^ «tJ» bttt ü^ :fi *xs acc xI^lc 3? bc^r 




iTn^favünr bU Gortän onf üT Üic Wt^efc o! tV S>EVv^.*'M.[-f 5^ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 49 

any great Weight, thc Pieces being too light; fo I went 
to work, and with a Carpcnter's Saw 1 cut a fpare Top- 
mall into three Lengths, and added them to my Raft, 
with a great deal of Labour and Pains ; but the Hope 
of furnilhing myfelf with Neceflaries encouraged me to 
go beyond what I (hould hav« been able to have done 
u^ on another OccaHon. 

My Raft was now ftrong enough to bcar any reafon- 
able Weight; my next Care was what to load it with, 
and how to prei'erve what I laid upon it from the Surf 
of the Sea; but I was not long confidering this : I firft 
laid all the Planks er Boards upon it that I could get ; 
and having confidered well what I moft wantcd, 1 firft 
got thrce of the Seamen's Chefts, which I had broken 
open and empty'd, and Io;ver'd them down upon my 
Raft ; the firfk of thefe I filFd with Provifions, «i;/«. 
Biead, Rice, three Duuk Cheefes, iive Pieces of dry'd 
Goats Flelh, which we livM much upon, and a little 
Remainder of Eurepean Com, which had been laid by. 
for fome Fowls which we brought to Sea with us, but 
the Fowls were kiird ; there had been fome Barley and 
Whea: together, but', to my great Difappointment, I 
found afterward s, that the Rats had caten or fpoil'd it 
all. As for Liquors, I found feveral Cafes of Bottles 
btlonging to our Skipper, in which were fome Cordial 
Waiers, and in all abeut five or fix Gallons of Arrack ; 
thefe I ftow*d by themfelves, thcre bcit^g no need to put 
them into the Cheft, nor any Room for them. While 
I was doing this, I found the Tide began to flow, tho' 
very calra, and I had the Mortification to fee my Coat, 
Shirt, and Waiftcoat, which I had left on Shore upon 
the Sand, fwim away ; as for Breeches, which were 
only Linen and open-kneed, I fwam on boarJ in them 
and my Stpckings: However, this put me upon rum- 
maging for Cloath«, of which I found enough, but 
took no more than I wanted for prefent Ufe, for I had 
otber Things which my Eye was more upon ; as firft, 
Tools to work with on Shore, and it was after long 
fearching that I found out the,Carpenter*s Cheft, which 
was indeed a very ufeful Prize to me, and much more 
valuable than a Ship loading of Gold would have been at 
that time. I got itdown to my Raft, e^en v)\^o\^ ^^ '\x. 

VoL.L C >«^^, 



50 The Life and Adventures of 

was, without lofing Time to look into it, for I knew in 
general whatJt coiicained. 

My ncxt Care was for fome Ammunition and Arms : 
Thcre wcre two very good Fowling-pieces in the great 
Cabin, and two Piftols ; thefe I fecur'd firft, with fome 
Powder-Horns, a fmall Bag of Shot, and two old rufty 
Swords : I knew there were threc Barrels of Powder in 
the Ship, but knew not where cur Gunner had flow*d 
them 5 but with much Search I found them, two of them 
dry and good, the third had taken Water ; thofe two I 
got to my Rafr, with the Arms: And now I thöught my- 
felf prctty well freighted, and began to think how I 
ihould get to Shore wich them, having neither Sail, Oar, 
er Rudder, and the leaft Cap-full of Wind would havc 
overfct all my Navigation. 

I had threc Encouragements : i A fmooth aqd calm Sea. 
2. The Tide rifing and fetting in to the Shore. 3. What 
littlc Wind tlierewas, blew me towards the Land. And 
thus, having found two or three broken Oars belonging to 
the Boat, and befides the Tools which wcre in the Cheft, 
I found two Saws, an Ax, and a Hammer ; and with x 
this Cargo I put to Sea : For a Mile, or thereabouts, my 
Raft wcnt very well, only that I found it drivealittle di- 
ftant from the Place where I had landed before; by which 
I perceiv'd that there was fome Indraught of the Water, 
and confequeptly I hop'd to find fome Creek of the Ri- 
ver there, which I might make ufe of as a Port to get to 
Land with my Cargo. ' 

As I imagined, fo it was ; there appear^d before me a 
liptle Opening of the Land. I fcund a ftrong Current of 
the Tide fet into it; fo I guided my Raft as well as I 
could to keep in the Middle of the Stream : But here I 
had like to have fafFer''d a fecond Shipwreck,' which, if 
I had, I think verily would have broken my Heart ; for, 
knowing nothing of the Coaft, my Raft ran aground at 
one £nd. of it upon a Shoal, and not being aground at 
the other End, it wanted but a little that all my Cargo 
had flipp'd off towards that End that was afloat, and fo 
fallen into the Water : I did my utmoft by fetting my 
Back againft the Chefts, to keep them in their Places, 
but cotttd not thrud ofF the Raft with all my Streneth ; 
seither d\ix& I üir from the Pofiore I was in, bat, holding 
4 «P 



ROBINSONCRUSOE. 51 

up the Chefts with all my Might, ftood in that Manner 
near Half an Hour, in which Time the Rifing of the 
Water brought me a little more up on a Level ; änd a 
Jittle after, the Water ilill rifing, my Ruft floated again, 
and 1 thruft her ofF with the Oar I had, into the Channel ; 
and then driving up higher, 1 at length found myfelf in 
the Mouth of a little River, with Land on both Sides, 
and a ftrong Current of Tide running up. I look'd oa 
both Sides for a proper Place to get to Shore, for I was 
not willing to be driven too high up the River, hoping 
in time to Tee fonle Ship at Sea, and therefore refolvcd 10 
place myfelf as near the Coaft as I could. 

At length I fpy'd a little Cove on the Right Shore of 
the Creek, to which with great Pain and DifHculty I 
guided my Raft; and at laft got fo near, as that,.rcaching 
Ground with my Oar, I could thruft her dire<5lly in ; but 
here 1 had like to have dipp'd all my Cargo in the Sea 
again ; for that Shore lying pretty 'fteep, that is to fay, 
iloping, there was no Place to land, but where one End 
of the Float, if it ran on Shore, would lie fo high, and 
the other fink lower, as before, that it would endanger 
my Cargo again : All that I could do, was to wait tili 
the Tide was at the higheft, kceping the Raft with my 
Oar, like an Anchor to hold the Side of it faft tothe 
Shore, near a flat Piece of Ground, which I expedled the 
Water would flow overj and fo it did : As foon as I found 
Water enough (for my Raft drew about a FooC of Water,) 
I thruft her upon that flat Piece of Ground, and there 
faften*d or moor'd her, by fticking my two broken Oars 
into the Ground ; one on one Side near one End, and one 
on the other Side near the oiher End ; and thus I lay tili 
the Water ebb'd away, and lefc my Raft and a.l my Cargo 
fafe on Shore. 

My next Work was to view the Coimtry, and feek a 
proper Place for my Habitation, and where to ftow my 
Goods, to fecure ,{nem from whatever might happcn, 
Where T was, I yct knew not ; whether on the Contin^nt, 
or on an llländ ; wh^her inhabited, or not inhabited ; 
whether in Danger of wild Beafts, or not. There was a ' 
Hill not above a Mile from mc, which rofe up vcry fteep 
and high, and which feem'd to overtop fome other Hills 
which lay as in a Ridge from it Northward ; l xoqVl t^\x\' 
Ca o\k^ 



Sz The Life and Ad vi^ st vrus of 
one of the Fowling pieces, and one of he Piflols, and 
a Hörn of Powder; and thus armed, 1 traveJled for Dif- . 
covery up to the Top of that Hill, wbere, after I h:«d with " 
great Labour and Difficulty got up, 1 immediately faw 
my Fatß, to my great Affli<^tion ; 'vi%. that.i was in an 
Ifland environ^d every way with the Sea, no Land to be 
fecn, cxcept fome Rocks which lay a great way ofF, and 
two fmall Iflands Ijefs than this,. whick lay about three 
Leagußs to the W-eft. 

Ifound alfo that the Ifland I was in, was barren, and, 
as I fawgood Reafon to belißve, uninhabited, except by 
wild Beafts, of which, however, I faw none; yet i faw 
abundance of Fowls, but knew not their Kinds, neither, 
when I kiird them, could I teil what was fit for Food, 
and what not. At my Coming back, 1 fhot at a great 
Bird which I faw fitting upon a Tree on the Sidc of a 
Jargc Wood ; I believe it was the firft Giin that had been 
fir'd thcre fince the Creation of the World. I had no 
fooner fir'd, but from all the Parts of the Wood therc 
arofe an extraordinary Number of Fowls of many Sorts, 
makin^ a confus'd Screaming and Crying, every oae ac- 
cording to his ufual Note ; but not one of thejn of an/ 
Kind that I kncw : As for that Creature I kilPd, \ took 
it to be a kind of an Hawk, ics Colour and Beak refem- 
büng it, but it had no Talons or Claws more than com- 
mon ; itß Flefh was Carrion, and fit for nothing. 

Contented with this Difcovery, i came back to my 
Raft, and feil to woik to bring my Cargo on Shore., 
which took me jup ihc rell of the Day ; what to do with 
myfelf at Night, I knew not, nor indeed where to reft ; 
for I was afraid to lie down on theXjround, not know- 
jng but fome wild Beaft might devour me, though I after- 
wards found, there was rcally no need for thofe Fears. 

However, as well as I could, 1 barricado'd myfelf round 
With the Chefts and Boards that I had brought on Shore, 
and made a kind of an Hut for that Night's Lodging; as 
for Food, I yet faw not which Way to fupply m^i^U ex- 
cept, that I had feen two or thrcc Creatures like Hares, 
run oüt of the Wood wherc J (hot the Fowl. 

I now began to confider, that I might yet get a 
gr at many Things out of the Ship, which woold bc 
uf fa. to me; and particularly fom« of the Rigging and 

Sails, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 53 

Sails, and fach other ^hings as mighc come Co band ; and 
I refolved to make another Voyage on board the Veflel, 
if poffible; and'as 1 knew that the firft Storm that blew 
muft neceffarily break -her all in Pieces, I refolved to fet . 
all other things .apart, tili I got every thing out o£ the 
Ship that I could getj then I calied a Council, that is to 
fay, in my Thoughts, whether I Ihou'd take back the 
Raft, but this appoartd impriiclicable; fo I refolved to 
go as before, whcn the Tide was down'; and I did fo, . 
cn'y that 1 ItrippeJ before I went from niy Hut, having 
hoihing on bur a cheqi crcd Shirt, a Pair of Linen Draw- 
crs, and a Pair of Pumps on my Fcet. 

I got on boad the Ship as before, and prepared a fe- 
cond Raft j and, havin^ had Exptrienc«; of the firft, I 
neicher made this fo unwieldy, nor loaded it fo hard ; 
bat yet I brought away feveral Things very ufeful to me ; 
as ürü^ in the Carpenter's Store I found two or three Bags 
füll of Nails and Spikes, a great Screw-jack, a dozen or 
two of Hatches, and above all, that moft ufeful Thing 
called a Grindftone : All thefe I fecured, together with 
feveral Things belonging to the Gunner, particularly two 
or three Iron-crows, and two Barrels of MufketbuIIets, 
feven Mufkets, and anoth^rr Fovvling-piece, with fonie 
fmall Quantity of Powder more ; a large Bag füll of fmr.ll 
Shot, and a great Roll cf Sheet lead ; but this lall was fo 
hcavy, I could not hoift it up to get it ovcr the Ship's Side. 

Befides thefe things, I took all the Men's Cloaths that 
I could find, and a fpare Fore-top-fail, Hammocjc, and 
ferne Bedding ; and with this I loaded my fecond Raft, 
and brought them alfo all fafe on Shore, to my very 
great Comfort. 

. I was ander fome Apprehenfions during my Abfence 
from the Land, that at leaft my Providons mioht be de- 
voured on Shore j but when 1 came back, f found no 
Sign of any A'ifitor, only there fat a Crcature iikc a wild 
C at upon one of ihe Chi^fls whjch, when I came to- 
wards ir, ran away to a 'i tle Diilance, and then llood 
ftill ; (he fat very compoftd and unconccrn'd, and look*d ' 
füll in my Face, a? if Il^e hsd a niind to be acquainted 
with me. I prefcn ed niy Gun at her, but (he did not 
underlUnd it, fhe was perfedly unconcerncd at it, noc 
did ibe ofPer to flir away ; upon whicVi l xoKci Wx 21 V\x 
C 3 *,' ^l 



54 7?^ Li? E iT^i Ad TEXTUR ES of 

of Büb:::, ihc' by the way I was not Tery frce'of it, for 
ay Score was noc grtac. Hc^cvcr, I fparcd her a bit, 
I (äy, and ihc mcnt to i:, imelled of ii, and cat ic, and 
Icck'd ^as pleafed] fcr morc ; bat I thanked her, aud 
cca.d fparc ao mtre, {-i {he niarcbed off. 

Kavmg got my feccni Cargo cc Shorc (tho' I was fain 
to cpcn che Barr;ils of Powder, and briogthem by Par- 
cels, f-rr tiey werc too heavy, cürg large Cafks.) I went 
to vwürk to make a litdc Ter»t with the Sa 1, and forae 
Pc!ss whica I cat for that Purrofe ; and into thjs Tent I 
brcaghc ercry taing tha: I fcce«.v wojld fpoil, cither with 
Raia er Scn ; I pikd sll the eir. pry Chelh and Caßcs up 
ia a Circle rcucd :he Tent, to i^:r:ify ic frcm any fudden 
Atrempc, eicher rrcm Man or Eealh 

Whec I hai dcce this, I blccked up the Door of the 
Tcct with fraie ßcardä vvichin, ar.d an cmpty Chcft fct 
mp an eud wickoat ; and fpreacing one of the Beds upon 
the Grcurd, Isying my tue Piftols jaft at my Head, and 
xny Gun at lecgth by me, I wcnt to ^ed for the firft 
txme, and ßcpt very qule:ly all Night : I was v^ry weary 
acd hcaiy ; for the jNight b^fcrc I had flept Jittle, ^nd 
h.:d labo'red very hard all Day, as well fo fctch ihofc 
Thing? frcm the Ship, as to ^et thcm on Shore. 

I had the birs^*^ Nlagazine cf all kinds now that ever 
were !a d cp, I believe, for one Man ; bat I was npt fa- 
lisfeJ ilLI; fcr while the Shfpfat upright in thatPofture, 
1 chought I cughc ;o gct every thing out of her that I 
cculd ; fj every Day at low Water I went on board, and 
brought a Aay ibn;e:h:"g or '.»her : But particularly the 
third tini2 I »er.t, I brngr.: away as niuch o^ the Rig- 
gin^ as I coud, as :-i:o a.l :he fniill Ropes and Ropc- 
tw'ine 1 cGü! j r;et, wiih a P:jce of fpiire Canvas, which 
was to mvnd thsSails upon Occafion, and the ßarrtls of 
wet Gun-pOAcer: In a \\o:d, I brcught away all the 
Sails Hü} ar.d lall, or.iy :h:u I was fain :o cut them in 
Pieces, and brirg as n.uch ac a Time as 1 could ; für 
they wcre n^ more uTeful :o me for Sails, but as mere 
Canvas orJy. 

But that which crniforted me more ftill, wa?, that at 
lait of all, af:er i ha I ir.adc fi'.e or fix fuch Voyages as 
thcfe, and thorght l had r.oching more to expeit from 
rhe;?i)ip, that w.;s wüft!i thv meduling with ; 1 fay, after 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 55 

all this, 1 found a great Hogfliead of Bread, threc large 
Rundlets of Rum or Spirits, a Box of fine Sugar, and a 
Bariel of fine Flour ; this was furpriiing to mc, bc- 
.caufe 1 had given over expefting any more Provifions, 
except what was fpoilcd by the Water. I foon emptied 
the Hog(head of that Bread, and wrapt it up, Parcel by 
Parcel^ in Pieces of the Sails, which I cut out ; and, in 
a Word, I got all this fafe on Shore alfo, tho' at feveral 
Times. 

The next Day I made another Voyage; and now hav- 
ing plundered the Ship of what was portable, and fit to 
hand out, I began with che Cables; and cutting thp greac 
Cable into Pieces, fuch as I could move, T got two 
Cable« and an Kawfer on Shore, with all the Iron-work 
I could get ; and having cut down the Sprit-fail-yard 
and the Mifen-yard, and cwiiTy thing 1 could to make a 
large Raft,- I loaded it with all thofe heavy Goods, and 
came away : But my good Luck began to ieave me ; for 
this Raft was fo unwieldy, and fo overladen-, that after I 
was entered the little Cave, where I had landed the Ttfk 
of my Goods, not being able to guide it fo handily as I 
did the other, it overfet, and threw me and all my Car- 
go into the Water: As for myfclf it was no great Harm, 
iOT 1 was near the Shore ; but as to my Cargo, it was 
great Part of it loft, efpecially the Iron, which I expeäed 
would have becn of great Ufe to ine : However, when 
the Tide was out, I got moft of the Pieces of Cable a- 
fhore, and fome of the Iron, tho' with infinite Labour, 
for I was fain to dip for it into the Water, a Work which 
fatigued me very much ; after this, I went every Day on 
board, and broaght away what I could get. 

I had been 1 3 Days on Shore', and had been elevcn 
times on board the Ship ; in which Time I had brought 
away all tbat one Pair of Hands could well be fuppofed 
capable to bring, though I believe verily, had the calm 
Wcather held,"I (hould have brought away the whole 
Ship, Piece by Piccc : But preparing the twelfth time 
to go on board, 1 found the Wind began to rife ; how- 
ever, at low Water, I went on board, and tho' I thought 
I had rummaged the Cabin fo effedlually, as that nothing 
more could be found, yct I difcovered a Locker with 
Drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three 

C 4 '^•Ä.'L^X^v 



56 The Life and Adventuriss of 
Razors, and onc Pair of large Scißars, wirb ten or a do- 
zen good Knivcs and Porks ; in another, I found about 
thirty-fix Pounds Value in Money, fomc European Coin, 
fome Braß^ fome Pieces of ^ight, fome Gold, fome 
Silver. v 

I fmird to myfclf at the Sight of this Money. O 
Drug \ Jaid I aloud^ what art thou good for ? Thoo art 
not worth to nie, no, not thc ta'^i- g ofF the Ground ; 
one of thofe Knives is worth a'l this Hcap ; I have no 
znanner of üfe for thee ; e'en remain where thou art, 
aud go to the Bottom as a Creature whofe Life is not 
worth faving : JHowcver, upoii fecond 'Ihoughts, I 
toot it away, ^d wrapping all this in a Piece of Can- 
vas, I began to think of making another Raft; bat 
whÜe I was preparing this, I found the Sky overcaft, 
and the Wind began to rife, and in a quarter of an Hour 
^t blew a freCh Gale from the Shore 5 it prefently oc- 
curred to me, that it. was in vain to pretend to make ä 
Raft, with the Wind off Shore, and that it was my 6u- 
£iiefs to be gone before the Tide of Flood began, other- 
wife I might not be able to reach >he Shore at all : Ac- 
cofdingly I let myrelf down into the Water, and fwam 
crofs the Channel, which lay between the Ship and the 
Sand, and even that with Difficulty enough, partly with 
the Weight of the Things I had about me, and partly 
the Roughnefs of the Water, for the Wind rofe vtiy 
hailily, and before it was quite high Water, it blew ä 
Storm. 

ßut I was gotten home to my little Teit, where I lay 
wi'.h all my Wealth about me very fecure : It blew stxy 
hard all that Night ; and in the Morning, when I look'd 
out, bchold, no more Ship was to be feen. I was a 
lictle furpris'd, but recover'd myfelf with this fatisfac- 
tory Refledlion ; «r/z. That I had loft no Time, nor 
abated any Diligence, to get tvtry thing out of her that 
could be ufeful to me ; and that indeed there was little 
left in her that I was able to bring away, if I had had 
more Time : I now gave ovcr any more Thought of 
the Ship, or of any thing out of her, except what might 
drive on Shore from her Wreck, as indeed divers Pieces 
of her afterwards did 5 bat thofe Things were of fmall 
Ufe to me. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 57 

My Thoughts were now whoüy employ'd about fecur- 
ing myfeli againft eiiher Savagcs, if any fliould appear, 
or wild Bsafts, if any were^ in the Ifland j and I had 
many Thoughts of tl.e Method how to do this, and what 
kind of Dwelling to make ; whether I (hould make me a 
Cave in the Earth, or a Tent upon the Barth : And, in 
fliort, I refolv'd upon both ; the Manner and Defcription 
of wkich it may not be improper to give an Account of. 

I foon found the Place I was in was not for my Set- 
tlement, particularly becaufc it was upon a low mooriöi 
Ground near the Sea, and I bcliev'd would not be whol- 
fome, and more particularly becanfe there was no Watcx 
near it ; fo I refolv*d to find a more healthy and more 
convenient Spot of Ground. 

1 confulted feveral Things in my Situation, which I 
found would be proper for mc ; firft, Health, and frcfh 
Water, as I juft now mentioned ; fccondly, Shclter from 
the Heat of the Sun ; thirdly, Sccurity from ravenoua 
Creatares, whether Man or ßeaft ; fourthly, a View to 
the Sea, that if God fent any Ship in Sight, I might not 
lofe any Advantage for iny Delivcrancc, for which I was 
not willing to bantih my Expedation yet. 

In Search of a Place proper for this, I found a littTe 
Piain on the Sid? of a rifing Hill, whofe Form towards 
this lirtle Piain, was as fteep as an Houfe-fide, fo that 
nothing could come down upon me from the Top : On 
the Side of ihis Rock there was an holtew Place, worn 
a little way in, like the Entrance or Door of a Cavc, 
but there was not r^ally any Cave or Way into the Rock 
at all. 

On the Fiat of the Green, juft before this hollow 
Place, I refolv'd to pitch my Ten:. This Piain was 
not above an hundred Yards broad, and about twice as 
long, and lay like a Green before the Door, and at the 
End of it defcended irregularly cvery way down inK) 
the low Grounds by the Sea-fide. It was on the N. N. 
W. Side of the Hill, fo that it was ihelter'd from the 
Heat every Day, tili it camc to a W. and by S. Sun, or 
thereabouts, which in thofe Countries is near the Set- 
ting. 

Before I fet up my Tent, I drew an Half-circle before 
the holtew iPlacC; whkh took in aboutttu Y^td^\tv*&/ 

C 5 ^^tiX\s- 



58 The Life and AdventüRes ef 
Semidiameter, Trom the Rock, and twenty Yards in its 
Diameter, fr m its Beginnina and Ending. 

In this Half-circle I pitch'd two Rows of ftrong Stakcs, 
driving theni Into the Ground tili they ftood very firm 
like Piles, ihe biggeft End being out of tjie Ground above 
£ve Feet and an half, and Iharpen'd on thöTop; the two 
Rows did not ftand above fix Inches from one anothcr. 

Then I took the Pieces of Cable which I had cut in 
the Ship, and laid them in Rows upon bne another, with- 
in the Circle, betWeen th.fe two Rows of Stakes, up to 
the Top, placing otrher Stakes in the Infide> leaning a- 
gainil them, about two Feet and an* half high, like a 
Spur to a Poft ; and this Fence was fo ftrong, . chat nei- 
ther Man or Bec.ft could get into it, or over it. This coft 
inc a great deal of Time and Labour, efpecially to cut 
the Piles in the Wood, bring them to the Place, and 
drive them into the Earth. '' 

The Entraiice into this Place I made to be, not by a 
Door, but by a (hört Ladder to go over the Top j which 
Ladder, whert I was in, I lifted over aftcr nie ; and fo 
I was completely fenc'd in, and fortihed, as I thought, 
froni all the World, aftd confequei.tly flept fecure in 
the Night, which, otherwife, I could not have done, 
though, as it appear'd afterwards, there was no need of 
all this Caution from the Enemies I had apprehended 
Danger from. 

Into this Fence, or Fortrefs, wlth infinite Labour, I 
carry *d all my Riches, all my Provifions, •Ammunitjon, 
and Stores, of which you have the Account above ; and 
i made me a large Tent alfo, to preferve me fiom the 
Kains, that in one Part of the Year are very violent 
there. I made it double ; 'viz, one fmaller Tent within, 
and one laiger Tent above it; and cover'd the uppermoft 
Part of it with a large Tarpaulin, which I had fav'd a- 
jnong the Sails. 

And now I lay no morc for a while in the Bed which 
I had brought on Shore, but in an Hämmock, which 
was indeed a very good one, and belong'd to the Mate 
of the Ship. 

Into this Tent I brought all my Provifions, and cvery 
thing that would fpoil by the Wet ; and hayin^ thus 
inclos'd all my Goods^ I made up the Entrance^ which 

tiU 



ROBINSONCRUSOE. 59 

tili now 1 had lefc open, and £0 pafs'd and repafs'd, as I 
faid, hy a fhort Ladder. 

Wheii 1 had Jone this, I began to work m^ Way into 
the Rock, and bringing all the Earth and Stones that I 
dug down, out thro' mv Tcnt, I laid them up within my 
Fcnce in the Nature of a Terrace, fo that it rais'd the 
Ground within about a Foot and an Half; and thus I 
made a Cave juft bebind my Tent, which f;;rv'd nie like 
a Cellar to my Houfe. 

Jt coft me much Labour, and many Days, before all 
thefe Things were brought to Perfeäion ; and therefore 
1 muft go back to fome other Things which took up 
fonie of my Thoughts. At the fame Time it happen'd, 
after I had laid my Scheme Tor the fetting up the Tent, 
and making the Cavc, that a Storm of Rain falling from 
a thick dark Cloud, a fudden Flafh of iLightning happen'd, 
and after thar, a great Clap of Thunder, as is natural!/ 
the EfFed of it : I was not fo much furpris'd with the 
Lightning, as I was with the Thought which darted inta 
my Mind as fwift as the Lightning itfelf : O my Pow- 
der ! My very Heart funk within me, when I thought, 
that nt one Blaft all .my Powder might be deftroy*d ; on 
which, not my Defence only, but the providing me Food, 
as I thought, enti.ely depended ; I was nothing near fo 
anxious about my own Danger, tho', had the Powder 
took Fire, I had never known who had hurt me. 

Such Impreflion did this make upon me, that after 
the Storm was over, I laid afide all my Work, my Build- 
ing and Fortifying, and apply'd myfelf to make Bags 
and Boxes to feparate my Powder, and to keep it a little 
and a little in a Parcel, in hopes, that whatever might 
come, it might not all take fire at once, and to keep fo 
apart, that it fhould not be poffible to make one Part 
fire anorher. I finifh'd this Work in about a Fortnight, 
and I think my Powder, which in all was about 140/^, 
Weight', was ( ividtd into no lefs than an hundred Par- 
ccls, As to the Barrel that had' been wct, I did not • 
äpprehend any Danger from that, fo I placM it in my 
new Cave, which in my Fancy I calied my Kitchen ; and 
the reft I hid up and down in Holcs among the Rocks,| , 
Ib that no Wet might come to it, marking vcry carcfuK^ - 
ly where I laid it. 

C 6 \>. 



6o The Life and Adventurfs 6f 

In the Interval of Time while this was doing, I went 
out ^t leall once every D^y with my Gun, as well to di- 
vert myfelf, as to fee if I could kill any Thing fit for 
Food, and, as near as I could, to acquJnt myfelf with 
what the Ifland produc'd. The firft Time I went out, I 
prefently difcover'd, that there were Goats in the Ifland^ 
which was a great Satisfadion to me, but then it was 
attendcd with this Misfortune to me, <viz. That they 
were fo ihy, fo fubtle, and fo fwift of Foot, that it was 
the difficulteft Thing in the World to come at them ; but 
I was not difcourag*d at this,' noi doubting but I might 
now and then Ihoot one, as it foon happen'd ; for after 
I had found their Haupts a little, I laid wait in this Män- 
ner for them : I obfervM, if they faw me in the Valleys^ 
though they were upon the Rocks, they would run away 
as in a terrible Fright ; but if they were fecding in the 
Valleys, and I was upon the Rocks, they took no No- 
ticc of me ; from whence I concladed, that by the Pofi- 
tjon of thelr Optics, their Sight was fo direded down- 
ward, that they did not readily fee Objedls that were a- 
bove them : So afterwards I took this Method ; I al- 
ways climb'd the Rocks iirft; to get above them, and 
then had frequently a fair Mark. The f rft Shor I made 
amongthefe Creatures, J kiird a She Goat which had a 
little Kid by her, which fhe gave Sack to, which griev'd 
jne heartily ; but when the old one feil, the Kid flood 
ftock flill by her tili I came and took her up ; and not 
only fo, but when I carry 'd the old one with me upon 
my Shoulders, the Kid follow'd me quirc to my Inclo- 
füre ; upon which I laid down the Dam, and took the 
Kid in my Arms, and carry 'd it over my Pale, in hopes 
to have bred it up tarne ; but it woold not eat ; fo I was 
forcM to kill it, and eat it myfelf: Thefe two fupplyM 
me with Fleih a great while, for I eat fparingly ; and fav'd 
my Provifions (my Bread efpecially) as much as poflibly 
I could. 

Having now fix'd my Habita tion, I found it abfo» 
lutely necefiary to provide a Place to make a Fire in, and 
Fuel toburn ; and what I did for that, as alfo how I 
jnlarg'd my Cave, and what Conveniencies I made, I 
fhall givc a füll Account of in its Place : But I muft firft 
givc fome little Account of myfelf, and of my Thoughts 
•^ ' abouC 



ROBINSONCRUSOE. 6i 

about living, which it may well be fuppos'd wcrc not a 
few. 

I had a difmal Profpedl of my Conditlon ; for as I 
was not caft away upon that Ifland without being driven, 
as is faid, by a violent Storm quite out of the Courfe of 
our intended Voyage, and a great Way, viz. fome Haa- 
drcds of Leagues, out of the ordinary Courfe of the Trade 
of Mankind, 1 had great Reafon to confider it as a De- 
terminifHon of Heaven, that in this defolate Place, and 
in this defolate Manner, I fhould end my Life : The 
Tears would run plentifully down my Face when I made 
thefe Reiiedions ; and fometimes I would expoftulate 
with myfelf, why Providence fhould thus completel)r 
ruin its Creatures, and render them fo abfoiutely mifer- 
able, fo without Help abandon'd, and fo intirely depref- 
fed, that it could hardly be rational to be thankful for 
fuch a Life ? 

But fomething alway? return'd fwift upon me to check 
thefe Thoughts, and to reprove me ; and particularl)r 
one Day Walking with my Gun in my Hand by the Sea- 
fide, I was very penrfive upon the Subjedl of my prefent 
Condition, when Reafon, as it were, put in, expoflulat- 
ing with me t^other way, thus: Well, 'ou are in a de- 
folate Condition, *tis true ; but pray remember, where are 
the reft of you? Did not you come eleven of "you into 
the Boat ? Where are the ten? Why were not they fav'd, 
and you loft ? Why are you fingled out ? Is it better to 
be here or there ? And then I pointed to the Sea. All 
Evils are* to be conßder'd with the Good that is in them^ 
and with what worfe^attended them. 

Then it occurr'd to me again, how well I was fur- 
'nifhM for my Subfiftance, and what would have beenmy 
Cafe, if it had not happen'd, ivbich^as an hundted tbau^ 
Jatid to oue^ that the-Ship floated from the Place where 
firft fhe druck, and was driven fo near to the Shore, that 
I had Time to get all thefe Things out of her ? What 
would have been my Cafe, if I had been to have liv'd 
in the Condition in which I at firll came on Shore, with- 
out Neceffaries of Life, or any Means to fupply and 
procore them ? Particularly, faid I aloud (tho' to my« 
ielf) what would I have done without a Gun» withoac 
Ammunition, without any Tools to make any tluxi^> oc 



6l Tlje Life and Adventüres of 

to work with ? without Cloaths, Bedding, a Tönt, or 
any manner of Coverings ? And that now 1 had all thefe 
to a fufficienc Quantity, and was in a fair way to provide 
my(t\i in fuch a manner, as to live without niy Gun 
when my Ammunition was fpent,' fo that I had a to- 
lerable View of fubfifting without any VVant as long as I 
liv^d ', for I confider'd frorn the Beginning how I would 
provide for the Accidents that might happen, and for the 
Time that was to come, evcn not only after mu Ammu- 
nition' (hould be fpent, but even aftcr my Health or 
Strength (hould decay. 

I confefs I had not then cntertain'd any Notion of my 
Ammunition being deftroy'd at oneBlaft, I mean my Pow- 
der being blown up by Lightning ; and this made the 
Thqughts of it furprifmg to me, when it lighten'd and 
thuntlered, as I obferv'd jull now. 

And now, being to enter into a melancholy Relation of 
a Scene of filent ^ife, fuch perhaps as was never heard of 
m the World before, I iljall take it from its Beginning, 
and contiaue it in its Order. It was, by my Account, 
the ^ot\ioi September y when, in the manner as above-faid, 
I firft fetFoot upon this horrid Ifland, when the Sun be- 
ing, to US, in its autumnal Equinox, was almoft juft over 
my Head ; for I reckonM myfelf, by Obfervation, to be in 
the Latitude of 9 Degrtes, 22 Min. South of the Line. 

After J had been liiere about ten or twelve t)ays, it 
came into my Thoughts that I fliould lofe my Reckon- 
ingof Time for want of Books, and Pen, and Ink, and 
ihould even forget the Sabbath Days from the working 
Days : But to prevent this, 1 cut it with my Knife upon 
a large Poft, in eapital Letters ; and, making it into a * 
great Crofs, I fet it up on the Shore uhere I firil landed, 
nnz., I came on Shore here the 30/>5' «j/^ September, 1659. 
Upon the Sides of this fquare Poft I cut every Day a 
' Notch with my Knife, and every feventh Notch was as 
long again as the reft, and evcry lirft Day of the Month 
as fong agäin as that long one ; and thus I kept my Ca- 
lendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly Rcckoning of 
Time. 

In the next Place we are to obferve, that among the 
many Things which I brought from the Ship in the feve- 
ral Voyagcs, whieh, as above-mention'd, I made to it, I 

got 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 63 

got feveral Things of lefs Value, bat not at all lefs ufeful 
to me, which I omitted fetting down before; as in parti- 
cular, Pens, Ink, and Paper, feveral Parcels in the Cap- 
tain's, Mate's, Gunner's,, and Carpenter's kceping, threc 
or four Compafles, fome mathematical Inltruments, Di- 
als, Perfpeftives, Charts, and Books of Navigation, all 
which I huddled togcther, whether I might want them or 
noj alfo I found three very good Bibles, which came to 
mc in my Cargo from England^ and which I had pack^d 
• up among my Things ; fome Portuguefe Books alfo, and 
among them, two or three PopiQi Pray er- Books, and fe- . 
veral othcr Books, all which I carefully fecured. And I 
muft not forget that we had in the Ship a Dog and two 
Cats, of whofe eminent Hiftory I muft have occafion to 
fay fomething in its Place ; for I carried bbth the Cats 
with me ; and as for the Dog, he jump'd out of the Ship 
of himfelf, and fwam on Shore to me the Day after I 
wcnt on Shore with my firft Cargo, and was a trufly 
Servant to me many Years ; I wanted nothing that he 
coald fetch me, nor any Company that he could make up 
to me ; I only wanted to have him talk to me, bat that 
he coald not do. As I obferv'd before, I foand Pen^ Ink» 
and Paper, and I hu/banded them to the utmoft ; and £ 
Ihall (hew, that while my Ink lafted, I kept Things very 
exafi ; bat afcer that was gone, I could not ; for i could 
not make any Ink, by any means that I could get. 

And this put me in mind that I wanted many Things, 
notwithdanding all that 1 had amafs'd together ; and of 
thefe, this of Ink was one ; as alfo a Spade, Pick-ax» 
and Shovel, to dig or rcmove the Earth; Needles, Pins, 
and Thread ; as for Linen, I foon learn'd to want that 
without miich Difficulty. 

This want of Tools made every Work I did go on 
heayily, and it was near a whole Year before I had in- 
tirely finilh'd my little Pale, or furrcfended Habitation : 
The Piles, or Stakes, which were as heavy as I could 
well l.ft, were a long Time in cutting and preparing in 
the Woods, and more by far in bringing home ; fo that 
• I fpent fomctimes two Days in cucting anJ bringing home 
one of thofe Pofts, and a third Day in driving it into 
the Ground ; for which Purpofe I got a heavy Piece of 
Wood at firft, but at laft bethought myfelf of one of the 



64- TS^ LlF£ ö»i/ ApVENTüRES oj 

Jron Crowsy which however, though I found 
KU mite döving thofe Pofis or Piles very laborlous, 
djouA Work. 

Bat what nccd I have bcen concern'd at the ' 
nefs of any thing I had to do, fecing I had Time 
to <3o it ia ? Nor had I any other Employment 
had bcen over, at leaft that I could forefee, C3 
raDgmg the Ifland to feek for Food, which 1 did 
leis ^^t^Ty DsLy, 

1 now began ierionfly to confider my Cohditi 
the Circmnftanccs I was redac'd to, and I drei 
State of my Affairs in Writing ; not Co much 
theaj CO any that werc to come after mc, for I 
to ha VC but few Heirs, as to deliver my Thoug 
daily porlng upon them, and affliäing my Mind 
my Rcafon began now to mafier my Dcfpondenc 
gan to comfort myfdf as well as I could, and A 
Good agninß the Evil, that I might have fom< 
diftingtjjßi my Cafe from worfe ; and 1 ftated it 
partiaJIy, like Dcbtor and Creditor, the Comf 
joy'd, againft the Miferies 1 fuffer'd, thus : 



EVIL. 

/ am caß upon an horrible 
^eßlmt Ißandi toid of all 
Ho^i ßf RiCO'very. 

I am ßngUd out and ß. 
farated, m it ivere^ from 
all thi Wifrtd^ to bt mifera- 



kimd^ a ^QÜtaryy one banißi?^ 
Jr%m human Society. 

y^Ihmvitto Cleaths to co^er 



G O O D 

But I am ali'uey 
dronjcnd^ as all « 
Company mjas. 

But I am ßnghi 
from all the Sbip^s 
be fpared from Dea 
he that miraculouji 
fne from Death, ca 
me from this Condii 

But I am not ßat 
perißing on a harr 
affording no Sußenc 

But I am in an 
mate^ ^where if I ha 
I could kardly ^wear 



ftOBINSON CRUSOE. 65 

I am mtbrnt joj Df'emix Smt I am c^S tm mx lUmml 

♦r KUems /. re^ß mmj rÜiemce ^htrt I Jt: w'^i^ Bt^i tm 
0/ MoM 9r Bi^ß, lycrt «i-, Äj I ßKs j« th€ 

Czzf: £/Afnca: AmJ^jihmt 
if I cAi t-UM ßi^^xredTd 
thcri ? 

1 bm mn Snd t9 J^zi B^ GU v.^iirfij:^ ß^ 
t», Qr relitve «er. tU 5iar/ /» nar m^gh f tht 

Shire, tCiit I have gziiem amt 
fs rr.ar.j Kzsf/j'f "Thargs ms 
^Liil fi^htT Jit^^Ix wy Ifamfs^ 
€r nable mg t§ fiff^ "Sf^^* 
e%xm MS Lxg OS 1 /fvr. 

UpoB thc WTiolc, bcre was an ocdocbted Tcftimony , 
that there was fcarce anv Cordidon in ihe World to mi- 
ierable, bot there wss fomcthmg si^«//<ly, er fomething 
f^ßtiye, to be thackfol in it ; acd let this fiand as a Di- 
redion from tfae Expcricnce of die moft miferable of all 
Condidons in this World, that we may always find in it 
ibmething to coxnfbrt ourfelves from, and to fet, in the 
Defcription of Good and Eril, on the Credit-fide of the 
Account. 

Having now bronght my Mind a litde to relilh my 
Condition, and giving orer looking ont to Sea, to (ee if 
I coald fpy a Ship ; I fay, giving over thcfc Things^ J 
began to ^pply myielf to accommodate my way of living^ 
and to make Xhings as ea(y to me as I could. 

I have already de(cribM my Habitation, which was ^ 



Tent aoder the Sideof a Rock, farroanded with a ftroi 
Pal€ 



Hg 



e of Pofts and Cables, bat I migtt now rather call i| 
Vall ; for l rais'd a kind of Wall up againfl it ^^ 
Turfs, aboat two Pect thick on thc Ontfide ; and afi^*» 
ferne Time (1 think it was a Ycar and an half) I rai^^ j 
Rafiers from it, leaning to the Rock, and thatch'd or ^-5 
ver'd it with Booghs of Trccs, ard fach Thinge Z^'' 
could get to kecp out the Rairt, which I found at f ^ 
5b of thc Year very violei t. ^^fe 



Timcb of thc Year very violei t. *^^t 



I have already obfervM how 1 brought all wv O 
into this Pale, and into the Cave which I had n ^^^8 



biad m? : Bttt I muft obfervc too, that, at £rft ^^ bt 



64. TJ^ LiFfi and Ai^VEUruKES 0/ - 
Iron Crows, which however, though I found it,* yet 
tnade driying thofe Poüs or Piles very laborlous, and te- 
dious Work. 

But what need I have been concern'd at the Tediouf- 
Xiefs of any thing I had to do, feeing I had Time enough 
to do it in ? Nor had I any pther Itnployment, if that 
liad been over, at leaft that I could forefee, except the 
ranging the Ifland to feek for Food, which 1 did more ör 
lefs cvcry Day. 

I now began {erionfly to coniider my Cohdition, and 
the Circiunäances I was reduc'd to, and I drew up the 
State of my AfFairs in Writing ; not fo mach to leave 
them to any that were to come after me, for I was like 
to have but few Heirs, as to deliver my Thoughts from 
daily j>oring upon them, and affliding my Mind; and as 
my Reafon began now to mailer my Defpondency, I be- 
gan to cQmfort myfelf as well as I could, and fo fet the 
Good againft die Evil, that I might have fomething to 
diftinguiih my Cafe from wörfe ; and I ftated it very im- 
partidly, like Debtor and Creditor, the Comfort I en- 
joy'd^ againü the Miferies I fuffer'd, ithns : 



K V I L. 



GOOD. 



/ am cafl upon an horrihle But I am ali'vey and not 
defilatt Ifland \ 'void of all drvwndy as all fny S/hi^s 
Hofe of Reco'very. Comparr^ ivas. 



I am ßngled out and fe- 
faraUdy as it *were^ from 
all the Worldy to b$ mifera- 
hie. 



But I am ßngled 4mt ■ to^ 
from all the Ship's Cretv ta 
he fpared from Deatb ; and 
he that miraculoujly fsrved 
me from Death, can deli*ver 
me from this Condition, 



I am £*vided from Man- But I am not ßamj'dy and 
Ündy a SoUtaryy one banißld perißing on a harren Place y 
from human Society, affording m Suftenance, 

l hetvi no Cloaths to cover But I am in an bot CH» 
me.. mate, ivhere ifl had Cloaths ^ 

I could hardlj *wear ibßm* 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 65 

1 am ivitbout any Defence But I am caß on an Ifland 
#r Means to refifl any Violenu ichere I fee no ivild Beaßs to 
of Man or Btafi, hurt nie, as I fanjj on the 

Coaß c/^Afrlca: Andnxhat 
if I had been fiipwreck'd 
there ? 

t ha<L'e na Sold to /peak But Gcd ivonderfully fent " 
to, or relitn;e mt, the Ship in vear enough to the 

Shore^ thiit I ha*ue gölten out 
fi matiy ncceJJ'ary 7hings as 
Ijuiil either Jupply my WantSy 
or enahle me to fipply tnyßlf^ 
enjen as long as I ii've. 

Upon the Whole, here was an undoubted Teftimony, 
that there was fcarce any Condition in the World fo mi- 
ferable, but there was {omtxhing negatirue, or fomething 
foßti<v€, to be thankful in it ; and let this fland as a Di- 
redion from the Experience of the moil miferable of all 
Conditions in this World, that we may always find in it 
fomething to comfort ourfelves from, and to fet, in the 
Defcription of Good and Evil^ on the Credit- fide of the 
Account. 

Having now brought my Mind a little to relifh my 
Condition, and giving over looking out to Sea, to fee if 
I coold fpy a Ship ; f fay, giving over thefe Things» I 
began to apply myfelf to accommodate my way of living, 
and to make Things as eafy to me as I could. 

I have already defcrib'd my Habitation, which was a 
Tent under the Side of a Rock, furrounded with a ftrong 
Pale of Pojfts and Cables, but I might now rather call it 
a Wall 5 for I rais'd a kind of Wall up againft it of 
Turfs, about two Feet thick on the Oütfide ; and after 
ferne Time (I think it was a Year and an half) I rais'd 
Rafcers from it, leaning to the Rock, and thatch'd or co- 
vcr'd it with Booghs of Trees, and fuch Things as I 
coald get to keep out the Rain, which I found at fome 
Times of the Year very violer t. 

I havt already obferv'd how I brought all my Goods 
into this Pale, and into the Cave which I had made be- 
biod pi? • But I niuft obferv^ too, that, at ftift, Xtv\^N<^% 



66 The Life and Adventures of 

a confusM Hcap of GooJs, whkh, as they lay in no Or- 
der, fo they took iip all my Place ; I had no Room to 
turn myfelf, fo I fet myfclf to cnlarge my Cave, and 
work'd farther into the Barth ; for it was a loofe iandy 
Rock, which yieldcd eafily to the Labour I beftovv'd on 
it : And fo, when I fouhd I was precty iafe as to Beafts 
of Frey, I work'd fideways to the Right-hand into the 
Rock ; and, chen tuming to the Right again, W9rk'd 
quite out, and made my Door to come out on the Out- 
fide of my Pale or Fortification. 

This gave me not only Egrefs and Regrefs, as it was 
a Bäck-way to my Tent, and to my Score houfe, but 
gave mc room to flow my Goods. 

And now I began to apply myfelf to make fuch ne- 
ceffary Things as I found I mofl wantcd, particularly a 
Chair and a Table ; for without thefe I was not able to 
' • cnjoy the few Comforts I had in the World ; I could not 
write or cat, or do feveral Things, with fo much Pleafure, 
without a Table. 

So 1 went to Work r and hcre I muft needs obferv«, 
that as Reafon is the Subilance and Original of the Ma- 
thematics, fo, by ftating and fquaring every tbing by 
Reafon, and by making the moft rational Judgment of 
Things, every Man may be, in Time, Maller of every 
Mechanic Art. 1 had never handled a Tool in my Life« 
and yet in Time, by Labour, Application, and Contri- 
vance, I found at la^, that I wanted nothing but I could 
have made it, efpecially if I had had Tools ; however, 
I made Abundance of Things even without Tools, and 
fome with no more Tools than an Adz and an Hatchet, 
which perhaps were never made that way before, and 
that with infinite Labour. For Example, if I wanted a 
Board, I had no othcr Way but to cut down a Tree, fet 
it on an Edge before me, and hew it flat on either Side 
with my Ax, tili I had brought it to be as thin as a Plank, 
and then dub it fmooth with my Aaz: It is true, by this 
Method I could make but one Board out of a whole 
Trce, but this I had no Remedy for but Patience, any 
more than I had for the prodigious dealof Time and 
Labour which it took me up to make a Piank or Board : 
But my Time or Labour was l.ttle worth, and fo it was 
as well employ'd one way as another. 

. However, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 67 

Howevcr, I made me a Table and a Chair/as T obferv'd 
above, in the firft Place, and this I did out of the fhort 
Pieces of Boards that I brought on my Raft from the Ship: 
Bat when I had wrought ouc (ome Boards, as above, I 
made large Shelves of the Brcadth of a Foot and an half, 
one over another, all along one Side of my Cave, to ia/ 
all my Tools, Nails, and Iron-work, and in a word, to 
feparate every thingat large in their Placcs, that I might 
caiily come at them ; alfo I knock'd Pieces rnto the Wall 
of the Rock,- to hang my Guns, and all Things that 
would hang up. 

So that, had my Cave been to be feen, it look'd like 
a general Magazine of all. neceflary Things ; and I hadr 
every thing fo ready at my Hand, that it was a great 
Pleafure to me to fee all tny Goods in fuch Order, god 
efpecially to find my Stock of all Neceifaries fo great. 

And now it was wheo. I began to keep a Jouinal of 
€very. Day's Emjloyment; for indeed at iirii 1 was ia 
ioo mach Horry, and not only an Hurry as to Labour, 
but in too much Difcompofure of Mind, and my Jour- 
nal would haye been füll of maoy duU Things. ForEx« 
ample, I mufl have faid thus : Sgpt, the 30th, after I got 
to Shore, and had efcap'd drowning, inftead of being 
ihankful to God for my Deliverance, having firft vomited 
with a great Quantity of Salt Water, which was gottea 
into my Stomach, and recovering myfelf a little, I ran' 
about the Shore, wringing my Hands, and beating my 
Head and Face, exciaiming at my Mifery, and crying 
out, I was undone, undone ! tili, tir'd and faint, I was 
forc'd to lie down on the Ground to repofe, but dürft not 
flcep for Fear of being devour'd. 

Some Days after this, and after I had been on board 
the Ship, and had got all 1 could out of her, yet I could 
nct forbcar getting up to the Top of a little Mountain, 
and looking out to Sea, in Hopes of feeing a Ship, then 
fdnfy at a va(t Diftance I fpy*d a Sail, pleafe myfelf with 
the Hopes of it, and then after looking fteadily tili I was 
almoft blind, loft; it quite, and fit down and weep like a 
Child, and thus increafe my Mifery by my Folly. 

But having gotten over theie Thinors in fome Mea- 
fure, and having fettled my Houfhold-lluff" and Habita- 
tion^ made me a Table and a Chair, and all as handfome 



68 Yhe LiFB Ä«i ÄDVENtüÄES ff 

aboot me as I could, I began, I Tay, to keep my JoQrnal, 
of which I (hall here give you the Copy (thoagh in k 
.will be told all thefe Parciculars over again) as long as 
it lafled ; for at laft, having no more Ink, I was forcM 
to leave it off. 



The Journal. 

SEptemhr 30, 1650. I, poor mif-rable Rohinfin Crufoe^ 
being (hipwrcck'd during a dreadfui Scorm in the 
Oiiing, came on Shore on this difmal unfortunate Ifland, 
which I caird the Jjland 0/ Dejpair, all the reft of the Ship's 
Company being drown'd, and myfelf almoft dead. 

All the reit cf the Day I fpent in afflidting myfelf at 
the difmal Circumflances 1 was brought to ; 'vix. I had 
neirher Focd, Houfe, Cloaths, Weapon, or Place to fly 
to, and, inDefpairofany Relief, faw nothing butDeath 
before me, either that I fhould be devour'd by wild Beafis, 
murder'd by Savages, or flarv'd to Death for want of 
Food. At the Approach of Night I fiept in a Trce fbr 
fear of wild Creatures, but fiept fonndly, tho* it rain*d 
all Night. 

Oßoher I . In the Morning I faw, to my great Surprize, 
the Ship had floated wich the high Tide, and was driven 
on Shore again much nearer the Ifland ; which, as ic 
was fome Comfort on one hand (for feeing her fit np- 
right, and not broken in Pieces, I hoped, if the Wind 
abated, 1 might get on board, and get fome Food and 
Neceflaries out of her for my Relief,) fo, on the other 
hand, it renew'd my Gri.f at the Lofs of my Comrades, 
who, I imag n'd, if we had all llaid on board, mi^ht 
have fav'd the Ship, or at le ft that they would not havc 
been all drown'd» as thcy wcre ; ard thar, h.^d the iMen 
been fav'd, we might peiha^s have buil: us a Boat cut 
^f the Ruins of me Saip, 10 ha^e carry 'd us to fome 
other Part of ihe World. I ipent s^reat Par: of ihis Day 
« perplexing myfelf on thefe 1 h:ngs ; but at length, 
ie^ng ehe Ship almoft drj-, 1 went upon the Sand as near 

as 






ROBINSON CRUSOE. 69 

as I could» and then fwam on board : Tliis Day alfo 
concinued raining, tho' with no Wind ac all. 

From the i ft of Oäober to the 24th. All tbefe Days 
intirely fpent in many fev^ral Voyages to get all I could 
out of the Ship ; which I brought on Shore every Tide 
of Flood upon Rafts. Much Rain alfo in thefe Days, -*■ 

though' with fome Intervals of fair Weathcr : But, it "^ 

feems, this was the rainy Seafon. 

03, 24. I overfet my Raft, and all the Goods I had . 
got opon it ; but being in (hoal Water, and the Things 
being chiefly heavy, 1 rccover'd many of them when the 
Tide was out. 

Oß, 25. It rain'd all Night and all Day, with fome 
Gufts of Wind, during which Time the* Ship broke ia 
Pieces, the Wind blowing a little hardcr than before, 
and was no more to be feen, exccpt the Wreck of her, 
and that only at low Water. 1 fpent this Day in cover- 
ing an3 fecuring the Goods which I had fav'd, tbat the 
Rain might noc fpoil them. 

03. 26.- I walk'd about the Shore almoft all Däy, to 
find out a Place to fix my Habitation, greatly concern'd 
to fecere myfelf frora any Attack in the Night, either 
from wild Beafts or Men. Towards Night I fix^d upon a. 
proper Place ander a Rock, and mark'd out a Semicircle 
for my Encampment, which I refolv'd to ftrengthen with 
a Work, Wall, or Fortitication, made of double Piles, 
lin'd within with Cabie, and without with Turf. 

From the 26th to the 30th, I work'd very hard in car- 
rying all my Goods to my new Habitation, though fome 
Part of the Time it rain'd exceeding hard. 

The 3ift, in theMorning, I wcnt out into the Ifland 

•with my Gun to fee for fome Food, and dlfcover the 

-Coantry, when I kiird a She goat, and her Kid follow'd 

me Home, which I afterwards kilFd alfo, becaufe it 

would not feed. 

November i . I fet up my Tent under a Rock, and lay 
there for the firfl Night, making it as large as 1 could, 
^th Stakes driven in to fwing my Hammock upon. 

Nov. 2. I fet up all my Chefts and Boards, and the 
Fieces of Timber which made my Raft, and wich them 
form*d a Fence round me, a little within the Place I had 
]iiark*d oat for my Fortification. 



yo Th Life and Adventures of 

Nov, 3. J went out wich iiiy Gun, and kilPd two 
Fowls like Decks, which vvere very goud Food. In thc 
Afternooa went to work co n-.ake me a Table. 

Nov, 4. 1 bis Morning 1 Lcgati to order my Times of 
Work, of going out with my Gun, Time of SUep, and 
Time of Diveiiion ; *viz. every Morning I walic'd out 
with my Gun for two or three Hours, if it did not rain ; 
then employV. myfelf at work tili about eleven o'CIock; 
then eat what I had to live on ; and from twelve to two 
I lay down to flecp, the Weather being exceffive hot, 
and then in the Evening to work again ; The working 
Part of this Day and the next werc whoUy employ'd in 
making this Table, for I was yet but a very forry Work- 
man, tho' Time and Neceflity made me a complete na- 
tural Mechanic foon after, as I believe it would do any 
one elfe. 

No^, 5. This Day I went abroad with my Gun and 
my Dog, and kiird a wild Cat, her Skin prettyJbft, but 
her Flefh good for nothing : Every Creature I kill'd I 
took ofF the Skins and prefervM them. Coming back 
by the Sea-Shore, I faw many Sorts of Sea-Fowls which 
I did not ' underftand ; but was furprifed, and almoft 
frighted, wit|i two or three Seels, which, while I was 
gazing at, rot well knowing what they were, got into 
the Sea, and efcap'd me for that Time. 

Nov. 6. After my Morning Walk, I went to work 
with my Table again, and finilh'd it, though not to my 
liking ; nor was it long before I learn'd to mend it. 

Nonj, 7. Now it began to be fettied fair Weather. The 
7th, 8th, 9th, loth, and Part of the i2th (for the iith 
was Sunday^ according to my Reckoning) I took" wholly 
up to make me a Chair, and with much ado brought ic 
to a tolerable Vape, but never to pleafe me ; and even 
in the making I puird it to Pieces feveral Times. Notej I 
foon negledfed keeping Sundays; for, omitting my Mark 
for them on my Port, J forgot which was which. 

No<v. 13. This Day it rain'd, which refrefli'd me ex- 
ceedingly, and cooPd the Earth ; but it was accompa- 
ny'd with terrible Thunder and Lightning, which fright- 
ed me dreadfully for fear of my Powder : As foon as it 
was over, I refolv'd to feparate my Stock of Powder in- 
to as many little Parcels as poifible> that it might not be- 
in Dan^er. Nov, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 71 

. Nov,. 14, 15, 16. Thcfe threeDays I fpent in xnaking 
litde fquare Chefts, or Boxes, which might hold about a 
Poand, or two Pounds at moft, of Powder ; and fo put- 
ting the Powder in, I ftow'd it in Places as fecure and 
remote from one 'another as poffible. On one of thefe 
three Days I killM a l^rge Bird that was good to eat, 
buc I knew not what to call it. 

Ni^u. 17. This Day I began to dig behind my Tent 
into the Rock, to make roosn for my farther Conveni« 
cncy. Notef Three Things I wanted exceedingly for 
this Work ; 'vix, A Pick-ax, a Shovel, and a Wheel- 
barrow or Ba(ket : So I defiftexl from my Work, and be- 
gan to confider how to fupply that Want, and make me 
fome Tools. As for the Pick ax, 1 hiade ufe of the 
Iron-Crows, which were proper enough, though heavy ; 
but the next Thing was a Shovel, or Spade ; this was fo 
abfolutely neceffary, that indeed 1 Qouid do nothing ef- 
fe^ually without it ; but what kind of one to make I 
knew not. 

Nov, 18. The next Day, in fearching the Woods, I 
found a Tree of that Wood, or like it, which in the 
Braßls they call the Iron-Tree^ for its excfeeding Hardnefs; 
of ihis, with great Laboor, and almoll fpoiling ray Ax, 
I cat a Piece, and brought it home with DiiHculty enough, 
for it was exceeding heavy. 

The cxceffive Hardnefs of the Wood, and having no 
other Way, made me a long while upon this Machine; 
for I work'd it efFeäually, by little and little, into the 
Form of a Shovel or Spade, the Handies exaflly (hap'd 
like ours in England^ only that the broad Part, having no 
Iron fhod opon it at Bottom, it would not lad me fo 
long j however'it ferv'd well enough for the üfes which 
I had Occaiion to put it to ; but never was a Shovel, I 
believe, made after that Faihion, or fo long a making. 

l was ftiil deficient, for I wanted a Bafket or a Wheel- 
barrow: A Bafket I could not make by any means, having 
no fuch Things as Twigs that would bend to make 
Wicker-ware, at leafl none yet found out; and, as to 
the Wheel-barrow, I fanfied I could make all but the 
Whccl; but that 1 had no Notion bf, weither did I knovv 
how to go about it ; beiides, I had no poffible Way to 
make Iron Godgeons for the Spindle or Axis of the 



j2 The Life and Adventures ü/ 

Wheel to run in : So 1 gave it over ; and fo, for carryiög 
away the Barth which I dug out of the Cave, 1 made me 
a Thing llke an Hod, which the Labourers carry Mortar 
in whcn they ferve the Bricklayers. 

This was not fo difHcult to me as the making the 
Shovel;'and yet this, and the Shovel, and the Attempt, 
which I made in vain, to make a Wheel -barrow, took 
me up no lefs than four Dzys i I mean always, .except- 
ing my Morning^s Walk with my Gun, which I feldom 
faird ; and very feldom fail'd alfo of bringing home 
fomething £t to eat. 

No<v, 23. My other Work having flood ftill, becaufe . 
of my making thefe Tools, when they were ÜQifh'd, I 
went on ; and working every Day as my Strength and 
Time allow'd, I fpent eighteen Days intirely in widening 
and deepening my Cave, that it might hold my Goods 
commodioufly. 

No/e, during all this Time, I work'd to make this 
Room or Cave fpacious enough to accommodatc me as 
a Warehoufe or Magazine, a Kitcr.en, a Diniog-room, 
and a Cellar ; as for a Lodging, 1 kept to the Tent, ex- 
cept that fometimes in the wet Scafon of tie Year, it 
rain'd fo hard, that I could not keep myfelf dry i which 
caufed me afcerwards to cover alJ my Place within my 
Pale with long Poles in the Form of RaTters, leaning 
againil the Rock, and load them with Flags, and lorge 
Leaves of Trees, like a Thatch. 

, Decemlnr 10. I began now to think my Cave or Vault 
finiih'd, when on a fudden (it feems I had made it too- 
large) a grcat Quanticy of Earth feil down from the Top 
and one Side, fo much, that in fhortit frighten'd me, and 
not without Reafon too • for if I had been under it, I 
had never wanted a Grave Digger: üpon this Difafter I 
had a great deal of Work to do over agaln ; for I had 
the looS Earth to carry out, and, which was of more 
Importance, I had the Cieling to prop up, fo that I 
might be füre no more would come down. 

Dec. 1 1 . This Day 1 went to work with it accordingly, 
and got two Shoars, or Pofts, pitch'd upright to the 
Top, with two Pieces öf Board acrofs oveJr each Poft : 
This I finifh'd the next Day ; and fetting more Pofts up 
with Boards, in about a Week more 1 had the Roof fe- 
cured, and the Pofts, ftanding in Rows^ ferv'd me for 
PärtIcJons to Part off my Hoafe. Dcc. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 73 

Dec, 17. From this Day to thc tt>th, I plac'd Shclves, 
«nd knock'd ap Nails in che Pofts, to hang every thing 
up that could be himg «p j and now I began to be in 
fonie Order withsn Doors. 

Die 20, «Now I carried.cvcry thing into the Cavc, 
and began to furnifh my Honfe, and fet up ferne Pieces 
of Board like a Dreifer» to order my Viduals upon ; buc 
Board began to be very fcarce with me : Alfo I nade me 
another Table. 

Dec. 24^ Muck Rain all Night and all Day ; no ftirrin^ 
eut. 
- Dec. 25. Rain all Day, 

Dec. 26. No Rain, and the Earth mach cooler tkan 
before, and pleafanter. 

Dec, 2j, Kiird a youne Goat, and lamM another, Co 
ihat I cacch^d it, and led it home in a String, wben £ 
had it horae» l bound and fplinter'd op its Leg, whick 
was broke. N, B. I took fach care of it, that it liv'd« 
and the Leg grew well, and as ftrong as ever ; bat b/ 
nurfing it iö long ic grew tarne, and fed upon the little 
Green at my Door, and would not go away. This was 
thc fir^ Time that I entertain'd a Thought of breeding 
tip fome tarne Creatures, that I might have Food whea 
my Powder and.Shot was all fpent. 
: Dec, 28,. 29, 30. Great Heats and no Breeze ; fo that 
there wa^ no ilirring abroad, except in the Evening for 
Food : This Time I fpent in putting all ray Things ii^ 
Order with in Doors. . 

Janiutry i ." Very hot fiiJl; bot I went abroad, early and 
late, with my Gan, and lay (lill in the Middle of the 
Day; This Eveaing going fanhcr into the Valleys, vvhich 
iay towards the Centre oF the Ifland, I found there was 
plenty of Goats, tho' exceeding (hy, and hard to come 
at ; however, 1 rciolvM to try if I conld not bring my 
Dog to hunt Vr^vck down. 

JoM. 2. Accoi^iogly the next Day I went out with my 
Dog, and fet him upon the Goats ; but I was miilaken, 
for they all fac*d about upon the Dog, and he knew his 
Danger too well, for he would not come near them. 

Jan. i, I began my Fence or Wall, which, being flill. 
jealoas of my being actack'd by fomcbody, I refolv'd to 
make vtry thlck and ^ong. 

Vöi- I. D \k ^. 



74 TZ'** Life onJ Adventüres if 

N. B. Tvis Ua/I fn'/fg dej<rihi'd hefrn^ l purpofely omit 
i\:hat 11V7J fa:d in tht jQurmal: It is fufficUnt n 
ch'fr-ve^ tlat I ivas xa h/s Jime ibta from tbt 3d 
f.^' January to ih 141h 5/ April, ^zvcriitig, /"(/b'fgf 
4:ftJ /.•'^''iVi.•>^ tris Jfaji\ r/Mt* it -zvas na rxorg tban 
tihki ^4 Vurcs :n LtKgih^ ht':;g an Ualf-circU fiüm 
cHt ria:t in ihi R^^k u cnzthcr Pina alout eigbt 
2\trJi /Kvrs ;V, tot Ds€r c/tbe Qnt htiug in tbt 
Ofstrt ttlinJ ;/. 

All this Time I u-ork'd vrn* hsrd, the Rsins hinderiog 
ine ni^ny DaY<» r.;;y, iomiti-.nes Wsreks togcthcr; bat 1 
thoi'^hi ] ihoulvi ccver bc pirzitclly fecure tili this Wall was 
fiüih'c ; ar.\i it i> .carcc crcüibl^r uh^c icexpre£ble Labonr 
cvcry thirij was ccre wirb, eirccia'Iy the bnnging Pües 
ou: or the\Vocd. a;-i cr:v.r.g :hen icro the Ground; fot 
I iv^Je ü^cm xnjch bi^cr thjia i needed loharc dcne. 

Wh^r. this Wiji v»a* ntrrl^'i. aci tSc Ouride double- 
ff:ic c \\::ha Tu:: uaU rib'i n? do:e 10 i:, I penuaded 
3m\:y.S ihat if" iP> Feoy'.eucr? c^=r.e 03 Shorc there, 
Li'* \Wi:!c tc: fxrccite iry th:ag ":« ar. H^bitatioc : 
Ard i: :* vcry will I csvi ;>. icc rai> becbierv'c hereaf- 
tcr. u:vn & very rciciiKir.e Occi£-«c. 

r«-.r^ :>.:5 Tir»«. 1 r-aic Ro-zi* :i :he Wccds fot 
l«ir-:? i»«ry D*^. wie:: :^e Rxc re.-=r.:n!e-i aie, ard 
i.*^ic rrtv:ac*: r*;''vVTrri!C$ ;.ä tiüe \^ lio >?f foniething 
•v o;i<r :,■* rv. Airtirj|:e : r^r^rcwli-lv I rrcii a kir.d 
c' V. . u :>^;:\r *. v-> >:> r,': i :,'C i< Vvjc^i-Prgeor.« in a 
*V v:c. c-cf i:*er « i•^oi^^■: r^^c* iz :ie H:*e* er the 
K>>:vj : i?c rilt:r^ :>=:< •*','«ri iv^s^ I cTCüTccr'J to 

c iiv :-?^ ii^* JL- i*- '. wicr r«:rr.ir:f -»ji 1: f — ;*ant 

«■•'.-. L ri\c«Ä-::I.< rcc-i ii^ei* N^:^ irc ^,-c rii^r yc3-g 

«: i. i :: v^> -jc-vii ^.e xv :ac r,* kju«^, »* .1.; ;*i ai":o 
icöiC et swjt .: ^'i"^ • ? <?•' 1 -*3 rv*Tf. 3 c,'M.«i fr'x" r^ke 

moätsrr'^ oe^cfct. -u:: ' w^-u-c ::<'»^t' ^tirnr ac :tii ^.tTachr 
^ OfayUid Cttii •:^ ü<9> ::ic i ^mui 4&u« W^eks x>r^t 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 75 

5t ; 1 could ncirher put in the Heads, or join theStaves 
{6 trac to onc anothcr, as to make them hold Water ; fo 
I gare that alfo over. 

In the next Place, I was at a great Lofs for Candles ; 
ib that as fooB as it was dark, which was generali/ b/ 
feven oTClock, I was oblig*<l^to go to Bed. * I remem- 
i>red the Ltnnp of Bees- Wax with which I made Candles 
in my African Ad venture ; but I had none of that now : 
The only Rcmedy I had, was, that when I had kiird a 
tjoat, I fav'd the Tällow, and with a litile Difli made 
of Clay, which t bak^d in the Sun, to which I added a 
Wick of fome Oakum, I made me a Lamp ; and this 
•gave mc Light, tho' not a clear fteady Light like a Can- 
dle. In the Middle of all my Labours it happen'd, that, 
rammaging my Things, I found a little Bag, which, as I 
liintcd Dcfore, hiad bcen fiird with Corn for the Feeding 
of Poultry, not for this Voyage, but before, as I fup- 
po(e, when the Ship came from Ußon ; what little Rc- 
mainder of Corn had been in the Bag, was all de- 
Toured by the Rats, and I faw nothing in the Bag but 
Hufics and Duil ; and being willing to have the Bag for 
fome other Üfe (I think it was to put Powder in, when 
I divided it for Fear of the Lightning, or foir^ luch Ufe) 
i (hook the Hulks of Corn out of it on one Side of my 
Fortification under the Rock. 

\t was a little before the great Rains, \m\ now men- 
tioned, that I threw this StufF away, taking no Notice 
of any thing, and not fo much as remembring that I had 
thrown any thing there \ when about a Month after, or 
thereabouts, I ^w fome feiv Stalks of fomething greea 
(hooting upon the Ground, which I fanfied might bc 
fome Plant I had not fcen j but I was furprisM, and per- 
fe6lly aftoniih'd, when after a little longer Time, I faw 
abont ten or twelve Ears come out, which were pcrfed 
green Barley of the fame kind as our European^ nay as 
cor jFw^/j^ ßarley. 

It Is impbffible to exprefs the Aflonifliment and Con- 
fuiion of my Thoughts on this Occaiion ; I had hi« 
thertö afled upon no religious Foundation at all; in« 
dccd I had very few Notions of Religion in my Head, 
nor had entertain^d any Senfe of any thing Chat K^4. 
befallen me, ochenvife than as a CViance, ot^ ^^ ^^ 



76 Tj&/ Life and Aov£ntur€S^ 

iightly fay, what pleafes God ; withoat fo mach at i«^ 
quiring into the End of Providence in the(e Thingt, or 
his Order in governing Events in the World : But after I 
faw Barleygrow there, in a Climate which I knew was 
not proper for Com, and cfpecially that 1 kncw not how 
it came there, it ilartled me flrangely, and I began to fiig- 
gell, that God had miracaloufly caasM thisGrain to grov 
without any Help of Seed fown, and that it was fo dire^- 
ed, purely for my Suflenance in that wild miferable Place. 

This touch'd my Heart a litrle, and brought Tears oat 
of my Eyes, and*I began to blefs myfelf, that fach a 
Prodigy of Nature (hould happen upon my Account ; and 
chis was the more dränge to mc, becaufe I faw near it 
, ilili, all along by the Side of the Rock, fome other ftcag- 
gling Stalks, which prov'd to be Stalks of Rice, and 
which I knew, becaufe I had feen it grow in Africa^ 
when I was afliore therc. 

I not only thought jhefe the pure Produftions of Pron- 
dence for my Sapport, but» not doubting but that there 
was mprc in the Place, 1 went all over that Part of thß 
Ifland whcre I had been before, peering in every Corner, 
and under every Rock, to fee for more of it, botl could 
not find any ; at lall it occurr*d to my Thoughts, that I 
had (haken the Bag of Chickens Meac out in that Place, 
and the Wonder began to ceafe ; and I mufl confefs, my 
religious Thankfulnefs to God's Providence began to 
abate too, upon difcovering that all chis was nothing 
bat what was common ; though I ought to have b^en as 
thankful for fo dränge and onforefeen Providence, as if 
it had been miracuTous; for it was really the Work of 
Providence as to me, that fhould order or appoint, that 
10 or 12 Grains of Com Ihould remain unfpoird, (when 
the Rats had dtftroy'd all the reft,) as if it had been drop^ 
ped from Heaven : As alfo that I fliould throw it out in- 
to that particular Place, where, it being in the Shadc 
of an high Rock, fprang up immediately j whereas, if \ 
had thrown it any where elfc at that Time, it had been 
burnt up and deftroy'd. 

I carefully fav'd the Ears of this Corn, you may b? 

füre, in their Seafon, which was about the End of Jun€\ 

ftnd, laying up every Corn, 1 refolved to fow them all 

Kfün, iopiDg Iq timc 10 have fome Quantity fußcieq^ 



ÄOBINSON CRUSOE. 77 

fO fopply me witk Bread; but it was not tili the 4th Year 
that 1 woold allow fnyfelf the leall Grain of thisCorn ta 
eat, and even theo bat fparingly, zs I ihall (ky afterwards 
hl its Order ; für I loft all that I ibwM the firfl Scafon', 
hy noc obierving the proper Time ; for I fowM it jaft be- 
fore the dry Seafon, fo that it nerer came up at all, aC 
Icaft not as it woold have done : Of which in its Place. 

Befides thb Barley, there were^ as abovf , 20 or 30 
9ta]ks of Bice, which I preferv'd with the fame Care, 
and whofe Ufe was of the fame kind, or to the fame 
Pnrpofe ; «v/s:, to make me Bread, or rather Food ; 
Ibr 1 foand Ways to cook it up withoat baking, though 
I did that alib afier fome Time. But to return to xny 
Journal. 

I work*d exceffive hard thcfe thrcc or fbur Months, tö 
get my Wall done ; and the i4th of Jfrll I clos'd it up, 
contriving to go into it, not by a Door, bat over a Wall 
by a Ladder, that there might be no Sign on the Outüde 
ef my Habitation. 

j^frii x6. 1 finifh'd the Ladder : So I went up with the 
I^dder to the Top, and thcn pulPd it up after me, and 
iet it down on the Indde : This was a complete Inclofare 
to me ; for within I had Room enough, and nothing 
conld come at me from without, unlcfs it coald firift 
jDOont my Wall. 

The very next Day after this Wall was finifh'd, I had 
almoft had all my Labour overthrown at once, and my* 
felf kiird : The Cafe was thus ; as I was bufy in the 
Infide of it, behind my Tcnt, joft in the Entrance into 
my Cavc, I was terribly frighien'd with a moft dreadi'uf 
farprifing Thing indeed ; for all on a fudden I found the 
Barth came tumbling down from the Roof of my Gare, 
and from the Edge of the Hill over my Hcad, and IW9 
of the Ports I had fet up in theJCave, crack'd inafrigbt- 
■fnl manner : I was heartily fcarcd, but thought nothing 
ef what rcally was the Caufe ; only thinking that the 
Top of my Cave was falling in, as fome of it had done 
before, and for fear I (hould be baried in it, I ran for- 
wards to my Ladder ; and, not thinking myfelf fafe 
Ihcre neither, I got over my Wall for fear of the Picces 
of the Hill, which I expeAed might roll down upon me. 
I was no fooner ftept down . upon the firm Ground^ V:kNA 
I> 3 \ 



78 The Life <7W Aövi ntüäes af 

I plainly faw it was a terrible Eartbquake; fof die Groand 
I Aood on Ü;ook thiee ciiiies,,at about eight Minutes Dif- 
tance, wich thrce Tuch Shocks as would have overturn'd 
the flrongeft Building that could be üjppos'd to bave 
flood upon the Earih ; and a great Piece of the Top of 
the Pock, which ßood about half a Milc from mc ncxt 
the Sea, feil dcwn wixh fuch a terrible Noife, as I never 
hcard in all my Life : I perceiv'd alfo the veyr Sea was 
put into a violent Motion by ic; and I believe ihe Shocks 
vrere flconger under the Water than on che Iflaads. 

I was fo amaz'd with thc'Thing itfelf, having never 
feit the like, or difcours'd with a.ny one ihat had, that I 
was like one dead or flupefied ; and the Motion of the 
Earth made my Stomach ück, iike one that was tofs*d aC 
Sea ; but the Noife of the falling of the Roc}^ awaked 
me, as it were; and rouüng me from the ilape6ed Cod* 
dicion I was in, £]]ed me with Horror, and I thooght of 
nothing then but che Hill falling upon my Tent, and all* 
my Houfliold-Gbods, and burying all at once^ and thi* 
£ank my vtry Soul* within me a fecond time. 

Afcer the third Shoek was over, and I feit no more fbf 
ferne time, I began to take Courage -, and yet I had not 
Heart enough to get over my Wall again, for fear of ba- 
ing buried alive ; but Hill fat npon the Grouod, . greatlyi 
call down, and difconiölate, not knowing wh;u to do i 
^11 tkis while I bad not the leafl ferions religioosTliGitght» 
oothing out the common, LorJ, ha<oe Mercy upon me; aeci 
when it was over, that went away too. 

While 1 fat thus, 1 fcund the Airovcrcaft, anditgrew 
clottdy, as if it would rain ; and, in lef& than half aA 
Hour, it blew a moft dreadful Hurricane of Wind : The 
Sea all on a fudden cover'd with Foam and Froih, the 
Shore was cover'd with the Breach of the Water, the 
Trees werelcrn up by the Roots, and a terrible Storni 
it was ; and this hcld about three Hours, and then began 
to abate ; and then in two Hours more it was calm, and 
bt'gan to rain very hard. 

All this while i fat upon the Ground very much ter- 
rified and deicdlcd, when on a fudden it came into my 
Tlioughts, that thcfe Winds and Rain being the Con- 
fequence of the Earthquake, the Earchquake itfelf was 
fpcnt and* over,. and 1 might venture into my Cav^ 

again ;. 



R O BIN SO-^N CRUSOE. 79 

again: Wiih this Thought my Spirits began to rcvivc, 
and the Rain kelping alia to perfuade me, I weAt in, 
and Tat mc down in my Tent ; but the Rain was fo vib- 
lent, thac my-Tent was ready to be beaten down with 
it, and I was forc'd to go into my Cave, though very 
mach, afraid and nneafy, for fear it fhould fall on my 
Head. 

This vioknt Rain forc'd me to a new Work, <viz. to 
cat an Hole thro* my new Fortification, Hke a Sink to let 
the . Watcr go out, which would elfc have drownM my 
Cavc. After I had been in'myCave fame timc, and 
found flili no more Shocks of the Earthquake follöw, I 
began to be more compos'd ; and now, to fupport my. 
Spirits, which indeed wanted it very moch, I went to 
my Httlc Store, and took a fmall Sup öf Rum, which 
hewever I did then and always very fparingly, knowing 
I coald have no more when that was gone. 

Je continoed raining all that Night, and great Part of 
the next Diy, (o that I could not dir abroad ; but my 
Miod being more compqs'd, I began to think of what I 
had beft to do; conclading, that if the Ifland was fub- 
je6i to thefe Earthquakes, thert would be no Hving for 
me in a Cavc, but 1 muÄ con'fider of büilding me ibme 
litrle Hot ro an open Pfäct, which I might furrbund with 
9 Wall, as l had donc here, and fo make myfelf ftcure 
ftom wild Beaüs or Men ; bfit concluded, if I ftaid where 
i ^As, I fkoald eertainly, one time or other, be buried 
alive. 

With thefe Tbooghts I rifolv'd to move "my Tent 
fram the Place where it ftood, which was jufl under the" 
hanging Precipice of the Hill, and which, if it fhouIcE 
be maken again, would eertainly fall upon my Tent : 
Aod 1 ipcnt the two hext Days, being the iQth and 20th 
©f J^U, in contriving where and how to remove my 
Habitation. 

The fear of being fwallow'd up alive, made me that 
I never flept in Quiet; and yet the Apprehenfions of 
]ying abroad withont anv Fence, werc almoft equal to 
jt : But ftill, when I look'd aboüt, and faw how evcry 
Aing was pnt in Order, how pleafantly conccard I 
was, and how fafe from Danger, it maUe me. loth to 
seaove.- 

I>4 \TW 



to Thi Life tfiri Advbn-tcjjies cf 

In thc mean time it occarr'd to me, that it wodcfre*: 
quire a vall deal of 1 ime for me ta do this, and tbat i*- 
mail be contented to run the Vemure where I was, tili h ■ 
had foi in*d a Camp for myfelf, and had fecur'd it fo a5 19 
remove io it : So with tbis Refoluticn 1 con>pofed tnyfeir 
for a time, and refoIvM that I would go to work with aik 
Speed to boild me a Wall with Piles and Cables, ^e, in- 
a Circle, as befor^, and fet my Tcnt up in it wben it wa» 
finiihM ; but that I would venture to ftay where I was» tiU-' 
it was iiniih'd and fit to remove to. This was the 2i(t. 

Jpril 22. The next Morning I began to confider of 
Means to pAit this Refolve in Execution ; buti was at a. 
great Lofs about my Tools : I had three large Axes, and 
abundance of Hatchets (for we carried the Hatchets for 
Traffick with the Indians) but with much chopping and 
cutting knotty hard Wood, they were all fall of Notche»^ 
and doli ; and tho* I had a Grindftone, I could not tttrn< 
it, and grind my Tools too : This coft me aa mach 
Thought as a Statefman would have beilow'd npon at 
grand Point of Politics, or a Judge upon the Life and. 
Death of a Man. At length I contriv*d a Wheel with 
a String to turn it with my Foot, that I might have both 
Tay Hands at Liberty, liote^ I had not ieen any fach thing 
in England, or at leaft not to take notice how it was. 
done i tho' (Ince, I have obferv'd it was very commo» 
there ; befides that, my GrindHone was very large and 
heavy. This Machine coli me a füll A^eek^s Work to» 
bring it to Perfeflion. 

Jpril 2%^ 29. Thefe two whole Days I took up ia 
grinding my Tools, my Machine fot turning mj^Grind- 
ftone performing very well. 

Jptil 30. Having perceived my Bread had been low 
a great while, I now took a Survey of it, and reduc/d 
myfelf to one Bifcuit-cake a Day, which made my Heart 
very heavy. 

May I . In the Morning, looking towards the Sea-iide, 
the Tide bcing low» I iafw {bmcthing lic on the Shore 
bigger than ordinary, and it look'd like a Calk ; when I 
came to it, I found a fm aU Barrel, and two or three 
Pieces of the Wrcck of the Ship, which were drivcn on 
ohore by the late Huriicane ; and looking towards the 
Wjcck ixiAU i thought it feem'd to lie higher out of the- 

W3Ltftt 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 8i 
Watcr than it ufcd to do ; I cxamined the Barrel which i 
was dnircn od Shore, and foon found ic was a Barrel of 
Qmnpowder, but it had taken Water, and the Powder 
was caked as hard as a Stone : However, I roUed it far- 
ther on the Shpre for tiie prefent, and went on upon the 
Sands, as near as I could to the Wreck of the Ship to 
l^ok for more. 

When I came down to the Ship, I foand it (b-angely 
remov'd. The Forccaftle, which lay before buried in 
Sand, was heav*d up at leait fix Feet ; and the Stern» 
which was broken to Pieces, and parted from the reft by 
the Force of the Sea, foon after I had iefc rummaging of 
her, was tofsM as it were np, and cad on one Side ; and 
the Sand was thrown fo high on that Side next the Stern» 
that whereas there was agreat Place of Water before, fo. 
that I coald not come within a Quarter of a Mile of the 
Wreck withoat fwimming, I could now walk quite up to 
her when the Tide was out : I was furpris'd with this at 
firft, but föon concludeä it muft be done by the Earth- 
^ake ; and as by this Violence the Ship was more bro- 
ken open than formerly, fo many things came daily on 
Shore which the Sea had loofen'd» and which the Winds 
and Water rolled by degrees to the Land. 
1 This whoUy diverted my Thoughts from the Defign 
of rembving my Habitation ; and I buiied myfelf mighti- 
1/y that Day efpecially, in fearching whether I could make 
naaj vay into the Ship ; bat 1 found nothing was to be 
cjtpeded of that kind, for that all the Iniide of the Ship 
WAS choakM np with Sand : However, as I had learnt 
not to defpair of any thing, I refolvM to pull ever/ 
thing to Pieces that 1 could of the 3hip, concluding that 
CFcry thing I could get from her would be of fome Ufe 
er other to me. 

^^ay 3. I began with my Saw, and cut a Piece of a 
Beam through> which I thought held fome of the upper 
Part, or Qnarter-deck, together ; and when I had cut it 
thro% I clearM away the Sand as well as I could, from^ 
the Side which lay higheR : Bat the Tide comlng in, I 
was obliged to give over for that Time. 

Ma]f 4. I went a fiihing, but caoght not one Fifh that 
I darfl eat of, tili 1 was weary of my Sport, when, jaft 
^oing to Icave off, I caaght a yoang DoV^km« \ VaÄ. 
D 5 tsoi^ 



made me a long Line of foine Rope-yarn, bot I had n9 
• Hooks ; yet 1 frequently caught Fi(h enough, as mach 
as 1 cared to eat -, all which 1 dry'd in the Sun, and eat 
thcm dry. 

Maj 5. Work'd on the Wreck, cut another Beam afun^ 
der, and brought thrcc great Fireplanks off from the 
Decks, which 1 tied together, and made fwim an Shore 
Dvhen the Tide of Flood came on. 

May 6. Work'd on the Wreck, got fcvcral Iren Bolts 
out of het, and other Pieces of Iron-work j work*d very 
hard, and came home vtry much tir*d, and bad Thongbtf^ 
©f giving it over. 

May 7. Went to the Wreck agaifi, bot witb an Intenr 
not tD work ; bat found the Weigbt of the Wreck hwi 
broken itfelf down, the Beams being cut, that feveral 
Pieces.of the Ship ieem'd to Jie loofe, and the Infide of- 
the Hold lay fo open, that I oould fee into it> bat almoft 
füll of Watcr and Sand. 

May 8. Went to the Wreck, and carry 'd an Iron Crow 
to wrench up the Deck, which lay now q.aite clear of 
the Watcr or Sand : I wrench'd open two PJanks, and 
brought them on Shore alfo with the Tide : I left tbe* 
Iron Crow in the Wreck. for next Day. 

May 9. Went to the Wreck, and with the Crow made 
way into the Body of the Wreck, and feit feveral Caft^. 
and loofenM them with the Crow, but couldnot break 
them up ; I feit alfo a Roll of EngUfi Lead, and cotil<|: 
ftir it, but it was too heavy to move. 

May iD, 1 1, 1 2, 1 3, 14. Went tvtry Day to the Wreck|. 
atid got a great deal of Pieces of Tinaber and Boardi, or 
PJanks, and 2 or 300 Wcight of Iron. 

May 15. I carricd two Hatchets to try if I could not 
cut a Piece off the Roll of Lead, by placing the Edgr 
of one Hatchet, and driving it with the other ; bat as it 
lay aboüt a Foot and an half in the Water, I could not^ 
»ake any BIow to drive the Hatchet. 

May 16. It had blow'd hard in ther Night, and the 
Wreck appcar'd more broken by the Force of tbe Water;^ 
but I jftaid fo long in ihe Woods to get Pigeons for Food, 
tl^at the Tide prevcnted me going to the Wreck that Day. 

May 17. I faw fome Pieces of the Wreck blown on 
Shore at^gre^t Diäance^ two Miles o£ me, but KfoJvU , 

\ - ■ Vfti 



RÖBINS^ÖK CRUSOE. 83 

try fee what they were, and found it was a Piece of thc 
Head, but too heavy for me to bring away. 

May 24. Every Day to this Day I work'd On thc 
Wreck, and with hard Labour l loofen'd Tome things fo 
much with the Crow, that thc firft floAing Tide Tcvcral 
Caöcs floated out, and two of the Seamen's Chefts : BuC 
the Wind blowing from the Shore, nothing came to Land 
that Day but Pieces of Tiinber, and an Hogihead which 
had ferne Braß/ Pork in it, but the falt Water and thd 
Sand had fpoil'd it. 

I continued thi» Work evcry Day to the I5th of Juntp 
except the Time ncceflary to get Food, which I alway» 
appointed, during this Part of my Employmcnt, to be 
when the Tide was up, that I might be ready when it wa» 
ebbed out ; and by this Time 1 had gotten Timber and 
Planrk, and Iron-work enoogh tö have built a good Boat^ 
if I had known how ; and alio I got at feveral Times, and 
in feveral Pieces, near ico Weight of the Sheet- Lead. 

ynne i6. Going down to the Sea-fide, I found a large 
Tortoife or Turtle^ ; this was the firü I had feen, which, 
it feems, was only my Misfortune, not any Defe£t of the 
Place, or Scarcity ; for had I happenM to be on the other 
Side of the Ifland, I might have had Hundreds of thena 
every Day, as I found afcerwards; butperhaps had paid 
deär enoogh for them. 

Jum 17. I fpent in cpoking the Turtle : I found m 
her threeicore Eggs ; and her Flefli was to me at that 
Time the moft favoory and pleafant that ever I tafted it^ 
my.Life, having had no FleHi but of Groats and Fowls^ 
fince I landed in this horrible Place. 

June 18. Rain'd all the Dav, and I ftaid within. t 
tbQught at this Time the Rain feit cold, and I was fome« 
thing chilly, which I knew was nbt ufualin thatLatitud^»' 

June 19. Vtry i\\, and fhivering, as if thc Wcatfa«t 
had been cold. 

June 20. No Reft all Night ; violent Pains in mf 
Head, andfcverifh. 

Jtme 21. Very ill, frighted almoft to Death with the 
Apprehenfions of my fad Condition, to be ück, and nö 
Help : Pray'd to God for the firft Time fince the Storni 
off of /f«//, but fcarce knew what I faid, Qt v/hv ;. my 
Thottghts beiri^ all C^it^iTd. 



$4 y^ Life anJ Advent üke» cf 

June 22. A little bttter, but ander dieadfulÄppralrei^ 
fions of Sicknefs. 

Junez^. Very bad again;, cold and fluvcring, an^ 
tBen a violent Headach. 
June 24. Much better. 

June 25 An Ague very violent ; tÜe Fit held mc feven 
Hours, cold Fit and bot, with faint Sweats after it. 

June 26. Better ; and having no Vidluals to eat> took 
iny Gun, but found myrelf very weak ;. howcver f kiird 
aSheGoat, and with much Difiicolty gx)tithome, and 
broird fome of if, and eat; I would fain havc ftew'd it, 
and made fome Broth, bat had no Pot. 

June 27. The Ague again fo violent, that I läy a>b€4 
all Day, and neither eat nor drank. fwas ready to pc- 
iüh for Thiril, but fo weak, I had no Strength to ftand 
iip, or to g^t myfelf any Water to drink;. pray^d to God 
ägaih« bat was light-headed ; and when I was not» I 
was fb Ignorant that I knew not what to fay 1 . only I 
lay and cry*d, Lord y kok ufon me\ Lord, ^ty nie \, Lord, 
have Mercy upcn me : I fuppofe 1 did' nothing elfe for twa 
Or (hree Hoars» tili the Fit wearing off, I felf aflcep^ 
.and did not awake tillfar in the Night. Whea I'awak'd^ 
I fband myfelf much refrelKM, but weak, and exceed* 
ingly thirfty ;. however, as I had no Water in my whole 
Habitattbnj I was forc'd to lie tili Morning, and wem; 
to fleep again :• In this fecoad Sleep I had this terriblei 
Dreanou 

I thoaght, that I was fitting on the Groundon tb© 
Outfidc 0? my Wall, where Ifat when the Storj» blew 
after the Earthqaake, and that Ifaw aMan defccnd ixom 
a grcatblack Cloud, in a brightFlamaof Fire, and Üght 
lipon the Ground : He was allover as bwght asä Flame, 
fo that.I could btit juiFbeaf to löok towards hlm ; his 
Countenance was riioft inexpreflibly dreadfui, iinpofljble 
for Wo'rÄ to defcribei when he ffeppM upon theGround 
with bis Fcet, J tbopght the Earth trcrabled, juft as it 
had done before^iii the Earthqaake; and all the Aii 
look'd, tamy Apprehenfion, as if it had Seen fill'd with 
FlafhesofFire. 

He was no foöner landed upon the Earth, but he 
xnov'd forwards towards me, with a long Spear or Wea- 
pon in tis Hand, to kill' jne ; and when he came to a 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 85 

fifing Ground, at foifie Diftancff, he fpoke to me, or I 
heard a Voice fo terrible, that k is impoßible to exprefs 
the Terror of it j all that i ean fay I underftood, wat 
fliis, Steing all theft Things hawi not brought thee to RefeU'^ 
tafice^ nonji) thoti Jhalt die. At which Words, I thought he 
üfced ap the Spear that was in his Hand to kill me. 

No one that (hall ever read this Account^ will expeft 
that I (hoold be ablt to defcribe the Horrors of my Soul 
at this terrible Viiion ; I mean, that even while it was a 
Dream> I evea dream'd of thofe Horrors ; nor is it any 
more polfible to defcribe the Impreffion that remain'd 
upon my Mind, when I awak'd, and found it was but a 
Dreanir 

I had, alas f no diviae iCnowledge ; what I had re- 
ceiv*d by the good Inilru^on of my Father, was- then 
worn out' by an uninterropted Series, for eight Years, of 
$ea-faring Wickednefs, and a conftant Converfation with 
none but fach as were like myfelf, wicked and profane 
to the lad Degree : I do not remember, that I had in all 
that Time one Thonght that fo mach as tended either to 
looking apwards towards God^ or inwards towards a Re- 
fle^on upon my own Ways : But a certain Stupidity of 
Soul, wichout Defire of Good» or Confcience of Evil^ 
had intirely overwhelm'd me, and I was all that the moft 
hardenM, unthinking, wicked Creature among (jur com« 
moo Sailors can be fuppos'd to be, not having the leaft 
Senfe of the Fear of God in Dangers, or of Thankftil- 
nefs to God in Deliverances. 

In the relating what is already päd of my Story, this 
will be the more eafily believ'd, when I (hall add, that 
thro* all the Variety oi Miferies that had to this Day 
befallen me, I ncver had fo much as one Thought of its 
jbeing the Hand of God, or that it was a jull Punifhment 
for oiy SIns, my rebellious Behaviour againd my Father, 
pr my prcfent Sins, which were great ; or {o much as a 
Poni(hn>ent for the eeneral Courfe of my wic!:ed Life. 
•When I was on the dcfperate Expedition on the defart 
Shores of ^frica^ I never had fo much as one Thought 
of what would become of me, or one Wifh to God to 
direft me whither I ihould go, or to keep me from the 
JDanger which apparently furrounded me, as well from 
.MsacioiM Cieatiires« u cruel Savages ; But l ^^ 



86- TBe Life <7wrf Ad venture s of 
incrcly thoughtlefs of God, or a Providence ; I aöetf 
like a ir.cre Brüte, from ihc Principles of Natore, and 
hy tbe Diäates of commori Senfe only, and indeed hard- 
ly that. 

Whcn I was deliver'd and taken up at Sea by thc Por- 
tugal Captain, well ufed, and dealt juftly and honourablf 
vfith, as well as charitably, I had not the leafl Thank* 
fulhcfs in my Thoughts : When again I was fliipwrcck'd^ 
ruin'd, and in Danger of drowning on thi» Jiland, I was 
as far from Rcroorfe, or looking on it as a Jadgment ; I 
only faid to myfclf often, that 1 yf2i% oft ntifbrtuHote Dog, 
and born to be always miferable. 

It is true, when I got on Shore ür& here, and found all 
my Ship's Crew drown'd, and myfelf fpared, I was fur- 
prisM with a kind of Extafy, and fome Tranfports of 
Soul, which, had the Grace of God aflifted, might have 
come up to true Thankfulnefs ; but it ended where it be- 
gan, in a mere common Flight of Joy, or, as I may fay, 
^eifrg glaä I ivas alive, withöot the leäft Rcfleflion Opon 
tke diftinguifhing Goodnefs of the Hand which had prre» 
fcvM me, and had fingled me out to be prefervM, when 
all the reil werc deftroy'd j or an Inqoir/ why Providence 
had been tbus merciful to me; even jufl the fame common 
Sort of Joy which Scamen generally have, after thcy have 
got fafe aftiore from a Shipwreck, which thcy drown all 
in the next Bowl of Punch, and forget almoft as foon 8S 
it is over ; and all the reil of my Life was like it. 

Even when I was afterwards, on due Conftdera^on^ 
made fenfible of my Condition, how I was caft on thi» 
dreadfui Place, out ot the Reach of human Kind, otkt 
of all Hope of Relief, or Profpcft of Redemption, ai 
foon as I (aw a Probability of fiving, and that I (hotrld 
not ftarve anu perifti for Hunger, all the Senfe of my Af* 
flidion wore olf, and I began to be very eafy, apply'd 
myfelf to thc Works proper for my Prefervation and SHip- 
ply, and was far enough from being afflidted at myCon» 
dition, as a Judginent froni Heaven, or as the Hsnd of 
God againft mt : Thefe were Thoughts which very fel- 
dom enternd iri.o ifty Head. 

The growing up of the Corn, as is hinted in my jopr- 

nal, had at firil fome little Influence upon me, and be- 

gan CO aßi&mc with Strioulhc^, %^ long ks Ithonght 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. »7^ 

it had fomething miraculoos in it ; but äs foon as ever 
that Part of Thought was remov'd, all the Imprcflion 
which wais rais'd from it wore ofF aifo, as I have noted* 
already. 

Even the Earthqnake, tho' nothing could be more ter- 
rible in its Nature, or more immediately direAing to the 
inviiible Power, which alone diredls fuch things ; yet no 
iboner was the firft Frightover, bat the Impreflion it had 
snade went off alib. 1 had no more Senfe of God, or 
his Jodgment, mach left of the prefent AfRiflion of my 
Circomftances being from his Hand, than if I had been 
in the mofl profperoas Condition of Life. 

fiut now when I began to be fick, and a leifarely View 
rf the Miferies of Death came to place itfelf before me ; 
when my Spirits began to fink under the Bürden of & 
fbrong Diftemper» and Nature was exhauded with the 
Violence of the Fever ; Confcience, that had fiept fi> 
long, began to awake, and I begaif to reproach myfelf 
with my paft Life, in which I had fo evidently, by xrn* 
common Wickednefs, provok'd the Jailice of God to lay 
me und er uncommon Strokes^ and to deal with me in fo 
Tindidive a Manner. 

Thefe Refle£lions opprefs*d me from the fecond or 
third Day of my Diftempcr, and in a Violence, as well 
«f the Fever as of the dreadfal Reproaches of my Con* 
fcicncry extorted fome Words from me, like praying to 
Godf tho' I cannot fay they were eithcr a Prayer attend- 
cd wich Defires, or with Hopes ; it was rather the Voiee 
of mere Fright and Diftrefs ; my Thoaghtt were con* 
lbt*d, the Convidion» great upon my Mind, and the 
Horror of dying in fuch a miferabk Condition, rais'd Va* 
ponrs into my Head with the mere Appreheniions ; and, 
in thefe Horries of my Soul, I knew not what my Tongue 
might cxprefs : But it was rather Exciamation, foch as, 
Lord I what a miierable Creatore am I! If I (hould be 
itck, I (hall certainly die fbr want of Help, and what 
will beeome of me ! Then the Tears. burft out of my 
Eyes, and I could fay no more a good white. 

In this Interval, the good Advice of my Father came 
to my Mind, and prefently his Prediäion, which I mcn* 
tioned in the Berinning of this Story ; viz. That if I did 
Uk thu fiobfi Suff Qul*would mt bltp me, and l «wouUL 



S8 7k LiTR and AßvttttvKtS 0/ 

iavi Leifuri bereafler tu refleß tfon having negleßed hi^ 
Counftl, nxjhin there might be none^ tor affiß me in my Recoofery. 
Kow, faid I aloudy my dear Father^s Words are come 
to pafsj: God's Jufiice has overtaken me, and J have non« 
to help or hear me : J rejedled the Voicie of Provideoce, 
which had mercifally put «ne in a Pofture or Station of 
Life wherein I might have been happy and eafy ; bot £ 
wourd neither iee it my^tlf^ nor learn to know the Blef- 
£j)g of k from my Parents ; I left them to mourn over my 
Folly, and nowl am left to mourn onder che Confeqoen« 
ces of it : I refofed their Help and Afiiftance, who woold 
liave lifted me into the World, and would have made 
evcry thiog eafy to me ; and now I have Difficultie« to 
ilroggle with, too great for even Nature itfelf to fup- 
port, and no Affiftance, no Help, no Comfort, no Ad- 
vice. Then I cried out, LorJ, b$ myiblp^ for 1 mm in 
great Diftreß, 

This was the fird Prayer, if I might call it (o^ that I 
had made for many Years. Bin I return to my Jouraal. 

June 28. Having been fomewhat refreihed with the 
Sleep I had had, and the Fit being intirely ofF, I got up; 
and tho* the Fright and Terror of my Dream wa~« very 
great, yet 1 coniider'd, that the Fit of the Ague woold 
return again the next Day, and now was my Time to 

fet fomething to refrefh and fspport myfelf when I ihould 
e ill ; and the firft Thing I did, I fiird a large fquarc Cafe 
Bottle with Water, and fet it upon my Table, in Reach 
ci my Bed ; and to take off the Chili or aguifli Difpo- 
fition of the Water, I put about a Quartcr of a Pint of 
Kum into it, and mixed them together ; the» 1» got me 
^ Piece of the Goat's Flefli, and broiPd it on the Coals, 
but could eat very little 5 I walked about, but was very 
weäk, and withal, ytry fad and heavy-hearted in the 
Senfe of my miferablc Condition, dreading the Return 
of my Diftemper the next Day j at Night I made my 
Supper of three of the Turtle's Eggs, which I roaficd 
jn the Afhes, and eat, as we call it, in the Shell ; and 
this was the firft Bit of Meat I had ever a&'d God's 
Bleffing to, even, as I could remember, in my whole 

^Jt^^^\} ^^^ ^*^«"^' ^ ^0^'^ *° ^^^^' ^"^ ^^^^^ myfelf fo 
weaK, that I could hardly carry the Gun (for 1 nevcj went 

Ottt 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. \<^ 

out without that ;) fo I went oat but a littlie Way, andT. 
fkt down npob the Groond, looking out upon the Sea,. 
which was juft b^fore me, and very «alm and fmooth». 
As I fat here, fome Thoughts, fücb as thefe, occurred 
to me. 

What 19 the Earth and Sea, of whieh I have feen fcy 
much ? Whence is it produc'd ? And what am I, and 
all the other Creatares^ wild an4 tarne, human and bru- 
tal, whence are we ? 

Sure we are all made by fome iecret Power, wha 
furmM the Earth and Sea, the Air and Sky ; and who is 
that ? 

Then it foUowM» moft naturally ; It is God .that has- 
made it all: Well, but theo itcame on lirongly; if God 
has made all thefe things, he guides and governs them 
all, and all things that concern them ; for the Being 
that could make all things, muH certalnly have Power 
to guide and dirtGt them. 

]f {o, nothing caa happen in the great Circuit of bis 
Works, eithcr without his Knowledge or Appointment. 

And if nöthing happens without his Knowledge, he 
knowt that I am here, and am in this dreadful Condition ; 
and if nothiDg happens without his Appointment, he has 
appointed all this to befal me. 

Nothing occurred to my Thought» to contradi£l any 
o£ thefe Conclufidns ; and therefore it refled upon me 
with the greater Force, that it muft needs be, that God 
had appointed all this to befal me ; that I was brought 
to this miferable Circumftance by his Diredion, he 
Irving the ible Power, not of me only, but of cvery 
üiing that happen'd in the World, hnmediately it fol- 
k)wed. 

fTiy has Güd Jone this io me? What hofue I dmetohe 
Üms ufedr 

My Confcience prefeatly check'd me in that Inquiry, 
as if I had blafpheroed ; and metbought it fpoke to me 
likeaVoicc; fVRETCHf 4ofi thou ajk nuhat thou haß 
done? Look back upon a dreadful mif- fpent Life, and aik 
thyfelf <what thou htifl not done: A(k, Why is it that tJjou 
fujert not long ago dtßroyd ? Why <mert thou not droivn^d in 
Varmouth Roads ? KiiUd in the Fight lAjhen the Ship cw/2f 
tMken bj the Sailee Man of War ? Devoured by the ivi/d' 




/Life tfwi Adventures •f 

>f Coaß of Africa ? Or, drcim'd HERE, *what 
iw ferijh'd but thyßif? Doli thoa a&, Wbat bav* 

/ 

/5 ilrack dixinb with thefe Refle^ions as one ä(!o* 
>. i, and had not a Word to Tay, no, not to anfwer to 
znyfelf » butrofe up penfive and fad, waik*d back to my 
Retreat, and went up over my Wall, as if I had bcea 
going to £ed; but my Tbooghts were fadly difiurb'd, 
and I had no Inclination to fleep ; fo l fat down in my 
Chair, and lighted my Lamp, for it began to be dark. 
Now, as the Apprehenüons of the Ret am 6f my Dif* 
temper tenifyM me very much, it occurr'd to my Thoiighr, 
that the Brafilhans take no Phyfic bot their Tobscco, for 
almod all Diftempers ; and I had a Piece of a Roll of 
Tobacco in one of the Chefts, urhich was quite cared, 
and iöme al fo that was green, and not quire cared'. . 

I went, dircdted by Heaven, no doubt I for in thi» 
Chefl I found a Cure both for SooKand Body ; I opened 
the Chcft, and foand what I look'd for, nnx. the Ta* 
bacco; and as the few Bo<^s I had üifv'd lay there toa, 
] Cook out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before, 
azid which, to this Time, 1 had not found* Leifore, or 
fo mach as Inclinatkin, to look- into ; I fiiy I toök it 
out, and brought boih that and the T(>bafcco wich me to 
the Table. 

What Uie to make of the Tobacco I \stien not» as t# 
my Diftemper, or whether it was good ioi it or no ; but 
I try^d (b^^eral Ej^periments with it, as if I wa^ rrÄ>lv*dt 
it ß)0u)d hit oiie way or other : \ Brft took a Piece of % 
Leaf, and chew^d it in vay Mobth, which indeied at ^tÜ 
almoll flupefy'd my Braki, the Tobacco bcittg gi-een and 
flrong, and that I had not been much us'd to it ; theo I 
took fome, and ftetp'd it aa Hekir or tw® in Rum, and 
refolv'd to take a Dofe of it when 1 lay down ; and lajft^-- 
ly, I burnt fome upon a Pan of CoaU, and held my Nofe 
clofe over the Smoke of it, as loas as I coätd bear it, a» 
well for the Heat as the Vircu© ofit, and i hcld it al- 
mofl to SufBcation. 

Jn the Interval of this Operation I took up the Bible, 
and began to read ; but my Head was too much difturb- 
ed with the Tobacco to bear Reading, at leaft at that 
Time ; only having open*d the B-ook cafually, the ftrft 

Word* 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9t 

Words that occarred to me wcrc thefe, Call on me in tbe 
Daf of Trouhle, ani I lAnll deli'uer, and thou ßalt glorify me: 
The Words were vcry ' apt to my Cafe, and made 
ibinc Impreffion Dpon mj Thoughts at the Time of read- 
ing them, tho* not fo mach as they did afterwards; for 
as for being delivered, the Word had no Sound> as I 
majßvfy to roe ; the Thing was fo remote, fo impoflible 
in my ApprthenüoD of Things, that I began to fay as 
the Children of Ifrml did, when they were promifed 
Flefli to cat, Can God fpread m Takle in the Wildcmefi? 
So I began to iay, Can God himfelf deliver me from 
this Place ? And as it was not for many Years that any 
Hope appeared, this prcvaiJed vcry often upon my 
Thoughts*: Bat howcver, the Words made a very great 
Impreflion uponme, and I mufed upon them very often. 
It grew now late, and the Tobacco had, as I faid, dozed 
my Head fo moch, that I inclined to fleep ; fo I left my 
Lamp bnrmng in the Cave, left I fhouM want any thing 
in the Night, and went to Bed ; but before I lay down» 
1 did what I never had done in all my Life, I kneeled 
down and prayed to God to fnlfil the Promife to me, that 
if l cailed upon him in the Day of Trooble, he would 
deltver rae : After my broken and imperfe6l Prayer was 
ever, I dranic tbe Rum in which I had (leeped the To-* 
baccOt which was fo ftrong and rank of the Tobacco^ 
that indeed I could fcarce get it down. Immediately 
upon this I went to Bed, andifonnd prefently it flew 
.«p into my Head violently ; but I feil into a found Sleep» 
and waked no more, tili by the Sun it muft necefTarily 
benear Three o'Clock in the Aftemoon 4he next Day ; 
aay, to this Hour I am partly of the Opinion, that 1 
iept all the next Day and Night, and tili almoft Three 
the Day after; for otherwife I knew not how I fhould 
lofe a Day out of my K^eckoning in the Days of th& 
Wcek, as it appeared fome Years after I had done ; for 
if I had loft it by croffing and rie-crofling the Line, I 
ibould have loft »ore than a Day ; but in my Account, ifi 
was loft, and I never knew which way. 

Be that howcver one way or other, when I awaked, 
I fourid myfelf cxceedingly refrefhcd, and my Spiriti 
Ijvdy and thearful ; when I got op, I was ftronger than 
I was the Day before, and my Stomach better ; Cot t . 



^2 Thi Life dnJ Adventuass i/ 

was liungry ; and, in ihort, I bad no Fit tbe n^jtt Xhij^ 
bttt continued much alcered for the hetter : Tliif wms üi^ 

The 3oth was my well Day of coarfe, and I wenf 
abroad with my Gun, but did not eare to travel too^ 
far : 1 kUVd a Sea-Fowl ör two, foinething Hke a Brand 
Goofe, and brought them boFine» bat was not vcry for*^ 
ward to eat them ; fo I eat fome raore of the Turtle*» 
£gg8» which were very go«d : This Eventng I renewcd 
the Medieine which I had fiippored did me good the 
Day before, ^viz, the Tobacca üeeped in Rum ; only f 
did not take fo much as before^^nor did I chew any of the 
Leaf, or hold my Head over the Smoke ; however, I was 
BOt fo well the next Day, which was the rft of Jti/y, as t 
hoped I (hould have been ; for I had a Uttle Spiee of the^ 
cold Fit, but it was aot much. 

Jufy 2. 1 renewed the Medieine all the three wayr^ 
and do2ed myfelf with it as at firA, and doubied the; 
Qnantity which I drank. 

Ju/j 3. I mifs'd the Fit for geod and all', thöugh I did 
not recover my füll ^Strength for fome Weeks aficf,' 
While I was thus gatheriag Strength, my Thot^hts ra» 
cxceedingly upoa this Scripture, J loill delvver thie ; aiufr 
the ImpoiTibility of my Deliverance lay much upon mjr 
Mind, in Bar of my ever expcäing it : But a^ I wa» 
difcouraging myfelf with fuch Thoughts, it occurM to* 
my Mind, that I porcd fo much upon my Dcliveranc9 
from the main Afflidion, that I difregarded the De-^ 
liverance I had received ; and I was, as it were, macfo 
to aik myfelf fuch QueHions as thefe ; <tn%. Have I noft 
been delivered, and wonderfuUy too, from Sicknefs f 
From the moft diftrefs'd Condition that could be, and 
that was fo frightful to me \ And what Notice had T 
taken of it ? Had I done my Part ? Qod had delivered 
me: But / had not glorified him: That is to fay, I had 
not own'd and been thankful for that as a Deliverance ;;. 
and how could I expe<^ greater Deliverance ? 

This touched my Heart k^tj much, and immediately 
I kneeled down, and gave God Thanks alo'ud, for my 
Recovery from my Sicknefs. 

July 4. In the Morning I took the Bible; and> begin- 
Hing ac the New Tcftanient, 1 began feriouily to read 



ROBIN SOM CRUSOE. 93 

itp tnd impofed opon myfelf to read a while tyery 
MoTjdng and every Night» not tying my{M to the 
Nambers of Chapcers, bat as long as my Thoughcs 
jQioald engage me : It was not long afcer I fet fenoufly 
10 this Work, bat I foand my Heart more deeply and 
^ncerely affedied with tbe Wickednefs of my paft LLfc : 
The Impreffion of my Dream revivM, aod the Words^ 
jfll tbejt tlnngi b€PV€ nH hrcught tbee ta Repentance^ ran 
ierioufly in my Thoughts : I was earneftly begging of 
God to give me Repenunce, when k happen'd provi» 
jdentiaJly the very Day, that« reading the Scriptare, I 
came to thefe Words, He is exaltti a Primty and a Sa^ 
HfioitTf to poji R^ptniance, and to ghji Rtmiffion : I threw 
down the Book, and with my Heart as well as my Hand 
Jifted up to Heaven, in a kind of Exftafy of Joy, I 
^ricd out aloud, JefuSy tbou Sm of David, Jefus^ tbou ex-» 
jaltid Prince and Sawonr^ gi*ve me Repentance ! 

This was the firft time that I could fay in the trae 
jSenfe of the Words, that I prayed in all my Life ; for 
DOW I prayed wi(h a Senfe of my Condition, and with 
a true Scrjpture View of Hope, feunded on the Encou- 
ragemient of the Word of God ; and from this time, f may 
fay, I began to have Hope, that God would hear me. 

Now 1 began to conilrue the Words mentioned above. 
Call on me, and I nulll deli'ver thte^ in a difFcrent Senfe 
^oia what I had ever done before; for then I had no No- 
^on of any thing beirg calied Deliverance, bat my be« 
ing deilv£rcd from ihe Captivity I was in ; for thoagh I 
<wa8 indcjed at large in the Place, yet the Ifland wns cer- 
^ioly a Prifon to me, and that in the worft Senfe in the 
World ; but now I learned to uke it in another Senfe* 
New I lookM back upon my paft Life wich fuch Horror, 
.and ;ny Sins appeared fö dreadful, that my Soul foughc 
jiothing of God, but Deliverance from the Load of 
Guilt that bore down all my Comfort. As for my foH- 
^ary Life, it was nothing ^ 1 did not fo much as pray to 
be delivered from it, or thjnk of it j it was all of no 
£onfideration in Qomparifon of <hif ; and 1 added this 
JPart hcre, to bint to whoever fhall read it, that when- 
cvcr they come to a trnc Senfe of things, they will find 
Peliverance from Sin a maich greaJcr Blcffing, than De- 
^verance bom Affli^ion, 



i 



H ZI 




£? I 



^r.,.'. .. i. 'liH:...-' ^ -^j-:— '-I1C2 - -im. zu Cccdi- 

*/, ♦• '/<-*« /';'/< ./>.,.,« I =1:2:1: £-i: ^i.ci: v« I kncw 

f. *ft> th*- I M;< of y*/; thai I bcgan to nfcc a more 
I H,n( i\if ';'inr»y ol tn« Ifiaiid icfeSF; 1 wem np the 



R O B I N S O N C R U S O E. -95 

Creek firft, where, as I kioted, I brought my Rafcs oa 
Shore. I found, after I came about two Miles op, tbst 
the Tide did not f)ow any higher, and that ic was no 
more than a liu'e Brook of runnir*g Waier, and very frcfh 
and good ; but this being the dry Seafon, there was hardly 
any Water in fome Parts of ic, at leaft not enoagh to rua 
into any Stream, fo as it could be perccived. 

Od the Bar.k of this Brook I fcoRd many pleafant 
Savannas of Meadows piain, fmooth, and covcred with 
Grafs ; and on tbe rifing Parts of them nexc to the 
higher Grounds, where tbs Water, as it ra?ght be fnp« 
poied» never overflowed, I found a great deal of To- 
bacco, grcen, and growing to a great and very ilrong 
Stalk : There were divers other Plants which I had no 
Notion of, or Underftanding about; and mighc per- 
haps have Virtixes of thsir own, which I could not find 
out. 

I fearched for the Caßeeva Root, which the hdians 
in all that Climate make their Bread of, but I could 
find none. I faw large Plants of Aloes, but did not 
then underftand them: I faw feveral Sugar-canes, but 
wild, and, for want of Cultivation, imperfeft, 1 con- 
tented myfelf with thefe Difcoveries for this time, ^nd 
camc back mafing with myfelf what Conrfe I might 
cake to know the Virtue and Gocdnefs of any of the 
Frnics or Plants which I fhould difbover, but could 
bring it to no Condafion ; for, in fhort, I had made ^o 
little Obfervation while I was in the Braßlsy that I 
khc# little of the Plants of the Fie d, at leaft very little 
that might ferve me to any Parpofe now in my Di« 
ftrcft. 

The Hext Day, the i6th, I went op the fame Way 
«gain; and, after going fomething farther than I had 
Jone che Day before, I foand tbe Brook and the Sa^ 
wmnu^% began to ceafe, and the Coantry bccame more 
Woody tkmn befbre. In this Part I found different Fruits» 
hmA iMrticidarly I foand Melons apon the Groond 
m peat Abondance, and Grapes upon the Trees ; 
'MliM{3lteS'Inid fpread xndeed orer the Trees, and the 
a^ltn?* tf |j€Tapc& were joft now in their Prime, very 
'•|ito' Md näh 'This was a furprifing Difcovery, and I 
;A» czoccding ^mi üf themi. but I was wuiELoi Vr) 



^ The LiT^ and ADVEtJTVVins pf 

4ny Experience to eat fparingly of them, rcmemberlng;, 
that wheo I was afliore in BarSmy, the eating of Grapet 
Jcilled feveral of our EnghßnKtn who werc Slaves there» 
hy throwing theni inco Fluxes and Fevers : BuC I fband 
^n excellenc Ufe for tkefe Grapes, and that was to care 
4>r dry tbem in the Sun, and keep them as dry'd Grapes 
er Raifins are kept, which I thought would be, as in- 
deed they were, as whoKbme» and as agreeable to eat, 
^hen no Grapes might be had. 

I fpent all that Evening thtre> and went not back to 
xny Habitation, which hy the way was the firil Night» as 
I mighc Tay, I had lain from home. In the Night I took 
jmy firft Contrivance, and got up into a Tree, where I 
llept well, and the next Morning proceeded upon my Dif- 
covery, traveling near four MÜes, as I might judge bjr 
ihe Length of the Valley, keeping ftill due North, with 
a Ridge of Hills on the South and North Side of me. " 

At the End of this March I came to an Opening, where 
the Country feem'd to defcend to the Weft ; and a little 
Spring of frefti Water, which iflued out of the Side of 
the Hill by me, ran the other Way, that is, due Eaft; and 
the Country appeared fo freih, fo green, fo flouriihing, 
^v^ry thing being in a conßant Verdurc or Flouri(h of 
Spring, that it look'd like a planted Garden. 

I defcended a little on the Side of that delicious Valley» 
furveying it with a. fecret kind of Pleafure ( thougb - 
jnix'd with other affliäing Thoughts ) to think that 
this was all my own, that 1 was King and Lord of all 
this Country indefeafibly, and had a Right of PoflefGon ; 
and if 1 could convey it, L might have it in Inheritance, 
as completely as any Lord of a Manor in Efigland, l 
faw here abundance of Cocoa-trecs, Orange and Lemon, 
and Citron-trees; but all wild, and few bearing any 
Fruit ; at leaft, not then : However, the green Limes 
that I gathercd, were n Jt only pleafant to eat, but very 
wholefome; and I mixed their Juice afterwards with 
Water, which made it v^xy wholefome, and very cool 
and refreihing. 

. I fbund now f had Bufinefs enqugh, to gather and carry 
home ; and refolv d to lay up a Store, as well of Grapes 
as Limes apd Lemons, to furnilh myfelf for the wet Sea- 
fpn, which 1 knew was approaching. 

I« 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 97 

In Order to do this, T gathered a grcat Heap of Grape? 
in one Place, and a leffer Heap in another PJace, and a 
great Parcel of Limes and Lemons in another Place ; and 
taking a few of each with me, I travelled homeward, 
and refolved to come again, and bring a Bag or Sack, or 
what I could make, to carry che reft home'. 

Accordingly, having fpent three Days in this Journey, 
I came home (fo I muft now call my Tent, and my Cave ;) 
but before'I got thither, the Grapes were fpoiPd ; . the 
Richnefs of the Fruit, and the WeightoF the Juice, having 
broken them, and bruifed them, they were good fot 
little or nothing ; as to the Limes, they were good, bat 
I coald bring but a few. 

The next Day, being the i9th,*I went back, having 
made me two fmail Bags to bring home my Harvell : But 
I was furprifed, when Coming to my Heap of Grapes, 
which were fo rieh and fine when I gathered them, I 
föand them all fpread abroad, trod to Pieces, and dragged 
aboat, fome here, fome there, and abundance eaten and 
devoured : By this I concluded there were fome wild 
Creatures thereabouts, which had done this ; but what 
they were, I knew not. 

However, as I found there was no laying them up on 
Heaps, and no carrying them away in a Sack, but that 
One way they would be deftroyed, and the other way they 
woald bc crulhM with their own Weight, I took another 
Conrfe ; for I gathered a large Quantity of the Grapes, 
and hung them upon the Out-branches of the Trees,thac 
they might eure and dry in the Sun ; and as for the Limes 
and Lemons, I carried as many back as I could well iland 
und er. 

When I came home from this Journey, I contemplated 
with grcat Pleafurc the Fruitfulnefs of that Valley, and 
the Pleafantnefs of the Situation, die Security fronfStorms 
on that Side of the Water, and the Wood ; and con- 
doded that I had pitched upon a Place to fix my Abode, 
which was by far the werft Part of the Country. Üpon 
the Whole, I began ^to coniider of removing my Habi- 
tation, and to look out for a Place equaily f^e, as where 
I now was fituate, if poflible, in that pleafant fruitful 
Part of the Ifland. 

This Thonght run long in my Head, and I wa.% ^^. 
ceedfng fond of it for fome timc, the PltidaxilTVftfe q^ x^^ 

Voj,.L E ^ViÄjfc 



9^ The Life and Adventures of 
Place tempting me ; bat when I came to a nearer View 
ofit, and to conüder that I was now by the Sea-fide, 
where jt was at leafl poffible, that fomething might hap- 
pen to liTy Advantage, and that the fame ill Fate that 
broDght me hither» might bring fome other unhappy 
Wretches to the fame Place ; and though it was fcarce 
probable, that any fach thing (hould ever happen, yet to 
incloie myfelf among the Hüls. and Woods, in the Centre 
of the liland, was to' anticipate my Bondage, and to render 
fuch an AfFair not only improbable, bat impoflible ; atid 
that therefore I ought not by any means to remove. 

flowever, I was fo enamoured with this Place, that I 
ipent much of my Time there for the whole remaining 
Part of the Menth of Ju/y ; and though, upon fecond 
Thoughts I refolved as above, not to remove ; yet I built 
soe a little kind of a BiTWer, and furrounded it at a Di- 
iliance with a flrong Fence, being a double Hedge, as 
iiigh as I couid reach, well flak'd and filled betweea 
Willi Brulhwood ; ard here I lay vcry fecure, fometimes 
two or three Nights together, always going over it with 
a Ladder, as before ; fo that I fanfy'd now I had my 
Country-Houfe, and my Sea-coaft Houfe: And this 
Work took me up the Begfnning oi Auguß. 

I had bat newly finiihed my Fence, and began to en- 
joy my Labour, but the Rains came on, and roade mc 
üick clofe to my fird Habitation ; for though 1 had made 
me a Tent like the other, with a Piece of a Sail, and 
fpread it very well, yet I had not the Shelter of an Hill 
to keep me from Scorms, nor a Cave behind me to re- 
treat into when the Rains were extraordinary. 

About the Beginning of ^uguß^ as Ijaid^ I had fini(h*d 
my Bower, and began to enjoy myfelf. The third of 
Augufl^ 1 found the Grapes 1 had hung up were per- 
fedly diied, and indeed were excellent good Raifins of 
the Sun ; fo 1 began to take them down fi-om the Trees, 
and it was vt.'sy happy that I did fo; for the Rains 
which followed would have fpoiled tlbem,. and I had 
Joll the bell Part of my Winter Food ; for I had above 
two hundred large Bunches of them. No fooner had I 
taken them all down, and carried moft of them home 
fo my Cave, but it began to raii) ; and from thence» 
)¥hich was the fourteenth of Auguß^ it rained more or 

le(s 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. <^ 

Icfe ercry Day, tili thc middle of O£ioher ; and fome- 
•times fo violcntly, that 1 could not ftir out of my Cave 
for feveral Days. 

In this Seafon I was much furprifed with the Increafc 
of my Family : I had bcen concerned for the Lofs of one 
of my Cats, who ran away from mc, or, as I thought, 
liad bcen dcad 5 and I heard no more Tale or Tidings of 
icr, tili to my Aftoni(hmerit (he came home about the 
B^n^Loi Augufly with three Kittens. This was the more 
ibange to me, becaufe tho' I had kiird a wild Cat, as I 
called it, with my Gun, yet 1 thought it was a quite dif- 
f«rent Kind from our European Cats ; yet the young Cats 
were the fame kind of Houfe breed like the old one; and 
botk my Cats. being Femaies, 1 thought it vzxy ftrange; 
But from thefe three Cats, I afterward s came to be fo pe- 
llered with Cats, that I was forced to kill them like Vef* 
min» or wild Beafts, and to drive them from my Houfe at 
mach as poÜible. 

. From the foarteenth of Augufi to the twenty-fixth, 
inceiTant Rain, fo that I could not dir, and was now 
very careful not to be rauch wet. Jn this Confinement 
I began to be ftreightened for Food ; but venturing out 
twice, I one Day killed a Goat ; and the laft Day, which 
was the twenty (ixth, found a very large Tortoife, which 
was a Treat to me, and my Food was regulated thus : I 
eat a Bunch of Raifins for my Break faft, a Piece of tbe 
Goat*s Flefti, or of the Turtle, for my Dinner, broiled 
ffbr to my great Misfortune l had no VefTel to boil or ftew 
juiy thing 5 ) and two or three of the Turtle's Eggs for 
Suppcr. 

During this Confinement in my Cover by the Rain, I 
worked daily two or three Hours at inlarging my Cave; 
and, by degrees, worked it on towards one Side, tili I 
came to thc Outfide of the Hill, and made a Door or Way 
oat, which came beyond my Fence or Wall ; and fo I 
came in and out this way : But I was not perfeäly eafy 
zt lyiBg fo open ; for as I had managed myfelf before, I 
was in a perfed Inclofure, whereas now 1 thought I lay 
cxpofed ; and yet I could not perceive, that there was 
afty living thing to fear, the biggeft Creaturc that I had 
yet feen apon the Idand being a Goat. 

S^itmber the thirtieth, I was now come to tbe onha^i^y 
Annivcrfary of my L^nding : I caft up x\ic "HoxsXi^^ citL 
E z mi 



ICO The Life an/t Adventures 0/ 
niy Poil, and found I had been on Shore three handred 
and lixty-äve Days. I kcpt this Day as a folenm Faft, 
fcccing ic apart to a religious Exercife, proftradng myfelf 
to the G round with the moll ferioas Humiliatlon, coa« 
feifing royfelf to God, ackaowledging his righteoas Judg- 
ment upon ine, and praying to him to have Mercy on 
mc, throQgh Jefus Chrill; and having not taftcd the Icaft 
Rcf:elhmcnt ior twclve Hours, even tili the going down 
of tbe Sun, I then eat a Bifcuit-cake, and a Bunch of 
Giapes, and wenc to Bed, finiihing the Day as I began it. 

i had all chU Time obferved no Sabbath day; for as 
Ht ürtl I had no Senfe of Religion upon my Mind, I had 
afcer {ome time oraicted to diftingulOi the Weeks, by 
niaking a longer Nocch than ordinary for the Sabbath- 
day, and 1^ did not really kncw whac any of the Days 
V cre ; b>ut now having call up the Days as above, [ 
foard i had been there a Vear; fo 1 divided it into 
^V«rcks, and fet apart every ferenth Day for « Sabbath ; 
tho' I fbuad a: the £nd of my Account I had loft a Day 
or two in my Reckoning. 

A lictle nrer this, my Ir.k began to fail me, and (6 I 
contenctd myiclf to ufe ic more fpanngly, and to write 
down okIv the moft remarksblc Events cf my Life, wich- 

ü c CO -. ti a u i ng a d a ily i^//Är;r^/r.;l » of o :hcr T h : n gs . 

l^he rainv Seafon, and the dry Seafcn, began now to 
r.rreir regciar to me, asd I liam'd to divice thcm fo as 
to p.-ovivie for thcm accorv:i:ig!y. But 1 bcught all my 
Expcricnce berbre 1 had :t ; ani this [ am going to re- 
la:e, was occ of the motl ifitcrurjging Experiments that 

1 mace a: all. 1 have mer.::orsi. tha: 1 had far^d the 
fcw E-irs cf Bar-ey ard Rice which I had fo furpriiingly 
K ji:J -.V^-^^ up. as i t::o-g":. cf :iTe3i:'ilve5. ar<i beliebe 
thcre w^re iC :uc thiity S:d.ks cf I\;ctf, ani abouc cwcnty. 
v: Dirlzy i ard ncw l la.-'ügli: i: a r-^rcr Tisr.c to icw 
it if er r-^.e Rains tb^ ^-^ i^^-^g i: iis Souuüra PoüäoA 
go: g f.oin rae. 

Acjcrcingir I cug cp a Fiece of G^ocni, as well as I 
cculJ. w.:.! my wocxi-ic Sr-d«. and »:r. -di-rg i: in:o rwo 
Parts, I iQWid üv G:a:n; Du: os l was fj»:=g, i: car'ually 
occurred to oy Tboaghis, tliac I woold no: ic*' ic al! at 
firiT, bccaufe I did co: kncw when wii che proper Time- 
lar ü ; ib 1 tbwcd accuc T^o^tlurtii of üie Sceds, leaTing 
sikiiii an Ha&di^ cf ei^ch. 

Ic 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. lor 

It was a great Comfott to mc afterwards, that I did 
fo, for not onc Grain of that 1 fowed this tirr.G came to 
any thing ; for thc dry Months /ollowing, the Eartli 
having had no Rain af.er the Seed was fown, it had no 
Moiltore to aflifl its Growth, and never came up at all, 
tili the wet Seafon had come again, and then it grew as 
if it had beert newly fown. 

Finding my firft Seed did not grow, which I eafily 
imagined was by the Drought, I fought for a moißer 
Piece of Ground to make anotherTrial in ; and I dug up 
a Piece of Ground near my new Bower, and fowed the 
reft of my Seed in February^ a little before the Vemal 
Equinox\ and this, having the rainy Months of Manh 
and Jftril to water it, fprung up very pleafantly, and 
yielded a very good Crop ; but having Part of the Seed 
Icft only, and not daiing to fow all that I had yet, I 
had bat a fmall Qoantity at laft, my whole Crop not 
amounting to above half a Peck of each kind. 

But by this Experiment I was made Maller ofroy Bnfi- 
ncfs, and knew exaäly when the proper Seafon wai to 
fo-A' ; and that I might exped two Seed-times, and twb 
Harvcfls, cvery Year. 

While this Com was growing, I made a little Difco- 
vcry, which was of üfe to me afterwards : As foon as the 
Rains wcre over, and the Weather began to ftttie, which 
was about the Month of November , I made a Vifit up tlie 
Conntry to my Bower, where, tho' I had not bcen fome 
Months, yet i foünd all Things jaft as I left them. The 
Circle or double Hedge that I had made, was not only 
firm and intire, but the Stakes w. ich I had cut oft of fou.c 
Tices that grew thereabouts, were all ihot out, and gro^vn 
with long Branches, as much as a Willow tree ufually 
ihoots the firft Year after lopping its Head. I could not 
teil what Tree to call it, that thelc Stakes were cut from,. 
J was furprifed, and yet very well pleafcd, to fee ihe yoiing 
Trees grow ; and I pruned them, and led them up to 
grow as much alike as I could; and it is fcarce credibL", 
5ow beautiful a Figure they grew into in threc Years ; (o 
that tho' the Hedgc made a Circle of about twenty-üvt:. 
Yards in Diameter, yet the Trees, for fuch I might now 
call them, foon cover'd it; and it was a coniplctc Shade^ 
fuiEcient to lodge under all the dry Seatou* 

£ 3 TV\^ 



lOft The Life ä«^/ Ad venture s bf « 

This iDdde me refolve to cut fome more Stakes, and 
makc rr.e v.i\ Hcdge Hke this in a Semicircle round my' 
Wall, I ni^ao that of my firft Dw^lling, which I did; 
and, placing the Trees or Stakes-ia a double Row, at 
abrut cj^^ht Yards Dillance from tay firft Fence, they 
gjcw prcicntly,^nd wcre at firft a ßne Cover to my Ha- 
bitation, and afcerwards ferved for a Defence alfo, as I 
ihall obfervö in its Order. 

1 found now, that the Seafons of the Year mtghc gc- 
rerally be dividcd, not into Summer and fVinter, as in 
Eufope; but iVito the rainy Scafons> and the dry Seaions, 
which were generaily thus : 

Half ^^^»^'7.7 Rainy, the Sun bcing then on, ot ncar, 
Half^M? the£^«/«a^. 

Half-^/r,7,-i 

;J%» / Dry the Sun being then to the Nor4k 
>«/'> ^ of the Line: 



JulyA 



Half j^bguß, 

Sepfm6ir, C Rain, the Sun being then come back. 



a 



No^^jlerJ p ^^ 5^^ i^^. ^1^^^ ^^ ^^ j^^ 

Decemhr.S, of the Line. 

January, I 
Half/V^r»»7,J 

The rainy Seäfon fometimcs held longer or (horter, at 
the Windj happcned to blow ; but this was the general 
Obfervation I mad^. After I had fcund, by Experience, 
the i 1 Confequence of being abroad in the Rain, I took' 
c;jre to furnüh m>felf with Provifion beforehand, that 1 
nü'jht r.ot be cbliged to go out ; and 1 fat wiihin-doors 
as much as poffib'e during che wet Months. 

In this 1 ime I found much Employment (and very 
fuitable alfo to the Time) for J found great Occafion 
of roany things which I had no way to furnifh my- 
felf with, but by hard Labour, and condant Applica- 
iioaj; particaliLrly, 1 Uicd aany Ways to jiiakc myfelf 



feOBINSON CRUSOE. lo^ 

a Baiket ; bat all thc Twigs I could get for thc Purpofe 
prov'd fo brittk, tbat they would do nothing, It prov'd 
of excellent Advantage to me now, that when I was a 
£07, I ufed to take great Deligbt in (landing at a Bafiet- 
maker^s in tbe Town where my Falber lived, to fee ihera 
make tbeir fFicker-injare ; and b'eing, as i" lys ufually arc, 
ynry officioos to belp, and a great Obferver of tbe Män- 
ner bow tbey worked tbofe thiog!», and fometimes lent 
an Hand, I bad by this means fo füll Knowledge of tbe 
Metbods of it, that I wanted nothing but tbe Materials ; 
wben it came into my Mind, that tbe Twigs of tbat Trec 
firom wbence 1 cut my Srakes that grcw, might poflibly 
be as tougb as tbe Sallo'ws and WilltrwSy and Ofiers^ ia 
England \ and I refolved to try. 

Accordingly tbe next Day I went to my Country- 
Houfe, as l calied it, and cutting fome of fhe fmaller 
Twigs, I found them to my Purpofe as mucb as I could 
deiire ; wbereupon I came tbe nexc time prepared with 
an Hatcbet to cut down a Quantity, whicb I foon found» 
for tbcrc was a great Plenty of tbem : Tbefe I fet up to 
dfy within my Circle or Hedgcs ; and wbcn thcy were 
fit for \5{'^i I carried them to my Cave ; and bere during 
tke öcxt Seafon I cmployed myfelf in making, as well 
as I coald, a great many Bafkets, botb to carry Barth, 
or to carry or Tay ap any tbing, as I had Occafion ; and 
tkoagb I did not finifb them very handfomely, yet E 
made them fufficiently ferviccable for -my Purpofe; 
aad tbus afterwards I took care never to be witbout 
them; and as my fVicker-nvare decayed, I madc more; 
efpecially I made ftrong deep Bafkets to place my Corn 
in, indead of Sacks, when I fhould conie co have any 
Q^antity of it. 

Having maftercd this Difficulty, and employed a 
World of Time about it, I beüirred myfelf to fec, if pof. 
fiblc, bow to fupply two Wants. I had no V^efTels io 
hold any thing that was liquid, except two Ri ndlets, 
which wcie almoft füll of Rum, and ferne Glafs Bortles, 
fome of tbe common Size, and others which were Cafe- 
bottles fquare, for tbe holding of VVaters, Spirits, J^r. 
I bad not fo mucb as a Pot to böil any thing in, except 
a great Kettle which I faved out of tbe Ship, and which 
was too big for foch üfes as I dcftrcd k fw^ «uix. xa 

£ 4 "BDi^^ 



104 ^^^^ Life anJ AdventureS ef 
make Broth, and ftew a Bit of Meat by itfelf. The fe- 
cond thing I wouJd fain havc had, was a Tobacco pipe, 
hut it was impoffible for roe to make one ; hovvever, I 
iour.d a Contrivance for that too at laft. 

I employed myfelf in planting my fecond Rows of 
Stakcs of Files, aiid in this VVicker-work, all the Sum- 
mer, or dry Seafon, when another Bufinefs took me up 
luore time than it could be imagin'd I could fpare. 

1 mentioned before, that I had a great Mind to fee the 
whole lilard, and that I had travclled up the Brook, and 
fo on to where 1 bullt my ßower, and where I had an 
Opening quite to the Sea, on the other Side of the liland; 
I now reiolved to travcl quite crofs to the Sea (höre on 
that Side : So taking my Gun, an Hatchet, and my Dog, 
and a larger Quantjty of Powder and Shot than ufuai, 
with two ßifcuit-cakes, and a great Bunch of Raifios in 
my Pouch, for my Store, I began my Journey. When 
1 had pafs'd the Vale where faiy Bower flood, as above» 
I caii.e wiihln View of the Sea, to the ff^eß ; and it be- 
ing a vcry clear Day, I fairly defcried Land, whethör 
an Idand or Continent, l coald not teil; but it lay very 
high, extending from ihe ^fß, to the PT, S. W, at a vcry 
great Diftance ; by my Guefs it could not be lefs than 
tfieen or twenty Leagues ofF. 

I could not teil what Part of the World this might be, 
otherwife than that I knew it muß be Part of America\ 
and, as I concluded- by all my Ob.'ervations, muft be 
near the Spanijh Dominions, and perhaps was all inhabited 
by Savaees, where if I fhould havö Janded, I had been 
in a wor^ Condition than I was now ; and thereforel ac- , 
quiefced in the Difporiticns of Providence,. which I be- 
gan now to own, and to btlieve, ordered every thing for 
the bell; I Tay, I quieted my Mind wi:h this, and left- 
afflii^ing m>felf witli fruitlefs Wilhcs of being there. 

Befides, after fome Paufe upon this AfFair, I confider- 
ed, that if this Land was the Spaniß Coaft, I ßiould cer- 
tainly, oae time or other, fee fome VefTels pafs orre-. 
pafs one Way or other ; but if not, then it was the Sa'vagß 
Ccaft betwcen the ^fanijh Country and BrafiU which 
wcre indeed the \sqt^o^ Sa'vagesi for they are Canibals, 
or Men-eaters, and fail not to raurder and devour all the 
huhian ßodies that fall into their Kands. 

With 



UOBINSON CRUSOE.? 105. 

With thefe Confiderations I walked vcry'leifurcly for»- 
ward. I found that Side of the Ifland where I now was, 
much pleafanter than mine, the open or Sai^attna Fic'ds 
fiveet, adorned with Flawers and Grafs, and füll of very 
üne Woods. 1 faw abundance of Parrots, and fain would 
I havc caught one, if poflible, to have kept it to be taxne, 
and taught ic to fpeak to me. I did, after fome Pains- 
taking, catch a young Parrot ; for I knock'd it dowa 
with a Sück, and having recovered it, I brought it home, 
bat it was fome Years before I could make him fpeak^ 
However, aulaft I taught him to call me by my Name 
vcry familiarly : But the -Accident that followed, tho' it 
be a Trifte, will bc very diverting in its Place. 

I was exceedingly diverted with this Journey : I found 
in the low Grounds, Hares, as I thought them to be, 
and Foxes, but they difFered greatly from all the other 
Kinds I h^d met with ; nor could 1 fatisfy myfelf to eac 
them, tho^ I killed feveral : But 1 had no need to be 
venturous; for I had no wantof Food, and ofthat which 
was very good too ; efpecially thefe three Sorts, 'vix. 
Goats, Pigeons, and Turtle or Tortoifc; which, added to- 
jny GfSL^tSf Leaden hall A/^ri^/ could not have furnifhed 
a Table better than I, in proportion to the Company : 
And tho' my Cafe was deplorable enough, yeti had great 
Caufe for Thankfulnefs, that I was not driven to any 
Extremities for Food ; but rather Plenty, even toDainties. 

I never travelied in this Journey above two Miles. 
outright in a Day, or thereabouts ; but I took fo man/- 
Tarns and Returns to fec what Difcoveries I could make,. 
that I came weary enough to the Place where I refolved 
to fit down for all Night; and then either repofed^ 
myfelf in a Tree, or furrounded myfelf with a Row öf, 
Stakes (et opright in the Ground, either from. one Tree 
to another, or fo as no wild Creature could come at me,. 
withoQC waking me. 

As foon as 1 came to the Sea-fliore, I was furprifed to* 
fee that I had taken up my Lot on the wor(l Side of the. 
liland ; for here indeed the Sihore was. covered with in- 
nomerable Turtle», whereas on the other Side I kad. 
found but three in a Year and an half. Here was alfo aiv 
infinite Number of Fowls of many Kinds, fome of which. 
1 bad not feen before, and roany of chem v^r^ "^^^^ 
E 5 ViV^-aX)^ 



id6 7hi LiF« and Adventures of 

Meat ; bat fucli as I knew not the Names of^ except 
thofe callcd Penguhs. 

I could have Oiot as many as l pleafed, but was verj 
fparing of my Powder and Shot ; and therefore had more 
Mind to kill a She-goat, if I could, which I could better 
fccd on : And tho' therc were many Goats hcre more 
than on the other Side of the Ifland, yet it was whh 
much more DifHculty that I could come near them ; the 
Country being flat and even; and they faw me mach 
fooner than when I was on the Hills. 

T confefs this Side of the Country was mach pleafanter 
than mine, but yet I had not the leaft Inclination to re- 
jjiöve ; for as I was fixed in my Habitation, it becanre 
'natural to me, and I fecmed all the while J was here, to 
be, as it werc, upon a Jouriiey, and from home : How- 
ever, I travellcd along the Shore of the Sea towards the 
Eaft, I fuppofe, about twelvc Milcs ; and then ietting 
«p a great Pole upon the Shorc for a Mark, I concluded 
1 would go home again ; and the next Joumcy I took« 
fhould be on the other Side of the Ifland, Eaft from my 
Dwelling, and fo round, tili I come to my Poft again: 
Of which in its Place. 

I took another Way to come back than that 1 went, 
thinking I could eaiily kecp all the ifland fo much ior 
my View, that I could not mifs finding my firft Dwelling 
by viewing the Country ; but I found myfclf miftaken ; 
for being come about twoor three Miles, I found myfclf 
defcended into a very large Valley ; but fo furrounded 
with Hills, and thofe Hills covered with Woods, that I 
could not fee which was my Way by any Diredliön bnt 
that of the Sun, nor even then, unlefs I knew vefy wett 
the Pofition of the Sun at that Time of the Day. 

It happened to my farther Misfortune, that the Wea* 
ther proved hazy for three or four Days, while I was in 
this Valley; and not bei g able to fce the Sun, I wan- 
dtred abo^t very ancomfortably, and at laft was obliged 
'to find out the Sea-iide, look hr my Poft, and cömc 
back the fame Way J went ; and then by eafy Journies 
I turned homcward, the Weather being excceding bot; 
and my Gun, Ammunition, Ha:chet, and other things, 
very heavy, 

7 1» 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. L07 

Tn this Journey my Dog furprjfed a young Kid, and 
fcized upon itj and I running in to take hold of ir, 
caoght it, and fav'd it alivc from the Dog : I had a great 
Mind to bring it home, if I could ; for I had often bcen 
mufing whethcr it might not be poflible to get a Kid or 
two, and fo raifc a Breed of tarne Goats, whicb might Top- 
ply me when my Powder and Shot ßiould be fpent. 

I made a CoUar to this little Crcature, and wich a String 
which I made of fome Rope-yarn, which I always carried 
about me, I Icd him along, tho' with fome DiiEculty, 
tili I came to my Bower, and there I inciofed him, and 
kft him ; for I was very impacient to be at home, front 
whence I had been abfent above a Month. 

I cannöt exprefs what a Satisfaftion it was to me, to 
COme intomy old Hutch, and iie down in my Hammock- 
bed: This little wandering Journey, without a fettled Place 
of Abode, had been fo unpleafant to me, that my own 
Houfe, as I called it to myfelf, was.a perfe£l Settlemenc 
to me, compared to that ; and it rendcrcd every thing 
aboat me fo comfortable, that I refolved I would never 
go a great way from it again, while it fhould be my Lot 
to Üay on the liland. 

I rcpofed myfelf here a Weck, to reft and regale my- 
ftrif 'after my long Journey; during which, molk of tlje 
Time was taken up in the weighty AfFair of making a 
Cage for my Pol, who began now to be a mcre Domef- 
tic, and to be mighty well acquainted with nie. Thca 
I be^ian-to think of the poor Kid, which I had penc in 
withm my little Circle, and refolved to go and fetch it 
kome, or give' it fome Food ; accordingly I went, and 
fbund it where I left it ; for indced it could not get out, 
boC^was almoft (larved for want of Food j I went and cuc 
Boughs of Trees and Branches of fuch Shrubs as I 
could find, and threw it over, and having fed it, I ty'd it 
as I did before, to lead it away ; but it was fo tarne with 
being hungry, that I had no need to havc ty'd it j for ic 
foilowed me like a Dog ; and as I continually fed it,' 
che Crcature became fo loving, fo gentle, and fo fond, 
fhai^ it became from that time one of my Domeflics alfo, 
and would never leave me afterward s. 

The rainy Seafon of the jhtumnal Equinox was now 
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the fame fo- 
E 6 \t.\aÄ. 



io8 77»^ Life j«// Advintüres of 
Jcmn manner as before, being the Anniverfary of my 
Liuding on the Ifland, having now been there two Years, 
anj no more Prcfpefl of being delivered than the firft 
T^AS I came thcre. I fpent the whole Day in hamble 
and cliankful Acknowledgments of the many wonderful. 
Mcrcics which my folirary Condidon was attended with, 
nnd without which it mighthave been infinitely more mi- 
Icralilc. I gave humble and hearty Thanks, that God 
h'id bvcn plcafed (o dilcover to me, even that it was pof- 
l:bic 1 niight bc more happy in this folitary Condition» 
than I ihoa!d have been in a Liberty of Society, and in 
a!i che FUakircs of the World : That he could fnlly 
r^.ake cp co p;c :he Dcccieccies of my folicary Sute, and 
tl.c vkar.t o? h man Society, by his Prefencc, and the 
V.o;v.ir.uc:ca::or of his Grace lo my Sou*, füpporting, 
V* ;u!>r:icg. acd cr.coari£::rg me to cepend upon his Pro- 
\:J.rcc hcfc» asJ hoj-e tor h:s ererail Prcicnce hereafter. 

l: WJLS ::c*A- :h.i: I b^gaa lenüb'.y to feel how rauch 
•r..:? hl*. p> the L:Sf I r.csv !cd v^äs, -Aiih all its mifera- 
c 1 vJ i ■ v •: :v. .1 .Lr c s-< , : h i r. : b e w: : ?: e vi , c urü i , abominable 



i "c l l»:^! ...". 


eher 


.".*. -t 


ri.-: r:'rr.\ 


Di; 


.i; aic Kcvv having 


c.:-'*C»-^* *■-'* 


■5 r. 


*. 5:*: 


:,v, ? i.d 


z*.y 


_';.*. c:y •, 


rery De- 


: „•< .. rc'ci. 


r:v 


A-:Vc: 


■.:2* ciiiT 


ctc 


:ic': G-^, 


, aid my 


l^i c'-:i v%i- 


^ 7 


,: \ ^': 


-• Hv" • . : 


■j ~ 


w'ii: :r.cy 


wire at 


ik '■ T «-...— « 


,_ 


.. " . ^ I 


• - • •■ * •«, 


," Vj 


«...£•..£ 




. . v. .. .*.• 




. > w .. .. 


. * . *— ,*, .^ 






t: ::^ 


■ V. 


.; s. ■" 


Jir:-:. i. 


:r>:: 


cn ry Hj 


r.tizc, or 


:.*: ^ ^«'- ■;. 


:*"C 


s. .' - 


"l""- . " 'i 


. . . i,. 


i»_"". c; zzv 


5c ^: at 


;-\ C" J: .* 


* \- 


c-.i 


^:j:.< -- 




:r. iSi c- : 


L^cde=. 


4 •,-. -rt w. 


i-, 


.1 : 


• - - w ^ ^ 


«üi; 


'-= rr-i. :c 


-/i-nk of 


;r,c V* .Vsi?. 


• ^ * 


\C;. 


■*:.■* :rs 


^ * 


'ir-.i ! iKij 


i= . azd 


V .' - I ^. j i 1 


■.•. 


.... 


. .*•* ^ i ^ •', 


!*. '^ 


LI :se ccf 


-z.iL Bin 


* i V,\.ti , • 


:"* 


V ', ^ i 


:■■ ■ 17 


, ■ Z. 


T 1 ; li*^ i'« 


JiSTDCÜ, 


V .V •: Ni, 






- ♦ * — 


i 


;•' :'ij "ü: 


f= Cco- 


V ■*\^' = 


: t 


» 


"~ ? *' , 


> ^ . 


r-r^^ 7i: 


-. :r. mc 


: ^v * >-.' - 


'• 


.. •- :.. 


: - j * 


■ C - 


• ' r :ri*. 


i7 i vreep 


*. V.' •. V * .. 


S; 


■ " i\ .' 


■•;^ -fc ; . 


. - : 


i-kr 7:* :r. 


:ie !.:.i- 


«: < , * r- = 


^■ .- 


V . • 


= ■' . 




: ::;^.iri • 


L: ciira 


«74 '-^* t 


■- • 


Vk . 


'■ r :^ 


.-.< 


. - :• i- 


rciT er 


«*^ c.-,:, '^ 


• 


» 


r> 


<-. 




. fc -S I 


tc^ic r>i- ■. 


■ 4 ' 


. * 


■ ^,^ - 




• 1 . — ^ » 


; ~:'}yi 


it*^-.-!-.- ;,- 


af. 


4. >. 


• - V , J* 


'.i^ 





t« 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. leg 

But now I began to cxcercife myfelf with new 
Thoughts ; 1 daily read the Word of God, and apply'cT 
all the Comforts of it to my prefent State. One Morn- 
ing being very fad, I opcn'd the Bible upon thefe Words» 
J luill ne<verf ne<ver Uaije thee^ nor forfake tbet / Immedi- 
atcly it occurr'd, that thefe Words were to mc : Why 
elfe (hould they be direded in fach a Manner, joll at the 
Moment when I was mouirning over my Condition, as 
one forfaken of God and Man ? Well then, faid J, \( 
God does not forfake me, of what ill Confequence caiv 
it be, or what matters it, tho* the World ihould all for- 
fake me ; feeing, on the other hand, if I had all the 
World, and (hould lofe the Favour and BlefGng of God« 
there woold be no Comparifon in the Lofs ? 

From this Moment I began to conclude in my Mind, 
that it was poüible for me to be more happy in this for- 
faken, folitary Condition, than it was probable I fhould 
have ever been in any other particular State in the World ;. 
and with this Thought I was going to give Thanks to 
God for bringing me to this Place. 

I know not what it was, but fomething (hockM my 
Mind at that Thought, and I durfl not fpeak the Words: 
How canfl thou be fuch an Hypocrite (faid I, even au- 
dibly) to pretend to be thankful for a Condition, which, 
however thou mayft endeavour to be contented with, thoa 
wouldft rather pray heartily to be delivered from ? So I 
ßopp'd there ; but iho' I could not fay, I thank'd God 
for being there, yet I fincerely gave Thanks to God for 
opening my Eyes, by whatever affliding Providences, ta 
« fee the former Condition of my Life, and to mourn for 
my Wickednefs, and repent. I never open'd the Bible, 
or (hut it, but my very Soul within me ble/Ted God for 
direÄing my Friend in England^ without any Order of 
mine, to pack it up among my Goods ; and for affifting 
me afterwards to fave it out of the Wreck of the Ship. 

Thus, and in this Difpofition' of Mind, I began my 
third Year ; and though I have not given the Reader the 
Troablc of fo particular an Account of my Works this 
Year as the firll ; yet in general it may be obferv'd, that 
1 was very feldom idle j having regulai ly dividcd my 
Time, according to the feveral daily Employment»^ 
tkat were befbre me v fuch as, f;>/?, My Duty to God, 



I 



110 Tbi Life aml Adventuheu cf 

and reading die Scriptures, which I conftantly fet apart 
fomc Time for, thrice every Day. StconJly^ The going 
abroad with my Gern for Food, which generally took 
IDC up three Hours in every Morning, when it did not 
nun. TlnrMyj The ordering, curing, prcferving, and 
ceoking, what I had kiH'd or catch*d for my Supply ; 
thefe took ap great Part of the Day : Alfb it is co be 
confiderM, that ki the Middle of the Day, when the San 
was in the Zenitb, the Violence of the Heät was too great 
CD für out ; fo that aboat four Hours in the Eveniiig was . 
all the Time I could be fuppofed to wdrk in ; with this 
ExceptioHy that fometimes I changM my Hours of Hunt- 
ing and Wopking, and went to work in the Morning, 
and abroad with my Gnn in the Afcernoon. 

To this (hört Time allow'd for Labour^ I defire may 
be added the exceeding Labonoufnefs of my Work ; the 
many Hours, which for want of Tools, want of Help, 
and want of Skill, evtry thing that I did, took up out of 
iny Time : For Example, I was füll two and forty Days 
making me a Board for a long Sheif, which I wanted in 
my Cave j whereas two Sawyers, with their Tools and 
Saw-Pit, would have cut fijc of them, out of the fame 
Tree, in half a Day. 

My Cafe was this : It was to be a large Tree which. 
was to be cut down, becaufe my Board was to be a . 
broad one. This Tree I was three Days a cutting down, 
and two more cutting oS the Boughs, and reducing ic 
to a Log, or Piece of Timber. With inexpreifible hack- 
irrg and hewing I reduc'd both the Sides of it into Chips, 
tili it began to be light enough to move ; then I turn'd 
it, and made one Side of it fmooth and flat, as a Board, 
from End to End ; then turning that Side downward, 
cut the orher Side, tili 1 brought the Plank to be about 
three Inches thick, and fmooth on l^oth Sides. Any one 
may judge the Labour of my Hands in fuch a Piece of 
Woik; bu: Labour and Patience carry 'd me thro' that, 
and many other things ; I only obferve this in particu- 
lar, to (hew the Reafon why fo much of my Timc went 
away with fo littlc Wcik, njix That what might be a 
little u be done with Help and i ools, was a vaft La- 
bour, and required a prodigious Time to do alone^ and 

^ ^^ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. iii 

6ut notwithftanding this, with Patience and Labour» 
i went thro* many things, and indeed every thing that 
my Circumflances made neceiTary to me to do^ as will 
äppear by what foUows. 

I was now in the Months of Noiemher and Deamier, 
cxpedUng my Crop of fiarley and Rice. The Ground £ 
had manuFd or dag up from them was not great ; for as 
I obferv'd, my Secd of each was not above the Quantity 
of half a Peck ; fbr I had loft one whole Crop by fowing 
in the dry Seafon ; but now my Crop promis'd very well, 
when on a fadden I found I was in Danger of loüng it 
all again by Enemies of feveral Sorts, which it was fcarce 
poiCble to keep from it ; as firft, the Goats» and wild 
Creatures which IcairdHares, which^ tailing the Sweet« 
nefs of the filade, lay in it Night and Day, as foon as it 
came up, and eat it fo clofe» that it could get no Tim« 
to fhoot op into Stalks. 

This 1 faw no Remedy for, but by making an Inclofur« 
abont it with a Hedge, which I did with a great deal of 
Toil ; and the more, becaufe it requir'd a great deal of 
Speed ; the Creatures daily fpoiling my Com. However, 
as my arable Land was but fmall, -fuited to my Crop, I 

§ot it totally well fenc'd in about three Wceks time; and 
looting fome of the Creatures in the Day^time, I fet my 
Dog to goard it in the Night, tying him up tö a Stake at 
fhc Gate, whtre he would ftand and bark all Night long; 
fo in a little time the Enemies forfook the Place, and the 
Corn grew very ftrong and well, and began to ripen apace, 
But as the Beafls ruined me before, while my Corn wai 
in the Blade, fo the Birds were as likely to ruin me now, 
tvhen it was in the Eär ; for going along by the Place to 
lec how' ir throve, 1 faw my little Crop furrounded with 
Fowls of 1 know not how many Sorts, which ftood ai 
it were watching tili I fliould be gone. I immediately 
lit fly among them (for I always had my Gun with me.) 
I had no fooner (hot, but there rofe up a little Cloud of 
Fowls, which 1 had not feen at all, from among the 
Corn iifclf. , , ^ ^ i 

This toochM me fenfibly ; for I forefaw, that iti a fe«, 
Days thcy would devour all my Hopes, that I (houla kl 
flarv'd. and never be able to raife a Crop at ^U . 5 
what to do 1 coal4 not ull ; However, 1 refolv^^i ^^^^J 



lia 7le "Life and Advektvres 0/ 
ofe ßiy Corn, if poffible, tho' I fhoold watck it Night 
and Day. In the firft Place, I went among it to fee what 
Daxnage was already done, and found they had fpoilM 
A good deal of it ; buc that, as it was yet too green for. 
them, the Lofs was not (o great, but the Remainder was 
like to be a good Crop, if it could be hv''d. 

I flaid by it to load my Gun, and ihcn Coming away, 
I could eafily fee the Thievcs fitting upon all the Trees sl* 
bout mc, as if they only waited tili . I was gone away» 
and the Event prov'd it to be fo ; for as I walk'd ofF as 
jf I was gone, I was no foorer out of their Sight, but 
they dropt down one by one into the Corn again. I was 
fo provok^dy that I could not have Patience to day tili 
jnore caoie on, knowine that every Grain that they eat 
now, was, as it might te fasd, a Peck Loaf to me in the 
Coniequence; but coming up to the Hedge, I fired again» 
and killed three of them. This was what I wiüi'd for; fo 
I took them up, and ferv*d them as we ferve notorious 
Thievcs in England^ njkc. harg'd them in Chains for a 
Terror to others. It is impoflible to imagine almoft, that 
this (hould have fuch an EfFedl as it had ; for the Fowla 
would not only not come at the Corn, but in fhort they 
forfook all that Part of the Ifland, and I could never fee a 
Bird near the Place" as long as my Scarecröws hung there. 

This I was very glad of, you may be füre; and about 
the latter End of Decemhcr^ which was our fecond Har- 
vcft of the Year, I reaped my Crop. 

I was fadly put to it for a Scythe or a Sicklc to cut it 
down, ar.d all I could do was to makeone as well as I 
could out of one of the broad Swords, or Cutlaifes^ 
which I fav'd among the Arms out of the Ship. How- 
«ver, as my Crop was but fraall, I had no great Difficulty 
to cut it down : In fhort, I reap'd it my Way, for I cut 
nothing off but the Ears, and carry'd it away in a great 
Baflcct wh'ch I had made, and fo rubb'ü it out with my 
Hands : And at rhe End of all my Harvefting, I found^ 
that out of my Half- peck of Seed, 1 had near two Bufh- 
cls of Rice, and above two Bulhel? and an half of ßarley, 
that U to ßy, by my Guefs, for I had no Mcafure at that 
Time. 

However, this was a great Encouragcment to me ; 
and 1 forefaw» that in timc it would pleale God to fup- 



ROßtNSOM CRUSOE. itj 

ply rac with Bread : And y et here I was perplexM again^ 
for I neither knew how to grind or make Meal of my 
Corn, or indeed how to clean it, and part it ; nor, if 
inade into Meal, how to make Bread of it; and if how to - 
make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. Thefe Things 
btfing added to wy Defire of having a good Quantity for 
Store, and to fecure a conftant Supply, I refolv'd not to 
taßc any of this Crop, but to preferve it all for Secd a- 
gainft the next Seafon, and in the mean tipfie to employ 
all my Study and Hours of working to acccmpliih thit 
great Work of providing myfelf with Corn and Bread. 

It might be truly faid, that now I work'd fpr my 
Bread. 'Tis a little wonderful, and what 1 believe few 
People have thought much upon ; *vtz, the dränge Mul- • 
titude of little Things neceflary in the providing, pro- 
ducing, curing, dreffing, making, and ünifhing, this on« 
Articie of Bread. 

I, that was reduc'd to a mere State of Nature, found 
this to be my daily Difcoaragement, and was made mote v 
and more fenüble of it evcry Hour, even after 1 got the 
ürÜ. Handful of Seed-corn, which, as I^have faid^ came 
Dp unexpededly, and Indeed to a Surprife. 

FM, I had no Plough to turn the Barth, no Spade or 
Shovel to die it. Well, this I conquerM by making a 
wooden Spade, as I obferv'd before ; but this did my . 
Work but in a wooden Manner ; and tho* it coli me a 
great many Days to make it, yet for want of Iron, it not 
only wore out the fooner, bat made my Work the hard- 
cr^ and made it be perform'd much worfe. 

However, this I bore with too, and was content to 
werk it out with Patience, and bcar with the Badnefs of 
the. Performance. When the Corn was fow'd, I had no 
Harrow, but was forc'd to go over it myfelf, and drag 
a great heavy Bough of a Ti ce over it, to fcratch the Barth, 
as it may be caird, rather than rake or harrow it. 

When it was growing or grown, I have obferv'd al- 
ready how many things I wanted, to fence it, fecure it, 
mow or reap it, eure or carry it home, threlh, part it 
froni the ChafF, and fave it. Then I wanted a Mi-ll to 
grind it, Sieves to drefs it, Yeft and Salt to make it 
into Bread, and an Oven to bake it in ; and all thcfe . 
things I did without| as fhall be obfiprved | and yet th« 



Com was an inefiimable Comfort and Ad van tage to me ' 
too ; but all this, as I faid, made every thing faboriout 
and tedious to me, but that there was no Help for ; neU 
ther was my Time (o much Lofs to me, becaafe I had di«^ 
Vidcd it ; ä certain Part of it was evcry Day appointed to 
thefe Works j and as I refolv'd to ufe none of thc Corn 
for Bread, tili I had a greater Quaatity by me, I bad thc 
next fix Mönchs to apply myfelf wholly by Laboür and . 
Invention, to furnifh myfelf wich Utenfils proper for the 
perfbrming all the Operations neceffary for the making 
the Corn, when I had it, fit for my Ufe. 

But firf} I was to prepare more Land, for I had now 
Seed enough to fow above an Acre of Ground. Befbre I 
did this, 1 had a Week's Work at leaft to make me a 
Spade, which, when it was döne« was but a forry one 
indeed, and very heavy, and requif*d dowblö Laboar to 
work with it ; however, 1 went thro' thäf, aiid fow'd my 
Seeds in two large flat Pieces of Ground, aS near mjr 
Houfe as I could find them to my Mind, and fenc'd them 
in with a good Hedge, the Stakes of which were all cat 
of that Wood which I had fet befbre, which I knew 
would grow, (o thät in one Year*s time I knew I fhould 
have a Quick of living Hedgc, that would want but littfc 
Repair. Thir Work was not fo litile, as to tak^ me «p 
Icfs than three Months, becaufc great Part of that Time 
was of the wet Seafon, when I could not go abroaxL 

Within-door, tJ!?at is, when it rain'd, and I could not 
goout, I fbund.Employment on the following Occafion, 
always obferving, that all the while I was at Work, I di- 
vcrted myfelf wich talking to my Parrot, and teaching 
him to fpeak ; and I quickly Icarnt him to know his own 
Name; atlaft, to fpeak it out prctty loud, POL ; which 
was the firft Word 1 ever heard fpoken in the Ifland by 
aay Mouth but my own. This thercfore was not mv 
Work, but an Affiftant to my Work; for now, as I faicl, 
I had a great Employmcnt upon my Hands, as follows ; 
viz, I had long ftudy'd, by fome means or otber, to 
make myfelf fome earthen VefTcls, which indeed I want- 
cd forely, but knew not where to come at them : How-^ 
ever, confidering the Heat of thc Climatc, I did not 
doubt but, if I could find out any fuch Clay, I might 
I?otcIi ap fome {w;h Pot, \% migjit, btiii^ dty'd by thc 



Ä O B I N S O M CRUSOE. uf 

SoB, bc hard enoagh, arid ftrong enough, to bear band- 
ling, and to hold äny Thing that was dry, and requir'd 
to bc kept {q ; and as this was neceflary in preparing 
Com, Meal, ^c . wbich was the Thing I was upon, I 
refolv'd to make Tome as Jarge as I could, and fit only 
to üand like- Jars to hold what fhould be put into them. 

It woald make the Reader pity me, or rather laugh at 
mc, to teil how many aukward Ways I took to raife this 
Pade, what odd mis-(hapen ugly Things I made, how 
rnahy of them feil in, and how many feil out, the Clay 
not being ftiff enough to bear its own Weight; how many 
crackM by the ovcr-violent Heat of the Sun, being fet out 
too haftily ; and how many feil to Fieces with o'nly re- 
movinff, as well before as after they were dry*d ; and, in ' 
a Word, how, after having labour'd hard to find the Clay, * 
to dig it, to .tcmpcr it, to bring it hörne» and work it, I 
could not make above two large earthen ugly Things, 1 
cannot call them Jars, in about two Months Labour. 

However, as the Sun baked thefe two very dry and 
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and fet them down 
again in two great Wicker- bafkets, which I had made on 
purpofe for them, that they might not break ; aud as 
between the Pot and the Ba(ket, there was a littie Room 
to fpare, I ßuffed it füll of the Rice and Barley Straw ; 
and thefe two Pots being to ftand always dry, I thought 
would hold my dry Corn, and pcrhaps the Mcal* when 
the Com was bruifed. 

Though I mifcarricd io much in my Defipi for large 
Pots, yet f made feveral fm aller Things with becter Suc- 
c«fs; fuch as littie round Pots, ftat EHfhes, Pitchers, and 
Pipkins, and any thing my Hand turn'd to ; and the 
Heat of the Sun bak'd them ftrangely hard. 

But all this would not anfwpr my End, which was to 

fet an earthen Pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the 
irc, which none of thefe could do. It happen'd after 
fotane timc, making a pretty large Fire for cooking my 
Meat, when I went to put it out, after I had done with 
it, I found a broken Piece of »oc of my Earthen -wäre 
Veflcls in the Fire, burnt as hard as a Stone, and red as 
a Tile. I was agreeably furpris'd to fee it, and faid to 
myfelf, that certainly they mi^ht bc made to burn whole, 
if they would burn broken. 



u6 The Life tfi»^ ADVENTüais 0/ 

This fct mc to ftudy how to Order my Firc, fo as t<f 
nake it burn me foinc Pots. I had no Notion of a Kiln, 
A2ch as the Potters burD in, or of glazing them with 
Lead, though I had fome Lead to do it with : But I 
plac*d three large Pipkias, and t\^o or three Pots, in a 
rile one upon another, and placM my Fire-wood aM 
rourd it with a great Heap of Embers under tbem : I 
ply'd the Fire wich frefh Fuel round the Outfide, and* 
npon the Top, tili I faw the Pots in the Infide red hoc 
quite thro\ and obferv'd that they did not crack at all i 
When I faw them clear red, I let them Hand in that 
Heat about five or (ix Hoors, tili I found one of them, 
thoQgh it did not crack, did mclt or run ; for the Sand 
^hich was mixed with the C'lay melted by the Violencc 
of the Heat, and would htave run into Glafs, if 1 had 
gone on ; fo I flack'd my Fire gradually, tili the Pots be- 
gan to abate of the red Colour ; and watching them all 
Night, that I might not let the Fire abate too faft, ia the 
Morning I had ihrce very good, I will not fay handfome 
Pip^ins, and two other earthen Pors, as hard burat a» 
could be defir'd ; and one of them perfeclly glazM with 
the running of the Sand. 

After this Experiment I need not fay that I wanted no 
Sort of Earihen-ware for my üfe ; but I muft needs fay, 
as to the Shapcs of them, they were very indifferent, as 
any one may fuppofe, when I had no Way of making 
them, but as the Children make Dirt-pies, or as a Wo- 
man would make Pies that n^ver learnt to raife Falle. 

No Joy at a thing of fo mcan a Nature was cver equal " 
to mine, when I fuund 1 had made an earthen Pot that 
would bear the Fire ; and I had hardly Patience to ftay 
tili they were cold, before l fet one upon the Fire again» " 
with fome V/ater in it, to boil me fome Meat, which [ 
did admirably well ; and with a Piece of a Kid I made 
fome very good ßroth, tho' 1 wanted Ostmeal, and feve- 
ral other Ingredients requiiite to make it fo good as ( 
would have had it. 

My next Concern was, to get me a Stone Mortar 
to ftamp or beat fome Com in ; for as to the Mill, there 
was no Thought of arriving to tha: Pcrfeilion of Art, 
with one Pair of Flands. To füpply this Wart, I was 
at a ereat Lofs ; for of all Tradcs in the World I was as 
^ ^etfcaiY 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. tt'y 

^ctfc&ly unqualified for a Stone cutter, as for any what- 
«ver ; neither had I any Tools to go about it with. I 
fpent many a Day to find out a great Stone big enough to 
cot hoUow, and make fit for a Mortar, and could find 
none at all, except what was in the folid Roclc, and which 
I had no way to dig or cut out ; nor indeed were the 
Rocks in the Ifland of Hardnefs fufHcient, but were all of 
a fandy crambling Stone, which would neither bear the 
Wcight of an heavy Peftle, nor would break the Cora 
wtchoat fiUing it wirb Sand : So, after a great deal of Time 
loft i 1 fearching for a Stone, I gave it over, and refolv*d 
to look out a great Block of hard Wood, which 1 fonnd 
indeed miich eafi^r; and getting one as big as I had 
Strcngth to ftir, I rounded it, and form'd it on the Out- 
fide with my Ax and Hatchet; and then with the Help of 
Fire^ atid infinite Labour, made an hollow Place in it, as 
the Indians in Brafil make their Canoes, After this, I made 
a great heavy Peftle or Beater, of the Wood call'd the 
Iron wood, and this I prepared and laid by againft I had 
my next Cropof Com, when I propofed to myi^if to grind. 
or rather pound, my Corn or Meal to make my Bread. 

My next Difficulty was to make a Sieve or Sierce, tö 
drefs my Meal, and to part it from the Bran and the 
Hofk, without which I did not fce it pofüble I could 
have any Bread. This was a moft difficult Thing, fo 
much as but to think on ; for to be füre I had nothinj 
likc the neceflary Things to make it with ; I mean fine 
thin Canvas, or Stoff to fierce the Meal through. And 
herc I was at a füll Stop for many Months ; ndr did I real-* 
Jy know what todo; Linen>I had none lefc, but what 
was mere Rags ; I had Goat's Hair, but neither knew I 
how to weave or fpin it ; and had l known how, here were 
no TjooIs to work it with ; all the Remedy that I found 
for this, was, that at laft I did remember I had, among 
che Seamen's Clothes which were fav'd out of the Ship, 
fomc Neckcloths of Calico or Muflin ; and with fome 
Piecea of thefe I made three fmall Sieves, but proper 
enough' for the Work ; and thus I made (hift for fome 
Years ; how I did afterwards, I (hall (hew in its Place. 

The baking Part was the next thing to be confidered, 
And how I (hould make Bread when I came to have 
Corns for^ firfl^ I had no Yeft: As to that Part, a% 



Ii8 The Life »«rf Adventures bf 

there was no fupplying thc Want, fo I did^not concern 
myfelf much abouc it : But for an Oven, I was indeedf m 
greac Pain. At length I found out an Experiment for 
that alfo, which was this ; I made fome eartl^n Vefiels 
\cry broady bat not deep ; tbat is to fay, about two Fest 
Diameter, and not above nine . Jnches deep^ the^, I 
burnt in the Fire» as I had done the other, and laid ^eiii 
by ; and when 1 wanted to bake, I made a great Fire 
upon the Hearth, which I had pav'd with fome fquare 
Tiles of my own making and burning alfo ; but I ihoold 
AOt call them fquare. 

When the Fire-wood was burnt pretty mach into Em- 
bers, or live Goals, I drew them forward upon Um 
Hearth, fo as to cover it all over ; and there I let them lie, 
•tili the Heacth was very hot ; then fwe^ping away all the 
Embers, I fet down my Loaf, or Loaves ; and, whelming 
down thc earthen Pot upon them, drew the Embert 
all round the Outfide of the Pot, to keep in, and add to 
the Heat; and thus, as well as in the bed Oven in the 
World, I bak'd my Barley- loaves, and became in a littlc 
time a mere Pa(lry-cook into the Bargain ; for I made my- 
felf feveral Cakes of the Rice, and Puddings ; indeed I 
made no Pies, neither had I any thing to put into them, 
fuppoiing I had, except the Flelh either of Fowls or Goats. 

It need not be wonderM at, if all thefe things took 
me up moft Part of the third Year of my Abode here ; 
for it is to be obferved, that in the Intervais of thefe 
things, I had my new Harveft and Hufbandry to ma- 
nage ; For I reaped my Corn in its Seafon, and carried 
it home as well as I could, and laid it up in the Ear, 
in my large Baflcets, tili I had time to rub it out ; for 
I had no Floor to threfh it on, or Inflrument to threfli it 
with. 

And now indeed my Stock of Corn increafing, I really 
Ivanted to build my Barns brgger : I wanted a Place to 
lay it up in ; for the Increafe of the Corn now yielded 
me fo much, that I had of the Barley about twenty 
Bufhels, and of the Rice as much, or more ; infomuch 
that now I refolved to begin to ufe it freely, for my Bread 
had been quite gone a great while 5 alfo I refolved to 
fee what Quantity would be fufficient for me a whole 
Year, and to fow but once a Year. 

Upoa 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 119 

tjpon thc Whole, I found that the forty Bufhels of 
Barley and Rice were mach more than I could confume 
in a Year; fa I refolvcd to fow juft the fame Quantitjr 
every Year that I fow^'d the lafl, in hopes that Tuch a 
Quantity would fally provide me wi(h Bread, &r. 

All the while thefe things were doing, you may be 
füre my Thoughts ran many times upon the Profpeä of 
Land which I had feen from the other Side of the Ifland ; 
and I was not withoat fecret Wifhes, that I was on 
Shore thtrt, fanfying that feeing the main Land, and 
an inhabited Countr/, I might find fome way or other 
to convey myfelf farther» and perhaps at lafl find fome 
Means of Efcape. 

But all this while I made no AUowance for the Dangers 
;of fuch a Condition, and how I might fall into the Hand« 
of SavageSy and perhaps fuch as I might have Reafon 
to think far worfe than the Lions and Tigers of J/rica: 
That if I once came into their Power, 1 Ihould run an 
Hazard more than a thoufand to one of being killed» 
and perhaps of being eaten ; for I häd heard, that che 
People of the Caribean Coafts were Canibals, or Men« 
eaters ; and I knew by the Latitade, that I could not be 
far ofF from thät Shore : That, fuppofe thcy were not 
Canibals, yet they might kill me, as many Europeans 
who had fallen intotheir Hands had betn ferved, even 
when they had been ten or twenty together i much more 
I that was but one, and, could make little or no De- 
fence. All thele things, I fay, which l ought to have 
confi^ered well of, and I did caft up in my Thoughts 
afterward s, yet took up none of my Apprehenfions at 
£rft ; and.my Head ran mighcily upon the Thoughts of 
getting ovcr to that Shore. 

Now I wühed for ray Boy Xury^ änd the Long-boat, 
vfith the Shoulder of Mutton>Sail, with which I faird 
fibovea thoufand Miles on the Coaft of Africa\ but 
this was in vain. Then I thought I would go op and look 
ön our Ship's Boat, which, as I have faid, was blowa' 
np upon the Shore a great \Vay in the Storm, when we 
were firft'caft away. She lay alraoft where ^^ did at firft, 
but not quite ; and was turnM by the Force of the Waves 
and the Winds, almoft Bottom upwards, againft the high 
Ridge of beacby rough Sand^ but no Water about her as 
jbefore. 



120 The Life and Advemtures af 

\f I had had Hands to have refitted her, and to have 
launcird her into the Water, the Bo^t would have done 
weil enough, and I might have gone back into the Bra" 
fils with her eafy enough ; but f might have eafily fore- 
feen, that I could no more turn her, and fct her up- 
right upon her Bottom, than I could remove the Ifland. 
Howcver I wcnt to the Wood, and cut Lcaves and Roll- 
ers, and brought them to the Boat, refolved to try what 
1 could do { fuggeiling to myfelf, that if I could bat 
tum her down, i might eaBly repair the Damage (he 
liad received, and (he would be a very good Boat, and I 
might go to Sea in her very eafily. 

1 fparcd no Pain$ indeed in this Piece of fraitlefs 
Toil, and fpent, I think, three or fbor Weeks aboot it ; 
at lall finding it impodible to heave it ap with my little 
Strength, I feil to digging away the Sand to andermine 
it ; and fo to make it &1 down, fetting.Picces of Wood 
to thruft and guide it right in the Fail. 

But when 1 had done this, I was nnable to ftir it op 
again, or to get under it, much lefs to move it fbrwards 
toward^ the Watcr; fo 1 was fbrc'd to give it ovcr: And 
yet« though I gave over the Hopes of die Boat, my De- 
fire to venture over fbr the M^n increafcd, rathar than 
decrealVd, as the Means fer Lt feem*d impoffiblc. 

This at Icngth (et me upon t'ainking, whether it was 
Bo: po£b!e to mike myfelf a Cata or Ptriagma^ fach as 
the Natives of thofe ClimsLtes mike, even withoat Tools, 
er, as I might fay, withcut H:ind5, ^^, of the Trank 
of a grea: 1 r««. This 1 not ocly thoa?ht poffible, bot 
caiV; süi pleas'd mvielf extremcly wirn my Thoughts 
of makirg it, and wtth my hiving much more Convc- 
ni^rnoe for i: than any of the AV^-Tf^ or Imnaxs ; bat not 
at all conucerirg the parrculir Inccnveniendes which 
1 lay uncer more tbic the :tJzj^s civf, ^tc. want of 
Hirds to move it into the Witcr, when it was made; 
a Dt£cttl"y mach harccr F^r s:^ to fx-oount, than all 
the Conlcquence? of wm: of Tools couTd bc to them : 
For uhat was -t ro rce» thit wbea I hai cho^ec a vaÜ 
Tre« in the Woods* I migit with great Troable cat ic 
down« if afr?r I ciigh: b< ab!e w::i my Tools to kew 
aod dab the Ounideiaco a prcper Saar« of a Boat. acd 
bartt er Ott cos the lande n> auke it hollow« ib to make 
m Jkmi of i^ i4 ^fter ^ ^^ ' oi^ ^^ it j^ ^cre 

"übecc 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 121 
wliere I found it, and was not able to launch it into the 
Water? 

Önc would have thought, I could not have had the leaft 
Refledllon upon tny Mind of my Circomflance, while I 
was making this Boat, but I ibould have immediatel/ 
thought how I fhould get ic into the Sea; bat my Thoughts 
werc fb intent upon my Voyagc over the Sea in it, that I 
never oncc confidered how I (hould get it off of the Land ; 
and it was really in its own Nature more eafy for me to 
guide it over forty- five Miles of Sea, than about forty - 
Ave Fathom of Land, where it lay, to fet it ailoat in the 
Water. 

I went to work upon this Boat the moft like a Fool 
that everMan did, who had any of his Senfes awake. £ 
pleafcd myfelf with the Defign, withoat decermining whe- 
thcr I was ever able to undertake it ; not but that the 
Difficulty of launching my Boat came often into my 
Head ; but I put a Stop to my own Inquiries into it by 
this fooliih Anfwer, which I gave myfelf; Lei me firfl 
make it^ TU luarrant V II find Jörne luay or other to get it 
nlong^ tjohen it is äone, 

This was a moft prepofterous Method ; but the Eager- 
ncfs of my Fancy prevailed, and to work I went, and ' 
felled a Cedar-trec: I queftion much whether Solcmon 
ever had fach an one for the building the Temple at Jc' 
rufaltm \ it was five Feiet ten Inches Diameter at the 
lower Part next the Stump, and four Feet eleven Inches 
Diameter at che End of twenty-two Feet, after which 
it leiTened for a while, and then parted into Branches : 
k was not without infinite Labour that I felled this 
Tree: I was twenty Days hacking and hewing at it 
at the Bottom ; I was fourtcen more getting the Branches 
and Limbs, and the vaft fpreading Head of it cut ofF; 
which 1 hacked and hewed through with my Ax and 
Hatchet, and inexpreffible Labour : After this it cofl 
me a Monih to fhape it, and dub it to a Proportion, and 
to fömcthing like the Bottom of,a Boat, that it ftiight 
fwim upright as it ought to do. Ic coft me ncar three 
Months more to clear the Infide, and work it out fo, 
as to make an exa6l Boat of it : This I did indeed with- 
out Fire, by merö Mallec and Chiflll, and ty the Dint of 
hard Labour; tili 1 had broughc it to be a very band- 

Vol. I. F Iqys^^ 



122 71^ Life 11»^ Ad VENTÜR ES ^ 
fome Pen'agua, and big cnough to havc carried fix-and- 
twcnty Men, and coniequentiy b.g enough to have carried 
xne and all my Cargo. 

When I had gone ihro' this Work, I was extreroely 
dclighted with it: The Boat was really nnuch bigger thaa 
I ever faw a Canoe or Periagua, that was made of onc Tree, 
in my Life ; many a weary Siroke it had coft, you may be 
füre, for there remained nothing but to get it into the Wa- 
ter ; and had I gotten it into the Water, I m^ke no Quefii- 
on, but I fhould have begun the madded Voyage, and the 
moll unlikely to be performed, that ever was audertaken. 
But all my Devices to get it into the Water failecj mc, 
though they coft infinite Labour too ; it lay about one 
hundred Yards from the Water, and not more ; bat th« 
firft Inconvenience wai it was, up Hill towards the Creek ; 
Well, to take away this Difcouragementy I refolved to 
. dig into the Surface of the Earth, and fo make a Decli- 
vity ; this,I began, and it coft me a prodigious deal of 
Pains : But who grudge Pains, that'have their Deliverance 
in View ? But when this was worked through, and this 
DifHculty managed, it was ftill jnuch at one ; for I could 
no more ftir the Canoe^ than I could the other Boat. 

Then I raeafured the Diftance of Ground, and re- 
folved to cut a Dock, or Canal, to bring the Water up 
to the Canoey feeing I could not brin^ the Canoe down to 
.the Water ; Well, I began this Work, and when J began 
to enter into it, and calculated how deep it was to be dug, 
how broad, how the ScufF to be thrown ©ut, I found, 
that by the Number of Hands I had» being nonc but my 
©wn, it muft have been ten or twelve Years beforc I 
fliould have gone through with it; for the Shore lay high, 
fo that at the upper End it muft have been at leaft twenty 
Feet deep ; fo at length, though with great Reludancy, 
I gave this Attempt over alfo. 

This grieved me heartily, and now I faw, though too 
late, the Folly of beginning a Work before we count the 
Coft, and before we judge rightly of our own Strongth 
to go through with it. 

In the Middle of this Work I fi nilhed my foarth Year 
in this Place, and kept my Anniverfary with the fame 
Devotion, and with as much Comfort, as ever before; 
for by a conftant Studv^ and ferious Application of the 

Word 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 123 

Word of God, and by the AfGftance of his Grace, I 

fained a different Knowledge from what I had before ; 
enteitained difierent Nocions of things ; I looked now 
«pon che \/orld as a «thing remote ; which I had no- 
thing to do with, no Expedation from, and indeed no 
Deines aboat : In a word» I had nothing indeed to do 
with iCy nor was ever like to have ; fo I thought ic 
looked as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter ; viz. 
as a Place I had lived in, bat was come out of it ; and 
well mieht i Tay, as Father Abndjam to. Dia/es, BeMAieen 
mi anJ thee is a great Gulpbßxeä. 

In thc firft Place, I was removcd from all the Wicked- 
ocfs of the World hei;e : I had neither the Lufl of the 
Fle/hy the Luß of the Eye, or the Pride of Life : l had no- 
thing to covet, for 1 had all I was now capable of enjoy* 
ing : I was Lord of the whole Manor, or, if I pleafed» I 
might call myfclf King or Emperor over the whole Coun- 
try which I had Pofleffion of ; There wcre no Rivals : 
I had no Competitor, none to difpute Sovereignty or 
Command with me : I might have raisM Ship-loadings 
of Com, but I had no üfe Tor it ; fo I let as little grow 
«8 I thought enough for my Occafion ; I had Torcoifes 
or Turtles enough; but nowand-then one was as much 
as I could put to any Ufe : I had Timber enough to 
have built a Fleet of Ships : I had Grapes enough to 
liave made Wine, or to have cured into Raifins, to have 
loaded that Fleet when they had been built. 

Bot all I could make ufe of, was all that was valuable : 
I had enough to eat, and to fupply my Wants, and what 
was all che red to me ? If I kilied more Flefh chan I 
could eat, the Dog mufteat it, or the Vermin ; if IfoA^ed 
more Corn rhan f could eat, h mufl be fpoiled : The 
Trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the Ground, 
I could make no more Ufe of them than for Fuel ; and 
that 1 had no Occafion for, bat to drefs my Food. 

In a Word, the Nature and Expericncc of things 
di^ted to me upon jufl Refleflion, that all the good 
things of this World are no farther good to us, thaä 
they arc for our Ufe ; and that whatever we way heap 
m indeed to give others, we enjoy as much as we can 
ufe, and no more. The moft covetous griping Mifer in 
the World woold have been cured of the Vice of Co. 



tf?4 ^' Life and Adv^enturb-s if 
^L-ioufnefs, if he had been in my Cafe ; for I pofie/le€ 
inhni:ely more than 1 kcew whac to do with. I had no 
rcom ibr Deiire, except it was of things which I bad 
r^t, and they were but Triiles, tbo' iodeed of great Ufc 
to xce. I had, as I hinted before, a Parcel of Money^ 
as w<:Il Gold as Silver, above thurty-fix Poands SterUng; 
jW^s ! chere the naily forry ofelefs SttiF lay ; I had n9 
jnanncrof Euünefs for it; and I oftcn chought with my- 
fclf, that I would have given an Handful of itfor a Groft 
cf Tcbacco-pipes, orfor an Har.d-mill to grind my Corn; 
nay, I would have given it all for Sixpenny-worth of 
Turnep and Carrct Seed out of England^ or for an Handful 
cf Peas and Beam^ and a Bottle of Ink : As it ntfos^ I had 
not the leaft Advantage by it, or Bene£tfrom it; bat there 
it lay in a Drawer, and grew mouldy with the Damp o£ 
^e Cave, in the wet Seafon ; and if I had had the Drawer 
füll of Diaroondsy it had been the fame Cafe ; and they 
iiad been of no manner of Value to me, becaufe of no Ufe. 

I had now bronght mj S:ate of Life to be mach eaüer 
in itfelf than it was at firfl, and much eafier to my 
Mied, as well as to my Body. 1 frequently fat dowa 
to my Maat with ThankAilnefs, and admired the Hand 
of God's Providence, which had thus fpread my Table in 
the Wilderncfs : I learned to look more apon the brighc 
Side of my Condition, and Icfs upon the dark Side ; and 
to confider what I enjoyed, ratber than what I wanted^ 
and thls gave roe fometimes fuch fecret Comforts, that 
J cannot exprefs them ; and which I take notice of 
here, to put thofe difcontented People in mind of it, 
who cannot enjoy comfortably what Gcd hath given them, 
^ecaufe they ice and xrovet fcmething that be has not 
given them : All cur Dii'contents about what we want, 
appeared to nie to fpring from the Want of Thankful- 
jjefs for what we have. 

Another Refledlion was of great Ute to me, and doubt- 
lefs would be fo to any one ibat Ihould fall into fach 
Dinre^s as mine was ; and this was, to compare my pre- 
icnt Condition with what I at firft expeäed it (hould b«j 
r»ay, with what it would certainly have been, if the good 
Frovidence of God had not wonderfully ordered theShip 
to be caft up nearer to the Shore, whcre I not only 
^oUid toflie at her, but coold bring what I got out oi 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. ri^ 

Ser to the Shore, for my Relief and Comfort; withouff 
which I had wanted Tools to work, Weapons for Dr- 
fbnce, or Gunpowder and Shot for getting my Food. 

l fpent whole Hours, I may fay, whole Days, in re- 
prefenting to myCdf in the moft lively Colours, how I' 
maft have aftedj if I had got nothing out of the Ship ; 
how 1 could not have fo mach as got any Food, except 
Fi(h andTurties ; and that, as it was long before I found« 
any of them, I mult have periflied firft: That I fhouid 
have livcd, if I had not periftied, like a mere Savnge : That 
if 1 had killed a Goat or a Fowl by any Contrivance» T 
had no way to flay or open them, or part the Fle(h from the 
Skin and the Bowels, or to cot it up ; bijt CTuft gnaw it- 
wilh my Teeth, and pull it with my Cliws, likc a Heafl. 

Tbefe RefleäioDs made me very fenfibic of the Good- 
aefs of Providence to me, and very thankful for my pref. dC 
Condition, with all its Hardfhips and Misfortunes : ArA 
this Part alfo I cannot but recommend to the Reflexion of 
thofe who are apt in their Mifery to fay, /j avy Affliriion- 
hki mifief Let them confider, how much worfe the 
Cafes of fome People are, and what their Cafe might 
have been, if Providence had thought fit. 

I had another Reflexion which alfilled me alfo to 
comfort tay Mind with Hopes ; and this was, compare- 
ing my prefent Condition with what I h«d deferved, 
and had thereföre Reafon to expeft from the Hand of 
Providence : I had lived a dreadful Life, perfeftly deßi- 
tnte of the Kriowledge and Fear of God : I had been wcJl 
iaürafted by Father and Mother ; neither had they been 
wanting to me in their early Endeavours, to infufe a 
religious Awe of God into my Mind, a Senfe of my 
Doty, and of what the Nature and End of my Being 
required of me : But alas ! falling early into the Sca- 
faring Life, which of all the Lives is the moft deftitute 
of the Fearof God, tho' his Terrors are always before " 
them ; I fay, falling early into the Seafaring Life, and* 
into Seafaring Company, all that little Senfe of Reli- 
gion which I had entertained, was laught out of me by 
my Meifmates"; by an hardened defpifmg of Dangers, 
and the Views of Death, which grew habitual to inc ; 
by my long Abfence from all manner of Opportunities 
to coQverfe with any thing but what was like u\^Cd^> 
F 3 w.^ 



J26 The Life and AdvsktvrkIi ^ 

•r to hear any thing of what was good, or tended U>*. 
wards it. 

So yoid was I of every thing that was good, op of the 
leaft Senfe of what I was, or was to be, that in tht 
greateft Deliverarxe I cnjoyed, fuch as my Efcape from 
Sa//ee, my being taken up by the Portugueft Mafier of 
the Shlp, my being planccd' fo well in Brafii, my rc- 
ceiving the Cargo from England^ and the likc," I nevcr 
once had the Word T^bmnk Gody fo mach as on my Mind, 
or in my Mouth j nor in the greateft Diflrefs, had I lo 
much Thought as to pray to him ; nor fq much as to fay, 
Lofiiy ha*ve Mcrcy upon me! No, notto mention the Name 
of God, unlefs it was to fwear by, and blafpheme it. 

I had terrible Refledions upon my Mind for mafiy 
Mooths, as I have already obferved, on the Account of 
my wicked and hardened Life paft ; and when I looked 
aboHt me, and' confidered what particular Providences 
had attended me, fioce my Coming into this Place, and 
how God had dealt bountifolly with me ; had not onljr 
punifhed me lefs than my Iniquity deferved, bat had (o 
plentifully provided for me ; this gavc me great Hopes» 
that my Repentance was accepted, and that God had 
yel Mercies in Store for me. 

With thefe Refleäions I worked my Mind np, not only 
to Refignation to the Will of God in the prefent Difpo- 
iition of my Circumftances, bat even to a fincere Thank- 
fulnefs for my Condition ; and that J, who was yet a liinng 
Man, ought not to complahy Jeeing I had not the due Puniß' 
ment of my Sins j that J enjoyed fo many Mercies, which 1 
had no Reafon to have expedled in that Place, that I 
ought never more to^replne at my Condition, but to rc- 
joice, and to give daily Thanks, for that daify Bread^ 
which nothing but a Cloud of Wonders could have 
brought : That I ought to confider I had been fed even by 
a Miracic, even as great as that of ft^eding Elijah by Ra- 
vens ; nay, by a long Series of Miracles ; and that I 
could hardly have named a Place in the uninhabited Part 
of the World, where 1 could have been caft more to my 
Advantage : A Place, where as I had no Society, which 
Was my Affliftion on one band, fo I found no ravenous 
Beafts, no furious Wolves or Tygers, to thrcaten my Life ; 
iiQ venomotts Creatures or poifonous, whfch I might have 



R O B I N S O N C R Ü S O E. 127 

fed onto my Harr, no Savages to murder and devoar me. 

In a word, as my Life was a Life of Sorrow one way, 
{b it was a Life of Mercy another ; and 1 wanced nothi^ng 
to make it a Life of Comfort, but to be able to make 
my Senfe of God's Goodnefs to me, and Care over me 
in this Condition, be my daily Confolation ; and afcer 1 
made a juft ImprovemenC of thefc things, I went away, 
and was no more fad. 

1 had now been jiere fo long, that many things which 
I brought on Shore for my Help, were eithcr quite gone, 
or very mach walled, and near fpent. , 

My Ink, as J obferved, had been gone for fome time, 
aill bat a very little,- which I cek*d out with Water a little 
and a little, tili ic was fo pale it fcarce left any Appear-^ 
aAce of Black upon the Paper : As long as it lailed, l 
i^ade ofe of it to minate down the Days of the Month 
on which any remarkable thing happened to me ; and 
firfl by cafting ap Times paft». I remember that there was 
a 'ftrange Concdrrence of Days, in the variqus Provi- 
dences which befel me, and which, if I had been fuper- 
ftitioufly inclined to obferve Days as fatal or fortunate» 
I might have had Reafon to have looked upon with a 
great deal of Curiofity. 

Firft, I had obferved, that the fame Day that I broke 
away from my Father and my Friends, and ran away to 
Hu// in Order 10 go to Sea, the fame Day afterwards I 
was taken by the Sallee Man of War, and made a Slave. 

The fame Day of thd Ycarthatl efcaped oot of theWreck 
of that Ship in Tarmouth Roads, that fame Day of the Year 
afterwards I made my Efcape from Sallee in the Boat. 

The fame Day of the Year I was born on, 'vifc, the 
aoth of September^ the fame Day I had my Life fo mi- 
racaloufly faved 26 Years after, when I was call od 
Shore in this Ifland ; fo that my wicked Life, and folitarjr 
Life, began both on a Day. 

The next thing to my Ink^s being wailed, was that of 
my Bread, I mean the Bifcuit which I brought out of the 
Ship : This 1 had hufbanded to the lad Degree, allowrng 
»yiclf but one Cake of Bread a Day,. for above a Year ; 
and yet I was quite without Bread for a Year before I göt 
any Com of my own ; and great Reafon I had to be thank- 
fol that 1 had any at all, the getting it being, as has beexv 
already obferved^ next to miraculoiis». 

* 4 . >^l. 



\'. ' >l!i:ri:h5 :ao :e*rin x iecriv sir^iriy : As :o Linen, 
r : .c :. r.j i zz'd -viilrf, irtcs/c icme c.ieciiered Shirts 
■*::j.. :.i:^ a Lid w>.j:ti zr ihe cilier Seanien, and 

"*■ • -"■"-*: -k. ■■ rrülrrij. ^^ciiie xa=v rimoä I could 

-jir 1 :: j ^.\::i:.:r :r. i.:r i 5Ji:rr ; izd 1: v^as a vcry 
3- . :-:' ,- :r r.i. :.!-: I a:ii aj:-:'" j lil ^Äe Men's Claadw 
c- -. : : : M i.t..: : :.:::e -czin ^r ihljis. There wcrc 
2..> "; -t : .. : X "^ircj cja:5 ::' :r.Ä S*:33ien. whlch uerc 
Ic- Zv .:.z^: : .:: Jr.zy wers rcc h:: c:: wear ; and tio' it is 
:r:." >. ■; :-i ^i:.:c/ .\ ji :b vxlez: hct. that there was 
r. ■- ' . • : ;• _. tii. ye: i cj\;ld ac: ro q^I^e aaked; iiO| 
: : 1 ..::--;.:: :z..rc\i :c :i. «l::cii I wä noc; ncrcoald 
--..:. -.-..i 7- -^.::i ■:: 1:. :j.:i:;i!i I was all alone. 

■■.- -. - -- i^.'::: w -■■- I cccila eoc s:c q-i:i naked, was, I 
c_l . . :: itJT zz;i HiJ.: ci" l-.ö c-u:- ib well when qoite 
r..: :ji. :i r.::ii i':n:^ Cja:i:5 c.:; car, thc Tcry Heat 
f.- _ vi ^ r - : 1 V b 1:.:^ re d •: V S ii- ; w r. ;:rsas , wi ch a Shirt od, 
r/. : .-. -• iiel:' ziac'i ijrr.^ üocicn, asd whiiUiiis onder 
t- ; i .-_!r-, w2ä l'-v:.-: - c'cler :]ian widiout it : No more 
r : -. i l f-tz ZT-r zr.y'>i'.: :o ^0 cu: ia che Heat of thc 
::. ..-. V .ir.cu: aCi:. er an Ha: ; che Kcatof thc San beat- 
!_:• vclih iwch Viclicce as i: coes ia that Place, would 
^ ir.-.jt'.i Iij^i i:>i p-ir^r.:'y, by darting fo dircäly 
on r.-./ Heai, w.:]::>^: a C^p or Ha: on, fo that I could 
To: ctzr ic; v-hsreai, ii I ru: oa 1D7 Hat, it woald prc- 

L;, r. t!.c c ^'iiws I L-ejan to ccctlder abcut putcing 
t'c r--,v K"^- I -i-'i, »vh.cr. I cailid Cloaths, into ferne 
< nd:: : I h.d ivorn gul aü :ce Waiikcats 1 had, and my 
ll.üc.iCi v>;;5 novv co t:v itl could ro: xnake Jackets out 
4,f thc g'cit Waicii Cü2t5 whlch 1 ha^ by nie, and wich 
f*/:h cü/:r TJat^riais as I had ; fo 1 fec to work a Taylor- 
inj;, or ratiicr indeed a Eotching; for 1 nr.ade moll pite- 
cu, V/ork of it. However, I made fhift to make two 
ir thrcc Vv'aiikor.ts, which I hoped would ferve me a 
j'»(,'it wiiilc; zs for üiceches or Drawers, 1 niade bat 
vc/y f}try Calft indeed, tili afterwarJs. 

( havc inentioned that I faved the Sklns of all the 
('r'\'i'ur(:3 that I killcd, 1 mean four-fooTed ones ; and I 
JijhJ hunj; thcui up llretched out with Sticks in the Sun; 
by wl.i'.lj ineans ferne of them were fo clry and hard, 
that tlicy wcrc fiC forlittlc; but cthcrs^ ic fecms, nere 

Vary 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 129. 

▼cry ufeful. The firft thing I itiade of thefe was a greac 
Cap for my Head, with ihe Hair on ihe Üutlide to- 
flioot off the Rain; and this I performcd fo well, th.it 
after this I made a Suit of Cloaths wholly of thofe Skins ; 
that is to fay, a Waiftcoat and Breeches open at Knces, 
and both loofe ; for they were rather wanting to keep nie 
cool, than to keep me warm. I mufl not omit to ac- 
knowledge, that they were wretchedly made ; for if 1 wa»- 
a bad Carpenier^ I was a worfe Taylor: However, they 
were-fuch as I made a very good fhift with; and when L 
was abroad, if it happened to rain, the Hair of the WailU 
coat and Cap being outmoft, I was kept very dry. 

After this I fpcnt a great deal of Time and Pains to 
xnake me an ümbrella : I way indeed in great Want of' 
oae, and had a great Mind to make one: I had feeri 
thcm made in the Braßlsy where they are very uferiil in^ 
the great Heats which are tbere; and I feit the Hc-acs 
evcry jot as great bere, and greater too, being nearer- 
the Equinox% befides, as 1 was- obliged to be much 
abroad, it was a moft ufeful thing to me, as well fjr 
the Rains as the Heats. I took a world of Pain« at ir; 
and was a- great while bcrore.I could make any thing. 
likoly to hold; nay, after I*thought I had hit the Way,, 
I Q>oiled two or three before I made one to my Mind ; . 
bot at laft I made one that anfwered indifferently well ; 
the main Difficulty I found was to make it to let down. 
I coold make it to fpread ; but if it did not let down 
too, and draw in, it would not be portable for me any 
way, but juft over my Head, which would not do: How- 
ever, atlaft, as I faid, I made one to anfwer; I covered it 
with Skins, the Häir upwards, fo that it call off the Rtiin 
like a Penthoufe, and kept ofF the Sun fo effeaualJy, 
that I coold walk oot in the hotteft of the Weathtr, 
with greater Advantage than I could before in the coolcl; 
and when I had no need of it/l could clofeit, and carry 
it ander my Arm. 

Thas I lived raighty comfortably, my Mind being 
intirely compofed by refigning to the Will of God, and. 
thröwing myfelf wholly upon the Difpofal of his Provi- 
dence: This made my Life better than lociabJe ; for 
when I began to regret the want oF Converfation, I 
would aik myfelf,- whether thus converfmg mutually 

F5» * "^^Oc^x 



130 TTfi LiFH tf»ü/ AD7SNTURS8 of 
with my own Thoughts, and, as I hope, I may foy, witb 
even my Maker, by Ejacalations and Petitions, was n<»t 
better than the utmoft Enjoyment of human Society in 
tht World ? 

I cannot fay^ that after this, for five Years, any ex- 
traordinary thing happened tö me; but I lived on in the 
fame Courfe, in the (ame Pofture and Place, juft as be- 
fore : The chief thing I was employ'd in, befides my 
yearly Labour of planting my Barley and Rice, and 
caring my Raiiins, of both which I always kept apj<ift 
cnoughto have fufficient Stock of the Year's Provifiona 
b^forehand; I fay, befides this yearly Laboor, and my 
daily Labour of going out with my dun, I had one La- 
bour to make roe a Canoe, which at lad I finiihed : So 
that by digging a Canal to it fix Feet wide, and four Feet 
deep, I brought it into the Creek, almoft half a Mile. 
As for the firft, that was fo vaftiy big, as I made it 
without confidering beforehand, as I ought to do, how 
I (hould be able to launch it ; fo never being able to 
bring it to the Water, or bring the Water to it, I was 
obliged to let it lie where it was, as a Memor^indum to 
teach me to be wifer next time.- Indeed the next timc, 
tho' I could not get a Tree proper for it, and was- in a. 
Place where I could not get the Water to it, at any 
lefs Diftance than, as I have faid, of near half a Mile ; 
yet as I faw it was pra^icable at laft, I never gave it 
©Ycr ; and tho' I was near two Years about it, yet I never 
^ grudged my Labour, in Hopes of having a Boat to go o£F 
to Sea at lad. 

However, though my little Periagua was finifhed, yet 
the Size of it was not at all anfwerable to the Defign 
which I had in View, when 1 made the firft; I mean of 
venturing pver to the Terra Firrnuy where it was above forty 
mües broad ; accordingly, the Smallnefs of my Boat 
affiftcd to put an End to tllat Defign, and now I thought 
BO more of it: But as I had a Boat, my next Defign was 
to make a Tour round the Ifland ; for as I had been on 
■ the other Side, in one Place, crofling, as I have already 
defcribed it, over the Land, fo the Difcoveries I made 
in that Journey, mads me very eager to fec the other 
Parts of che Coaft; and now I had aJBoat, 1 thought of 
notking but failing round the liland. 

For 



RO BIN SOVf* CRUSOE. 13« 

• For this Purpofc, and that I might do cvery thing 
With Difcretion and Confideration, I ficted up a litcle 
Mail to my Quat, and made a Sail to it out of fome of 
the Pieces of the Ship's Sails, which lay in Store, and 
of whichl had a great Store by mc 

Having fitced my Mafl and Sail, and trled the Boat, I 
iband ihe would fail very well : Then I made litde 
Lockers and Boxes at eicher £nd of my Boat, to put Pro- 
Ti£ons, NeceiTaries, and Ammunition, &c. into, to be 
kcpt dry, eithcr from Rain, or the Spray of the Sea ; 
and a little long hollow Place I cut in the Infide of the 
Boat, where I could lay my Gun, making a Flap to hang* 
down over it to keep it dry. 

1 üxed my Umbrelia alfo in a Step at the Stern, lik» 
a Maft, to Hand over my Head, and keep the, Heat of 
the Sun off ot me like an Awning ; and thus I every 
now.and-then took a little Voyagc upon: the Sea, but- 
. never wem far out, nor far from the little Creek ; but ac 
l^ being eager to vjew the Circuinference of my Itcde 
Kingdom, I refolved upon my Tour, and accordingly I 
viduard my Ship for the Voyage ; puiting in two Dozea 
of my Loaves {Cakes 1 (hou<d rather call them) of Bar* 
ley-bread ; an earthen Pot füll of parched Rice, a Food 
1 eat a great deal of, a litcle Botde of Rum, halfa Goac,. 
and Powder, with Shot for killing more, and two large: 
Watch coats, of thofe which, as I mencioned before, I 
liad faved bat of the Seamen's Chcils ; thefe 1 took, one ta 
lie upon, and the ocher to cover me in the Night. 

It was the fixth of No^vember, in the fixth Year of my* 
Reign, or my Capcivity, which you pleafe, that I fet 
Ottt on this Voyage, and I found it much longer than I 
cxpeded ; for though the liland itfelf was not v^ry large^ 
yet when I came to the Eafl-iide of it, I found a great 
Ledge of Rocks lie out about two Leagues into the Sc*a^ 
fome above Water, fome under it ; and beyond this a 
Shoal of Sand, lyingdry halfa League more ; fo that I 
was obliged to go a great way out to Sea to double thac 
Point, 

When I firft difcovered them,. I was 'going ta giVe 

over my Bhterprize, and com^ back again, not knowing 

how far it might oblige me to go out 10 Sea ; and above 

all, doabting how I ihould get back agaiu ; fo 1 catnc 

F6 



X32 7he LiFB and Adventures of 

to an Anchor, for I had made me a kind of an Anchor 
with a Piece of broken Grappling, which I got out of 
the Ship. 

Having fecured my Boat, T took my Gan, and went 
on Shore, climbing upon an Hill, which feemed to over- 
look that Point, where I faw the füll Exlent of it, and 
rcfolved to venture. 

Jn my vicwing the Sea froni that Hill where I Aood, 
I perceived a ftrong, and indeed, a moft farious Cur- 
rent, which ran to the Eaft, even-came clofc to thfr 
Point ; and I took the more notice of it, becaufe I faw 
there might be fome Danger, that when I came into it, 
1 mjght be carried out to Sea by the Strength of it, and 
not be able to make theliland again : And indeed, had I 
not gotten firfl upon this Hill, 1 believe it would have 
becn (ö^ ; for there was the fame Current on theother Side 
of the Ifland, only that it fet off at a farther Diftance ; 
and I iaw there was a ftrong Eddy under the Shore ; fa 
\ had notliing to do but to get oat of the firft Current» 
and I ihould prefently be in an Eddy. 

I lay here, hawcver, two Days; becaufe the Wind 
blowing pretty frefh (E. at S. E. and that being juft con- 
trary to the faid Current) made a great Breach of the Sea 
upon the Point j fo that it was not fafe for me to keep 
too clofe to t]^e Shore for the ßieach, nor to go too far 
oiT lecaiifc of the Streain. 

1 he third Day in the Morning, the Wind having 
abatcd over Nighr, the Sea was calm, and I ventured ; 
but 1 am a Warning plece again to all rafh and ignorant 
Tilots ; for no foorer was 1 come to the Point, when 
C'ven 1 was not my Boat's Length from the Shore, but 
1 fourcl myfclf in a great Depih of Warer, and a Cur- 
rent like the Sluice of a Mill : it carried my Boat along 
wiih ir with ftjch Violence, that all f could do, could 
riot lecp her fo mucli as on tl.e Kdgc of it; but I found 
it huriied me farther iind farther out from the Eddy, 
which was cn the Ltfc-hand. "] here was no Wind 
f.irr'iig to hclp me, and all tiiat I could do with my Pad- 
dlcs lignfied ncthing; and now I bcgan to givc my- 
Llf over for loll ; for, as the Current was on hoth Siccs 
the liiand, I kr.cw in a few Leagues Diftance they 
muii join figain., and theii I was irrecoverably gone j 

nor 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 133 

Bor did I fec any Poffibility o£ avoiding it; fo that I had 
no Profpeft bcfore me but of periftiing ; not by the Sea, 
for that was calm cnough, but of ftarving for Hunger. 
I had indeed found a Tortoifc on the Shore, as big almoft 
as.I coold lift, and had tofs'd it into the Boat; and I had a 
great Jar of frefh Water, that is to fay, one of my earthen 
Fots ; but what was all this to being driven into the valt 
Ocean, where, to be füre, there was no Shore, no main 
Land er Ifland, for a thoufand Leagues at leaft? 

And now I faw how eafy it was for the Providence of 
God to make the mofl miferable Condition that Mwi- 
kind could be in, ivor/e, Now I lookM back upon my 
defolate folitary Ifland, as'the moil pleafant Place in the 
World, and all the Happinefs my Heart could wi(h for, 
was to be there again : I flretch'd out my Hands to It 
with eagcr Wifhes ; O happy Defart f faid I, I fhall ne- 
vcr fec thee more 5 O miferable Creature ! faid I, whi* 
ther am I going ? Then I reproach'd myfelf with my un- 
thankful Temper, and how I had repin'd at my folitary 
Condition ; and now what would I gire to be on Shore 
there again ? Thus we never fee the true State of our 
Condition, tili it is illuftrated to us by its Contraries ; 
nor know how to value v/hat we enjoy, but by the Want 
of it : It is fcarce poflible to imagine the Confternaticn I 
was now in, being driven from my belovcd Ifland (for 
fo it appear'd to me now to be) into the wide Ocean, 
almoft two Leagues, and in the utmoft Defpair of ever 
recovering it again : However, I worked hard, tili in- 
deed my Strength was almott exhaufted ; and kept my 
^ Boat as much to the Northnxjardf that is, towards the 
Side of the Current which the Eddy lay on, as poflibiy 
I could ; when about Noon, as the Sun pafsM the Me. 
ridian, I thought I feit a little Breeze of Wind in my 
Face, fpringing up from the S. S. E. This chear'd my 
Heart a little, and efpecialJy when in äbout half an Hour 
more it blew a pretty fmall gentle Galc : By this Time 
I was gotten at a frightful Diflance from the Ifland ; 
and, had the leaft Cloud or hazy Weä^her interven'd, I 
had been undone another way too -, for I had no Com^ 
pafs on board, and fliould never have I^nown how to 
nave fteer'd towards the Ifland, if I had but oncc loft 
Sight of iti bat the Weather continuing dear, I api^ly'd 



13+ Tii Life inr</ Advsntdres tf 
myfelf to get ap my Maft again, and fpread my SaiU 
fianding away to the North as much as poffible, to get 
out of the Current. 

Jufl as I had fet my Mail and Sail, and the Boat began 
to ilretch away, I faw even by the Clearnefs of the Wa- 
ter, fome Alteration of the Current was near ; for wherc 
the Current was fo ftxong, the Water was foul i but per* 
ceiving the Water clear, I found the Current abate, aod 
prefently I found to the Eaft, at about half a Mile, a 
Breach of the Sea upon fome Rocks; thefe Rocks I found 
caus'd the Current to part again ; and as the main Strefs 
of it ran away more Southerly, leaving the Rocks to the 
North- Eaft, lo the other. return'd bv the Repulfe of the 
Rock, and niade a ilrong Eddy, which ran back again 
to the North- Weil witl^ a very (harp Stream. 

They who know what it is to have a Reprieve brought 
to them upon the Ladder, or to be refcu^d from Thieve» 
juft going to murder them, or who have been in fuch-like 
£xtremities, may guefs what my prefent Surprize of Joy 
was, and how gladly I put my Boat into the' Stream of 
this Eddy ; and the Wind aifo frclhening, how gladly I 
fpread my Sail to it, running chearfully before the Wind, 
and with a ilrong Tide or Eddy under Foot. 

This Eddy carry 'd me about a League in my Way back 
ägain diredly towards the Ifland, but about two Leagues 
more towards the Northward than the Current lay, which 
carry 'd me away at firil ; fo that when I came near the 
Ifland, I found my felf open to the Northern Shorc of it, 
that is to fay, the other End of the Ifland, oppofite ta 
that which l went out from. 

When I had made fomething more than a League of 
Way by the Help of this Current or Eddy, I found it 
was fpent, and fav'd me no farther. Howevcr I found, 
that being between the two great Currents, o'i«. that on 
the South-üde which had hurried me away, and that on 
the North, which lay about two Leagues on the other 
Side ; 1 fay, between thefe two, in the Weil of the Ifland, 
I found the Water at leaft ilill, and running no Way ; 
and having ftill a Breeze of Wind fair for me, I kept on 
fleerinp: diredlly for the Ifland, though not making fuch 
frefli Way as I did before. 

About 4 o' Clock in the Evening, being then with- 

JJ2 dboüt a League of the Ifland, I found the Point of 

**^ the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 135 

the Rocks which occafioo*d this Diflance ftretchiag oat as 
is deicribed before» to the.Southward, and, cafting ofFthe 
Current more Sourhwardly, had of courfe made another 
Eddy to the North, and this I found very ftrong, but di- 
rcdly fetting the Way my Courfe lay, wkich was due 
Weil, but almoft füll North. However, having a frefh 
Gale, I ilretchM acrofs this Eddy, flanting North-well, 
and in about an Hour canfe within about a Mile of the 
Shore, where, it being fmooth Water, I foon got to Land. 
When I was on Shore, 1 feil on my Knees« and gave 
God Thanks for my Deiiverance, refolving to lay afide 
all Thoughts of my Deiiverance by my Boat; and refreih« 
ing myrelf with fuch Things as I had, I brought my 
Boat dofe to the Shore in a little Cove that I had Ypy'd 
nnder fome Trees, and laid me down to fleep, being quite 
fpent with the Labour and Fatigue of the Voyage. 

I was now at a great Lofs which Way to get hon^ 
with my Boat ; I had run fo much Hazard, and knew 
too much the Cafe to think of attempting it by the Way 
I went out; and what might be a^the ocher Side (I mean 
the Weft-fidc,) I knew not, nor had I any mind to rnn 
any more Venturcs ; fo I only refolved in the Morning 
to make my Way Wefiward aiong the Shore, and to fee 
if there was no Creek where I might lay up my Frigato 
in Safety, fo a:s to have her again if I wanted her. In^ 
about three Miles, er thereabouts,»coafting the Shore, I 
came to a very good Inlet, or Bay, about a Mile over, 
which narrowM tili it came to a very little Rivulet, or 
Brook, where I found a convenient Harbour for my, 
Boat, and where (he lay as if ihe had been in a little Dock 
made on Purpofe for her ; here I put in, and having 
fiow'd my Boat very fafe, I went on Shore to look abouc 
me, and fee where 1 was. 

I foon found I had but a little pafs'd by the Place 
where I had been before, when I traveird on Foot to that 
Shore ; fo taking nothing out of my Boat, but my Gun 
and my Umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, 1 began 
iny March : The Way was comfortable enough after iuch 
a Voyage as I had been upon, and 1 reachM my old Bower 
in the Evening, where I found every thtng (landing as I 
left it ; for J always kept it in good Order, being, as I 
(aid before, my Country-hoafe. 



t'^S The Life and Adventurbs of 

I got over the Fcnce, and laid me down in the Shade W 
red my Limbs, for I was very weary, and feil afleep : ßut 
j«dge you, if you can, that read my Story, what a Sur- 
prize J muft be in, when I was awaked out of my Sleep, 
by a Voice calling me by my Name feveral times, Robin^ 
Rohitiy Robin Crufoe^ poor Robin Crufoe l Where are yoo, 
Rohin Crufoe? Where are you? Where have you been ? 
• I was fo dead afleep at firft, being fatigued wich row- 
ing, or paddling, as it is call'd, the lirft Part of the Dayj 
and Walking the latter Part, that I did not awake tho- 
roughly ; and dozing between flceping and waking; 
thought 1 dream'd that fomebody fpoke to me : But as 
the Voice continued to repeat Robin Crufoe, Robin Crufoe \ 
at laft I began to awake more perfedly, and was at firft 
dreadfully frighted, and ftarted up in the utmoft Confter- 
nation : But nofooner were my Eyes open, bat 1 faw my 
Pol iitting on the Top of the Hedge, and immediately 
knew that this was he that fpoke to me ;• for jufl in fucä 
bemoaning Languag« I had ufed to talk to him, and 
teach him ; and he had learn'd it fo perfeflly, that he 
would fit upon my Finger, and lay his Bill clofe to my 
Face, and cry, Poor Robin Crufoe, Where are you ? 
Where hwve you been ? Ho'w came you here ? And fuch 
things as I had taught him. 

However, even tho' 1 knew it was the Parrot, and 
that indeed it could be nobody elfe, it was a good 
while before I could compofe myfelf. Firft, Iwas aniaz*d. 
how the Creature got thither^ and then how he (hould. 
juft keep about the Place, and no-where elfe : But as I 
was well fatisfied it could be nobody but honeft Pol, I got 
it over; and holding out my Hand, and calling him by^ 
his Name, Pol, the fociable Creature came to me, and 
fat upon my Thumb, as he ufed to do, and continued 
talking to me, Poor Robin Crufoe, and, Honu did 1 come 
here ? And, Where had I been F Juft as if he had been 
overjoy'd to fee me ^gain ; and fo I carried him home 
along with me. 

I had now had enough of rambling to Sca for fome 
time, and had enough to do for many Days to fjt flill, 
and refle6l upon the Danger 1 had been in : I would 
have been very glad to have had my Boat aga^n on 
ßi/ Sjde of the liland, but I knew not how it was 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 137 

praÄicable to get it about : As to the Eaft-fide of the 
liland, which I had gone round, I knew well enough 
^ere was no venturing that Way ; my very Heart would 
fhrink, and my very Blood run chill, but to think of it : 
And to the other Side of the Ifland, I did not knovy 
how it might be there ; but fuppofing the Current raii 
with the fame Force againft the Shore at the Eaft, as it 
pafsM by it on the other, I might run the fame Rifque 
of being driven doWn the Stream, and carrled by the 
liland, a» I had been before of being carried ^way from 
it; fo with thefe Thoughts I contented myfelf to be with- 
out any Boat, tho' it had been the Produdl of fo many 
Months Labour to make it, and of fo many more to get 
it into the Sea. 

In thia Government of my Temper I remain'd near a 
Year, liv'd a very fedate retir'd Life, as you may well 
fappofe ; and my Thoughts being very much compos'd, 
as to my Condition, and fully comforted in refigning my- 
felf to the Difpofitions of Providence, I thought 1 liv*d 
really very happily in all things, except that of Society. 
.1 improv*d myfelf, in this Time, in all the mechanic 
Exercifes which my Neceffities put me upon applying 
myfelf to ; and, I believe, could, npon Occafion, have 
made a very good Cärpenter^ efpe'cially confidering how' 
few Tools I had. 

fiefides this, I arrived at an unexpefled Perfektion in 
my Earthen-warc, and contrived well enough to make 
them with a Wheel, which I found infinitely eafier and 
better ; becaufe I made things round and (hapeable, 
which before were filthy things indeed to look on. But 
I think I never was more vain of my own Performance, 
ör more joyful for any thing I found out, than for my 
being able to ibake a Tobacco-pipe; and tho'^it was a 
very ugly qlumfy thing when it was done, and only burnt 
red like other Earthen-ware, yet, asit was hard and firm, 
and would drawthe Smoke, 1 was exceedingly comforted 
with it ; for I had been always ufed to fmoke, and there 
were Pipes in the Ship, but I forgot them at firfl, not 

knowing that there was Tobacco in the Ifland ; and af- 

terwarda, when I fearch'd the Ship again, I could not 

come at any Pipes at all. 

In my Wickerware I alfo improv*d nnich, 'and made 

Abuadance of neceiTary Ba&cts, as wdV «l^ m^VoN^^vw^^ 



138 Tbi Life and Adventurbs 0/ 

ihew*d me, tho* not very handfomey yet co^ivenient for 
my laying things up in» or fetching thingt home in. 
For Example, ifl kiil*d a Goat abroad, I coold hang it 
np in a Tree, flay it, and drefs it, and cut it in Pieces, 
and bring it home in a Ba&et ; and the like by a Turtle» 
I coald cut it up, take out the Eggs» and a Piece or two 
of the Fiefh, which was enough for me» and bring them 
home in a Baiket, and leave the reft behind me : Alfo 
large deep Bafkets were my Receivers for my Com, which 
I always rubb'd out as foon as it was dry, and cured ; 
and kepc it in great Bafkets inilead of a Granary. 

I began now to perceive my Powder abated confi- 
derably ; and this was a Want which it was impoffible 
for me to fupply, and I began ferioufly to confider whac 
I muft do when I fhould have ne more Powder ; that is 
to fay, how 1 fhould do to kill any Goats. I had» as 1 
obferv'd in the third Year of xny being here, inpt a 
young Kid» and bred her up tarne ; I was in hopes of 
getting an He-Kid» but I could not by any means bring 
it to pafs» tili my Kid grew an old Goat ; and I could 
never find in my Heart to kill her» tili fhe dyM at laft of 
mere Age. 

But being now in the eleventh Year of my Refidence» 
and, as I have faid, my Ammunition growing low, I fet 
myfclf to fludy fomc Art to trap and fnare the Goats, to 
fee whether I could not catch fome of them alive, and 
partlcularly 1 wanted a She-Goat great with Young. 

To this Purpofe I made Snares to hamper them ; and I 
believe they were more than once taken in them ; but 
my Tackle was not good, for I had no Wire, and al- 
ways found them-broken, and my Bait devoured. 

At length I refolv'd to iry a Pitfall, fo I dug feveral 
large Pits in the Earih, in Placcs where 1 had obferved 
the Goats ufed to feed, and over thefe Pits I plac'd 
Hurdles of my own making too, with a great Weight 
upon them ; and feveral times 1 put Ears of Barley, and 
dry Rice, without fetting the Trap ; and I could eafily 
perceive, thac the Goats had gone in, and eaten up the 
Com, that I could fee the MarK of their Feet : At length, 
I fet three Traps in one Night, and going the next 
Morning, I found them all flanding, and yet the Bait 
«aten and gone : This was very diicouraging ; however. 



ROBJNSON CRUSOE. 139 

I alterM my Traps ; and, not to trouble you with Parti« 
culars, going oneMorning to feemy Traps, I found, in 
one of them, a large old He-Goat ; and, in one of the 
Other, three Kids, a Male and two Females. 

As to the Ad one, I knew not what to do with him i 
he was (6 fierce I dürft not go into the Pit to him ; that 
is to fay, to go about to bring him away alive, which 
was what I wanted : I coald have kiird him, but that 
was not my Buiinefs, nor would it anfwer my £nd ; fo 
I e*en let him out, and he ran away as if he had been 
frighten'd out of his Wits ; but I did not then know what 
I afterwards learned, tHat Hunger will tarne a Lion : 
If I had let him ftay there three or four Days without 
Food, and then have carried him fome Water to drink, 
and then a little Com, he would have been as tarne as 
one of the Kids; for they are mighty fagtcious tradable 
Creatttres, where they are well ufed. 

However, for the prefent I let him go, knowing no 
better at that time ; then I went to the three Kids, and, 
taking them one by one, I ty'd them with Strings toge- 
ther, and with fome DifHculty brought them all home. . 

It was a good while before they would feed, but 
throwing them fome fweet Com, it tempted them, and 
they began to be tarne : And now I found, that if I ex* 
peäed to fupply myfejf with Goats-Üefh, when I had no 
rowder or Shot left, breeding fome up tame was my 
only Way, when perhaps 1 might have them about my 
Hoafe like a. Flock of Sheep. 

But then it prefently occurr'd to me, that I muft keep 
the tame from the wild, or elfe they would always run 
wild when they grew up ; and the only way for this was 
to have fome inclos'd Piece of Ground, well fencM ei- 
ther with Hedge or Pale, to keep them up fo efFedually» 
that thofe within might not break out, or thofe without 
break in. 

This was a great Undertaking for one Pair of Hands; 
yet as I faw there was an abfolute Neceflicy of doing it, 
my firft Piece of Work was to find out a proper Piede of 
Ground ; n/iz, where there was likely to be Herbage for 
them to eat, Water for them to drink, and Cover ta 
keep them from the Sun. 

Thofe who anderftand fuch Inclofures, will think I 
bad very little ContriKances when \ f\u^«^ >a^Tk v 



r+o The Life <w/ Ad venture s of 
Place vcry proper for all thefe, being a piain opcn Piecc 
of Meadow-land or Sa^anna (as oar People calllc in the- 
Wellern Colonics) which had two or three little Drills of 
freih Wacer in it, and at one End was very woody ; I 
fay they will fmiie at my Forecaft, when I (hall teil 
thcm I began my inclofing of this Piece of Ground in 
fuch a Manner, that my Hedge or Pale maft have beeir 
at leall two Miles about ; nor was the Madnefs of it fo- 

freat es to the Compafs ; for if it was ten Miles about, 
was like to have Time enough to do k in ; bat I did 
not confider, that my Goals would be as wild in fo mach 
Compafs, as if they had had the whole Ifland ; and I 
ihould have fo much Rcom to chace them in, that I 
ihouid nerer catch them. 

My Hedge was begun and carried on, I beliere, abont 
fif:y Yards, when tns Thought occorr'd to mc ; fo 1 pre- 
fcr.jly f;of p*d fiiort, and for the fird Beginning I refolv'd- 
to inclofe a Piece cf aboat 1 50 Yards in Length, and 100 
Yards in Crcadth, which as irwodd maintaia a» many as 
] ihou7d have in any reafonable Time, fo, as my Floclc 
incrcaf^d, I coald add more Ground to my fndofure. 

This was aclirg with fome Pradence, and I went to 
work with Courage; I was about three Months hedgicg 
in the firil Piece; and, tili I had done it, I tcthcr'd the 
three Kies in rhe bell Part of it, and ufed them to fccd 
as near me as poffi.^Ie, to raake them fairlliar; and Tery 
cfcen I would go and carry them fome Ears of Barley, 
or an HanJrulof Rice, ar.d h^6. them outof my Hand; 
io tha: at":er my Ir.c'olure was Saiih'd, and I let them 
looftr, they wou!d foüjw rr-e up and dowc, blcating afcer 
ae for an Hancful of Corn. 

This anfwer'd my EcJ, and in aboat a Year ari half, 
I hiJ a Flock of aboüt rvelve Goa:^» Kids and al' ; and 
ia two Years more I had thrse-ard- forty, biiidjs fsTeral 
th^t I coclv ard kiird for my Fcod ; and af:er that I 12- 
clüfed five fevenil Pieces of Grouri to tie::i them in, 
wich little Pens to drive them :r.:o, to take them as I 
wanted them ; aad Ga:es cut cf one Piece cf Grcücd 
inco another. 

ßuc this was not all ; for now I not on-y had Gojt's- 

Flelh to feed on when I cUas'd. but Mi'k too, a thing 

which iadäcd in my Beginning I did not fo much as 

iUßk of^ aad wMch, whexi vi c^mi^ vr.u m^ Thoughts- 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 141 

swas really an agreeable Surprize ; for now I fet up roy 
Dairy, and haU ibmetimes a Gallon or two of Milk in U 
J^ay. And as Nacure, who gives Supplies of Food to 
jcvery Creature, didlates even naturally how to make ufe 
jof it ; fo I, that never milk'd a Cow, much lefs a Goat, 
vor faw Butter or Cheefe made, very readily and handily, 
tho' after a great many EiTays and Mifcarriages, made 
me both Butter and Cheefe at laft, and never wanted it 
afterwards. 

How mercifully can our great Creator treat his Crea- 
tares, even in thofe Conditions in which they feemM tö 
be overwhelmM in DeürudUon ! How can he fweeten the 
bittereft Providences, and give us Caufe to praife him for 
Dungeons and Prifons ! What a Table was here fpread 
for mc in a Wildernefs, where I faw nothing at firft but 
to perifh for Hunger f 

It would have made a Stöic fmile, to have feen me and 
.my little Family fit down to Dinner : There was my Ma- 
jefty, the Prince and Lord of the whole Ifland ; 1 had the 
JLdves of all my Subjeds at abfolute Command ; I could 
liang, draw, give Life and Liberty, and take it away, 
and no Rebeis among all my Subjeds. 

Then to fee how like a King I dined too, all alone, 
attended by my Servants ! Po/^ as if he had been my Fa- 
Tourite, w^s the only Perfon permitted to talk to me ; 
my Dog, which was nowgrown very old and crazy, and 
-found no Species to multiply his Kind upon, fat always 
at my Right-hand ; and two Cats, one on one Side the 
Table, and one on the other, expeäing now and then a 
Bit from my Hand, as a Mark of fpecial Favour. 

But thefe were not the two Cats which I brought on 
Shore at firft; for they were both of them dead, and had 
been interred near my Habitation by my own Hands ; but 
one of them having multiply'd by I know not what kind 
of Creature, thefe were two which I prefervM tame^ 
whereas the reft ran wild in the Woods, and became in- 
deed troublefome 10 me at laft ; for they would often 
come into my Houfe, and plunder me too, tül at lad I 
was obliged to (hoot them, and did kill a great many ; 
at length they left me with this Attendance, and in this 
plentiful Manner I ]iv*d ; neither could I be faid to want 
any thing but Society, ^nd of that, in fonie time after 
{lus^ .1 was like to hävfi too mach« 



«4^ TbiLiFR anä ADVEVTüREi' §f 

I was fomething impadent, as I had obferved, to hafe 
the Ufe of my BoaC, tho' very loch to ran any more Ha- 
ttard ; and therefore fonietimes I fat contriving Ways to 

fet her' about the Ifland, and at other times I fat myfelf 
own contented enough without her. But I had a ftrange 
Uneafinefs in my Mind to go down to the Point of the 
Ifland, where, as I have faid, in my lafl Ramble, I went 
up the Hill to fee how the Shore lay» and how the Car* 
rent fet, that I might fee what I had to do : This Incli- 
nation increafed upon me every Day, and at length I re- 
ibWed to travel thither by Land, and foUowing the Edge 
of the Shore, I did (o : But had any one in England been 
to meet fuch a Man as I was, it mufl either have frighted 
them, or raifed k great deal of Laughter ; and as I fre- 
quently ftood ftill to look at myfelf, 1 could not but finile 
at the Notion of my travelling thro' Yorkflnre with fuch 
an Equipage, and in fuch a Drefs. Be pleafed to take 
a Sketch of my Figure, as follows : 

I had a great high (hapelefs Cap, made of Goat^s-fkin, 
with a Flap hanging down behind, as well to- keep the 
Sun from me, as to fhoot the Rain oiF from running into 
my Neck ; nothing being fo hurtful in thefe Climates, 
as the Rain upon the Fleih under the Cloaths. 

I hada (hört Jacket of Goat's-ikin, the Skirts Coming 
down to about the Middle of my Thighs ; and a Pair of 
open-kneed Breeches of the fame: The Breeches were 
made of a Skin of an old He-Goat, whofe Hair hung 
down fuch a Length on either Side, that, like PantaloonSf 
it reach'd to the Middle of my Legs. Stockings and Shoes 
I had none; but I had made me a Pair of fomething, I 
fcarce knew what to call them, like Bufkins, to Aap over 
my Legs, and lace on eicher Side like Spatterdafhes ; 
but of a mofl barbarous Shape, as indeed were all the 
reft of my Cloaths. 

I had on a broad Belt of Goat*s-ikin dry'd, which 
I drew togcther with two Thongs of the fame, inftead 
of Buckles ; and in a kind of a Frog on either Side of 
this, inftead of a Sword and Dagger, hung a little Saw 
and an Hatchet, one on one Side, one on the other : I 
had another Belt not fo broad, and failened in the fame 
Manner, which hung over my Shoulder ; and at tbe 
£nd of it^ under my left Arm, hung two Pouches^ both 

made 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 14 j 

jttade of Goac's-fkin too ; in one of which hang my 
Petvder, in the other my Shot: At my Back 1 carried 
- my Bafket» on my Shoulder my Gun, and ovcr my Head 
a great clumfy ugly Goat-fkin Umbrella, but which, 
after all, was the mofl necefTary thing I had about me, 
next to my Gun : As for my Face, the Coiour of it was 
really not fo Mulattolikc, as one might exped from a 
Man not at all careful of it, and living within 9 or 10 
Degrees of the Equinox. My Beard I had once fufFer'd 
to grow tili it was about a Quarter of a Yard long ; but 
as 1 had both Sciilars and Razors fufHcient, I had cut it 

?retty (hört, except what grew on my Upper Lip, which 
had trim*d into a large Fair of idahometan Whifkers, 
fuch as I had feen worn by fome Turks^ whom I faw at 
Sallei ; for the Moors did not wear fuch, tho' the Turks 
did : Of thefe Muflachios, or Whifkers, 1 will not fay 
they were long enough to hang my Hat upon tl em % 
but they were of a Length and Shape mondrous enough, 
and fach as in England would have pafs'd for frightful. 

But all this is by the bye; for as to my Figure, I had 
fo few to obferve me, that it was of no manner of Confe« 
quence ; fo 1 fay no more to that Part : In this kind of 
Figure I went my new Journey, and was out live or ^x 
Days. I traveird firfialong the Sea-fhore, dire£lly to 
the Place where I firfl brought my Boat to an Anchor, to 
get up upon the Rocks ; and, having no Boat now to take 
care of, I went over the Land a nearer Way» to the fame 
Height that I was upon before ; when looking forward to 
the Point of the Rock which lay out, and which I was to 
double with my Boat, as 1 faid above, I was furpriz^d to 
fee the Sea all fmooth and quiet ; no Rippling« no Mo- 
tion, no Current, any more there than in other Places. 
I was at a dränge Lofs to underftand this, and refolv*d 
' to fpend fome time in tbe obferving it, to fee if nothing 
from the Sets of the Tide had occaHon^d it : But .1 was 
prefently convincM how it was ; <üi%. That the Tide of 
Ebb fetting from the Wefi^ and joining with the Current 
of Waters from fome great River on the Shore, muft be 
the Occafion of this Current; and that according as the 
Wind blew more forcible from the Weß^ or from the 
IJmrth^ this ..Current came near, or went farther from 
the Shore ; for« waiting thereaboats tili ßvening, I went 



f44 The Life ^i»^ Adv^entures ü/ 
«p to the Rock again, and then the Tide of Ebb being 
made, I plainly faw the Current again as bcfore» odI/ 
tbat it ran farther of, being near half a League hom the 
Shore; whereas, in my Cafe, it fet dofe apon the Shore, 
and hurried me in my Camie along wich it, which at 
another Time it woold not have done. 

This Obfervation convinc'd me, that I Ijad nothing to 
do bat to obTerve the Ebbing ' and the Flowing of the 
Tide, and I might very eafily bring my Boat aboot the 
Ifland again : But when I began to think of patting it in 
Pradice, I had fach a Terror npon my Spirits at the Re* 
membrance of the Danger I had been in, that I could 
not think of it agajn with any Patience ; but on the con- 
trary, I took up another Refolution, which was more 
faie, tho* more laborioas ; and this was, that I woald 
baild, or rather make me another Periagua, or Canoe ; - 
and fo have one for one Side of the Ifland, and one for 
the other. 

You are to nnderfland, that now I had, as T may call it^ 
two PlantatioDS in the Ifland ; one my little Fortiiication 
or Tent, with the Wall about it ander the Rock, wich 
the Cave behind me, which by this Time Thad inlarg'd 
into feveral Apartments or Caves, one within another. 
One of thefe, which was the driell, and largeft, and had 
a Door out beyond my Wall or Forcificacion, that is to . 
fay, beyond where my Wall join'd Co the Rock, was all 
fiird up with the large earchen Poes, of which I have 
given an Account, and with fourteen or fifteen great 
Bafkets, which would hold five or fix Bufhels each, where 
I laid up my Stores of Provifion, efpecially my Com, 
fome in the Kar cut ofF fhort from the Straw, and the 
other rubb'd out with my Hand. 

As for my Wall made, as before , with long Stakes or 
Piles, thofe Piles grew all like Trees, and were by this 
time grown fo big, and fpread fo very much, that there 
was not the leaft Appearance, to any one's View, of any 
Habitacion behind ehem. 

Near chis Dwelling of mine, but a little farther with- 
in the Land, and upon lower Ground, lay my two Pieces 
of Corn-ground ; which I kept duly cultivated and fow'd, 
and which duly yielded me cheir Harveft in ics Seafon ; 
and whenever I had Occafion for more Corn^ I had more 
h^nä adjoii)ing as fit as that. 

Be. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. t+s 

Befldes this, I had my Country-Seat, and I had nov^ 
a tolerable Plantation there alfo ; for firfl, I had my 
littlc Bower, as I call'd it, which I kept in Repair; 
ihat is to fay^ I kept the Hedge which circied ic in, 
conftaotly ficted up to its ufual Height, the Ladder dand» 
ing always in the Infide ; I kept the Trees, which at 
firft wcrc no more than my Stakes, but were now 
grown very firm and tall ; I kept them always fo cut, 
that they might fpread and grow thick and wild, and 
make the more agreeable Sbade, which they dld cfFedlu« 
alJy to my Mind. In the Middie of this I had« my 
Tcnt always ftanding, being a Piece of a Sail fprca J over 
Poles fet up for that Purpofe, and which never wanted 
any Repair or Renewing ; and under this 1 had made me 
a Squab or Couch, with the Skins of the Creatures I had 
kiird, and with other foft Things, and a Blankct laid 
on them, fuch as belong'd to our Sea Bedding, which I 
had faved, and a great Watch-coat to covcr me ; and 
here,' whenever I had occafion to be abfent from my 
Chief Seat, I took np my Country Habitation. 

Adjoining to this I had my Inclofures for my Cattle, 
thac is to fay, my Goats: And as I had taken an incon- 
ceivabi« dcal of Pains to fence and inclofe this Ground, I 
was fo aneafy to fee it kept intire, leil the Goats (hould 
break thro\ that I never lefc ofF, tili with infinite Labour 
I had druck the Outfide of the Hedge fo füll of fmall 
Stakes, and fo near to one another, that it was rathcr a 
Pale than an Hedge, and there was fcarce room to put an 
Hand thro' between them, which afterwards, when thofe 
Stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy Seafon, 
■made the Indofure drong, like a Wall, indeed dronger 
than any Wall. 

This will tedify for me that I was not idie, and that 
I fpared no Pains to bring to pafs whatever appear'd 
neceflary for my cpmfortable Support ; for I confider'd 
the kceping up a Breed of tarne Creatures thus at my 
Hand, would be a living Magazine of Flefli, Milk, But- 
ter and Cheefe, for me, as long as I livM m the Place, 
if it were to be forty Years ; and that keeping them in 
jny Reach, depended intirely upon my pcrfeäing my 
Inclofures to fuch' a Degree, that I might be {\xrQ of 
keeping them together ; which by this Mcthod \wd^^^ 
I fo effeduallj ^cured, that whcn \\xefe Ux.>\j^ ^\.^<t\ . 

VoL, L G >ö^^ 



146 The Life and Adv'entures i>f 
began to grow, 1 had planted them ib veiy thidc» I 
was forced co pull fome of them ap again. 

In this Place alfo I had my Giapes growing, which I 
priiicipally depended on for my Winter Store of Raifins, 
and which l never failM to prefcrve very carefully, as 
the beft and moft a^reeable Dainty of my whole Diet; 
and indeed thry were not agreeable only, but .phyficalp 
wholefonne, nouriihing and refreihing to the lail Degree. 

As this was alfo about half-way between my other Hl« 
bitation and the Place where I had laid up my fioat, I 
generally flaid and lay here in my Way thither; for I 
ufed frequently to vifit my fioat, and 1 kept all things 
aboot or belonging to her in very good Order ; fome- 
times I went ou: in her to divert myfelf, but no more 
hazardoQs Voyages would I go, nor fcarce ever above' a 
Stone's Call or two from the Shore. I was fo apprehcn« 
five of being hurried out of my Knowledge again by the 
Currents, or Winds, or any other Accident: £ut nowl 
come to a new Scene of my Life. 

It happenM one Day about Nood, ming towards my 
Boat, I was exceedingly farprlz*d with tne Phnt of a Man*8 
naked Foot on the Shore, which was very piain to be 
feen in the Sand : I (lood like one thunder-ftruck, or asif 
I had feen an Apparition ; I liflen'd, I look'd round mCi 
I could hear nothing, nor fee any thing ; I went up to a 
riüng Ground to lock farther : I went up the- Shore, and 
down the Shore, but it was all one, I could fee no other 
Inipreilion but that one : T went to it again to fee if there 
were any more, and to obferve if it might not be my 
Fancy ; but there was no room for that, for there was 
cxadly the vtty Print of a Foot, Tees,' Heel, and cvery 
Part of a Foot ; how it came thither, I knew not, oor 
could in the Icall imagine. But af er innumerable fluttering 
Thoughts,likeaMan perfedly confufed,and out of myfelf 
J came home to my Fortiftcation, not feeling, as we fay, 
the Ground I went on, but terrify'd to the iaft Degree, 
looking Lehind me at evrry tA'O or three Steps, miftaking 
cvery ßurti and 'Free, and fanfying every Stump at a Di- 
fiance to be a Man ; nor is it poflible to defcribe, how 
many various Shapcs an afFrighted Imagination reprefentcd 
thingö to me in ; how many wild Ideas were form'd evcry 
Moment in my Fancy, and what dränge unaccounuble 
y^bimlks came into my Thou^hts by the Way. 

When 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 147 

Whcn I cameto xny Caftle, for fo I thinlc I caird it ever 
aftcr this, I fled into it iikc one purfu'd ; whether I went 
over by the Ladder, as firft contriv'd, or wenc in at the 
Hole in the Rock» which I call'd a Door, I cannot remem- 
bcr ; for nevcr frighted Harc fled to Cover, or Fox to 
Barth, with more Terror of Mind than I to this Retreat. 

I had no Sleep that Night ; the farther I was from the 
Occalion of tny Fright, the greater my Apprehenfions 
were; which is fomething contrary to the Nature of 
fuch things, and efpecially to the ufuai Pradlice of all 
Creatures in Fear : Bat I was fo embarrafs'd with my 
own frightful Ideas of the thing, that I form'd nothing 
bat difmal Imaginations to myfeif, cven tho' I was now 
a great Way off it. Sometimes I fanfyM it muil be the 
Devil } and Reafon join*d in with xne opon this Suppo* 
fition : For how fhoald any other thing in human Shape 
coroe into the Place ? Where wa? the Vcllel that broughc 
them ? Whdt Marks wcre there of any other Footfteps ? 
And how was it poüible a Man (hould come there ? Bat 
then to think that Satan (hould take human Shape upon 
him in fach a Place where there could be no manner of 
Occafion for it, but to leave the Print of bis Foot be« 
hind hira, and that even for no Purpofe too ( for he 
could not be füre I fhould fee it,) this was an Amaze- 
ment the other way : I coniider'd that the Devil might 
htvc found out abundance of other Ways to have ter- 
rifie4 mc, than this of the fingle Print of a Foot : That 
as I liv*d quite on the other Side of the Ifland, iie 
would never have been Co fimple to leave a Mark in a 
Place where it was tcn thoufand to one whether I 
ihoold ever fee it or not« and in the Sand too, which 
the firft Surge of the Sea apoa an high Wind would have 
defacM intirely : All this feem'd inconfident with the 
thing itfelf, and with all Notions we ufually entertain of 
the Subtlety of the Devil. 

Abandance of fuch things as thefe aififled to arguc 
me out of all Apprehenfions of its being the Devil : And 
I prefently concluded then, that it muil be fome more 
dangerous Creature ; 'viz. That it muH be fome of the 
Savaees of the main Land over-againft me, who had 
wancicred out to Sea in thcir Canoes, and, either drivcn 
by the Currents, or by contrary Winds, Ka^d iä?^^^ \)tv^ 
Gz X^-^^^s 



148 The LiTS obJ Adventuaes ef 

Ifland; and had been on Shore, bat were gone awaf ^ain 
to Sea, bcing as loth, pcihaps, to hayc ftaid in this de- 
fobte Ifland, as I would have been to havc had them 

Whilc thcfe Reflcdlions were rolling opon my Mind» 
I was very thankfül in my X^oaghc, that-I was fo hap- 
py as not to be thereaboucs at that Time, or that they 
diJ not fee my Boa% by which they would have con- 
cluded, that ferne Inhabirants had been in cJie Place, and 
perhaps have fearch'd farther for nie : Theu terrible 
Thoughts rack'd my Imagmations about thcir having 
found my Boät, and that ttiere were People here ; acd 
that if fo, I iTiould certainly have them come again in 
greater Numbcrs, anddevour me; that if it fhould hap- 
pen fo that they (hoald not und me, yet they woald 
ind my Inclofure, deftroy all my Com, carry away all 
my Flock of tarne Goats» and I ihould perifh at lad for 
mere Want. 

Thus my Fear baniih'd all my religioas Hope ; all th^t 
former Confidence in God, which was founded upon 
fuch wonderful Experience as 1 had had of his Good- 
ntU^ now Tanifh'd i as if he that had fed me by Mira* 
de hitherto, could not prcferve by his Power thc Pro- 
viiion which he had made for me by his Goodnefs. I 
reproached myfelf with my Eaünefs, that woald not 
fow any more Corn cne Year than would juft fervc me 
tili the next Seafon, as if no Accident conld interirene to 
prevcnt my enjoying the Crop that was upon the 
Ground : And this 1 thought fo juft a Reproof, dbat I 
refolv'd for the future to have two or three Years Com 
before-hand, fo that whatever might come, I might not 
perifti for want of Bread. 

How ftrange a Chequer-work of Providence is the 
Life of Man ! And by what fecret difFering Springs are 
the AfFedlions hurried about, as difFering Circumftances 
prefent ! To-day we love what To-morrow we hatcj To- 
day we feek what To-morrow we fhun ; Today we de- 
fire what To-morrow we fear ; nay, even tremble at thc 
Appreheniions of. This was exemplified in me at thii 
Time in the moft lively Manner imaginable ; for I, 
whofe only Affliäion was, that I feem'd banifh'd from 
human Society, that I was alone, circumfcrib'd by the 
boundkfs Ocean, cut off from Mankind, and condemn^d 

to 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 149 

to what I call filent Life; that I was as one whom Hea- 
vcn thought not worthy to be number'd among thcLiv- 
ing, or to appear among the rell of his Creatures ; tliat 
fo have feen one of my own Species, would have fcem'd 
to me a raißng me frora Death to Life, and the greaceil 
BlelHng that Heaven itfelf, next to the fupreme Bieiiiug 
of Salvation, could bellow; I fay, that I ihould now 
trembJe at the very Apprehenftons of feeing a Man, and 
was ready to fink into the Groand, at but the Shadmv, 
er filent A^^pearance of a Man's having fet his Foot oa 
the Ifland. 

Soch is the uneven State of Human Life; and it af- 
forded me a great many curlous Specuiations afccrwards, 
when I had a little recovered my firft Surprize; I con- 
fidcred that thls was the Station of Life, the infinite.'y 
wllc and good Provjdence of God had detcrmined for 
nre; that as 1 could not forefee what the £nds of Di- 
TJne Wifdom might be in all this, fo I was not to 
difpute his Sovereignty, who^ as I was his Creature, had 
an undoubted Right by Creation to govern and difpoie 
of me abfolutely as he thought fit; and who, as i was a 
Creature who had offendcd him, had likewife a judicial 
Right to condemn me to what PuniOinient he thought 
fit ; and that it was my Part to fubmit to beur his In- 
dignation, becaufe I had {inn*d againfl him. 

I then rcflcdtcd, that God, who was not only Righte- . 
oat, but Omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to 
panifii and TiBxti me, fo he was able to deliver me ; that 
if he did not think fit to do it, it was my unqueOioned 
Duty to refiga myfelf abfolutely and intirely to his Will : 
And, on the other hand, it was my Duty alfo to hope 
in him, pray to him, and quietly to attend the Didates 
and Diredlions of his daily Providence. 

Thcfc Thoughts took me up many Hours, Days, nay, 
I may fay, Wecks and Months j and one particular Ef- 
fcdt of my Cogitaiions on this Occafion, I cannot omit ; 
vix. One Morning earjy, lying in my Bed, and filTd 
with Thoughts about my Dangtr from the Appearance 
of Savages, 1 found it difcompofcd me very much ; up- 
on which thofe Words of the Scripture came into tr.y 
ThoQghts, Cü/I upon me in the Day of TrcubU^ and I ixill 
deliver tbie, and thou ßalt g^ü^ify me, 

G 3 "Vi^oitk. 



X50 Thi Life im^ Advbhtures of 

Upon this, rifinfi; chearfully oat of my Bed, my Heart 
was not only comrorced, but I was gaidod and encouraged 
to pray earoefUy to God for Deliverance : When I had 
done praying, I took np my Bible, and opening it to read, » 
the firft Words that prrfented to me, were, ffai/ on ibi 
Lord^ and he ofgood Ciear^ and Ih fiall ßnngtbtn thy Heart: 
•wait, l fay, ort the Lord, It is impoffible CO exprefs the 
Comfort this gave me ; and in Return» I tkankfully laid 
down the Book, and was no more fad, at leaft, not oa 
that Occafion. 

Jn the Middle of thefe Cogitations, ApprehendonSi 
and Reflc^tions, it came into my Thoaghts one Day, 
that all this might be a mere Chimera of my own, aod 
that this Pooc mieht be the Print of my own Foot, when 
I came on fliore trom my fioat : This chear*d me up a 
lictle too, and I began to perfuade myfelf it was all a 
Delufion; that it was nothing elfe but my own Poot; 
and why might not I come that Way from the Boat, 
as well as I was going that Way to the Boat ? Again, I 
coniider'd alfö, that 1 could by no means teil for certain 
where I had trod, and where I had not; and that if at 
laß this was only the Print of my own Foot, I had playM 
the Part of thofe Fools, who (Irive to make Stohes of 
Speeres and Apparitions, and then are themfelves frighted 
at them raorc than any body elfe. 

Now 1 began to take Courage, and to peep abroad 
again; for 1 had not ftiir'd out of my CafUe for threc 
Days and Nights, fo that I began to ftarve for Provi- 
f*on ; for I had little or nothing within Doors, but ferne 
Barlcycakes and Water. Then I knew, that my Goats 
wantcd to be milked too, which ufually was my Evcn- 
ing Diverfion ; and the poor Crcaturcs were in ereat Pain 
and Inconvenience for want of it; and indeed it almoft 
fpoird fome of them, and almoft dry'd up their Milk. 

Heartening mylelf thereforc with the Belief, that this 
was nothing but the Print of one of my own Pect 
(and fo 1 might be truly faid to itart at my own Sha- 
dow,) l began to go abroad again, and went to my Coun- 
try-Houfe to milk my Flock ; but to fee with what Fear 
1 went forward, how offen I look'd behind me, how I 
was ready, evcry now-and-then, to lay down my Baf- 
ket^ and run for my Life, it would have madc any one 

have 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 151 

have tbought I was haunted with an evil Confcience, or . 
that I hadbeca lately inoll terribly frighted ; and ib ia- 
deed I had. 

Howeuer, as l went down tkus cwo or three Days, 
and having feen nothing, I began to be a lirtle boldcr» 
and to think there was really noching in it buc my own 
Imagination ; but 1 could not perfuade myrelf fu!ly of 
this, tili I fhould go down to the Shote again, and fee 
ihis Print of a Foot, and meafure it by my own, and l"ec 
if there was any Similitude or Fitnefb, that I might be 
aflured it was my own Foot : But when I came to tlie 
Place hrü, it appearM evidently to me, that when 1 laid 
Dp my Boat, I could not poiTibly be on Shore any-vvhere 
thereabouts : Seconcly, when 1 came to meafure the Mark 
with my own Foot» 1 fbund my Foot not fo large by a 
«eat deal : Both thefe things fiird my Head with new 
Imasnations, and gave me the Vapours again to the high- 
cft Degree; fo that I fhook with Cold, like one in an 
Ague, and I went home again, £ird with the Belief, 
that fome Man or Men had been on Shore there ; or, in 
ihort, that the Ifland was inhabited, and I might be fur- 
pri2*d before I was aware ; and what Courfe to take for 
mj Security, I knew not. 

O what ridiculous Refolations Men take, when pof- 
fefs'd with Fear ! It deprives them of the Ufe of thofe 
Means, which Reafon offiers for their Relief. The £rft 
thing I propofed to myieif was, to throw down my 
Inclofores, and turn all my tame Cattle wild ioto the . 
Woods, that the Enemy might not find them, and then 
frequent the Ifland in Profped of the fame, or the like 
Booty; then to the fimple thing of digging up my two . 
" Corn-fields, that they might not find fuch a Grain there, , 
and ftill be prompted to frequent the Ifland; then to de« 
molifli my Bower and l'ent, that they might not fee 
any Veftiges of my Flabitacion, and be prompted to look 
farther, in order to find out the Perfons inhabiting. 

Thefe werc the Subje«Sls of the firft Night's Cogitation, 
after I was come home again, while the Äpprehenfions 
which had fo over-run my Mind wcre frefli upon me, and 
my Head was füll of Vapours, as above. Thus Fear of 
Danger is ten thoufand times more terrifying than Danger 
itfel^when apparent to the Eyes; and we find the Bur- 
G4 e.^> 



152 The Ll^E and AdfeRTURBS of 

den of Anxietj, greater hy mach, than the EyiI whieb 
we are anxious about ; buc, which wa» worfe than all 
this, I had not tbat Relief in this Trouble for the Refig- 
na:ion I ufed to piaQife, that I hopcd to have. 1 look'd, 
I thonght, Jike SauJ, who complained not only that the 
PbiiijiiKes were opon him, but chac God had fbrfaken 
him; f«r I did cot now take due ways to compofe mj 
Miod, hy crying to God in my Diftrefs, and reiling upon 
bis Providence, as I had done before, for my Defence and 
Deliverance; which if I had done, I had, at leaff, been 
more cheirtully fupported ander chrs new Surpnze, and 
perhaps carried through it with more Refolution. 

Thi^ Confufion of my Thoughts kept me waking all 
Night; bat in the Mcming I feil aflecp, and having by 
the Amufemert of my Mind been, as it were, tired, aod 
my Spirits exhauHed, I fiept very fonndly, and awak*d 
crjch bener compos'd ihan I had ex-er been beföre : And 
11..W I began to think iecately ; and, opon the utmoft De- 
ba:e wiih myiclf, I ccnciuded, that this Illand, which 
was fo excfcdicg plcafant, fruitfol, and tto farther froni 
the main Lacd than as I had feen, was no: fo intirely 
abardon'd as I migh: i magine : That altho' there wcre no 
l!a:ed Inhabicants who livM on the Spot; yet that there 
Biighc forcetimcs come Boats cW froin the Shore, who 
cirher with Defign, or perhaps r.evcr bi:t when they were 
driven by crojs Winös, m;ght come to this Place. 

Tha: I had lived hsre i ^ Years pow, ar.d had not mct 
with the lecft Shadow or FigQ'-e of any Pecple before ; 
and th-.t if at any :imc they Ir.ouJd te driven herc, it 
W15 pr.-bable they wer.t awny cgain as icoi; as ever they 
CGu:.i, IccTHT tr.ey h. d ^evtr üi^iightn: to fix there up- 
on ary Ccci.'.on. :o i.iii Tirrje. 

Thi: :>.c :no.-^ I cou!.: K*;j ;c:^ ary D.-nger frcm, was, 
frrm aT^y rccli ci'.-il r.Cv:ijc::::»i LarJ.:ng of l't~3ggl:ng 
Peopli fror.! tc Miin. v.h.-», .ii i: ums J:!<tly. if they 
^ee d.ivcn h!:! ?r, w.re "icre ri-Jiiri: thcr Wills ; Ki 
they niaie n? S:ay i.ere. bi: wci-.: cT nga n wirb a!l 
roirible S-.aed, fe.'Jom itnyi~g c^e N^h: on Shore, Ictl 
they üiould rc: have the H.lp of :. e : idjs ar.d Day- 
l'ght back a^rain; and :har chereJorj I had nothirg to 
^•■^ but to conlider of I'^tc lafj Rct-e: t, in cafe I liquid 
*cc any Savag?« land upon the Src:. 

Now 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 153 

Now I began forcly to repent, that I had dug xny Cavc 
fo large, as to bring a Door through agaiu, which Door, 
as 1 faid, came out beyond where my Fortification joia d 
to the Rock. Upon maturely coniidering this therefore, 
I rcTolv'd to draw me a fecond Fortification, in the fame 
Manner of a Semicircle, at a Diftance from my Wall, 
juil where I had planted a double Row of Trees abouc 
twelve Yfars before, of which I made mention : Thefe 
Trt'Cä having been planted fo thick before, there wanted 
but ä few Piles to be dri ven between them, that they fhonid 
be thicker and ftronger,and my Wall would befoonfinifh'd. 

So that 1 had ncvv a double Wall, and my outer Wall 
was thickened with Pieces of Timber, old Cables, and 
•every thing I coald think of to make it flrong; having 
in it feven litcle Holes, about as big as I might put my 
Arm oat at. In the Infide of this I thickened my Wall 
to about ten Feet thick, continually bringing Barth out 
of my Cave, and laying it at the Foot of the Wall, and 
Walking upon it ; and through the feven Holes I contriv^d 
to plant the Mafquets, of which I took notice, that I got 
feven on Shore oat of the Ship ; thefe, I fay, I planted 
like my Cannon, and 6tted them into Frames that held 
them like a Carriage, that fo I could £re all the feven 
Guns in two Minutes time : This Wall I was many a 
weary Month in finilhing, and yet never thought myfelf 
fafe tili it was done. 

When this was done, I fluck all the Ground without 
my Wall, (or agrea; Way cvery Way, as füll with Stakes 
er Sticks of the Oficr-likc Wood, which I found fo apt 
to grow, as they could well ftand ; infomuch that I be- 
lieve I might fet in near twenty thoufand of them, leav- 
ing t pretty large Space between them and my Wall, that 
I might have room to fee an Eneray, and they might havc 
no Shelter from the young Trees, if they attempted to ap- 
proach my outer Wall. 

Thos in two YearsTime I had a thick Grove; and in 
five or fix Ycars Time I had a Wood before my DwcU- 
*og, grown fo mor^ftrous thick and ftrong, that it was 
inJeed perfedly impaflable; and no Man of what kind 
foever, would ever imagine, that there was any thing 
beyond it, much lefs an Habitation : As for the Way 
I propofcd 10 myfelf to go in and oai ^,^w ^ \tS.\. 
G c Khcq' 



154 ^^^ Life Ä«^ Adventurbs of 
Avenue) ic was by fetting two Ladders; one to a Part 
of the Rock whith was low, and tlicn brokc in, and left 
roorn to pl.ice another Ladder upon thac; fo when the 
two Ladders weie uken down» no Man ]iving couid 
come down to mc withoat mifchiefing himfelf; and if 
thvy h:d ccmc down, they were Hill on the Oatfide of my 
outer Wall. 

Thus I took all the Meafures human Prudence coold 
függeft formy own Prefervation ; and it will be feen at 
length, thac they weie not altogether withöut jufl Rea« 
fon ; 'tho* I forefaw noching at that time, more than my 
mere Fear fuggelled to me. 

Whüe this was doing, I was not altogether carelefs 
of my othcr Aftairs ; for I had a grcat Concern upon me ' 
for my liitle Herd of Goats; they were not only a pre- 
fcni S'jpply to ire upon every Occafion, and began to be 
fufEcicnc to me, without the Expencc of Powder and Shot, 
fcu: alfo abatcd the Fatigue of my hunting after the 
wi-d ones ; and I was loth to lofe the Advantage of them, 
and tb have them all to nurfe up over again. 

To this Pu pofe, after long Confideration, I coold 
think of but two Ways to preferve them ; one was to 
find another convenient Place to dig a Cave under ground, 
and to drive them into it every Night; and the other 
was to inclofe two or three little Bits of Land, .remote 
from one enother, and as much coocealM as I could, 
where I raight keep about half a dozen young Goats in 
cach Place ; fo that if any Difaftcr happen'd to the Flock 
in genera!, I mi?ht be able to raife them again with 
liitle Trouble and Time ; And thij, tho' it would reqnire 
a great dcal of Time and Labour, I thoughc was the 
moft rational Defign. 

Accordingly \ fpent Tome Time, to find out the moft 
retired Paris of the llland ; and Ipitch'd upon one» which 
was as private indeed as my Heart could wifh; for it 
was a little damp Piece of Groond in the Middle of the 
hollow and thick Woods, where, as is obferv'd, I al- 
jnoft lofl myfclf once before, cndeavouring to come 
back that Way from the Eaftc-rn Part of the Jfland; 
Here I found a clear Piece of Land near three Acres, 
fo furrounded wirb Woods, that it was almoft an In- 
cJofure by JNaiure ; at kad^ it did not want near fo much 

L^boor 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 155 

Labour to make it fo, as ihe other Picces of Grottod I 
had work'd fo hard at. 

J imniediatcly went to work.wuh this Picce of Ground, 
and in lefs than a Month's Time I had fo fenced it round, 
that my Flock or Herd, call it which you pleafe, which 
• were not fo wild now as at firft they might te fuppofcd 
to be, were well enough l'ecured in it. So without any 
farther Delay, J removed ten She-Goats and t.vo He- 
Goats to this Fiece ; - and when they were there, 1 con- 
tinued to perfe^ the Fence^ tili I had made it as fecure 
as the other, which, however, I did at more Leifure, 
and it took me up xnoce Time by a great deal. 

All this Labour I was at ihc Expence of, purely fronn 
»y Apprehenfions ( n the Account of the Print of a , 
Man's Foot which I had feen ; for as yet, I never faw 
any human Creature come near the llland, and I had 
row liv*d two Y^ars under thcfe Uneafi neues, which . 
indeed mäde my Life much lefs comforcable than it was 
bcfore ; as may well be ira^gin'd, by any who know 
what it is to live in the confl-jnr. Snare of tJbe Fear of 
Man '^ and rhis I mufl obfervc wih Grief too, that the ; 
Difcompofure of my Mind had too great Jmpreffions 
alfo upon the religious -Part of my Thoughts; for the 
Dread and Teiror of falling into the Hands of Savages 
and Canibals lay fo upon my Spirits, that J feldom found 
my\fM in a due Temper for Application to my Maker; 
at leaft, not with the feuate Ca.mnefs and Relignation 
of Soul which I was wont to do I rather pra/'d to 
Codas ander great Affliftion and Prefiure of Mind, fur- 
rounded with Danger, and in Exp^'äacion every Night 
of being murder'd and devour'd before Morning ; and I 
muft teltify from my Expcrience, that a Teraper of 
Peace, Thankfalnefs, Love and AfFedion, is mach the 
more proper Frame for Prayer than that of Terror and 
Difcompofure ; and that under the Dread of Mifchief 
Impending» a Man is^no more fit for a comforting Per- 
/ fbrmance of the Duty of praying to God, than he is for 

Repentance on a fick Bed ; for thefe Di compofures ' 
' äffest the Mind as the others do the Body ; and the Dif- 
compofure of the Mind muft neceflarily be as grrat a 
I>ifability as that of the Body, and much greater ^ pray- 
ing to God bcing "^xo^fixX^ an Ad of Uxc Mvviöl, üv^^ o^ 
the Bod/. G 6. l|>>ax 



1^6 The Life rf?«^ Ap VENTÜRES of 

But to go on ; aftef [ had thus fecur'd onc Part of 
my little livinr» Stock, I went about the whole Ifland, 
fe.rching for anothcr private Place, to makc fuch ano- 
thcr Dt pofit ; wlun wandtiring more to the Weft Poirtt 
of the HIand than I hau ever done yec, and looking out 
ta Sta, I thought I faw a Boat upon the'Sea, at a grcat 
Diilance; 1 had found a Perfpeäive glafs or two, in 
one of the Seamcrrs Chefts, which I fav'd out of cur 
Ship ; but I had it not abuut me, and this was {o re- 
mote, thati could not teil what to make' of it, though 
I look'd at it tili my Eycs wcre not able too look any 
longcr j vvhcther it was a Boat, or not, I do not know ; 
but as 1 defccnded from the Hill, I could fee no more of 
it, fo I gave it ovcr ; only I refolv'd to go no more with- 
oat ä Pcrrpedive-glafs in my Pocket. 

When 1 was come down the Hui, to the End of the ' 
Ifland, where indecd I had never been beforc, I was 
prcfently convinc'd, that the feeingthe Print of a Man's 
Foot, was not fuch a ftrange thmg in the Ifland as I 
imagin'd ; and, but that it was a fpecial Providcnce 
that I was cafl upon the Side of the Ifland, where the 
Savages never came, I fliould eafily have known, that 
nothing was more frequcnt than for the Canoes from the 
Main, when they happen'd to be a little too far out at 
Sea, to ftioot over to that Side of the Ifland for Harbour ; 
likewife, as they often met, ar.d fought in their Cances^ 
theVidors, having taken any Prifoners, would bring 
them over to this Shore, where, according to their dread- 
ful Cufloms, being all Canibah, they would kill and eat 
them ; Of which hereafcer. 

When I was come down the Hill to the Shore, as I 
faid above, belng the S.W.Point of the Ifland, I was 
perfcÄIy confounded and amaz'd ; nor is it pofllble for 
me to exprefs the Horror of my Mind, at fceing the 
Shore fpread with Skulls, Hands, Feet, and other ßones 
of huihan Bodies ; and particularly I obferv'd a Place 
where there had been a Fire made, and a Circlc dug in 
theEarth, like a Cock pit, where it is fuppofed the fa- 
vage Wretches had fat down to their inhuman Feaftings 
upon the Bodies of theii' Fellow-Creatures. 

I was fo aftonifh'd with the Sight of thefe things, 

that I entertain'd no Notions of any Danger to myfelf 

ürom it, for a long wlulfii ^^ tn^ K^^x^VÄiÄa'Ci^ v<«e 



ROBINSOKCRUSOE^ 157 

buried m the.Thoughts of fuch a Pitch of inhuman, 
hellifh Brutality, and the Horror of the Dcgeneracy of 
human Nature ; which, tho' I had heard of oftcn, yet I 
never had fo near a View of before ; in (hört, I turned 
away my Face from the horrid Speäacle ; my Stomach 
grcw fiele, and I was juft at the Point of fainting, 
when Nature difcharged the Difordcr from my Stomach, 
arid, having vomited with an uncommon Violence, I 
was a little relieved, but could not bear to day in the 
Place a Moment ; fo I got me up the Hill again, with 
all the Speed I could, and walk'd on towards my own 
Habitation. 

When I came a little out of that Part of the Ifland, 
I (lood ftül a while as amaz'd ; and thcn recovcring 
myfelf, I looked up with the utmoft AfFedlion of my 
Soul, and, with a Flood of Tears in my Eyes, gave 
God Thanks, that had call my firft Lot in a Part of the 
World, where I was diftinguifhed from fuch dreadful 
Creaturcs as thefe ; and that though I had efteemed my 
prefent Condition very miferable, had yet given me fo 
inany Comforts in it, that I had flill more to give 
Thanks for, than to complain of ; and this above all, that 
I had, even in this miferable Condition, been comforCed 
with the Knowledge of Himfelf, and the Hope of hi» 
Bleffing,. which was a Felicity more than fufEciently equi- 
valent to all the Mifery which I had fufFered, or could 
fufFer. 

In this Frame of Thankfulne^^, I went home to my 
Caflle, and began to be much eafier now, as to the 
Safety of my Circumftances, than ever 1 was before ; 
for I obferv'd, that thefe Wretches nevcr came to this 
lÜand in Search of what they could get ; perhaps not 
feeking, not wanting, or not expedling, any thing here ; 
and having ofcen, no doubt, been up in the cover'd 
Woody Part of it, without finding any thing to their 
Purpcfe»: I knew I had been here now almoft eighree» 
Years, and never faw the leaft Footfteps of a humaa 
Creatore there before ; and might be here eighteca 
saore as intirely conceard as F was now, if I did noC 
difcover myfelf to them, which I had no manner of 
Occailon to do, it being my only Bufinefs to keep my- 
felf iatirely conceal'd, where I was, unlefs I found a 



158 Tbe Life öwi Adventures 0/ 

better Sort of Creatures than Canibals to jnake inyfclf 

kDOwn to. 

Yet I cntcrtain'd fuch an Abhorrence of thc /avage 
Wretches that I have been fpeaking of, and of the 
wretched inhuman Cuftom of cheir devourihg and eac- 
ing one another up» that I continued penfive and fad, 
and kept clofe within my own Circle for almoil two 
Years after this : When I fay my own Circle, J roean' 
by it, my thrce Plantations, »viz. my Caftle, my Coun- 
try-Seat, which I caird my Bower/ and my Inclofure in 
thc Woods ; nor did I lock after this for any other üfe, 
than as an Inclofure for my Goats ; for the Averfion 
which Naturc gavc me to ihefe hellilh Wretches was fuch, 
that I was atfearful of fccing them, as 01 feeing the De- 
vil himfclf ; nor did I fo much as go to look after my 
Boat in all this Time, bat began racher to think of mak- 
ing me another; for I could not think of evcr making 
any more Attempts to bring the other Boat round the 
liland to me, left I (hoald nieet with fome of thofe Crea- 
tures at Sea, in which, if I had ha; pcn'd to have fallen in- 
te their Hands, I knew what would have been my Lot. 

Time however, and the Satisfaktion I had, that I was 
in HO Danger of being difcover'd by thefe People, began 
to wear ofF my Unealinefs about them ; and 1 began to 
live juft in the Tarne com posM manner as before; only 
with this DifFerence, thac 1 us'd more Caucion, and kept 
my Eyes more about me, than I did befbre, leil I ihould 
huppen to be fecn by any of them ; and particularly, I 
was more cautious in £ring my Gun, leil any of them 
on the Ifland (hould happen to hear it; and it was there- 
fore a very good Providence to me, that I had furnifh'd 
myfelf with a tame Breed ofGoats, that J had no netrd to 
hunt any more about the Woods, or ilioot at them ; 
and if I did catch any more of them after this, it was 
by Traps and Snares, as I had done before ; io that for 
two Years after this, I believe, I never firM my Gun 
oncc off, though I never went out without it; and, 
which was more, as 1 had fav'd three Piftols out of the 
Ship, I always carried them out with me, or at leaft 
two of them» fticking them in my Goat-fkin Belt: I like- 
wife furbifhM up one of the gr<;at Cutlaces that I had 
cat of the Shlp, and made xne a £eh co put it on alfo ; 

fo 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 159 
fo that I was now a moft formidable Fcllow to look at, 
wliea I went abroad, if yoa add 10 the former Dcfcrip- 
tion of myfelf, the Particuiar of two Pifiols, and a great 
broad Sword^ hanging ac my Öide in a Bei:, bat without 
a Scabbard. 

Things going on thus, as I havc faid, for ferne time, I 
feemed, excepcing-thefe Caations, to be reduced to my 
former calm ledace Way of living ; all thefe things tend- 
cd to (hcw me more and more how far my Condition was 
from being niifcrable, compared to fomc others ; nay, 
to many ocher Particulars of Life, which it might have 
p^eafed God 10 have made my Lot. It put me upon re- 
fledling, howliitle repining there would bc amongMan- 
kind, at any Condition of Life, ifPeopIe would rarher 
com^pare their Condition with tholc that are werfe, in 
Order to be tbankfui, than be always comparing thcm 
wich thofe which are better, to alTill their Murmurings 
anJ Complainings. 

As in my prelent Condition there were not really many 
things which I wanted, (o indeed I thought that the 
Frights I had been in about thefe favage Wretches, and 
the Concern 1 had been in for my own Prefervation, had 
taken off che Edge of my Invention for my own Conve- 
niencies, and i had dropt a good Defign, which I had 
once bent my Thoughts upon ; and that was, to try if I 
coald not make fome of my Barley into Malt» and then 
try to brew myfelf fome Beer : This was really a whim- 
fical Thought, and 1 reprov'd myfelf often for the Sim- 
plic<ty of it ; for I prefently faw there would be the 
Want of feveral things neceflary to the making my 
Beer, that it would be impoßible for me to fupply ; as» 
üxR, Cafks to preferve it in, which was a thing that, 
as I have obferv^d already, I could never compafs ; no» 
tho' I fpent, not many Days, but Weeks, nay, Months» 
in attcmpting it, but to no Purpofe. In the next place, 
I had no Hops to make it kecp, no Yeft to make it work, 
no Copper or Kettle to make it boil ; and yet, had not 
all thefe things intervenM, I mean the Fri^^hts and Ter- 
rors I was in about the Savages, 1 had undertaken it, 
and perhaps brought it to pafs too ; for I feldom gave 
any thing over without accomplilhing it, when I once 
had it in my Head enough to begin it. 



Uli' iiiy lM"*M'i'ii t MW i;»»i f|Mi'f ;irifirher Way ; f'ir 
Ni,'fif ;»r (i \)\y \ f ' iiM fltir-l- ff in.fliitijr. Iiui li'iw I iii-^ht 
«l-ltf y l'iiiir rif f|i; Ic Mni'iri' in thcir criiel hlfi'»(ly \.v- 
tr-if,iipiiif II' ; ;ihil, if |iri/lil>ir, ! > ' f itif' ViOirri (ti':y IhrmM 
|.r ii;r liit rr li» ilc llmy. |r vf-nM tflke lip II larger Vo- 
Iii;,.«- ti;-ii fl'f^ v.l. 'iL- W n\\\ \H intendfil %n l»e, \n (' t 
ii'.'.n .■•■l 'li'.- ( 'iiifii".iii* '■'. j Ii rf Im'I, fir rathT brnricJcd 
ir|i"ii in i'.\ I li'jf- i.in, fnr il-c Mr fli*i) ifijF thefp ( rcaturcs, 
fd .1 !i iC- iMi'ji'riin;*^ flirrfi, (n :i<. In picvcn! rhi ir ciTiiriV 
liiil»' r .ri V in'irr ; hilf ;il] wfli nIi'»rMV(' j n^tfiir^ C'.iila 
h" |.f'(lil Ir \n i;i! r l'jH'i'i'J, tiiilffs I UM fo he ihcfc Ifj (In 
\\ III, ((ifi ;irirl wfi.il (Miild nric M-m ilo nnionj^ ih' rn, 
wf f ri |-i;i..|.'. ili'.M- riii;'jil hu l»v< n'y "r fliirly nf »Irrii 
t»ni'»|pr, \Mfri rh" I |i;irf«i, »,r tlirir U"W^ ari'f Aff'V. , 
\^itri wl|irli lli'v f'Milfi llirjnr :is iiuc to A TWnrk, ns f 

f rMi''l V.'lfli iiiy ( iiin } 

f.'iiinMirus I f 'Mifrii'Vl ffi il-;» nn Mole nrrlrr rfif F'I-'f: 
\vl • f ili» V ""■•"de ilirir liif, ;ii'(l piit in fivu nr iix focinds 
i.l ( fiitip' wil'-r, wliiffi, u hui ihcv kindlcrl thi'ir l-irr, 
v.'OmM ( (irifr-tjnriiily f:il-i' f''irr, ;ii»cf lilriw ii|i ;i)l tlia* \\:% 
fi :'i ir : Ihm, ic. in ifi<* fnÜ J'):i(e I Oirjnid lic vciy Imh 
fr. V. r-df (ff riiiirh l'nwcicr njirm thrn», u\) Sf^rt licifig 
II' v/ wi*f»iii tlir ';nnfitify of n fJ.'incI j (o nrlilihr (ould \ 
li« fiTif ui im j»/iiri|i 'ifl ;it nny tcrtjiin 'I'irnr, wfitri i( rnight 
(ii'pii// ilif-rii ; :tnd, nr l.f f), (h;i( it v/oidd do lirrlc rrioie 
iL. .11 jnn Mnv flir rnr jiloiit thiir K«rs, nnd ffij;ht 
rliMfi, hur iiof h'Mi'irni IfMn.'ikr: thcfii forfakc i'i'- 1*1 :(c; 
fo I Iriid if .ifidr, }iiid Hi' ri pioj-nffd, llint I woirM |.1;:(ü 
ih/filf in Anih'iMi, in \uuir (firvcriient I'hir^, v/iin my 
thin« (iiinR ;ill rIoiiMc l(».tilr/|, 'md in the inifhilr of rli«rir 
hlcmdy ( 'fiffriony ht (ly ;ii ilM-m, whrn I flifmld h" fnre 
ffj ki'l "r iv/Miiid f.rihn|n f'.vo or fluM- nt tv ry .Mifiot ; 
und Mirn fjllini', in n|irMi iIimii iviili niytliKC- l'ill'-I., and 
fny .'iword, I r^,1d^ rin |)"iihl h\it fh;il, if flwrr wcc 
tw'fi'y, I fhniild MII fhrni ;ill 'Ihis l'nruy phnftd iny 
'lli'inj'lir-. f>ii (/Fffif V/rilvi, iii.i] I \v;is In / II r»l if, r}i;it 
I ()fr''n 'h'.iint nf ir ; ;ii.<l irttucuin'-^f fli.it I wnu jci/l ^\n- 
JTijf ro hf fly :if rli'in In in/ .ilfp. 

I w'Tif (o f,if wirli ir ,ii tuy Indij'iintinn, lltnt f cm- 
j'Ioy'fl my'^If fr«'rr;il I':iy'., t'i init] rmt |»r'i|.pr l'hfc!* tf; 
j «ir myf' If in Amhuff .i«l/ , ^'. \ f.ii I, in wnu Ii for thrm ; 
and I wciit Irnniicnlly to ihc J'latc itklf, wJiicli wm 



M /F M I M •: 'I M r fMMMi r tf t 

«i'i •' iff»i-.'.»n iff^m ririilti'ir in ifi". Mfnl */;'»-« rill»^ w'liiln »fi/ 
Miii/I t''i ! fffi ! fifl-<f ^"ifh f h'i.i|.».f.t nl >».i»ii.,.M. fi.. 1 /.f 

1 fllrlMif/ |iH»'ifi|« ».""flfl'M» »liifl»" iif llif IM f» if"' ''.AMI»'!! 
IT f fH'll< f illlf ; Inf thr f f iffitf f li I t 1» rl|'< Dir f. Ifpj 
^» f|iM 'in'iiil nf fhr« It'ii li if «irl'i '//»••'•••'•» •l'''«iiiiMp «Hl»* 

•ifi'ifhM, •»•ii'r-l rn I' M'iht »* 

w. M, ir I- n,.f I. f rM.tiiii f n f. M i.. ii, . ';,.i., „I lU" f r,if . 

i"K»'f»« f ^«'1 ; /ffl'-fif'tl ( Mti|4hf r ■Hl. 1/ tV'iiJ fill J / 1 *.' n'i/ 
• .f Ml" M • ii ■ • 'iifiirt|[. Mtirf iiii|<)ir »hl ti, r ■ n N 'fmi« r)i' / 

-.' i'iht t*- f ' ll^ f'« ' MMf ii'i Sil .11-, I Ulli', k' ili , (.-If Hill i'H 

l-.'-i flu I '■' fif I H'i'-j, Iri iH • 'ti ivlii h »Jf»»- \ pt 

n ill'i « I II I' 'liMiliili i't ' mir ■• il H| ' liiiii \- ■ 'i'i I -vli ir« 

I llilyU* in. 'III I llMr-H»!' .iM t^t 11 M i ..Ij- f • .IM|.- Mllll • 'I-'"« 

ffi^ filll '^iili -ii (1,1 if ff |.l r'li M ilii-^ •-.■' I- r I . I if. I.. 

p-fll--». ■! ■ fllfl if ■■•!.. 11 ll « l.f • I fl f,..|. .IjJ.I ll,'|l I 

fPi'ii|I.| fttW fll/ «Ili-iit. iii 'li .1 f i.i' I Tul ^V"ihi'lilijl tUlrl* 

lir f. Uli .f f ll -M M' (lo- f<- ll ';>l M< 

f«i ll.).: f'l-, ■• '). 1, f i.*f.|--.| <.. ^1- I...' flr'. '... .... t 

q, . f r,,,,.|^. f |., .. ,, I , ... r fii'l '■'•, •.. I IM,- ..■ ii- , ^ 
f »f -l..,,! |... i o f I... I. ' . r- I..M . . ■ r I . . I. -1 ,.l, , I;, ,. rt 
«.f 'M.ip^ r.,. it, in I f ..If .11 fi ... (.,, lij. . 11-, II I -.1. .,.r 

f).r« n.'i« .if f'lll .1 ln.l|.-.q . I |l|.. I .. •.!.„,. I t I . . f 

ti\ \4'irN «if'fi 'tfi fftiiilfitl 'if ■: *'tii (liMi i.f rl.i- |ii)i ff 

■i.'r. . f ..Ifl |...t I. I f.l, f'.tf .1-, -1 I. ql. ..|i f ,., Il-lf- l< 

f|. ll. A..»f .11 «I.i- IV.f'.M . . . If I ,1 » ,- . ll 'l... l 

f. Ifl f M •( r • •M-t 'IM I fhll ) ' I. .I...^ f |.l'| I- I ..I, MM .f 
111/ f .'I 'if 'II 

'\f..i f I. ll ilii l.il f|.„ '; 1. .„.. f.. ,„,. f* f,..M. .-..1 

In iiti' fitii, ■.... |>iM ir ii, li.'ii f. . .■!<., .| |i|,. m I - 

t..,» f I .r ■ ■ I,- M ,. .., f ..,. ..I ll. n.M. 

. Im », . 1^ '. .... I,,,. ' . n'.. .. f ■ l> I ,» .,1. ..,1 fllt.-i^ 

f f.' , Im I -r I -..1 f ■■■' . - ..■, f) .-ll • 11, .HM 

f I. .1 f. -■ ( f ■■ ■■■ I. ... M .- I..p .. I ♦.» 

!■ I H ; l< .• t I. .• .. ' « I.. I 'I I •-• 1 , .'' I 



f ». . M 

I. ■■ 
I. . . .,• 

f I 



I . .f. I 



I 



I 



" .■ ', 



,1, 



f . <. 



f'l . ■ J . »1 -l.« 

I, .. I. .. n .• ... '<. . ■■ -1 ^ 

, ... ' .' .11 ■ . .■!' I . i li . ■ 1^ 



\ I ... . .. f I |.' -I-. (..,' I ..1,1 I . ir I.I fli» f fill M« 

I . . . f . f ..1,1 .1 . M ,.■ ilp II, •l'l',. <lU K\{ v\\< V>.» 



i6a Tbi LiPB aml Advbnturks $f 

fign» and 1117 Spiritt fecmed 10 be all the white in a fuiN 
able Frame, for fo oucraseout an Execucion, as the kiU- 
ing twenty or thirty nakedSavages fbr an OHFence, which 
J had not at all enternd intp a DifcuiGon of in myThoughts» 
any further than iny Paffions were at firlt fir<d by the 
Horror I conceiv'd at the unnatural Cuftom of tlie Peo- 

ße of that Country, who, it feeins, had been fuffsred by 
üvidence, in hi$ wife Difpofition of the World» to 
have no other Guide than that of their own abominable 
and vidated Paffions ; and confequently were left, aud 
pcrhaps had been fbr fome Ages, to aA fuch horrid 
things, and receive fuch dreadful Cuiloms, as noching 
but Naturc, intirely abandon'd of Heaven, and a^luated 
by fome helli(h Degeneracy, could have run thera into ; 
Buc now, when, as I have faid» 1 began to be weary of 
the fruitlefs Excurfion which 1 had made fo long, and 
fo fir, every Morning in vain ; fo my Opinion of the 
AAion itfelf began to alter, and 1 began with cooler 
and calmer Thoughts to confider what it was I was go- 
ing to engage in ; what Authority or Call I had, to pre^ 
tend to be Judge and Exccutioner uf>on thefe Men as 
Criminals, whom Heaven had thought üt for fo many 
Ages to fuffer, unpunilhcd, to go on, and to be, as it 
were, the Executioners of his Judgments upon one an- 
other ; alfo how far thefe People were OfFendcrs againft 
me, and what Right 1 had to engage in the Quarrcl of 
that Blood, which they Ihcd promifcucufly one upon an* 
other ; I dcbatcd this vcry often wich mylelf thus ; How 
do 1 know what God himfclf judgcs in this par:icular 
Cafe ? Jt is ceriain thefe People do not commic this as a 
Crime; it is not againll their own Confciences rcproving, 
or their Light reproaching them. They do not know it 
to be an OlFcnce, and thcn commic it in Defiance of du 
vine Juftice, as we do in alnioll a)l the Sins we commit. 
They think it no more a Crime to kill a Captive t;iken 
in War, than we do to kill an Ox ; nor to eat human 
Fleih, than we do to eat Mucton. 

When 1 had conAdcrM this a litde, it followed necefla- 
rily, that I was certainly in the wrong in it ; that thefe 
People were not Murderers in the Senfe that 1 had be- 
fore condemn'd them in my Thoughts, any more than 
thofe Chrillians were Murderers, who ölten put to 
Vcäth the iVübncrs takcu in Bactle» or more frequendy» 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 163 
opon aianj Occafions, pat whole Troops of Men to the 
Sword» without giving Quarter, tho' dicy threw down 
Ütdr Arms, and /ubmitted. 

In the next Place, it occorred to me, that albeit the 
Uläge they gave one another was thus brntiih and in- 
homan, yct it was really nothing to me : Thcfc People 
had done me no Injnry : That if they attempted me, or 
I faw it oeceflary for my im med täte Prefervation to ^11 
apon them, fomething might be faid for ic ; bat that 
I was yct oat of their Power, and they had really no 
Knowledge of me, and confequently no Defign npon me ; 
and therefore it'coold not be juft for me to fall apon 
them : That ihis would juflify the Conda6l of the Sfa- 
miari/s, in all their Barbarities pra^ifed in Jfnerica, where 
they deftroyed Mil'ions of thefe People, who, however . 
th^ were Idolaters and Barbarians, and had feveral 
bloiody and barbaroas Rites in their Cuftoms, fach as fa- 
crificing haman Bodies to their Idols, were yet, as to the 
Sfamards, very innocent People ; and that the roottng 
them cot of the Coantry is fpoken of wich the atmoft Ab- 
borrence aod Deteftation, even by the Sfaniards them- 
felves, at this Time, and by all other Chhflian Nations 
of Eurppe, as a niere Butchery, a bioody and annatural 
Piece of Cruelty, unjuftifiable either to God or Man ; 
and fach, as for which the very Name of a Spaniard is 
jcckoned to be frightful and terrible to all People of Ha- 
manity, orcf Chriftian Compaffion : As if the Kingdom 
of Spain were particularly eminent for the Produft of a 
Race of Men, who were without Principles of Tender- 
Bcfs, or the common Bowels of Pity to the Miferable, 
«rhich is reckoned to be a Mark of a generous. Temper 
in the Mind. 

Thefe Confiderations really pot me to a Paufe, and to 
a kind of a füll Stop ; and I began by little and little to 
be oß of my Defign, and to condude I had taken wrong 
Meafures in my Refolutions to attack the Savages ; tbac 
it was not my'Bufiners to meddle with them, nnlefs they 
firft attacked me, and this it was my Bufinefs, if poffible» 
to prevent; but that, if 1 were difcovered and attacked, 
then I knew my Duty. 

On the other band, I argued with myrelf, that tkis 
really was the Way not to deliver myielf, bat intirelf 
to ruin and deftroy rayfelf s for anleb I W9l^ i>is« Va V^ 



164 The Life and Adventures of 

ercry onc that not only (hould be on Shore at tbatllme, 
bot that fhouM ev^r cotne on Shore afterwards, if but 
one of them efcaped to teil their Country people wHat 
had happencd, thcy would comc over again by Thou- 
fands to revenge thc Death of xheir Fellow^ ; and Ifhould 
only bring upon myfelf a certain Deftruäion, which at 
prefent I had no manner of Occafion for. 

Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in Principles 
nor in Policy, 1 ought one way er other to concern myfelf 
in this Afiair : That my Bufinefs was, by all poflible 
means to conccal myfelf from them, and not to leave the 
Icaft Signal to them to guefs by, that there werc any living 
Crcaturcs upon the IflanJ ; 1 mean of human Shape. 

RcÜjicn joincd in with this Prudential, and I was con- 
vinced novv many ways, that I was perfeÄly out of my 
Daty, when 1 was laying all my bloody Schemes for the 
I>eftrci^ion of innocent Creatures, I mean innocent as to 
nre : As to the Crimes they were guilty of towards onc 
aiiother, f had nothing to do with them ; therc werc na- 
tional Punifhments to make a juft Retribution for na- 
tional Oflfencesj and to bring public Judgments upoa 
thofe who offend in a public Manner, by fuch Ways as 
beft pleafe God. 

This appeared fo clear to me now, that nothing was a 
greater Sacisfaäion to me, than that I had not been fuf- 
fered to do a thing** which I now faw fo much Reafon 
to believe would have been no lefs a Sin, than that of 
wilful Murder, if I had committed it ; and I gave moft 
humble Thanks on my Knees to God, that had thus de- 
livered me from ßlood-guiltinefs ; befeeching him to 
grant me the Proteäion of his Providence, that I might 
not fall into the Hands of Barbarians ; or that I might 
not lay my Hands upon them, unlefs I had a more clear 
Call from Heaven to do it, in Defencc of my own Life. 

In this Difpofition I continued for near a Year after 
this ; and i'o far was 1 from defiring an Occafion for fall- 
ing upon thefe Wretches, that in all that Time 1 never 
once vvent up the Hill to fee whether there were any of 
them in Sight, or to know whether any of them had been 
on Shore there, or not ; that I might not be tempted to 
renew any of my Contrivances againft them, orbe pro- 
voked by any Advantage which might prefent itfelf, to 
**^ fall 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 165 

fall upon thcm ; only this I did, I went and removed 
my fioat, which I had on the other Side thc Ifland, and 
carried ic down co che £alt-cnd of the whole Ifland, 
whcre I ran ic into a litcle Cove wliibii 1 fbund under 
teue high Rocks, and where i kncw, by rt-afon oF che 
Currencs, che Savagcs durll noc, acleall vvould noc, come 
wich cheir Boacs, upon any Accounc whacibcver. 

Wich my Boac I carried away every ching chac I had 
If ft ibcre belonging xo her, cho' not ncceftiiry tor thc bare 
going thither; via, a Malt and Sail, whieh I had made 
?or her, and a thing like an Änchor, buc indeed, which 
could noc be calied eicher Anchor or Graplingi however, 
ic was che befl I (fould make of ics kind. All thefe I re< 
jnovcd, Chat there mighc not be che Icail Sliadow of any 
Difcovery, or any Appearance of any Boat, or of any 
Habitacion upon the llland. 

Befides chis, I kept myfelf, as T faid, more recir'd tban 
cver, and feldom went from my Cell, ocher than upon 
zny conilant Employmenc, o/zs. co milk my She-Goats» 
aod manage my liccle Flock in che Wood ; which, as it 
was quite on che ocher Part of the ifland, was quice out 
of Daoger : For cercain ic is, chac chcle favage People, 
who fomecimes haanted chis Ifland, never came wich any 
Thou^hcs of £nding any tbing her«, and confequendy ne- 
ver waiidcr'd off from che Coaft ; and I doubt boc, but 
they mighc have been feveral times on Shorc, afcer my 
ApprehenAons of ehern had made me caucious, as well 
as before ; and indeed, I look'd back wich fome Horror 
upon che Thoughts of whac my Condicion would have 
bcen, if I had chopp*d upon them, and been difcoverM 
before chac, when naked and unarmM, excepc wich one 
Oun, and that loaded ofcen only wich .fmall Shot. I 
walked every where« peeping and peering about the 
Ifland, Co fee what I could ^^ec ; What a Surprize Ihould 
1 have been in, if» when Idilcovered the Print of a Man*8 
Foot, 1 had inftead ofthat feen fifceen or twenty Savages, 
and found them purfuing me, and, by the Swifcnels of 
their running, no Foffibility of my efcaping xhem ! 

The Thoughts of this (ometimes funk my very Soul 
wichin roe, and diilref;>'d my Mind fo much, chat I could 
not foon recover it ; to think what I fliould have done» 
and how I not only üiould not have been able to-reftft 



i66 7J/ LiFB and Advestvkbs q/ 

them, buc even (hould not htve had Prefence of Mind 
enoagh to do whac I might have done; much lefs» what 
now after fo much Confideration and Preparation 1 might 
be able to do. Indeed, afcer ferious chinking of thefe 
things, I would be very melancholy, and ibmetimes it 
would lall a great while; but I refölv'd it at lad all into 
Thankfulnefb to that Providence which had delivered me 
from fo many uufeen Dangers, and had kept me from 
thofe Mil'chiefs, which J could no way have been the 
Agent in delivering myfelf from ; becaai'e I had not the 
leatl Nocion of any fuch thing depending, or the leaft 
Suppoütion of its being poffible. 

l'his renew^d a Contemplation, which often had come 
to my Thoughts in former Time, when firfl I began 
to fee the merciful Difpofitions of Heaven, in the Dan- 
gen we ran through in this Life ; how wonderfully we 
are deliver'd when we know nothing of it : How when 
we are in a ^uan/iaty (as we call it) a Doobt or Heiita- 
tioDy whether to go this Way» or that Way, a fecret 
Mint ihall diredt us this Way, when we intended to go 
that Way ; nay, when Senfe, oar own Inclination, and 
perhaps Buüneis, has called to go the other Way» yet a 
flrange Impreflion upon the Mind, from we know not 
what Springs, and by we know not what Power, ihall 
over-rule us to go this Way ; and it ihall afterwards 
appear, that had we gone that Way which we would have 
gone, and even to our Imagination ought to have gone, 
we (hould have becn ruined and loft : Upon thefe, and 
many like Refle^ions, I afterwards made it a certaia 
Rule wiih me, that whenevcr I found thofe fecret Hints, 
or Prelfings of roy Mind, to doing or not doing an^ 
thing that prcfented, or to going this Way, or that Way, 
I nevcr failed to obey the iecret DiAate ; tho' I knew no 
other Reafon for it, than that fuch a Prcflure, or fuch an 
Hint, hung upon my Mind : I could give many Exam- 
ples of the Succefs of this Conduft in the Courfe of my 
Life ; but more efpecially in the latter Part of my inha- 
biting this^unhappy Ifland ; befides many Occafions 
^hich it is very likely I might have taken notice of, if 
1 had feen with the famc Ryes then, that I faw with now: 
■ßut 'tis never too iate to be wife ; and I cannot but ad- 
^ile all conüdering Men, whofc Lives are attended with 
Ik. fuch 



ROBINSONCRUSOE. 167 
'fach extraordinary Incidents as mine, or even though 
not (o excraordinary, not co flight fuch fecrec Intimadons 
of Providence, Ict thcm comc from what invifible Intel- 
ligence they will ; that I (hall not difcufs, and perhaps 
cannct account for ; but certainly they are a Proof of 
the Converfe of Spirits, and the Teeret Communicatiön 
between thofe erobodied, and thofe unembodied ; and 
fuch a Proof as can nevcr be withftood : Of which I 
/hall have Occafion to give fome very remarkable In- 
ilancesy in theRemainder of my folitary Refidence in this 
difmal Place. 

I bclieve the Reader of thiswill not think it ftrange, if 
I contiefs that thefe Anxieties, thefe conllant Dangers [ 
lived in, and the Concern that was now upon me, puc 
an End to all Invention, and to all the Contrivances 
that I had laid for my future Accommodations and Con- 
veniencies. I had the Carc of my Safety more now 
npoD my Hands, than that of my Food. I cared not 
to drivc a Nail, or chop a Stick of Wood now, for fear 
the Noife I fhould make (hould be heard ; much lefs 
would I fire a Gun, for the fame Reafon ; and, above 
all, I was very nneafy at making any Fire, lefl the Smoke, 
which 18 viüble at a great Diftance In the Day, fhould 
betray mc ; and for this Reafon I removed that Part of 
xny Bafinefs, which r^quired Fire, fuch as bnrning of 
Pots, and Pipes, ^c, into my ncw Apartment in the 
Woods ; where after I had been fome time, 1 found, to 
my nnfpcakable Confolation, a mere natural Cave in the 
Earth, which went in a vaft Way, and where, I dare 
fsLYf no Savage, had he been at the Mouth of it, would 
be fo hardy as to venture in, nor irdeed would any Man 
clfe, but one who, like me, wanted nothing fo much at 
a fafe RetreaL 

The Mooth of this Hollow was at the Bortom of a 

freat Rock, where, by mere Accident (I would fay, if 
did not fee an abundant Reafon to afcribe all fuch things 
now to Providence) I was cutting down fome thick 
'Brauches of Trees to make Charcoal ; and before I go 
on, I muft obferve the Reafon of my making this Char- 
coal, which was thus : 

I was afraid of making a Smoke about my Habita- 
tionj as I faid befcre ; and yct l couid not live there 
withoat baking my Bread, cooking xn^ IA.^^\^ läc. V^\ 



i68 7^ Life ^J Aov£NTUREs ^ 

contrived to burn fome Wood here, as I had (een done 
in England under Turf, tili it becäme Chark» or dry Coali 
and then putting the Fire out, I preferved the Coal to 
carry home, and per form the other Services, which Fire 
was wanting for at home, without Danger or Smoke. 

£ut this by che bye : Whiie I was cuccing down fome 
Wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick firanch 
of low Brufh wood, or Under. wood, there was a kind 
of hollow Place : I was curious to look into it, and get- 
ting with DifTiculty into the Mouif^ of it, I found it was 
pretty large, that is to fay, fufficient for me to ftand up- 
light in it, and perhäps another wich me; bat I muil con* 
fel's to yo(i, I made more haue out chan I did in ; when 
looking further into the Place, which was perfe^y dark, 
I faw two broad (liining Eyes of fome Creature, whecher 
Devil or Man, I knew not, which twinkled like two 
Stars, the dim Light from the Cave's Mouth ihining di- 
re^Iy in, and making the Reflexion. 

However, after fome Paufe, I recovered myielf, and 
began to call vci'jitM a thoufand Fools, and teil myfelf, 
that he that was afraid to fee the Devil, was not fit to 
live twenty Years in an liland all alone, and that I dürft 
Vb believe there was nothing in this Cave that was more 
frightful chan myfelf: Upon this, plucking up my Cob- 
rage, I took up a lar^e Firebranci, and in 1 ru(h*d again, 
with the Stick üaming in vs\y Hand: I bad not gone 
three Steps in, but I was almoll as much frighten'd as 
I was before ; for I heard a very loud Sigh, like that of 
a Man in fome Pain ; and it was followed by a broken 
Noife, as if of Words half exprcfs'd, and then a deq) 
Sigh again : I (lepped back, and was indeed &-ttck with 
fuch a Surprize, that it put me into a cold Swe^t ; and 
if I had had an Hat on ii\Y Head, I will not anfwer for 
it, that my Hair might not have lifted it oiF. fiut (lill 
plucking up my Spirits as well as I could, and encoa- 
raging myfelf a litde, with confidering that the Power 
and Prefcnce of God was every-where, and was able 
to proteft me ; ^upon this I llepped forward again, and 
by the Light of the Firebrand, holding it up a littlc 
over my Head, I faw lying on the Ground a moft mon- 
ftroos frightful old He-Goat, iuft making his Will, as 
we fay, gafping^for Life, and dying indeed of mere old 



ROBINSON CRySOE. 169 

I ßirred liiin a llttle to fee if I could get him oat, and 
he eifayed to gec up, bot was not able to raife himfelf ; 
and I thoueht with myfelf» he might e*en lie there ; for 
if he had fnghten'd me fo, he would certainly fright any 
of the Savagesy if any of them ihould be fo hardy as to 
come in there» white he had any Life in him. 

I was now recovered from iny Surprife, and began to 
look roand me, when I foand the Cave was bat very 
fmall ; that is to fay» it might be about tweive Peet over, 
bot in no manner of Shape, either round or fquare, no 
Hands having ever been employ'd in making it, but 
chofe of mere Nature : I obferved alfo, that there was a 
Place at the farther Side of it that went in farther, but, 
fo low, that it required me to creep upon my Hands and 
Xnees to get inco it, and whither it went, I knew not p 
fo having no Candle, I gave it over for fome time, but 
refolved to come again the next Day, providcd with Can- 
dles and a Tinder box, which I had made of the Lock of 
ooe of the Mufquets, with fome Wildfire in the Pan. 

Accordingly, the next Day, I came provided with 
fix large Candles of my own making, for I made ver/ 
göod Candles now of Goat's Tallow ; and, going into ^ 
this low Place, I was oblieed to creep apon all Fours» * 
at I have faid, almoft ten Yards ; which, by the way» 
I thoQght was a Venture bold enough, confiderlng tkat I 
knew not how far it might go, or what was beyond it : 
When I was eot thro' the Streight, I found the Roof rofe 
higher up, f believe near twenty Feet ; but never was 
fach a glorions Sight feen in the Ifland^ I dare fay, as ic 
waa, to look round the Sides and Roof of this Vault or 
Caye : The Walls refleded an handred thoufand Light« 
tö me from my two Candles ; what it was in the Rock« 
whether Diamonds, or any other precious Stones, or 
Gold, which I rather fappofed It to be, I knew not. 

The Place I was in was a moft delightful Cavicy, or 
Grotto, of its kind, as could be expefted, thou^h per- 
fdOly dark ; the Floor was dry and level, and h'*d a fort 
of fmall loofe Gravel upon it ; fo that there was no nau* 
feous Creature to be feen ; neither was there any Damp 
or Wet on the Sides of the Roof: The only DifHculty in 
it was the Entrance, which, however, as it was a Place 
of Seciirity, and fach a Retreat as I wanted» l üv^xx^x. 

Vofc. I, H ^^\ 



170 The Life and Aoventures $/ 
that was a Convenience ; (o that I was really rejoiced 
at the Discovery, and refolved, withoot any Delay, to 
bring Tome of thofe things which I was moft anxious 
about, to this Place ; particularly, I refolved to bring 
hitber roy Magazine ofPoWder, and all my fpare Arms, 
'viz, two Fowiing-pieces (for I had three in all) and 
three Mufquets (for of thcm I had eight in all ;) fo I kept 
at my Callie only five, which ftpod ready mounted, like 
Pieccs of Cannon, on my oütmofl Fcnce ; and were rea- 
dy alfo to take out upon any Expedition. 

Upon this Occafion of removing my Ammunidon, I 
was obliged to open the Barrel of Powder which I took 
up out of the Sea, and whick had been wet ; and I 
found, that the Water had penetrated about three or four 
Inches into the Powder on every Side, which, caking and 

frowing hard, had preferved the Infide like a Kerielnn a 
hell ; fo that 1 had ncar fixty Pounds of very good Pow- 
der in the Centre of che Cafk; and this was an agreeable 
Difcovery to me at that Time; fo I carried all away th'i- 
thcr, never keeping abovc two or three Pounds of Powder 
with me in my Caftle, for fear of a Surprifc of any Kind.- 
I alfo carried thither all the Lead I had left for Bullets. 

I fanfied myfelf now like one of the antient Giants, 
which were faid to live in Caves and Holes in the Rocks, 
wbere none could come at them ; for I perfuaded myfelf, 
while I was here, if üve hundred Savages were to hunt 
me, they cculd never find me out ; or if they did, they 
would not venture to attack me here. 

The old Goat, which J found expiriog, died in ,thc 
Mouth of the Cave, the next Day after I made this Dif- 
covery i and i found it much eafier to dig a great Höfe 
there, ard throw him in, and cover him with Eartb, 
than to drag him out : So I interred him there, to prc- 
vent Offence to my Nofe. 

1 was now inmy twtnty-thirdYearof Refidence in tbie 
Ifland, and was fo naturalizedto the Place, and totheMan- 
ner of living, that could I have butenjoyed the Certainty, 
that no Savages would come to the Place to dillurb me, I 
could have been content to have capitulated for fpending 
thw rJÄ of mvTime there, even to the laft Moment, tili I 
had Lud me down and dicd,like the oldGoat, in the Cave; 
ILad alio anived to fomelittleDiverüons and Amafements, 

which 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 171 

which made ehe Time pafs more pleafAntl/ with me a great 
deal than it did before ; as, firft, I had taughc my Po/, as I 
noted before, tofpeak ; and he did itfofamiliarly, and talked 
{o articulately and plain, that it was very pleafant to me; 
and he lived with me no lefs than iix-and-twenty Years : 
How long he might live afterward s, I knew not; tho' 
I know they have a Notion in the Braßh, that they live 
an handred Years; perhaps Tome of my ?oh may be alive 
there füll, calling aftcr Poor Robin Crufie to this Day ; I 
wifli no EnglißmoH the ill Luck to come there and hear 
them ; but if he did, he would certainly believe it was 
the Devil. My Dog was a very pleafant and loving Com- 
panion to me for no lefs than fixteen Years of my Time, 
and then died of mere old Age ; as for my Cats, they 
jnultiply^d, as I have obferv'd, to that Degree, that £ 
was obliged to (hoot feveral of them at fird, tokeepthem 
ftom devouring me, and all I had ; but at length^ whea 
the two old onea I brought with me were gone, and af« 
ter fomeTime continually driving them from me,and let- 
tlng them have no Provifion with me, they all ran wild 
into the Woods, except two or three Favourites, which 
I kept tarne, and whofe Young, when they had any, I 
always drowncd, and thefe were Part of my Family : 
Befides thefe, I always kept two or three Houfhold Kids 
aboat me, which I tanght to feed out of my Hand ; and 
I had alfo more Parrots, which talked pretty well, and 
woold all call Robin Crufie^ bat none like my fird ; nor, 
indeed, did I take the Pains with any of them that I had 
donewithhim: I had alfo feveral tame Sea-fowls, whofe 
Names I know not, which I caught upon the Shore, and 
cat their Wings ; andi(he little Stakes, which I had plant* 
cd before my CaiUe-Wall, being now grown np to a good 
thickGrove, thefe Fowls all lived among thefe low Trees« 
and bred there, which was very agreeable to me ; fo thaf« 
as J faid above, I began to be very well contented with 
the Life I led, if it might but have been fecured from the 
Dread of the Sa vages. 

Bat it was otberwife direfled ; and it may not be 
amifs for all People who (hall meet with my Story, to 
make this juft Obfervation from it; <vi7^. How frequently, 
in the Courfe of our Lives, the Evil, which in itfelf 
we feek xnofi to fbun» and which, whea v« ^ ^t^ ^i^^ti. 

H 2 v^\.o» 



172 Tki Life änd Adventures of 
into, is the mofl droadful to us, is ofteatimes the very 
Ji^eans or Door of our Deliverance, by which aione we 
can be raifed again from tbe AfHidion we are fallen into: 
I could give many Examples of this in the Courfe of my 
unaccountable Life ; but in nothing was it more parti- 
cularly remarkable, than in the CircumiUnces of my laA 
Years of folitary Refidence in this Mand. 

It was now the Month of December^ as I iaid above, 
in my twenty-third Year; and this being the Soathem 
Solftice» for Winter I cannot call it, was the particular 
Time of my Harveft, and required my being pretty 
much abroad in the Fields ; when going oat pretty 
early in the Morning, even befbre it was thoroogh Day- 
light, I was furprifed with feeing a Light of fome Fire 
upon the Shore, at a Diflance from me of about two 
Miles, towards the End of the liland, where 1 had ob- 
ferv*d fome Savages had been, as before ; bat not on the 
other Side ; but» to my great Afflidion, it was on my 
Side of the liland. 

I was indeed terribly furprisM at the Sight, and ftoppM 
fhort within my Grove, not daring to go oat, left I might 
be furpris'd ; and yet I had no more Peace withiQ« from 
the Appreheniions I had, that if thefe Savages, in nun- 
bling over the Ifland, (hould find my Com ftanding» or 
cut, or any of my Works and Iraprovements, they woold 
immediately condude, that there were People in the 
Place, and would then never give over tili they fbond 
me out : In this Extremity \ went back direAly to my 
Caftle, paird up the Ladder after me, having made all 
things without look as wild and natural as I couldi. 

Then I prepar'd myfelf within, putting myd^ in a 
'Poilure of Defence ; I loaded aihmy Canaon» as I called 
them, that is tojay^ my Mufquets, which were moonted 
upon my new . Fortificatioa, and all my Piftols, and re- 
folved to defend myfelf to the lad Gafp ; uot forgetting 
fericuily to recommend myfelf to the Divine Protedion, 
and earneßly to pray to God to deliver me- oat of the 
Hand^ of the Barbarians ; and in this Poflure I continnM 
about two Hours, but bcgan to be mighty impatient fbr 
IntelUgence abroad, for I had no Spies to fend oat. 

After fitting a while longer, and mafing what I 
i\:oM do in this Cafei I was not able to bear fitting in 

Jgnorance 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 173 

Ignorance longer ; fo fettinff np my Ladder to the Side of 
the Hili,where there was ä flat Place, as I obferved before, 
and thehpulling the Ladder up after nie, I fet itup a- 
gain» and mounted to the Top of the Hill ; aod pulling 
oat my PerfpeAive-glafs, which I had taken on Pttrpöfe» 
* I lald ne down flat on my Bell/ on tbe G round, and be- 
gan'to look for the Place ; I prefently found there wcre 
no liefs than nine naked Savages fittin^ round a fmall Fire 
they had made; not to warm them, for they had no Need 
of duty the Weather being extreme hot; but, as I fuppo- 
fed, to drefs fome of their barbarous Diet of human 
Flelhi which they had brought with them^ whethcr alive 
or dead» I could not know. 

They had two Camfes v/ith them» which they had haled 
up upon theShore; and asitwas thenTide of Ebb, they 
feemed to me to wart the Return of the Flood to go away 
again. It is not eafy to imagine what Confufion this Sight 
put me into> efpeeially feeing them come on my Side the 
Ifland, and fo near me too ; but when I obferved their 
Coming inuft be always with the Current of the Ebb, I 
began afterwards to be more fedate in my Mind, being 
fatisfied that I might go abroad with Safety, all the Time 
of Tide of Flood, if they were not on Shore before ; and 
baring made this Obfervation, I went abroad about my 
Harreft-work with the more Compofure. 

As I expedted^ fo it proved ; for as foon as the Tide 
made to the Weftward, 1 faw them all take Boat, and roVir 
(or paddle, as we call it) all away : I fhould have ob« 
fcrvedy that for an Hour and more before they went off*, 
they went to dancin?, and I could eafily difcern their Po- 
fiures and Geflures by my GlafTes : I could not perceive, 
by my niceft Obfervation, but that they were ftark-naked, 
and had not the leafl Coverlng upon them ; but whether 
they. were Men orWomen, thati could not diftinguifh. 

As foon as I faw them (hipped and gone, I took two 
Guns upon my Shoulders, and two Pillols at my Girdie, 
and my great Sword by my Side, without a Scabbard ; 
and with alLthe Speed I was able to make, I went away to 
the Hill, where 1 had difcover'd the firft Appearance of all. 
As foon as Igot thither, which was not lefs than two Hours 
(for I conld not go apace, being fo loaden with Arms as 
I was) I percciveid there had been three Canoes tcioi^ ^\ 

H 3 %«cNVg:.'i 



174 7*^ Life anJ Advestvres of 
Savages ön that Place ; and looking oat forther, I faw 
they were all at Sea togetber, making over for theMaiD. 

This was a dreadful Sight to me, efpecialljr when going 
down totheShore^couldke theMarks of Horrorwhichthe 
difmal Work they had been abouc had left bebind it, *üi%, 
tbeBlood, theBoneSy and Part of the Fiefli of human Bo- 
dies, eaten and devoored by thofe Wretches, with Mem- 
men t and Sport I was fo fiUed with Indignation at the Sight; 
that I began now to premeditate theDeftru^on of the next 
that I faw there, let them be who or how many ibever. 

It feemed evident to me, that the Vifits which they 
thus made to this ifland, were not vety frequent ; for it 
was above hfteen Months before any more of them came 
en Shore there again ; that is to fay^ I never faw them, or 
any Footfleps or Signals of them, in all that Time ; for 
' as to the rainy SeaTons, then they are {üxt not to com« 
abroad, at leail not fo far; yet all this while 1 lived on- 
comfbrtably, by reafon of the conftant Apprehenfions I 
was in of their Coming upon me bySorprife j from whence 
I obfenre, that the Expeäation of Evil is more bitter than 
the SalFering, efpecially if there is no room to (hake off 
thac £xpe(5tation or thofe Apprebeniions. 

During all this Time, I was in the murdering Hamonri 
and took up moft of my Hours, which (hoold have been 
better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and 
fall upob them the very next Time I fhoald fee them ; 
efpecially if they (hoold be divided, as they were tfae laft 
Time, into two Parties ; nor did I confider at all, that if 
\ killed one Party, fuppofe ten or a dozen, I was ftill the 
next Day, or Week, or Month, to kill another, and fo 
another, even aditißintum^ tili I fhoald be at length no 
lefs a Murderer than they were in being Men-eatert» and 
perhaps much more fo. 

I fpent my Days now in grcat Perplexity and Anxiety 
of Mind, expeding that I fhould one Day or othcr fall 
into the Hands of thcfe mercilefs Creatures ; if I did at 
apy Time venture abroad, it was not without looking 
round me with the grearell Care and Caution imaginä- 
re ; and now I found, to my great Comfort, how happy 
it was that I had provided a tarne Flock or Herd of 
Goats ; for I dürft not, upon any account, fire my Gon, 
efpeoid&y near that Side of the Ifland^ where they ufually 

came« 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 175 
came, left I fhould alarm the Savages ; and if they had 
£ed from roe now, I was füre to have them come back 
again^ with perhaps two or three hundred Canoes wich 
tbem in a few Days, and then I knew what to expedl. 

However, I wore out a Year and three Months more» 
before I euer faw any more of the Sa-vages, and then l 
foand them again, as I fhall foon obferve : It is true, 
they might have been there once or twice ; but either 
they made no Sray^ or, ac leaft, J did not hear them ; 
but in the Month of May, as near as I could calculate» 
and in my four-and-twencieth Year, I had a very ürang^ 
Encounter with them, of which in ics Place. 

The Perturbation of my Mind, during this fifteen or 
fixteen Months Intcrvai, was very great; I flept unquiet, 
dreamed always frightful Dreams, and often flarted out 
of my Sleep in the Night; in the Day great Troubles 
overwhelmed my Mind; in the Night 1 dreamed ofcen 
of killing the Savages, and the Reafons why I might 
juftify the doing of it: But to wave all this for a while» 
it was in the Middle of May^ on the fixteenth Day, I 
think, äs weil as my poor wooden Calender would rec- 
ken ; for I marked all upon the Pofl Hill j I Tay, it was on 
the fixteenth of May^ that it biew a very great Storm of 
Wind all Day, with a great deal of Lightning and 
Thunder, and a very foul Night was after it : 1 know 
not what was the particular Occafion of it; but as I was 
Teading in theBible, and taken up vvith feriousThoughts 
about my ^prefent Condition, I was furprifcd with the 
Noife of a Gun, as 1 thought, fired at Sea. 

This was, to be füre, a Surpril'e of a quite different 
Nature from any I had met with before; for the Notions 
this put into my Thoughts were quite of another Kind : I 
fiarted up in the greatefl Hafte imaginable ; and in atrice 
da'pped up my Ladder to the middle Place of the Rock, 
and pullcd it after me, and, mounting it the fecond Time, 

fot to the Top of the Hill ; that very Moment a Flafh of 
irc bad me liften for a fecond Gun, which accordingly in 
about half a Moment I hcard, and by the Sound knew 
that it was from that Part of the Sea where I was driven 
out with theCurrent in my Boat. 

1 itnmediately confider'd, that this muft be fome Shl^j ia 
J^iftrefs« and that they had forneCotatvidCj 01 ^qicä ox^^x 

H 4 ^Vv^ 



176 Tbi Life oimT Adtbntu&es 0/ 

Ship in Company, and fired thefeGans for Signals of Di- 
ftrcuy and to obtain Help : I bad this Prefence of Mind 
«t that Minute» as to think, that tfaoogh I coold not Help 
cbem^ tt may hc they night belp me ; fo I broueht toge-' 
tber all tbe dry Wood I could get at band» and making 
a good bandfcTme Pile, I fet it on Fire upon die Hill ; the 
Wood was dry, and blazed freely, andtbo' the Wind blew 
Tcry hard, yci it burnt fairly out, fo that I was certain, 
if there was any fbch thing as a Ship, tbey muH needs fee 
it, and no doabt they did ; for as foon as ever my Fire 
blazed up, I heard another Gun, and after that feverat 
dtbers, all from the famc Quarter. I ply'd my Fire alf 
Night long, tili Day broke ; and when it was broad Day, 
and the Air cleared up, I faw fomething at a great Di- 
ftance at Sea, füll Eaft of the Ifland, whether a Sail, or 
an HuII, I could not diftinguifh, no not with my GlafTes, 
the Diftance was fo great, and the Weather ftill fomething^ 
hazy alfo ; at leafl it was fo out at Sea, 

I looked frequently at it all that Day, and foon per- 
ceived that it did not move ; fo I prefently concluded, that 
itwas aShip at Anchor; and being eager, yoü may be 
fare, to be fatisfied, I took my Gun in my Hand, and 
ran towards the Soutb-eaß Side of the Ifland, to the Rocks, 
where I had been formerly carried away with the Cnrrent j 
and getting up there, the Weather by this tfme being per- 
feftly clear, I could plainly fee, to my great Sorrow, the 
Wreck of a Ship caft awayjn the Night upon thofe con- 
cealed Rocks which I found when I was out in my Boat ; 
and which Rocks, as they checked the Violence of the 
Stream, and made a kind of Counter-flream, orEddy, were 
theOccafionofmyrecovering th'en from the mofl defperate 
hopelefs Condition that ever I had been in all my Life. 

Thus, what is one Man's Safety, is another Man^s . 
Deftru£lion; for it fcems, thefe Men, whoever they 
were, being out of their Knowledge, and the Rocks be- 
ing wholly under Water, had been driven upon them in 
the Night, the Wind blowing hard at E, and E. N. E. 
Had they feen the liland, as I muH necefikrily fuppofe 
they did not, they muH, as I thought, have endeavoured 
to have favcd themfelves on Shore by the Help of their 
Boat ; but their Firing of their Guns for Help, efpcci- 
ÄJJy when they faw, as I imagined, my Fire, fiUed me. 

with 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 177 

with many Thougbts ; Firfl I imagined, that, upon feeing 
my Light, thcy might havc put themfeWes into their 
Boat, and have endeavoured to make the Shore; but that 
the Sea going very high, they might hare been caft away ; 
otherTiAies f imagin'd, thatthcy might-havc loft theirBoat 
before, as might be the Cafe many ways ; as particularly, 
by the breaking of the Sea-upon theit Ship, whic}i many 
Times obiiges Mcn to ftavc, or take iti Pictes their Boat ; 
and fometimes to throw it overboard with their own 
Hands : Ocher Times I imagined, they had fome other 
Ship or Ships in Company, who,- upon the Signals of 
Dilirefs they had made, had takea them up, and car. 
ried them off: Other whiles I ^fied, they wefe all 
gone off to Sea in their Boat, and being hurried away 
by the Carrent that I had bcen formcrly in,!were car- 
ried out into t6c great Ocean, whercthere was nothing 
but Miftry and Periihing i and that perhaps they might 
by this Timethink of ftarving, andof being in a Condi- 
tion to eat one another. . . 

As all thefe were bat Conje^ures at beft. So,, in tht 
Condition I was in, I could do no more than look upoii 
the Mifery of the poor Men, and pity them ; which had 
öill this good Efir£t on my Side, that it gave me mord 
and more Caufe to give Thanks to God,- who had r«l 
happily and comfortably provided for me- in my defolaie 
Condition ; and that of two Ships Companies who wem 
now call away upon this Part of the World, not on^'Life 
fhould be fpared bat mine. I learnt here again'toob- 
fervc, that it is very rare, that the Providence of Gorf^alU 
US into any Condition of Life fo low, df any Mifery (o 
great, but we may fee fomething or other to be thankfal for, 
and may fee others in worfeCircumflances than our own. 

Such certainly was the Cafe of thefe Men, of whom I 
could not fo much as fee room to fuppofe any of them weie 
faved; nothing could make it rational, fo much as to widi 
or exped that they did not all perilh there,' except the 
Poffibility only of their being t&ken up by another Ship ia 
Company: And this was but merePoffibilityindeed; for 
I faw not the leaft Signal or Appearance of any fuch thing« 

I cannot explain, by any poffible Energy of Words, 
and a drangen Long ing, or Hankerine of Defire, I fdt 
in my Soul upon mis Sight ; brea}cmg oat fotcctxW^^ 

H 5 vwc^<* 



-■. >•_ 



178 Thi Life tf«/ Adventüres öf 
thus : O that there had been but one or two, naj» or bat 
one Soul faved out of the Ship, to have efcaped to me, 
that I might but have had one Companion, one Fellow- 
Creature, to have ipoken to me, and to have conversM 
with ! In all the Time of my folitary Life, I never feit fo 
carneft, fp ftronga Defire after the Society of my FcUow- 
Creatures, or fo dccp a Regret at the Want of it. 

There are fome fecret moving Springs in the AfTeÄions, 
which, when they arc fet a going by fomeObjeft in View, 
or be it fotne Objed, though not in View, yet rendered 
prcfent to the Mind by the Power of Imagination, that 
Motion carries out the Soul by its Impetuofity to fuch vi- 
olent, eager £mhracings:^of the Objeft, thät the Abfencc 
of it is infupportable. 

Such were thefe earnefr Wilhings, That but one Man 
had been faved! Otbatit had been but One! I bclieve I 
repeated the Words, O that it had been but One ! a thoufand 
Times ; and my Defires.were h moved by itj^that when I 
fpoke the Words, lyiy Hands would clinch together, and 
ray Fingers prcfs the Palms of my Hands, that if I had 
had any foft thing in my Hand, it would have crufhed it 
involuntarily ; and my Teeth in my Head would ftrike 
together, avi fet againil one another fo flrong, thac for 
fome Time 1 could not part them again. 

Let the Naturalifls exptain thefe things, and the Reafon 
aud Manner of them : AU I can Tay of them, is, to defcrib« 
theFaft, which was eyer furprifmg to me when I found ic; 
tho' I knew not from what it (hould proceed ; it was doubt- 
lefs the EffeÄ of ardent Wiftesj, and of ftrong Ideas formed 
in my Mind, reallzihg the Comfort Which the Converfation 
ofone of my Fellow-Chriftians would have been to me. 

But it was not to be; either their Fate, or mine, or 
both, forbad it ; for tili the lad Year of my beiog on this 
Ifland, I never knew, whether any were faved out of 
that Ship or no; and had only the Affliftion fome Days 
after, to fee theCorpfe of a drown'd Boy come on Shore, 
at the End of the Ifland, which was next the Shipwreck: 
He had on no Cloaths, but a Seaman's Waiflcoat, a Pair 
of open-knecd Linen Drawers, and ablue Linen Shirt; 
but nothing to direkt me fo much as to guefs what Nation 
Jie was of : Hc had nothing in his Pocket but two Pieces 
cfKight, and a Tobacco-pipe ; the lad was to me of tcn 
Times more Value tliwi üie Cvtft.. It 



R;0$»rNSON CRUSOE. 179 

^ Tt w;i$ notv^ca'in, aad I had a;?!"?^^ Mind to venture 
out in my*ßoat to this Wreck, «btf'äöubting but I might 
findTotiitt'hing on board, thac riiijhc b'e üfeful to me ; but 
fhat did not altogethcr prefs me fo much, as the Poflibili- 
iy thät there might be yet fome living Creature on board, 
tvhdie Life I might not only fave, but might, by faving 
that Life, comfort my bwn to the laß Degree : .Äpid this 
Thought clung fo to my Heart, that I could not be quiec. 
Night nor Diy, but I muil venture out in my Boat oa 
board this Wreck ; and committing the reft to God's Pro- 
vidence, I thought the Impreflion was fo llrong upon my 
Mind, that it could not be refifted, that it muft come frpm 
fome invifible Diredlion, and that 1 Ihould be wantiiig to 
myfelf, if I did not go. 

ünder the Power of this Impreflion, I haftened back to 
my Caflle, prepared every thing for my Voyage, took ä 
Quantity of Bread, a jjreat Pot for frefli Water, a Compafs 
to Heer by, a Botcle of Rum (for I had Hill a great dealof 
that left) a Baiket füll of Raifins : And thus loading my- 
felf with every thing neceflary, I went down to my Boat, 
got the Water out of her, and got her afloat, loaded all 
my Cargo in her, and then went home again for morc : 
My fecond Cargo was a great Bag füll of Rice, the Üm- 
brella to fet up over my Head for Shade, another largf 
Pot füll of frefti Water, and about tWodozenof my fmall 
Loat'es, orBarley-Cakes, morethan before, with a Bottle 
of Goat's Milk, and a Checle ; all whicb, with g'^eat La- 
bour and Sweat, I brought to my Boat ; and praying to 
God to direft my Voyage, I put out, and rowlng or pad- 
dling the Cafioe along the Shöre, I came at laft to the ut- 
moft Point of the Ifland, on that Side ; viz. N. E. And 
now, I was to launch out into the Ocean ; and either to 
venture, or not to venture; I looked on the rapid Currents 
which ran conftantly on both Sides of the Ifland, at a ' 
Diftance, and whicfh were very terrible to me, from the 
Remerabrance of the Hazard I had been in before, and 
my Heart began to fail me; fori forefaw, that if I was 
driven into either of thofe Currents, 1 fhould be carried a • 
vaft Way oughttoSea, and perhaps oüt of my Reach, or 
Sightof the Ifland again ; and that then, as friy Boat was 
i>ut fmall, if any little Galc of Wind fliou.d rife, 1 fliould 
bc inevitably loft. 

H 6 ^VV^ 



i8o Thi Life i7ni Adventures ef 

Thefe Thpughts fo opprefs'd my Mind/thac I began 
to give over my Enterprife, and having haled my 
Boat into ' a little' Creek on the Shore, I flepped out» 
and Tat me^down upon a little Spot of rifing Grooad, 
very penfive and anxious» between Fear and Defire about 
my Voyage ; when as I was muüng, I could perceive 
that the Tide was tarned, and the Flood caroe on» 
npon' wbich my going was for fo many Hours imprac- 
.ticabljB,; Vfon this itpr.efently occarred to me, that I 
ihould 'go ap to the higheil Piece of Ground I could 
£hd, 4nd obfetve, if I could, how the Sets of the Tide 
or Currents lay^ when the Flood came in, that I might 
judge whether, if I was driven one Way out, I might not 
c^pefl to be driven anothcr Way home, with the fame 
Rapidnefs of the Currents : This Thought was no fooner 
in my Head, but I caft my Eye upon a little Hill which 
fufficienily overlooked the Sea both Ways, and from 
wherfce I had a clear View of the Currents, or Sets of the 
Tide, and which Way I was to guide myfelf in my Re- 
turn : Here I found, that as the Uurrent of the Ebb fec 
cht clofe by the South Point of the Ifland, fo the Current 
of the Flood fet in clofe by the Shore of the North-fidc ; 
and that I had nothing to do but to keep to the North of 
the Ifland in my Return, and I ihould do well enough. 

Encourag'd with this Obfervation, I refoly'd the next 
Morning to fet out with the firft of the Tide i and re- 
pofing myfelf for that Night in the Canoey under the 
great Watch-coat I mention'd, I launched out j I made 
ürft a little out to Sea füll North, tili I began to feel 
the Bencfit of the Current, which fet Eaflwards, and 
which carried me at a great Rate, and.yet did not io 
Äurry mc as the Southern Side Current had donc beforc, 
and fo as \q take from me all Government of the Boat ; 
out having a ftrong S teerage with my Paddle, I wem, I 
f^* at a great Rate, diredly for the Wreck, and in Icfa 
tban twa Hours I came up to it. 

, It was a difmal Sight tp look at ; The Ship, which by 
*ts Building was Spaniß^ ftuck faß, jambed in between 
^^?^*^ocks ; all the Stern and Quarter of her was beaten 
}? Pieces with the Sea } and as her Forecaflic, which 
fc "^SLt ^^ ^^® ßocks, had run on with great Violence» 
f»crMain.inafl; andForc-maft wcrc brought by the Board, 
6 tha( 



ROBINSON CRUS O E. i8i 
tbat is to fay, broken Ihort ofF, but her Bow-fprit was 
found, and che'Head and Bough appeafd ürm : When 
I came clofe toher, a Dog appear'd upon her, which, fee- 
ing me Coming, yelp'd and cry'd, and as foon as I called 
him» iumpM into the Sea, to come to me ; and I took 
him into the Boat, but found him almo(l<iead for Hunger 
andThirfl: I gavehim aCake of my Bread, and he eat 
like a ravenous Wolf, that had been üarving a Fortnight 
in the Snow : I then gave the poor Creature fome frefli 
Water, with which, if I would have let him, he would 
have borfl himfelf. 

After this I went on board ; the firft Sight I met 
with, was two Men drown'd in the Cook-room, or 
Forecaftle of the Ship, with their Arms faft about one 
another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that whea 
the Ship druck, it being in a Storm, the Sea broke fo ^ 
high, and fo continuaily over her, that the Men were 
not able to bear it, and were ilrangied with the conftaot 
rulhing in of the. Water, as niuch as if they had been 
under Water : Befides the Dog, there was oothing left 
in the Ship that had Life, npr any Goods that I could fee, 
bat what were fpoil'd by the Water : There were fome 
Caiks of Liquor, whether Wine or Brandy, I knew not^ 
which lay lower io the Hold, and which, the Water be- 
ing ebb'd out, I could fee ; but they were too big tO 
jneddle with : I faw feveral Chefts, which I believ'd be- 
long'd to fome of the Seamen, and I got two of them 
into the Boat» without examining what was in them. 

Had the Stern of the Ship been fix*d, and the Fore* 
part broken off, I am perfuaded I might have made a 
good Voyage ; for by what I fbnnd in thefe two Chefts; I 
had room to fuppofe the Ship had a great deal of Wealth 
on board ; and if I may gaefs by the Conrfe ihe fteer'd, 
ihe mafl have been bound from the Bmnts Ajre$, or the 
^0 de la Plata, in the Sooth Part of America, beyond 
ÜtitBraßh, to the Havanna, in the Gulph oi Mexico, and 
fo perhaps toSpain: Shehad, nodoubt, a great Treafure 
in her, but of no Ufe at that Time to anyb^y ; and what 
became of the reftof herPeople, I then knew not. 

I found» befides thefe Chefts, a little Ca(k füll of Lt.. 
quor, of aboat twenty Gallons, which I got into my 
Boati with mach Difficolty ; There were fevesa.l^>df[5a;^e.^ 



i82 Thi Life and- Adv£Ntures of 

in a CabiD, and a greac Powder-horn, with about foar 
Pounds of Powder in it ; as for the Mufqaecs, I had no 
Occafion for them, fo I left them, but took the Powder. 
hörn : 1 took a Fire-(hovel and Tongs, which 1 ivanted 
cxtremely ; as allb two lictle brafs Kettles, a copper Pot 
to make Chocolate, and a Gridiron ; and wich chis Cargo, 
and the Dog, I came away, the Tide beginning to make 
home again; and the fameEvening, about an Hoar with- 
in Night, I reachM the ifland again, weary and fatigu'd 
to the laft Degrce. 

I repos'd that Night in the Boat, and in the Morning 
I rcfolv'd to harbour what 1 had gotten in my new Cave, 
not to carry it home to my Caftle : After refrefhing my- 
fclf, I got all my Cargo on Shore, and began to examine 
the Particulars : The Ca(k of Liquor 1 found to be aKind 
of Rum, but not fuch as we had at the Brafils ; and in a 
Word, not at ail good ; but when I came to open tht 
Chells, I found feveral thing • which I wanted : For Ex- 
ample, I found in one a fine Cafe of Bortles, of an cxcra- 
ordinary Kind, and fiiled with Cord ial Waters, fine, and 
vcry good ; the Boules held about three Pints cacli, and 
wcre tipped with Silver ; I found two Pots of vcry good 
Saccades, or Sweetmeats, fo faften'd alfo on the Top, thal 
the Salt Water had not hurt them; and two more of the 
fame, which the Water had fpoiPd : 1 found fome very 
good Shirts, which were v^xy welcome to me, and about 
adozen and an halfof white Linen Handkerchiefs, and 
colour'd Ncckcloths; the former were alfo very welcome, 
being exceeding refrefhing to wipe my Face in ao hot 
Day ; befides this, when 1 came to the Till in the Chefts, 
I found there three great Bags of Pieces of Eight, which 
held about eleven hundred Pieces in all; and in one of 
them, wrapt up in a Paper, fix Doubloons of Gold, and 
fome fmall Bars or Wedges of Gold; I .fuppofc the/ 
might all weigh near a Pound. 

The other Chcft I found had fome Cloaths in it, but 
of little Value ; but by the Circumftances it muft have 
belong'd to the Gunner's Mate, though there was no 
Powder in it, but about two Pounds of glaz'd Powder, 
in the three Flaflcs, kept, I fuppofe, for charging 
thcir Fowling pieces on Occafion : üpon theWhole, Igot 
ytry Jittle by this Voyage, that was of much Ufe to me j 

for, 



ROaiNSON CRUSOE. 183 

for, as to thc Money, I had no manner of Occafion for 
it; 'twas to me as the Dirt under my Feec j and 1 would 
have given it all for three or four Pair of Engliß Shoes 
and Scockings, which were things I greatly wanted, but 
had not had on my Feet now for many Year's : I had, 
indeed, gotten two Pair of Shoes now, which I took off 
of the Feet of the two'drown'd Men, whom I faw in the 
Wrcck ; and 1 found two Pair more in one of the Chcfts, 
which were vtry welcome to-me; but they werfe not like 
our £«^///& Shoes, either for Eafe or Service, beingrather 
what WC call Pumps than Shoes: 1 found in this Scraman's 
Cheil about fifty Pieces of Eight in Royais, but no Gold ; 
I fuppofe this belong'd to a poorer Man than the other, 
which feem'd to beiong to fome Officer. 

Well, however, I lugged this Money home to vay 
Cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before, which 
I brought from our own Ship ; but it was great Pity,.as 
I faid, that the other Part of the Ship had not come to 
my Share, for I am fatisfied I might have loaded my Canoe 
feveral Times over wiih Money,which, if I hadeverefcap'd 
to England, would have lain here fafe enough tili I might 
have come again and fetch'd it. 

Having now brought all my things on Shorc, and fe- 
€ur*d them, I went back to my Boat, and row'd or päd* 
dled her along the Shore to her old Harbour, where Maid 
her ^p, and made the beft of my Way to my old Habita- 
tion, where I found every thing fafe and quiet ; fo. I be« 
gan to fepofe myfelf, live after my old Faihion, and take 
carc of my Family Affairs ; and for a while 1 lived cafy 
enough ; only that I was more vigilant than I us'd to be, 
Iook*d out oftener, and did not go abroad fo much ; and 
if at .any time I did flir with any Freedom, it^was always 
to the £aft Part of the Ifland, where I was pretty well 
fatisfy'd the Savages never came, and where J could go 
without fo many Precautions, and fuch a Load of Arms 
and Ammunition, as I always carryM with me, if I went 
thc othcr Way. 

I livM in this Condition near two Years more ; bat 
Biy unlocky Read, that was always to let me know it 
was born to make my Body miferable, was all thofe two 
Years filPd with Projefts and Defigns, how, if it were 
polfible, I might get away from this lüaud \ €c^\ ^^\sksi« 



3?^ 


r- 


* - _r r 


mtL 


A: 


I vrrRis 5^ 


r ■ i." 


v_ 


-.7 r:L;.:i 
L . r--. z: 


•r "ji; 






Tte :i. 


..L.l'* 


:: n ■ "' : 


• ;c- 


ic 


.' rr.£ ::.- I >. .r:Lc cne 


VT- 


■::=■• 


- .. v.z^:.: 


li-- . :.i»: . . 


:^iT;r.;>.;: [ -idhaJ 


ZTU - 


— .".., 


v:l.- 


. n , 


. a..^i 


. Jirill iii-. ;. v;;ü:ur d 




:.:^. ' 




: 11. 




:: -7i..:i*-. 

--: i: i*-zra: Plague of 
£ic«.":-e Äslf of their 
Tcc >?-rg farisfy'd with 



-. : J- :ü :.:i NiEzr: -i:ji pisc'd thcm ; 
-,- :.r: -: .»x : :ii:t 4.-rT zzt jrjt.z.T^ Crr.dition, and 
-:i i.::il::::c -t,i -c^: :•■ ^-- 2xz2ar. tz: Oppoccion to 
*:.i. : ■ . i- .' TTiT* jJ r. aiT Cr^px^' o.-r. mv fübfe- 

«■i:i::- i. ^i^r ;j :.ie — »i L_ii j-l-'j b«a the Means 

;r r. ' ITZ-Ti -:=; ii.j r..:^iJ:!-j ^\-=id-£ciS| fbrhadthat 
F'^'T.'iri.-T^. -v i.ci .c Ti.T. .- 'ii fiOÄi mc st thc J?rÄ- 
f:s. 13 X r'jiJiiir. _i..^ ; - ni ii.:i ccziz'd DeJres, and 
c:c-^ 1 2j.-i resa itt^ä::?- r: iure ^»cc on graduallv, 
I Z4C3£ Tu 2 ^cso: rj liti Tjt;- I tetam im tct Tum of 
wt. iff^fj tt lA. . 'cf.i, zzA z'. ü< BOii conüdtrable 
r AiTi:" :-: lä« J--:'- ; riT. I an peiiuidcd, ihat by 
tn; Jaiprji ■*=';= 2 \ äic -"*ii- iz r^ai ünic Tiaie 1 liv'd 
i,i«:.-;. X2C rii Iic^luV I i?i--i rrcbib.y have niade, if 
1 i^- J:\t'c, 1 sr^: xiie ccfa wc:u an hondrsd thou- 
\zz,<. Mkjltjl: ; jjii -riT Scfseii hzÄ I co Isare a iectled 
Fcmae, w^II-ijc'^'d ?!.imroa, improriaz and increa« 
tst, X :ar= S2^e*'i:jT^ zo Ga^aserny to fecck Xtgroeff wheA 
Pil.ä-cö a=i T:3:c wo^d harc A> iDcreas'd oor Stock 
2Z Hczi:, :h.zz w^ codd riave ^=ghc tkem at oor own 
Doors. frcni ih^ie wbrie Budcefs ic was to fetch them ? 
And t'^ocgii i: hai coil es r:>ae:b:9g man, yet the Dif- 
fcrecce cf tha: Price was by no Means worth faving at 
fo great a Hazard. 

But as this 15 ordinarily the Fate of yonx»g Heads, fo Ra- 
fieccion upon the Folly of ic, is as ordinarily the Esercife 
cf roore Years, or of che dcar- booght Ejcperieoce of Time i 
and fo it was with nie now ; acd yßt l'o deep had thcMi- 
ilake ca>.cn Root in my Temper, that I could not iatisfy 
myfeifin my Station, bat was continually poring npon 
the Mean« and Poflibility of myEfcape from this Place; 
and thsLt I rnzy, with thc grcaKci Pleafore to the Reader, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. i«s 

bring on the remaining Part of my Story, it may not h9 
. improper to give fome Account of my firft Conception» on 
the Subjeft of this fooliih Scheme for my Efcape; and 
how, and upon what Foundation, I adled. 

I am now to be fuppos'd to bc retir'd into my Caftle, 
after my latc Voyagc to the Wreck, my Frigate laid op, 
and fecur'd under Water as ufual, and my Condition re- 
fior'd to what itwas before: Ihad more Wealth, indeed, 
than I had before, but was not at all the richer ; for I had 
no more Ufe for it, than the Indians of Peru had before 
the Spaniards came thither. 

It was one of the Nights, in the ralny Seafon in 
March^ the four-and-twentieth Year of my firft fetting 
Foot in this Ifland of Solitarinefs, I was lying in my Bed» 
er Hammock, awake, very well in Health, had no Pain» 
noDiftemper, no Uneafmefs of Body, no, n'oranyUnea- 
iinefs of Mind more than ordinary, but could by no Means 
clofe my Eyes ; that is, fo as to fleep ; no, not a Wink all 
Night long, otherwife than as foUows : 

It is as impoilible as needlefs, to fet down the innu« 
merable Croud of Thoughts that whirl'd through that 



great Thoroughfare of the Brain, the Memory, m this 
Wight's Time : I ran over the whole Hiftory of my 
1ä& in Miniature, or by Abridgment, as I may call it^ 



to my Coming to this Ifland ; and alfo of that Part of 
my Life fince I came to this liland ; in my RefleAionik 
upon the State of my Cafe, fince I came on Shore oa 
this Ifland ; I was comparing the happy Poftare of my 
Affairs, in the firfl Years of my Habitation here, to 
that Courfe of Anxiety, Fear and Care, which I had 
Wv'di in ever fince I had feen the Print of a Foot in tho 
Sand ; not that I did not believe the Savages had fre« 
quented the Ifland even all the while, and might haire 
been feveral Hundreds of them at times on Shore there ; 
but as I had never kbown it, and was incapable of any 
Apprehenfions about it, my Satisfadion was perfe^^ 
thougif my Danger was die fame; and I was as happy in 
not knowing my Danger, as if I had never really been ex- 
pos'd to it i this furnifli^d my Thouzhts with many very 
profiuble Refiedions, and particularTy this one, How in- 
finitely good that Providence is, which has fettled in 
its Goveminent of Mankind fach narrow Bo\itd% \^ Vv^ 



a86 The Life anJ Adventüres 0/ 

8ight and Knowledge of things ; and tho* be walks in tlie 
midfl of fo roany thoufand Dangers« the Sight of which, 
if difcover'd to hiniy would diilrad his Mind, and fink 
Bis SpiritSy he Is kept ferene and calm, by having the 
Events of things hid from his Eyes, and knowing no- 
thing of the Dangers which furround him. 

After thcfe Thoughts had for fome Time cntcrtained 
inc, I came to rcfleft ferioufly upon the real Dangtr I 
had been in for fo many Years in this very Ifland ; and 
how I had walkM about in the greateft Securi'.y, and with 
all poÜible Tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing bat 
a Brow of an Hill, a great Tree, or the cafual Approach 
of Night, had been between me and the worft Kind of 
Deflrudlon ; viz, that of falling into the Hands of Ca- 
aibals and Savages, who would have feiz'd on me with 
the fame View, as I did on a Goat or a Turtle, and have 
tboaght it no more a Crime to kill and devour me, than 
I did of a Pigeon or a Curlieu; I (hould unjuftly ilander 
myfelf, if I (hould fay I was not fincerely thankful to my 
great Preferver, to whofe fingular Protedlion l acknowled- 
ged, with great Humility, that all the fe unknown Deüve- 
rances were due, and without which 1 (höuld inevitably 
hsLve fallen into their mercilefs Hands. 

When thefe Thoughts were over, xny Head was for 
ibme Time taken up in confidering tlie Nature of thefe 
wretched Creatures, I mean, the S avages ; and how it 

- came to pafs ijn the World, that the wifeGovernor of all 
things (hould give up any of his Creatures to fuch Inhu- 
manity, nay, to fcmcthing fo mvch below evcn Brutality 
itfelf, £s to devour its own Kind : But as this ended ia 
fome (at that Time fruitlsrfi) Spcculations, itoccurr'dto 
me to inquire what Part of the World thefe Wretches liv'd 
in; how far ofF the Coaft was from whence they came; 
what they ventur'd fo far from Home for; what kind of 
Boats they had; and why I might not order myfelf, and 
tny Bufinefs fo, that 1 might be as able to go over thither, 
as they were to come to mc. 

I neverfomuch as troubied myfelf to confider, what I 
fhould do with myfelf when I came thither ; what fliould 
become of me, if 1 feil into the Hands of the Savages ; or 
bow I (hould efcape from them, if they attempted me ; no, 
/BOT fo much as how it was poflible for nie 10 reach the. 

^ ,. Coaft, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 187 

Coaft» and not be attempted by fome or dther of them» 
without any Poffibility ot delivering myfelf; and if I Ihould 
not fallinto their Hands, whati (hould doforProvirion,or 
whithcr I fliould bend roy Coorfc ; noneof thefcThoughts, 
I fay, fo mach as came in my Way ; but my Mind was 
wliolly bent upon the Notion of my paifing over in my 
Boat to the main Land : I Iook*d back upon my prefent 
Condition» as the moft miferable that could poilibly be ; 
that I was not able to throw myfelf into any thing but 
Death that could be call'd worfe ; that if I reach'd the 
Shore of the Main, I might, perhaps« meet with Relief; 
er I might coaft along, as I did on the Shore of J/rica, 
tili I came to fome inhabited Country, and wbere I 
might find fome Relief; and after all, perhaps, I might 
falf.in with fome Chriflian Ship that might take me in ; 
and if the worft came to the worß, I could but die, which 
would put an End to all thefe Miferies at once. Pray, 
Note, All this was the Fruit of a difturbed Mind, an im- 
patient Temper, made, as it were, defperate by the long 
Continuanceof my Troubles, and the Difappointments I 
had met in the Wreck I had been on board of, and where 
I had been fo near the obtaining what I fo earneilly long- 
ed for, 'viz. fome-body to fpeak to, and to learn fome 
Knowledge from, of the Place where I was, and of the 
jfrobable Means of my Deliverance; I fay. I was agitated 
wholly by thefe Thoughts. All my Calm of Mind in 
niy Refignation to Providence, and waiting the Jffuc of 
the Difpofitions of Heaven, feem'd to be fufpended; and 
I had, as it were, no Power to turn my Thoughts to any 
thing, bat the Projeft of a Voyage to the Main, which 
came upon me with fach Force, and fuch an Impetuofity 
of Deiire, that it was not to be refifted. 

When this had agitated my Thoughts for two Hours 
or more, with fuch Violence, that it fet my vcry Blood 
into a Ferment, and my Pulfe beat as high as if I 
had been in a Fever, merely with the extraordinnry Fer- 
vour of my Mind about it ; Natüre, as.if I had beea 
fatigued and cxhaufted with the very Thought of it, 
threw me into a found SIecp : One would have thought 
I Ihould have dream'd of it ; but I did not, nor of any 
thing relating to it; but I dream'd, that as I was goin^ 
out in the Morning^ as ufual, fioia m^ Q.2l^<&« \ ^:^'m 



i88 The Life 4tnd Adventures of 

upon theShore two Qaroes, and eleven Savages Coming to 
Land» and thac they brouehc with th^m another Savage, 
whom they were eoing to kill, in Order to eac him ; whea 
on a Aidden, theSavage that they were going ta kill, jump- 
ed away, and ran fbr his Life ; then Ithought in my Sleep, 
that he came running into my little thick Grove, before 
my Foftification, to hide himfelf ; and that I feeing him 
alone, and not perceiving that the others foaght him that 
way, {hew*d myfelf tohim» andfmiling upon nim, encou- 
raged him : That he kneeFd down to me, feeming to pray 
me to a£ifl him ; upon which I ihew'd my Ladder, made 
him go up it, andcarried him into my Cave, and ke becamc 
my Servant; and that as foon as Ihad gotten this Man, I 
faid to myfelf, Now I may certainly venture to the main 
Land ; for this Fellow will ferve me as a Pilot, and will 
teil me what to do, and whithertogo for Provifiors, and 
v/hither not to go for fear of being (kvoored,. what Places 
to venture into, and what to efcape. I waked with this 
Thought, and was under fuch inexpreilible Impreffions of 

{oy at the Profpcft of my Efcape in my Dream, that the 
Hfappointments which I feit upon Coming to myfelf, and 
finding it was no more than a Dream, were equally ex- 
travagant the other Way, and threw me into a v&ry great 
DejeSion of Spirit. 

Upon this, however, I made this Condufion, That 
my only way to go about aji Attempt for an Efcape, was, 
jf poäible, to get a Savage in my Fofleilion ; and, if 
poflible, it (hould bc one of their Prifoners, whom they 
had condemned to be eaten, and fhould bring hither to 
kill ; but thefe Thoughts flill were attended with this 
Difficulty, that it was impoflible to effedt this, without- 
attacking a whole Caravan of them, and killing them all; 
and this was not only a very defperate Attempt, and 
might mifcarry; but, on the other hand, I "had grcatly 
fcrupledthe I.awfulnefs of itto me, and myHeart trem- 
bfed at the Thoughts of fliedding fo much Blood, tho' 
it was for my Deliverance : I need not repeat the Argu- 
ments which occurr'd to me againft this, they being ihc 
fame mentioned before : But though I had other Reafons 
to offer now; «r/z. that thofe Men were Enemies to my 
Life, and would devour me, if they could ; that it was* 
Sclf'prefcrvaüon in the h\g\ie\l "De^ttt^ vi dcUvcr myfelf 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 189 
Com this Death of a Life, and was ading in my own De- 
fence, as muchasif they were adlually aifaulting nie, and 
the like ; I fay, though thefe things argued for it, yet thc 
Thoughts oF fhedding human Blood for my Deliverance, 
were very cerrible to me, and fuch as I could by no Means 
rcconcile myfelf to a great while. 

However, at lall, af:er many fecret Difputes with myfelf, 
and after great Perplexities about it (for all thefe Argu- 
ments» one way and another, ftruggled in my Heada long 
Time) the eager prevailingDefire of Deliverance at length 
mafiered all che reil, and I refolved, if poffible, togetone 
of thefe S^vages into my Hands, coft what it would : My 
nextthing then was to contrivehowtodoit; and thisindeed 
was very difficult to refolve on : Bot as I could pitch upoa * 
no probable Means for it, fo I refolved to put myfelf up- 
on the Watch, to-fee them when they came on Shore, and 
kave, the red to the Event, taking fuch Meafnres as thp 
Opportunity (hould prefent, let it be what it would. 

With thefe Refolutions in my Thoughts, I fet myfelf 
upon the Scout, as often as poflible, and indeed fo ofceo, 
tin I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a Year 
and an half that I waited, and for a great Part ofthat Time 
went out to the Weil End, and to the South-we^ Corner 
of the Ifland, almoil every Day to fee the Cames, but none 
appeared : This was very difcouraging, and began to troa- 
ble ine mach ; tho* l can't fay that it did in this Cafe as it 
liad done fome Time before that ; 'vix. wear ofF the Edge 
ofmyDefi^e to thething; bat the longer it feem'd to 
be delay*d, die more eager I was for it : In a Word, I 
was not at firü more carefnl to (hon the Sight of thefe Sa- 
▼ages, and avoid being feen by them, than I was now 
casrer to be upon them. 

Befide^, I fanfied myfelf able to manage one, nay, two 
or three Savages» in had them, fo as to make them in- 
tirely Sla^ves to me, to do whatever. I ihoold direkt them, 
and to prevent their being able, at any Time, to do me 
any Hurt : It was a great while that I pleafed myfelf 
with this AfFair, bat nothing ftill prefented ; all my 
Fancies and Schemes came to nothing, for no Savages 
came near me for a gieat while. 

Aboat a Year and an half after I had entertained thefe 
Notions, a^d, by long mafing, had, as it were» reColv^^ 



190 The Life and Adventures ef 

thcm all into nothing, for want of an Occaiion to pat 
them in Execution, I was furprifed one Morning early, 
wich feeing no Idfs than five Canoes all on Shore cogether, 
on my Side theldand, and thePeople who belonged (o 
thcm all landed, and out of my Sight: The Number of 
thcm broke all my Meafures ; for feeing fo many, and 
knowing that they always came four, or fix, or fome- 
times more, in a Boat, I could not teil what to think of 
it, or how to take my Meafures to atcack twenty or thirry 
Men fmgle-handed ; fo I lay ftill in my Caftle, perplexed, 
and difcomforted ; however, I put myfelf into all the 
fame Poftures for an Attack, that I had formerly provided, 
and was juil ready for Adtion, if any thing had prefented : 
Having waited a good while, liftening to hear if they 
made any Noife, at length being very impatient, I fet my 
Guns at the Foot of my Ladder, and clambered up to 
theTop of the Hill by my two Stages, as ufual ; ilanding fo 
however, that my>Head did not appearabove the Hill; fo 
that they could not perceive me by any Means : Herc I 
obferved, by the Help of my Perfpedlive-glafs, that they 
were no lefs than thirty in Number, that they had a Ftre 
kindled, and that they had had Meat drefs'd ; how they 
cooked it,. that I know not, or what it was ; but ihey 
were all dancing, in I know not how many barbaroat 
Geftures and Figures, their own Way, round the Fire. . 

While I was thus'looking on them, I perceiv'd by my 
Perfpeftive two miferabie Wretches draggcd from the 
Boats, where, it feems, they were laid by, and were now 
brought out for the Slaughter: I perceiv'd one of them 
immediately feil, beiiig Knock'd down, I fuppofe» wich' 
a Club or wooden Sword, for that was their Way ; and 
two or three others were at work immediately, catting» 
him open for their Cookery, while the other Viftim was 
left flanding by himfelf, tili they ihould be ready for him:i^ 
In that very Moment this poor Wretch feeing himftilf t^ J 
little at Liberty, Nature infpired him with Hopes of Life^in 
and he f^arted away from them, and ran with incredrble^;; 
Swiftnefs along the Sands, diredtly towards me, I mean/ *" 
towards that Part of the Coafl where my Habitation was. 

1 was dreadfully frighted (that I muft acknowledge) 
when 1 perceived him to run my Way ; and efpecially 
^hcn, as I thought, I faw him purfued by the whole 

Sody i 




!ru«i f»!7'^an FVkU^ awlKilli Mii rmhi^^l /i^^/^r .i'-f * ^ 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 191 

Body; and now I expedled thatPart of my Dream was 
Coming to pafs, and that he would certainly take Shelter 
in my Grove ; but I could not depend» by any Means, 
upon my Dream for thc reft of ir, 'viz, that the other 
Savages would not purfue him thither, and find him 
therc : Howevcr, I kept my Station, and my Spirits be- 
gan to recover, whcn l found that there were not above 
three Men that followed him ; and flill more was I en- 
couraged, when 1 found that he outftript them exceed- 
ingly in running, and gained ground of them, fo that if 
he could but hold it for half an Hour, I faw cafily he 
would fairly get away from them all. 

There wns between them and my Caftle the Creck, 
which I mention'd often at the firft Part of my Story, 
when I landed my Cargoes out of the Ship ; and this I 
knew, he muft neceffarily fwim over, or the poor Wretch 
would be taken there : But when the Sa vage cfcaping 
camc thither, he made nothing of it, tho' the Tide was 
theo up ; but plunging in, fwam thro' in about thirty 
Strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceed- 
irg Strength and Swiftnefs; when the three Purfuers came 
to the Creek» I found that two of them could fwim, but 
the third could not, and that he flandiogon the otherSide, 
look'd at the other, but went no farther; and foon after 
went foftly back again, which, as it happened, was veiy 
well for him in the main. 

1 obferved that thc two who fwam, were yct more 
ihan twice as long fwimming over the Creek, than the 
Fcllow was that fled from them: It came now vcry 
warmly upon my Thoughts, and indeed irrefidibly, that 
now was my Time to get me a Servant, and perhaps a 
Companion, or Afliilant, and that I was called plainly 
- by Providence to fave this poor Creature^s Life : I im- 
mediatehr got down the Ladders with all poffible Expe- 
dition, fetched my two Guns, for they were both at the 
Foot of the Ladder, as I obferved above; and get- 
ting np again with the fame Hafle to the Top of the 
HiU» I crolfed towards the Sea; and, having a very ihort 
Cot, and all down-hili, clap^d myfelf in the Way between 
the Purfuers and the Purfued, hollowing aloud to him 
that fled, who, looking back, was at iirfl: perhaps as 
Auchfrighted atmeas atthem; bot I beckoned with 



192 77;^ Life ä«^ Adventüres of 

my Hand to him to come back, and in the ineanTime, I 
ilowly advanced towards the mo thatfollowed; then rufh- 
ing at once apon the foremoft, I knockM him down with 
the Stock of my Piece ; I was loth co fire, becaofe I woald 
not have the reft hear ; tho* at that Dillänce ic would not 
not'have bceneafily heard; and beingoat of Sight ofthe 
Smoke too, they would not have eaiily known what to 
makeof it. Having knock'd this Fellow jlown, the other 
who purfuM him ftopp'd, as if he had been frlghten^d, and 
I advanced apace towards bim; but as I came nearer, I 
perceiv'd prefently he had a Bow and Arrow, and was fit- 
ting it to ihoot at me ; fo I was then neceffitated to ihootat 
him firil ; which I did, and killed him at the firil Shot. 
The poor Savage who fled, but had flopp'd, . tho' he fäv 
both his Enemies fallen, and killed (as he thoaght) yet was 
fo frighted with the Fire and Noife of my Piece, that he 
ftood ftock-ftill, and neither came forward, nor went back« 
wsml, tho* he feemed rather indin'd to fly Jdü, than to 
come on. I hollowed again to him, and made Signi to 
comeforward, which heeafily underftood, and camealit- 
tle Way^ then flopp*d ag^n, and then a little farther, and 
ftoppM again, and I could then perceiye that he ftood 
trembling, asifhehad been takenPrifoner, andhadjuS 
been to be kiird, as his two Enemies were. | beckoa*d 
him again to come to me, and gave him all the Signs of^ 
Encouragement, that I coold think of ; and he came nearer 
and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve Steps, ia 
Token of Acknowledgment for faving his Life. I fniil*d 
at him, and lookM pleafantly, and beckonM to him to 
. come ftilf nearer, At length he came clofe to me, anj 
then he kneerd down again, kifs^d the Groand, and laid 
his Head npon the Ground, and takinj; me by the Foot, 
fet my Foot apon his Head : This^ it leems, was in To« 
ken of fwearing to be my Slave for ever. I took him 
up, and made much of him, and encouraged him all I 
could. But thcre was more Work to do yet ; for I per- 
ceiv'd the Savage> whom I knock*d down, was not kill*d, 
but ftunn^d with the Blow, and'began to come to himfelf : 
So I pointed to him, and Ihewing him the Savage, that 
he was not dead, npon this he fpoke fome Words to 
me ; and tho' I could not underftand them, yet I thougfat 
the/ werepleafant to hear, for they were the firft Somid 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 193 

of aMan^s Voice that I had heard, my oivn excepted^ for above 
five-andtwenty Years: Batthere was noTime for fach Re- 
fle^tians now • the Savage, who was knock'd down, reco- 
vcr'd himfelf fo far.as to fit up upon thcGround ; and I per- 
cciv'd, that my Savage began to be afraid ; bat when I faw 
that, I prefented my other Fiece at thc Man, as if I would 
ihoothim; upon this my S2LV2LgQ, for fo I call htm nonv, 
roade a Motion to me to lend him my Sword^ which hang 
naked in a Belt by my Side ; fo I did : He no fooner had 
it, but he runs to his Enemy, and at one Blow cuc ofF his 
Head as clcvcrly, no Exccutioner in Gcrmany could have 
donc it fooner or better ; which I thought very dränge, for 
one, who, I had Reafon to bclieve, never faw a Sword ia 
his Life before, except theirown woodenSwordsj however, 
it feems, as I learn*d afcerwards, thcy make thcir woodea 
Swords fo fliarp, fo heavy, and thc Wood is fo hard, that 
thcy will cut off Heads even with them, ay, and Arms» 
and that at one Blow too. When he had done this, he 
comes laughing to me in Sign of Triumph, and broaght 
me the Sword again, and with Abundance of Geflures. 
which I did not underfliand, laid it down wich the'Head 
of the Savage that he had kilied, juft before me. 

Bat that which aftonifli'd him moft was, to know hp^ 
I had kiird the othcr Indian fo far ofF; fo pointing to him, 
be made Signs to me tp let him go to him : So I bad him 
\0t as well as I could ; when he came to him, he llood 
ike one amaz*d, Iqoking at him ; turn'd him firfl; on one 
Side, then on t'otwff ; look'd at the Wound the Bullet had 
made, wliich it feems was jud in his Brcafl, where it had 
made an Hole, and no great Quantity of Blood had fol- 
lowed, but he had bled inwardiy, for he was quite dead r 
Then he took up his Bow and Arrows, and came back ; fo 
I turn*d to go away, and beckon'd to him to follow me, 
making Signs to him, that more mightcome after them. 
Upon this he fignM to me, that he fhould bury them 
with Sand# that they might not be feen by the refl, if 
they followed ; and fo 1 made Signs aeain to him to da 
fo; he feil to work, and in an Inltant he had fcrap'd an 
Hole in the Sand with his Hands, big enough to bury 
the £r(l in, and then dragg'd him into it, and cover^ 
him, and did fo alfo by the other ; I believe he had bu« 
ried them both in a Quarter of an Hour; chea c^Vat^^ 
Vol. I. l V\tDL 



l 



194 The Life and Adventüres tf 
him away, I carryM him not to roy Caftle, bat quite 
Bwav to my Cave, on the farther Part of the Ifland ; fo 
I did not let my Dream come to pafs in that Part ; ^ix. 
that he came into my Grove for Sheher. 

Here I gave him Bread, and a Bunch of Raifins to eat» 
and a Draught of Water, which I fonnd he was indeed ia 
great Diftre^ for, by his ranning ; and having refrefh^d 
him, I made Signs for him to go lie down and fleep, point- 
ing to a Place where I had laid a great Parcei ot Rice 
Scraw, and aBlanketupon it, which I afed ta fleep opon 
myfelf fometimes ; fo the poor Creatare lay down, and 
went to fleep. 

He was a comely handfome Fellow, perfe£lly well made» 
with Arait long Limbs, not too large, tall, and well.fhapM» 
and, as I reckon, about twenty-fix Years of Agc. He had 
a very good Countenance, not a 6erce and farly Afpe£i, bat 
feem'd to have fomething very manly in his Face, and yet 
he had all the Sweetnefs and Sofcnefs of an European in bis 
Countenance too, cfpecially when he fmil'd : His Hair 
was long and black, not curl'd like Wöol ; his Forehead 
very high, and large, and a great Vivacity and fparkling 
Sharpnefs in his Eyes. The Colour of his Skin was not 
quite black, but very tawny, and yet not of an ugly yeilow 
naufeous Tawny, as the Br/i/i/ians, zndiVirginiam^ and o* 
ther Natives tii America are, but of a bright kind of a dun 
Olive Colour, that had in it fomething very agrejeable, tho' 
not very eafy to defcribe. His Face was round and plump, 
his Nofe fmall, not flat like the Nfgroes, z very good 
Mouth, thin Lips, and hisTeethfine, wcll-fet, and white 
as Ivory : After he had flumber'd, ratherthan flept, about 
half an Hour, he wak'd again, and comes out of the Cave 
to me, for I had bcen mJlking my Goats which I had in 
the Jnclofure juft by : When he efpy'd me, he came run- 
ning to me, laying himfelf down again uponthe Ground, 
with all the pofTible Signs of an humb^e thankful Difpofi- 
tion, making many antick Geftures to fliew it. At lad he 
lays his Head flat upon the Ground, clofe to my Foot, and 
fets my other Foot upon his Head, as he had done before; 
and after this, made all the Signs to me of Subjedlion, Ser- 
vitude, and Submiffion imaginable, to let me know how 
much he would ferve me as long as he liv'd : I underftood 
jtim in many things, and let him know I was very well 

pleaa'd 



ROBINSONCRUSOE. 195 

pIcasM with him; in a littleTime I began to fpeak to him» 
and t^ach him to fpeak to me ; and firft, I made hiin 
know his Name ihould be FrUay^ which was the Day I 
fav*d his Life ; and I call'd bim fo for the Memory of che 
Time; I likewife taught him to fay Maßer, and then lec 
him know thatwas to be my Name ; I likewife taueht him 
to fay Tei and No^ and to know the Meaning of them ; I 
gave him fomeMilk in an earthen Pot, and let him fee me 
arink it before him, and fop mv Bread in it; and i gave 
him a Cake of Bread to do the iike, which he quickly com- 
ply'd withy and made Signs that it was very good for him. 

I kept there with him all that Night» bat as foon as it 
was Day, I beckon*d him to come with me, and let him 
know I woald give him fome Cloaths, at which he feem'd 
vtTf glad, for he was ftark-naked ; As we went by the 
Place where he had bury'd the twoMen, he pointed ex- 
adiy to the Spot» and ihewed me the Marks that he had 
skiade to find them again, making Signs to me that we 
ihoald dig them up again> and eat them ; at this I ap- 
peared very angry, exprefs'd my Abhorrence of it, made 
as if I woaid vomit at the Thougbts of it^ aod beckon*d 
with my Hand to him to come away, which he did im- 
mediately, with great Submiillon : I then led him up to 
the Top of the Hill, to fee if his Enemies were gone, and 
pnlling 00t my Glafs, I look*d, and faw plainly the Place 
where they had been, but no Appearance of them, or of 
their Canoes ; fo that it was piain that they were gone» 
and had lefc their two Comrades behind them, wichouc 
any Search afrer them. 

Bat I was not content with this Difcovery, bat hav« 
ing now more Courage, and confequently more Curio- 
iity, I took my Man FrUaj^ with me, gtving him tha 
Sword in his Hand, wich the Bow and Arrows at his 
Back, which I found he coald ofe very dexteroudy, mak- 
ing him carry one Gun for me, and I two for myfelf, 
and away we marched to the Place where thefe Creaturea 
had been ; for I had a Mind nöw to get fome fuUer 
Intellieence of them : When l came to the Place, mv 
very Blood ran chill in mv Veins, and my Heart funlc 
widiin me at the Horror ot the Spedtade : Indeed it was 
a dreadful Sight, at leafl it was fo to me, though Friday 
bade nothin of ic : The Place was covicr'd tciäx V»^ 



196 The Life and Adventures of 

man Rones, theGround dyM with the Blood, great Pieces 
of Fledi Icfc here-and-therc, half-eacen, mangled, and 
fcorcird ; and in (hört, all theTokens of the triumphant 
Feail they had been making thcre, afcor aViäory over their 
Enemies : I faw three Skulls, five Hands, and the Bones 
of threc or four Legs and Fect, and Abundance of other 
Parts of the Bodies ; and Friday^ by his Signs, made me 
underftand, that they brought over four Prifoncrs to fcaft 
upon; that th-ee of theoa were eacen up, and that he, po'mt- 
ing to himfclf, was the fourth ; that there had been a great 
Battle between them and their next King, whofe Subjeäs, 
it feems, he had been one of; and that they had taken a 
gEcat Number of Prifoncrs, all which were carried to fe- 
verai Places by thofe that had taken them in the Flight, 
in Order to feaft upon them, as was done here by thefe 
Wretches upon thofe they brought hither. 

I caufed Friday to gather all the Skulls, Bones, Flefh, and 
ivhatever remain*d, and lay them together on an Heap, 
and make a great Fire opon it, and bum them all to 
Aflies : I found Fridt^ had fliy an haokering Stomach 
afcer fome of the Flefh, and was ftill a Canibal in his Na« 
ture; but I difcovered fo much Abhorrence at the very 
Thoughta of it, and at the leaft Appearance of it, that he 
durfl not difcover it ; for I had, by fome Means, iet him 
know, that I would kill him if he ofFered it. 
- WBen we had done this, we came back to cur CafUe^ 
and there I feil to work for my Man Fridcy ; and firft of all, 
I gave him a Pair of Linen Drawers, whIch I had out of the 
poor Gunner's Cheft I mentionM, and which I foond in 
the Wreck ; and which, with a little Alteration, fitted him 
very well; thenl made him a Jerkin of Goat*8-fkin, as well 
as my Skill would allow, and I was now- grown a tolera- 
blc good Taylor ; and I gave him a Cap, which I had 
made of an Hare fkin, very convenient, and faHiionable 
enough : And thus he was drefs'd, for the prefent, tolera- 
bly well, and mighty well was he pleas'd to fee himfelf 
almoft as well cloath'd as his Mafier : Jt is true, he went 
aukwardly in thefe things atfirft; wearing the Drawers 
was very aukward to him, and the Sleevesof theWaiflcoat 
gaird his Shoulders, and the Infide of his Arms; butalicde 
eafing them» where he complain'd they hurt him, and nf- 
ing lumfelf to them, at length he took to them "^^xy well. 

The 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 197 
The next Day after I canie home to my Hutch with 
him, I began to conüder where 1 fhould lodge him ; and 
that I might do well for him, and yet be perfcdily eafy 
myfelf, I made a little Tenc for him in j;he \acant Place 
i>ecween niy twoFortifications, in thelnfideof thelaft, and 
iD'the Ouciide of che firft: Apd as there was a Door or En- 
trance there into my Care, I made a formal fram*d Door- 
cafe, and a Door to it of Boards, and fet it up in the Paf- 
fage, a little within the Entrance ; and caufing the Door 
to open on the Infide, I barr'd it up in the Night, taking 
in my Ladders too ; fo that Friday could no Way come at 
me in the Iniide of my innermoli Wall, wichout niaking 
fo mach Noifc in getting over, that it niuft needs awaken 
me; for my firft Wall had now a complete Roof over it 
of long .Poles, coyering all my Tent, and leaning up to the 
Sidc of the Hill, which was again laid crofs with fmall 
Sticks inftead of Laths, and then thatcliM over a great 
Thickneiswith thcRice-ftraw,which was llronglikeReeds; 
and at the Hole or Place which was Icft to go in or out 
by the Ladder, I had plac'd a kind of Trap-door, which 
It it had been attempted on the Outfi'de, would not have 
epen*d at all, but would have fallen down, and made a 
great Noife; and as to Weapons, I took them all into 
aiy Side every Night. 

But I needed none of all this Precaution ; for never 
Man had a xaoi^ faithful, loving, fincere Servant than 
Wridttf was to me*; without PafTionB, Suilennefs, or De- 
£gnt ; perfe^ly obliged and engaged ; his very AiFe^ion^ ' 
wm tyM to me, like thofe of a Child to a Fächer ; and 
I darefay, hc would have facrific'd his Life for the fav- 
Ing' minc,' upon any Occafion whatfoever : The many 
Teßimonies he gave me of this, put it out of Doubt ; 
and foon convinc^d me, that I needed to ufe no Precau- 
'' tions as to my Safety on his Account. 

This frequcntly gave me Occafion to obferve, and that 
with Wonder, that, however it had pleas'd 6od in his 
Providence, and in the Government of the 'Works of his 
Hands, to take from fo great a Part of the World of his 
Creatnres, the bell Ufes to which their Faculties, and 
the Powers of their Souls, are adapted ; yet that he has 
bcftow'd upon them the fame Powers, the fame Rea*- 
fon, the fame AfTedions, the fame Senti^meiitft oC ¥L\tv^- 

1 \ \^^ 



i.-:-;:jL'. :-r.cr;:y, Fi- 

■" : J;;-j.:. :r.c reciiving 

..-.j. r:u.; -.vhcn iierleaiss 

. :.-:::ni: "r.t:e, ;hey a.-ä as 

■'".■• T.cin ro :he righc Lfts 

• "■ ...>... ni:: 've are. And üi'S 

"-- - •■ ."rr.^nref:. .n rci^eäing, as 

*"•:.•'-•.'. ! ;\v xcran an L'fe we 

r : ■. .:•: vo :.:ve ::ie.e Pawcrs cn- 

• -•--..■"• : r..:r -eher:, riie Spiri: et 
.-..'•. — r :.5 •Vi'-'i. accedwofi; 

: " . ■ r M* ',tf2.;e'i God cohidctbe 

: I ■- "• . ..• :• n .• i2::nv .Viiiiiüns of Sools, 

* • r .;• •:-.-.•' *"•' :::c y\:T iivage, wcuitl makc 

• n :•. r:.-. . r *::nt!- vi? .j-i reo rar lo iandc 

■ ; :.* 'i '••;'"u»j:^j livI. i< ;r 'Acrff, arraig« 

. •••;»• *-:i:n:— i r*:.-v:i:ucn or' Things, that 

: • :» I.; : :^ "::n .::::»•. i::a rs^eal i: to crhcrs, 

i : • ';••■• : .JL r*;:- r-'n rtjta . 5u: liatitop, 
j ... ,.; . ... •ir.ir.-L •,:: n.j J.:2C*a.:on: fr^M 

• ••' ; : :-v : * • :.;- l-^i; ir.d Li'v :hc:'« 

'• . ■ '-'.Lr.zi ::•• :t:" i.- sI-:c *2i recsurij, 

3 '•♦••'.; i.'i't :.*' :.*! Iif:.:r :i.-:*ril- iclvardj-i 

.'. ••"•... --• :t* iii ül: .:" 1:1. - J:ta:ar8s wereall 

/ ,.,,.,. .. i . -j^.j .•...•- 2.~if.' .: •*i: c* accountof 

• ».,... : ..; . •. Vi: 1 p:. * r.ir. m r:<* icr:p:-rc laTJ, 

■ / ^-v :'. !:.rr. i f?. ltc r- :*icz ? ilei u their 

' ' • ' "'fr* V.-: i;c s:;:r:-':-i~i :i r«;^.:, riosgii the 

* .'. V. - s r ' : f '1: - r-'i :: -• Azd. Ä.-t-'.t, Thal 

'■ • - * V' ;w ;... :-» ^ •^- ;r :: • rli-i c:':ie?o««r. no 

• ' '•• " ..;/:-. ; r*., V. -;. -i": :-:-:crr/i s:e thiis? 

,/•''•''«"•. 'i ?o r../ r.e« C:-p.".::?r. : I «vas grea:!y 

'' ;''.'"l vvi'h h,;r., arc r.-. 5 Je i: nv ßu:li.e:5 :o"tc3ch 

:;:' '|""-rf».,r I n,c:wrer, I -akc ; nrd hc wss :he äptcft 
«''N/|V;,',/J'';;"^' ' ''^•- : '^r.d pa:ticii'ar!y was ib nicrry. fa 
.,,,^,.,,;// '''i';'/..t, nnJ fo pJcT.rd whtn hccculd bctun. 
vc.y iJc-wT; .'"'"''''■'■* '"^' "^'^•tf^'^and hini, ihat it was 
I ai.u.i f. mc to uAl, to hiiii; and now wy Life 

bc^aa 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. ig^ 

began ro be fo cafy, that I bcgan to Ifay to myfelf, that 
coul<| I but havc bccn fafe from morc Savages, I cafM not 
if I was nevcr to rcmove from thc Place while I liv'd. 

After 1 had been two or thrcc Days retarn'd to my Ca- 
fUc, i thought, that, in ordcr to bring Friday off from his 
horrid Way of feeding, and from the Reliih of a CanibaKs 
Stomach, I oaght to let him tafte other Flefh ; fo I took 
Kim out with me one Morning to the Woods ; I went, in- 
deed, intending to kiU a Kid out of my own Flock, and 
bring it home and drefs it : But as I was going, I faw a 
She-Goat lying down in the Shade, and two young Kids 
£tdng by her: 1 catch'd hold ofFriday^ Hold, faid I, ftand 
itill ; and made Signs to him not to flir ; immediately I 
prefented my Pipce, ihot and kilPd one of the Kids . 7 he 
poor Creature, who had at a Diflance, indeed, feen me 
kill theSavage, his Enemy, but did not know, or could 
imarine, how it was done, was fenfibly furpris*d, trem- 
bled and (hook, and look'd fo amaz'd, that I thought he 
woold have funk down : He did not fee the Kid I had (bot 
at, or-perceWe I had kilPd it, but ripp'd up his Waiilcoat 
to fcd if he was not wounded ; and, as I found, prefcntly 
thoaght I was refolv^d to kill him ; for he came and 
kneerd down to me, and, embracing my Knees, faid a 
greac many things I did not underfland, but I could eafily 
fee, that his Meaning was to pray me not to kill him. 

I foon found a Way to convince him, that I would da 
him no Harm ; and taking him up by the Hand, laugh'd ^ 
at him, and, pointing to the Kid which I had kili*d, 
beckonM to him to run and fetch ir, which he did « 
and while he was wondering and looking to fee ho\\r 
the Creature was killM, I loaded my Gun again, anS 
by-and-by l faw a great Fowl, like an'Hawk, fit upoa 
a Tree within Shot ; fo, to Ict Friday underfland a little 
what I would do, I calfd him to me again, pointing ar 
the Fowl, which was indeed a Parrot, tho' 1 thought it 
had been an Hawk ; I fay, pointing to the Parrot, and 
to my Gun, and to the Ground under the Parrot, to let 
him fee I would make him fall, I made him underfland 
fhat I would fhoot and kill that Bird ; accordingly ( 
fir'd, and bad him iook, and immediately he faw the 
Parrot fall : He flood like one frighted again, notwith- 
fianding all that I had faid to him ; and I fouad b^ '^^.^\V!^ 

1 J^ V^RkX^ 



200 The Life iwrf Ad venture s of 

xnore amaz'd, becaufe he did not fee my put an/ thiog- 
into the Gun ; bat thought there muft be fome wonddr- 
ful Fund of Death and Defbu^ipn in that tbing, able 
Xo kill Man, Beaft, Bird, or any tbine near or far o£F; 
for the Aftoniihment this created in bim, was fuch, as 
could not wear ofF for a long Time j and I believe, if I 
would have let bim, be would have worihipp'd ine and 
my Gun : As for the Gun itfelf, be would not fo mach 
as toucb it for feveral Days after; but would fpeak to it» 
and talk to it, as if it had anfwer^d bim, wben be was 
by bimfelf ; which, as I afterwards learn'd of bim« was 
to deüre it not fo kill bim. 

Well : After bis Aftoniihment was a little over at this» 
I pointed to bim to run and fetcb the Bird I ha4 üiot, 
which he did, but ftaid fome Time ; for the Parrot, not 
being quite dead, was ÜptterM a good way oiF from the 
Place where Ihe feil ; however, he found her, topk her 
up, and brtught her to me-j and, as I had perceiv'd bis 
Ignorance about the Gun before, I took thi^ Advantage 
to Charge the Gun again, and not let bim fee me do ic, 
that I niiglit be ready for any oth er Mark that mightpre- 
fent ; but nothing more ofFcr'd at that Time; fo I brought 
hoir.e che Kid ; and the fame Evening I took the Skin off, 
snd cut it citT as well as I could, and having a Pot for 
that Purpofe, 1 boil'd or ftew'd fome of the Fleöi, and 
jnade fome very good Broth; after I had begun to cat 
ferne, I gave fome to my Man, whoTeem'd vcry glad of 
it, and lik'd it very well ; but that which was ftrangeft to 
him, was, to fee me eat Salt with it. He made a Sign 
to me, that the Salt was not good to eat, and putting a 
little into his own Mouth, he fcem'd to neaufeate it, and 
would fpit anJ fputter at it, wa(hirg his Mouth with frefli 
Water after it ; on the other band, I took fome Mcat 
in my Mouth without Salt, and 1 pretended to fpit and 
fputter for Want of Salt, as faft as he had done at the 
Sa't ; but it would not do, he would never care for Salt 
w i.h iVicat, or in his Broth ; at leaft, not a great while, 
aiui then but a very little. 

Ilaving ihus fcd hini with hoWd Mcat anJ Broth, I 
was refolv'd to feaft him the r 'xt Day with roafting a 
Piece of the Kid ; this I did by hanging it before the 
Fjjc in a Siring, as I hadlccn.many People do in Effg- 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 201 

land^ fettirg two Poles op, one on each Side the Fire, 
and one crofs on the Top, and tying the String to the . 
crofs Stick, letcing the Meat turn continually: This 
Friday admirM very much ; but when he came to tafte 
the Fleih, he took fo many ways to teil me how ivell he 
likM it, that I could not but underfland him : And al 
lad he told me he would never eat Man*s Fleih any more, 
which 1 was very giad to hear. 

The next Day 1 fct him to werk to beating fomc Corn 
out, and fiiting it in the Männer I ufed to do, as I ob- 
ferv'd before ; and he foon umierdood how to do it as 
weil as I, efpecially afcer he had feeo what the Meaning 
of it was, and thac it was to make Bread of ; for after 
that I let him fee me make my Bread, and bake it too ; 
and in a littieTime friday was able to do all the Work 
for me, as well as I could do it myfeir. 

I began now to confider, that, having two Mouths to feed 
inftead of ope, Imuft provide moreGround for niy Harveft^ 
and plant a larger Quantity of Corn, than I us'd to do ; fo 
I mark'd out a Targer Piece of Land, and began the Fence 
in the fame Manner as before, in which ?riday not only 
work'd very willlngly, and very hard, but did it very chear- 
fully ; and I told him what it was for, that it was- for Corn 
to make more Bread, becaufe he was now with me, and 
that I might have enough for him and myfelf too : He ap- 
pear'd very fenfible of that Part, and let me know, that he 
thought I had much more Labour upon me on his Ac- 
count, than 1 had for myfelf, .and that he would work 
tke harder for me, if I would teil him what to do. 

This wasthepleafanteftYearofall the Life Med inthi» 
Place : Friday began to talk pretty well, and undcrftand. 
th^ Names of almoft every thing I had Occafion to 
caü for, ' and of every Place 1 had to fend him to, and 
talk a great deal to me ; fo that, in fhort, I began nov^ 
to have fome Ufe for my Tongue again, which indeed I 
had very little Occafion for beföre ; that is tofay^ ahmt 
SfHch: Befides thePleafuFC of talking to him, I had ä 
fingalar Satisfadion in the Fellow himfelf; his fimple 
uüKigned Honefty appearM to me more and mope every 
Day, and I began really to love the Crcature ; and on 
hit Side, I believe he lov^d me more than it was poffiblie 
for him cver to love any thing beiore» 



How came you to be taken Prifoner then» friite^ } 

Friday. My Nation beat mach for all that. 

Maßer, How beat ; if your Nation beat theo 
came you to be taken ? 

Friday. They more than my Nation in the Place 
inc was ; they take one, two, three, and me : My \ 
over-beat them in the yonder Place, where me n( 
there my Nation take one, two, greatThoufand. 

Maßer, Bot why did not your Side recover yoi 
the Hands of your Enemies then ? 

Friday, They run one, two, three, and me, an( 
go in the Canoe ; my Nation have no Canoe that Ti 

Maßer, Well, Friday^ and what doe» your Nati 
with the Men they take ? Do they carry them.aws 
cat them as thefe- did ? 

Friday, Yes, my Nation eatMans too> eat all n 

Maßer, Wherc dor they carry them ? 

Friditf, Go to other Place where they thiok. 

Maßer, Do they come hither ? 

Friday, Yes, yes, they come hither; come other elf< 

Maßer., Have you bcen here with them ? 

FridiPf. Yes, I been here \?oints to the N. W. 
the Ißandy ijuhich, itßems, *was their Side,"] 

By this I underfiood, that myMan Friday ha,d f< 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 203 

I have told this Paflage, becaufe it introduces whät foU 
lows ; that afcer I had had this Difcourfe with him, I alk'd. 
him, how far ic was from our Ifland to the Shorc, and whcr 
thcr the Canoes were not often loll : He told me there was 
HO Danger, no Games ever loft ; bat that after alittle Way 
oat toSea, there was a Currcnt, and a Wind always one 
Way in the Morning, the other in the Afternoon. 

This I underfland to be no more thun the Sets of the 
Tide, as going out, or Coming in ; but I afterwards un* 
derftood it was occaiion'd by the great Draaght and Re- 
fiak of the mighty River Oroonoque i in the Mouth of 
which River, as I thought afterwards, our liland lay ; 
and that this Land, which I perceived to the W. and 
N. W. was the great Ifland Trinidad^ on the North 
PointoftheMouthof the River : I Sifk'dFridaj a thou- 
fand Qaeftions aboat the Country, the Inhabitants, the 
Sea, the Coaft» and what Nations were near ; he told 
me all he knew» with the greateft Opennefs imaginable : 
I afltM him the Names of the feveral Nations of hi« 
Sort of People, but could get no other Name than Caribsi 
from whence I eafiiy underflood, that thefe were the 
CarihieeSf which our Maps place on that Part of America 
which reaches from the Mouth of the River Oroomque to 
Guiofta, and onwards to St. Martha : He told me, that up 
a great Way beyond the Moon, that was, beyond the Set- 
ting of the Moon, which muft be W. from their Coun« 
try, there dwelt white- bearded Me», like me, and pointed 
to my great Whiikers> which I mention'd befbre ; and 
that they had kiird much Maxiy that was hts Word : Bf 
all which I underflood he meant the Spaniards^ whofe 
Cruelties in Ammca had been fpread over the whole 
Countries, and were remember*dby all the Nation» from 
Father to Son. 

I inquired if he could teil me how I might come from 
this ifland, and get among thofe white Men ; he told me^ 
Yes, yes, I might go in tmoo Canoe ; I conld not under«* 
ftand what he meant by tim Canoe \ tili at lad, with great 
Difficnlty, I found he meant, tha( it muft be in a large 
great Boat, as big as two Canon. 

Thi» Part of Fridafs Difcourft began to rdilh wiih 
mt very well ; and ttom this Time I entertained fome 
Kopcs» Chat onc Time or other L might fiad aa O^^octa- 

16 lisi 



204 The Life afid Advektüres of 

nity to make my Efcape from this Place, and that this 

poor Savage might be a Means to help me to do it. 

During the long Time thsXFrUay had now been with 
me, and that he began to fpeak to me, and underüand 
me, I was not wancing to lay afoundatioQ of religious 
Knowledge in his Mind ; particularly, I afk'd him one 
'Jime. who made him ? The poor Crcature did not un- 
derüand me at all, but thought I had alk'd who was his 
Fathcr : But I took it by anüther Handle, and afk'd him, 
whQ madcf the Sca, theGround he walk'd on, and the 
Pilus and Woods ? (ie told me, it was one old Benamuckee^ 
that Hv'd beyond all : He couid defcribe nothing of thia 
great Pei fon, butthut he was very old ; much older, he faid« 
tl*an the Sea or the Land, than the Moon or the Stars : 
I nfk'd him then, if this. old Perfon had made all things, 
why did not all things worihip him l He look'd "^^ry 
grave, ard with a perfed Look of Innpcence, faid, JU 
things Jaid O to him : I aik'd him, if the ^eople who dii{ 
in his Country, went away any-where : He faid, yes^ 
thcy all went to Benamuckee: Then I a(k!d him, Whethcr 
thofe they cat up went thithertoo ? He faid, Yes. . 

From thefe things 1 began to inilrud him in the Know- 
ledge of the true God. I told him, that the great Maker of 
all things liv'd there, pointing up towards Heaven : That 
hegoverns the World by the fame Power and Providence 
by which hc madeit : That he was omnipotent, could do • 
cvery thing for us; give every thing to us, take evcry thing 
from US ; and chus, by degreef, I open'd his l^sye^ : He li- 
ftcn'd with great Attention, and rcceiv'd with Pleafive the 
Notion of Je/us Chriß being fent to redeem us,. and of the 
Manner of making our Prayers to God, and his being able 
to hear us, even into Heaven : He told me one Day, that 
if our God could hear us up beyond the Sun, he muft needi 
be a greater God than their Benamuckee^ who liv'd but a 
little Way off, and yet could not hear, tili they wetit up 
to the great Mountains whcre he dwelt, to fpeak to him. 
I afk'd him, if ever he- went thither to fpeak to him ? He 
faid, No, they never went that were young Men ; none 
went thither but the old Men ; whom he callM their Oo«u'a. 
kakee, that is, as 1 made him explain it to me, their Re- 
bgious, pr Clergy ; and that they went to.fay O \So hc 
cali'd fayiiTg Prayers) and theo came back^ acd told them 
6 what' 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 205 
what Betiamuckee faid : By this lobferv'd, that there is 
Prieficraft even amongd the moli: blinded Ignorant Paean& ' 
in the World ; and the Policy of ^aking a fecrec Reli- 
gion, in Order topreferve the Veneration of thePeople to 
the Ciergy, is not only to be found in the Roman, but 
perhaps among all Religions in the World^ even among 
the moft brutiib and barbarotis Savages. 

I endeavour'd to clear up this Fraud to my Man Triday \ 
and told him, that the Precence of their old Men going 
u(T to the Mountains to Tay O to their God Benamuckee^ 
lyas a Ch^at ; and their bringing Word frooi thence what 
he faidy was much more fo ; that if they met wich any 
Änfwer, or fpoke with any one there, it muH be with an 
evil Spirit : And then I enternd into a long Difcourfe 
^ith him about the Devil, the Original of him, his Re- 
bellion agaipft God, hisEnmity to Man, theReaTon of it, 
his fetting himfelf up in the dark Parts of the World to 
be w,orA)jpp'd inflead of God, and as God, and the many 
Scratagems he made ufe of, to dclude Mankind to their 
Ruin; how. he,had a iecret Accefs to o^r Paiüons, and 
to our Afi^edtions, to adapt his Snares fo to our Inclina- 
tionsy as to ckufe us even to be our own Tempters, and 
to ruD upon our own Deftrudtion by our own Choice. 

I found it was not fo eafy to imprint right Notiqns in 
his Mind about the Devil, as it was about the Being of a 
God : Nature afliüed all my Arguments to evidence ta 
bim even the Neceffity of a great £ril Caufe, and over- 
raling governing Power, a fecret dire^ing Providence, 
and of the Equity and Juftice of paying Homaee to him 
that made us, and the like : But there appear'd nothing 
of all this in the Notion of an evil Spirit, of his Original, 
his Being, his Nature, and above all, of his Inclination to 
do Evil, and to draw us in to do fo too :^ And the poor 
Creatuie puzzled me once in fuch a Manner, by a Que- 
ftion roerely natural and innocent, that I fcarce knew 
what to Tay to him. I had been talking a great deal ta 
him of the Power of God, his Omnipotence, his dread- 
ful Averiion to Sin, his being a confuming Fire to the 
Workers of Iniquity ; how, as he had made us all, he 
coald deftroy us, and all the World, in a Moment ; and 
he liften*d with great Senoufnefa to me al^ the while. 



2o6 The Life imd Ai>ventvres €f 

Afcer this, I had been tdling him how the Devil was 
God*s Enemy in the Hearts of Men, and afcd all his Ma- 
lice and Skill to defeat the good Defigns of Providence, 
and to min the Kingdom ofChrift in the World» and the 
like: Well, fays Triditf^ bot you fay, God is fo ftrong, fo 
mat, is he not mach ftrong, noch might, as the Devil ? 
Yes, yes» faid I, Fridi^^ Göd is ftronger than the Devil, 
God is above the Devil, and therefbre we pray to God to 
tread him ander our Peet, and enable ns to refift his Terop« 
tations, and qaench hisfiery Darts. But^ fays he again, 
if God mucb ßrmg^ much might y as tbeDmiy <wby God mot' 
kiJi tbe De^ily fo fnake bim no more «wickedf 

I was ih-angely farprifed at his Qaeftion, and after all, 
thongh I was now an old Man, yet I was büt a yonng- 
Do^or, and ill enoggh qaalified fora Cafuift, oraSolver 
of Difficalties : And, at firft, I could not teil what^to fay ; 
\o I pretended not to hear him, and alked him what he 
faid : Bat he was too earneft iov an Anfwer to fbrget his 
Queftion ; fo that he repeated it in the very fame broken 
Words, as above. By this Time I hadrecovered myfelf a 
little, and I faid, God 'will at laß fumfh himfe'verelyy he it 
reßr*üedfir the Judgpienty and is to he cafl into the hottomlefi 
Tity to d<ivell nvith everlafiing Fire : This did not fatisfy 
Fridfff\ bat he returns upon mc, repeating my Words, 
üefemje at laß^ me no underßand: But ivhy not kill the De- 
njil nowy not kill great ago ? You may as well afk me, fmd 
ly why God does not kill you and me, when we do 
wicked Things here that ofFcnd him : We are prefcrv'd to 
repent and be pardon'd. He mafes a while at this ; Welli 
well, fays he, mighty afFeäionately, that imII^ fo youy /, 
De'vily alliuickedy allffreferuCy repent y God pardon all: Here 
1 was run down again by him to the laft Degree, and it 
was a Teftimony to me, how the mere Notions of Nature, 
though they will guide reafonable Creatures to the Know- 
ledge of a God, and of a Worftiip orHomage due to the 
Supreme Being of God, as the Confequence of our Natore ; 
yet riothing butDivine Revelation can form theKnowlcdgc 
of Jefus Chrifiy and of a Redemption purchafed for us ; 
cf a Mediat')r of a ncw Covenant ; and of an Interccffor 
at the Footftool of God's Throne, I fay, nothing but 
a Revelation from Heaven can form thefe in the Soul ; 
and that therefore the Gofpel of our Lord and Saviour 

7. 7er« 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 207 

^efus Cbrißy I mean the Word of God, and the Sjpirit 
of God, promifed for the Guide and Sa'n^liiier of his 
People, are the abfolutely necefTary In(lru6lors of the 
Souls of Men in the faving Knowledge of God, and the 
Means of Salvation. 

I therefore diverted the prefent Difcourfe between me 
andmy Man, rifing up hadily^ as upon fome fudden 
Occafion of going out ; then fending him for foniething 

' a grcat Way oiF, I ferioufly prayed to God, that he 
would enable me to inilruä favingly this poor Saväge, 
affifting by his Spirit the Hcart of the poor Ignorant 
Creatiire tö receiv^ the Light of the Knowledge of God 
in Chrifly reconcilmg him to himfelf, and would guide 
me to fpeak fo to him from the Word of God, as his 
Confcience might be convinced, his Eyes opened, and 
bis Soul faved : When he came again torne, I entered 
into a long Difcourfe with him upon the Subjedl of the 
Redempdon of Man by the Savionr of the World, and 
of the Dodtrine of the Gofpel preached from Heaveo, 
VM5. of Repentance towards God, and Faith in our 

' blefled Lord Jefut : I then expiained to him, as well as I 
cottld, why our blefied Redeemer took not on him the 
Nature of Angels, but the Seed of Abraham^ and how for 
that Reafon the fallen Angels had noShare in the Redemp- 
tion ; that he came only to the loft Sheep öf the Houfe of 
Jfrael^ and the like. 

I had, Godknoivs^ more Sincerity thän Knowledge, in aH 
the Methods I took for this poor Creature's Infhtt^on ; 
and muft acknowledge, what I believe all that a^ upon 
the fame Principle will -find, that in laying thtngs opeYi 
to him, I really informed andinftrüded myielf in many 
things that either I did not know, or had not fully con- 
fider*d before; but which occurr*d naturally to my Mind, 
upon my fearching into them, for the Information of 
this poor Savage;. and J had more Affedtion in my Inauiry 
afcer Things upon- this Occaiion,' than ever I feit before ; 
:fo that whether this poor wild Wretch was the better 
for me or no, I had great Reafon to be thankfui, that 
cver he came to me : My Grief fat lighter upon me, my 
.Mäbitation grew comfortable to me beyond meafure ; and 
"when I refledted, that in this folttary Life which I had 
beea confined tO; I had not only been mov^ m^^^^ ^s^ 



z=L - ::i_r.z:i zoi i-Tu?::: 



1:2- -i-^ "Tir i-Tt 3 ■ae ne 

^ _., 3«~^-, 

:• -. ■ -r^^ri. .2 iii Ar- 

- •. 1:. _ -c \j=x3i:«2r 

:: - - — L. - .:rii:2- ii OTÄ 

- — r..-r r-j^tt:t JffJ» 

z 1 -ir ^* ',-4» 1 :;:ci 
-..r ^•- . '•• rta.- 

.^ -.: ^ .1 «>.:;;: : 
^- . . . Tr ■ . ^ir-::«?». 

. ^ -.-.--.. --•- i -»£«1:1 :■• TT ' 









ROBINSON CRUSOE. 209 

As to the Difputes^Wranglings, Strife, and Contentfon» 
which has happen'd in the World about Religion, wheCher. 
Niceties in Do^lrines, or Scheines of Church-governmenty 
they wereall perfedUy ufelefs to us, as, for aught I can 
yet fee, they have becn to all the reft in the World : We 
had l\it füre Guide to Heaven» «i;iä. the Word of God ; 
and we had, blejjed he God^ comfortable ViQws öf the 
Spiiit of Gody teachixkg and inilruAing us by hisWord, 
leading tu into all Trutb^ and making us both willing and 
obedient to the Inftrudion of his Word ; and I can not fee 
the leaft Ufe that the greateft Knowledge of the difputed 
Points in Religion, wbich have made fuch Confufions in 
the World, would have beento us, if we could have ob* 
tainM it : But 1 mufl go on with the hiilorical Part of 
things, and take every Part in its Order. 

After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, 
and that he could underfland almoft all I faid to him, 
and fpeak fluently» though in broken Engliß^ to nie ; I 
atquainted him with my own Story, ör at leall fo much 
of it as related to my Coming into the Place, how I had 
liv'd there, and how long: I let him into the Myftcry 
(for fuch it was to him) of Gunpowder and BuUets, and 
taught him how to (hoot : I gave him a Knife, which 
he. was wonderfully delighted with, and I made him a 
Belt with a Frog hanging to it, fuch as in England we. 
wear Hangers in ; and in the Frog, inilead of an 
Hanger» I gave him {in Hatchet, which was not only 
as good a Weapon in fome Cafes, but much more ufeful 
liipon many Occafions. 

I defcribed to him ihe Countries of Europe^ and par- 
ticularly England^ which I came from ; how we liv'd, 
how we worfhipp'd God, how we behav'd to one ano-. 
ther, and how we traded in Ships to all the Parts of' 
the World : I gave him an Account of the Wreck which 
I had been on board of, and fliew'd him, as near asi I 
could, the Place where (helay; but fhe was all beateii 
in Pieces long before, and quite gone. 

I fhew'd him the Ruins of our Boat, which we loft 
when we efcap'd, and which I could not flir with my 
whole Strength then, but was now fallen aln;ioil all to 
Pieces : üpon feeing this Boat, Friday ftood mufing a 
great while, and faid nothing ; I a&.'d ^m h«Vw^x v^ 



9.T0 7Zv Life and Adventures of 

was he (ludied upon ? at laft, fays he, Me fee fucb Soai 
iiki come io fH'ace at py Nation» 

I did not anderftand him a good while ; but at laft, 
when I had examined further into it, I underflood by 
him, thac a Boat, fuch as that had been, came on Short 
upon theCountry wherchelivM; thatis, as he explain*d 
it, was drivcn thither by Strcfs of Weather : I prefendy 
imagin'd, that fome European Ship maft ha?e been cafi 
away upon their Coaft, and theBoat might get loofe, 
and drive a/hore ; but was fo dall, that I never once 
thought of Men making Efcape from a Wrcck thither» 
much lefs whence they might come ; fo I only inquired 
after a Defcription of the Boat. ' 

Friday defcribed the Boat to me well enoogh ; but 
brougKt me bettcr to underftand him, when he added, 
with fome Warmth, Wefa^e the^htte Moni from dro'wn: 
Then I prcfcntly a&'d him, if thcre were any white Mans/ 
as hecalied them, in the Boat: Tesy Yi^^Mr the Boat füll 
of tjohite Mans : I afk'd him, how many? He told upon 
his Fingers feventeen : I afk'd him then, what becameof 
them ? He told me, TJ^ live^ they divell at jtrf Nation, 

This put new Thoughts into my Hcad again j for f 
prefently imagined, that thefe might be the Men belong- 
ing to the Ship that was caft away in Sight of my Ifland, 
as I now call it ; and who, after the Ship was druck on 
the Rock, and they faw her inevitably loft, had faved 
themfelves in their Boat, and were landed upon that wild 
Sbore among the Savages. 

Upon this I inquired of him more critically, what was 
bccome of them ; he aflur'd me they liv'd ftill there, that 
they had been there about four Years, that the Savages let 
them alone, and gave themVidlualsto live: I afk'dhim, 
how it came to pafs they did not kill them, and eat 
them ? He faid, No^ they make Brother avith them ; that 
IS, as I underflood him, a Truce ; And then he added» 
^hey no eat Mans but wjhen make the War fight : That is to 
fay, they never eat any Men, but fach as come to fight 
with them, and are taken in Battle. 

It was after this, fome confiderable Time, that being 
on the Top of the Hill, at the Eaft-fide of the Ifland, 
from whence, as I have faid, I had in a clear Day difco- 
ver'd the Main or Coniinent of America ; Friday, the Wea- 

ther 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 211 
ther being very ferene, looks very earneftly towards the 
main Land, and in a kind of Surprife falla a jumping and 
dancing, and calls ont to me, for I was ac iome DiJlance 
from him : I afk'd him what was the Matter ? O Joy ! fay$ 
hc, OGlad! Therefeemy Country^ there my Nation ! 

I obferv'd an extraordinary Senfe of Pleafure appear'd 
in bis Face, and bis Eyes fparkled, and bis Coc^ntenance 
difcpver'd a ilrange Eagernefs, as if be bad a Mind to 
bc in bis own Country again ; and tbis Obfcrvation o( 
roine put a great many Thougbts into nie, wbicb made 
me at firft not fo eafy about my new Man Friday^ as I 
was before ; and I made no doubt, but that if Friday 
coiild get back to bis own Nation again, be would not 
only forget all bis Rdigion, but all bis Obligations to me ; 
and would l>e fprward enougb to give bis Countrymen 
an Account of me, and come back perbaps, with an 
Hundred or two of tbem, and make a Feaft upon me, at 
wbicb be migbt be as merry as be ufed to be wicb tbofe of 
bis Enemies, when tbey were taken in War. 

But I WrongM the poor honeft Creature very mucb, for 
wbicb I was very forry afterwards : Howevcr, as my Jea- 
loufy increafed, and held me fome Weeks, I was a little 
more circumfpeA, and not (o familiär and kind to him as 
before; in wbicb I was certainly in the wrong too, the 
honeft gratefui Creature baving no Tbongbt about it, but 
wbat confifled of the bell Principles, botb as a religious 
Cbriftian, and as a gratefui Friend, as appeared after-* 
wards to my fuU Satisfadlion. 

Whilft my Jealoufy of bim lailed, you may bc füre I wa» 
every Day pumping him to fee if be would difcover any of 
the new Thougbts, wbicb I fufpe^ed were in him ; but 1 
fonnd everv thing be faid was boneft, and fo innocent, tbat 
I could find nothing to nourifb mySufpicion ; and, in fpite 
of all my Uneafinefs, he made me at lad intirely bis own 
again ; nor did he in the leaft perceive, that I was uncafy; 
and therefore I could not fufpeä him of Deceit. 

One Day, Walking up the fame Hill, but the Wea- 
tber being hazy at Sea, fo that we could not fce the 
Contioent, I called to him, and faid, Friday^ do not 
you wifb yourfelf in your own Country,' your own 
Nation ? 2 r/, be faid, / be much O giad to he at my oivn 
Ifatiott. Wbat would- you dotbere? faidl: Would ^<^^ 



212 Tbe Life and Adventüres $/ 
turn wild again» eat Mans FIe(h again, and be a Savage 
as you werebefore? Hc look*d füll of Concern, and 
fhaking his Head, faid, No, no^ Frida/ teil them to liiti 
goody tili them to fray Gody teil them to eat Corn hread^ 
Cattlefleßy Milk^ no eat Man again, Why then, faid I to 
Ykim^ theywiUkiliyou: He look*d grave at that, and then 
faid, N09 tbey mo killme^ thejf lui/Iing luve kam : Hc meant 
by this, they would be willing to learn : He added, thcy 
learn'd much oF the bearded Mans that camein the Boat: 
Then I aflc'd him, if be would go back to them ? He 
fmird at that, and told me he coold not fwim fo far : I 
told him I would make a Cavoe for him : He told me he 
would go, if .1 would go with him. I go 1 faid J, why* 
they will eat me if I come there : iV^, »o, fays he, me 
make them np eat you, me make tbty mucb love you : He meanc 
]ie would teil them how I had kiird his Enemies and 
fav'd his Life, and fo he would make them love me : 
Then he told me as well as he could, how kind tbey 
were to feventeen white Men, er bearded Men, as lie 
caird them, who came on Shore in Diftrefs. 

From this Time, I confcfs, I had a Mind to venture 
over, and fee if I could poflibly join with tbefe bearded 
Men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or PortU' 
wfe\ not doubting but, ifl could, we might find fome 
Mtthod to efcape from thence, being upoo the Conti- 
nent, and a good Company together, better than I cöuld 
from an liland forty Mües ofF the Shore, and alone with- 
out Help : So, after ferne Days, I tookFriV^y to work 
again, by way of Difcourfe ; and told him, I would 
give him a Boat to go back to his own Nation ; and 
accordingly I carried him to my Frigate, which lay on 
the other Side of the Ifland ; and having clear'd it of 
Water (for I always kept ic funk in the Water) I brought 
it out, fhew'd it him, and we both went into it. 

J fouiid he was a moft dextrous Fellow at managing 
it, would make it go almoft as fwift and faft again as I 
could; fo when he was in, I faid to him. Well, now 
Friday, (hall we go to your Nation ? He look'd very 
dull at my faying fo, which, it ftems, was becaufe hc 
thought the Boat too fmall to go fo far : I told him then 
I had a bigger ; fo the next Day, I went to the Place 
where the firft Boat lay which I had made, but whicfi 

I could 



"ROBINSON CRUSOE. 213 

i ccnild not get into the Water ; he faid that was big 
«nough ; but then, as I had taken no Care of it, and it 
had lain two or threc-and-twenty Years there, the Sun 
had fplit and dry'd it, that it was in a manner rotten. 
Fnday told me, fach a Boat would do very well, and 
woald carry much enough Vittle^ Drinky Bread, that was 
his Way of talking. 

• üpon the Whole, I was by this Time fo fix'd upon 
my Defign of going (Jver with him to the Continent, 
that I told him we would go and raake one as big as 
that, and he (hould go home in it. He anfwer'd not 
one Word, but look'd v^ty grave and fad. I afk'd hini 
what was the Matter with him. He afk'd me agaii^ 
thos, Why you angry mad fwttb Friday ? tuthat me dorn ? 
I adcM him what he meant ; I told h^pi I was not 
angry with him at all : Ab *angry ! No angry / fays he, 
repeating the Words fevcral Times, Whyfend Friday home 
onjütKy to my Nation ? Why, faid 1, Friday^ did you not fay 
yoö wilh'd you were there ? 7>/,^fj,'fays he, ijoiß he hoth 
there^ no njoiß Friday there^ no Maßer there. In a Word, ' 
Yst woUld not think of going there without me. I go 
there, F^day ! faid I : - What ihould I do there ? He 
tani*d very quick upon me at this ; Tou do great deal 
nkuh Goody fays he, you teach nv'tld Mans he goody fohir^ 
tami Mam 5 you teil them kn<rw Gody fray Gody and li^ue 
nnv Life. Alas, Friday y faid I, thou knoweft not what 
thou faycft ; I am but an ignorant Man myfelf. Tes,yes, 
fays hc, you teachee meGoodyyou teachee them Good, No, no, 
FHday, faid I, you (hall go without me ; leavc me here 
to live by myrdf, as I did before. He look'd confus'd 
again at that Word, and running to one of the Hatchets 
which he ufed to wear, he takes it up hailily, and gives 
it me. What muft I do with this ? faid I to him : l^ou 
taie kill Friday, fays hc. What muft I kill you for ? 
faid- I again. He returns very quick, What you fend 
Friday a^ay for ? Take kill Friday, no fend Friday ä- 
*way. This he fpoke fo earjieftly, that I faw Tears 
ftand in his Eyes. In a word, I fo plainly difcover'd 
the utmoft Affedlion in him to me, and a. firm Refolu- 
tion in him, that I told him then, and often after, that 
I would never fend him away from me, if he was willing 
to ftay widi jne. 



914 Thi Life anJ Adventures of 

Upon the Whole, as I found hy all his Difcoarfe, c 
fetticd Affedion to me» and that nothing ihoold part 
him from me, fo I found all the Foandadon of his De- 
fire to go to bis own Countty, was laid in his ardent 
Affedlion to the People, and his Hopes of my doing them 
good ; a thing, which as I had no Notion of myfelf» 
to I had not the leaft Thooght, or Intention, or Defire 
of nndertaking it : But tlill I fonnd a ftrong Inclination 
to my attempcing an Efcape, as above, foonded on the 
Suppoiltion gathered from the former Difcourie ; viz, 
That there were feventeen bearded Men there ; and there- 
fort, without an/ Delay» I went to work with Fridwf^ 
to find OQt a great Tree proper to feil, and make a large 
Periagua or Canoe, to undertake the Voyage : There 
were Trees enough in the Ifland to have built a litde 
Fleet, not of Periaguas and Canoes only, bat even of 
good large VeiTels: Bat the main thing I looked at, 
was to get one (o near the Water, that we might laanch 
tt when it was made, to. avoid the' Miftake I committed 
ac firft. 

At laft> Friday pitched apon a Tree ; for I found he 
knew mach betcer than I, what kind of Wood was fittefl 
for it ; nor can I teil to this Day, what Wood to call the 
Tree we cut down, except that it was very like the Tree 
we call Fußte, or between that and the Nicaragua Wood, 
for ic was much of the fame Colour and Smell : FrUiy 
was for burning the Hollow or Cavity of this Tree out, • 
to make it into a Boat : But I (hewed him how rather to ' 
cut it out with Tools, which afcer I Ihew'd him how to 
ufe, he did very handily, and in about aMonth'shard La- 
bour we finiftiM it, and made it very handfonre, efpecially 
when with ourAxes, which I fhewedhim how to handle, 
we cut and hewM the Outfide into the true Shape of a 
Boat; after this, however, it coft as near a Fortnight's 
Time to get her along, as it were Inch by Inch, upon 
great Rollers, into the Water : But when (he was in, (he 
would have carried twcnty Men with great Eafe. - 

When fhe was in the Water, and thö' fhe was fo big, 
it amaz'd me to fee with what Dexterity and how fwift 
my Man Friday would manage her, turn her, and pad- 
dle her along ; fo I afked him if he would, and if wc 
»ight venture over in her : 2>/, he faid, be venture over 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 215" 

ia hervety loell^ though great hlofwWtnd : However, I had 
a fartherDefign that he kne^v notbing of> and that was 
to make a Mail and Sail, and to fit her with an Anchor 
and Cable : As to a Mall» that was eafy enough to get i 
fo I pitch*d upon a firait young Cedar-tree, which [ 
foand near the Place, and which ihere was great Plenty 
of in the liland ; ahd I fet Friday to work to cat it 
down» and gave him Dire6tions how to ihape and order 
it : Bat as to the Sail» that was my particular Gare ; I 
knew I had cid Sails, or rather Pieces of old Saili 
enoagh ; but as I had them now twenty-iix Years b/ 
ne« and had not been very careful to preferve them» 
not imagining that I fhould ever have this kind of Ufe 
for them» I did not doubt but they were all rotten ; and 
indeed moft of them were fo ; however, -I found two 
Pieces which appeared pretty good, and with thefe I 
went to work» and with a great deal of Pains, and auk-> 
ward tedious Stitching (you may be füre) for want of 
Needles, I at length made a three~corner*d ugly thing» 
like what we call in England a Shoulder- of- mutton Sail, to 
%o with a Boom at Bottom, and a little fhort Spric at the 
Top, fuch as ufually our Ships Long-boats fail with, and 
fach as I bell knew how to manage ; becaufe it was fuch 
an one as I uftrd in the Boat in which I made my Efcape 
from Barbary^ as related in thefirft Part of my Story. 

I was near two Months perform ing this Jaft Work ; 
n;i%. rigging and fitting my Mail and Saih ; for I finilh'd 
them very complete, niaking a fmall Stay, and a Sail or 
Forefail to it, to aflifl, if wc (hould tum to Windward ; 
and» which was more than all, I üx'd a Rudder to the 
Stern of her, to fleerwith ; and tho* I was but abung- 
ling Shipwright, yet as I knew the Ufefulnefs and even 
Neceffity of fuch a thing, I applied myfelf wich fo 
niuch Pains to do it» that at lad I brought it to pafs» 
tho% confidering the many dull Contrivances I had for 
jt that faird» I think it cofl me almofl as much Labour 
AS making the Boat. 

After all this was donc, I häd my Man Tridcy to 
teach as to what belongM to the Navigation of my Boat ; 
for tho' he knew very well how to paddle the Canoe^ he 
knew nothiDg what belong'd to a Sail and a Rudder» 
a^d waa the moft amaz'd wben he faw me work the 



2i6 The Life and Adventures of 
Boat to-and-again in the Sea by the Radder, and how die 
Sailgyb'd, and fiird this wayörthac way, as the Coorfe 
we faird chang'd ; I Tay, when he faw this, he ftood like 
one aftonifh'd and amaz^d : However, with a little Ufe» 
I made all thefe things familiär to him, and he became 
an expert Sailor, except that as to the Compafs, 1 could 
make him underiland very little of that : On the orher 
hand, as there was WQvy little cloady Weäther, and fcl- 
domor never äny Fogs in thofe Parts, there w;as the lefs 
Occafion for a Compafs, feelne the Stars were always 
to be feen by Night, and the Shore by Day, except in 
the rainy Seafons ; and.then nobody cared to fUr abroad, 
either by Land or Sea. 

I was now enter'd on the feven-and-twentieth Ycar of 
my Captivity in this Pkice ; though the three laft Years 
that I had this Creature wich me, ought rather to be left 
out of the Account, my Habitation being quite of ano- 
thcr kind than in all the reft of my Time. I kcpt the 
Anniverfary of my landing here with the fame Thankfol- 
nefs to God for his Mercies as at firft; and if I had foch 
Caufc of Acknowledgment at firft, I had much more fo 
now, having fuch adaitiorial Tellimonies of the Care of 
Providence over me, and the great Hopes I had of being 
cffedlually and fpeedily dcliver'd; for I had an invincible 
Impreflion upon my Thoughts, that my Deliverance was 
at hand, and that I (hould not be another Year in this 
Place : However, I went on with my Hufbandry, digg- 
ing, planting, fencing as ufual ; I gatherM and cur'd my 
Grapes, and did every neceflary thing, as before. 

The rainy Seafon was in the mean Time upon me, 
when I kept more withindoors than at other Times; 
fb I had flow'd our new VefTcl as fecure as we could, 
bringing her up into the Creek, where, as I faid in 
the Begmning, I landed my Rafts from the Ship ; and 
haling her up to the Shore, at high-water Mark, I 
ihade my Man Friday dig a little Dock, juft big enough 
to hold her, and juft deep enough to give her Water 
enough to float in ; and then when the Tide was out, 
we made a ftrong Dam crofs the End of it, to keep 
the Water out ; and (o (he lay dry, as to the Tide, 
from the Sea ; and to keep the Rain off*, we laid a great 
many Boughs of Trees fo thick, that ihe was as well 

thatch'd r 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 217 

thatchM as an Houfe ; and tkus we waited for the Months 
of No^jember and Decemher^ in which I dcfign'd co ma!<9 
my A^ltencure. 

When the fettled Scafon began to come in, as tbe 
Thought of my Dcfign return'd with tkc fair Weathuf, I 
was prcparing dai^y for the Voyage j and the firft thing I 
did was to lay up a certain Qaantity of Provifion, being 
the Store for the Voyage ; and intended in a Week or s 
Fortnight*s Time, to open the Dock, and iaunch oot oor 
fioat : I was buiy one Morning upon fomething of this 
kindy when I call'd to Friday^ and bid him go to tiie Sea- 
ihore, and fee if he could find aTurtle, or Tortoife, a thing 
which WC generally got ome a Weck, for the fake of thp 
Eggs, as weil as the Plefh. Fridajf had not been long gone, 
when he came running back» and üew over my outward 
Wall, or Fence, like one that feit not theGround, or the 
Steps he fet his Pect on ; and before I had Time to fpeak 
to him, he cry'd out to me, O Maßer ! O Mafier ! O Sorrowf 

bmi! What's the Matter, Friday ? Taid I ; Oyonder ihere, 
fays he, one^ t*wö, thret Canoe ! one, tiuo, three ! ßy this 
way of fpeaking I concluded there were fix ; but on In« 

2uiry I found there were but three. Well Friday, faid I, 
o not be frighted ; fo I hearten*d him up as well as I 
could : However, I faw the poor Fcllow moft tcrribly 
fcar*d ; for nothing ran in his Head but that they were 
come to look for him, and would cut him in Pieces, and 
eat bim ; and the poor Fellow trembledfo, that I fcarce 
knew what to do with him : I comforted him as well as 

1 could, and told him I was in as much Danger as he, 
and that they would eat me as well as him. But, faid I, 
Friday, it# muß refohe to fight them : Can you ßght^ 
Priday ? Me Jhoot, fays he, but ther^ come many great 
Numher, No matter for that, faid T again, our Guqs 
fvillfright them that we do not kill. So I aflc'd him, 
Whethcr, if I refolv'd to defend him, he wpuld defend 
me, and iland by me, and do juft as I bad bim ? He faid, 
Mi die, nubenyou bid die. Maßer j fo I went and fetch*d 
a good Dram of Rum, and gave him ; for I had been-^p 
good an Huiband of my Rum, that I had a great deai left : 
When he ^ad drank it, I made him take the two Fowl. 
ing- pieces which we always carry 'd, and load them with 
large Swan-ihot, as big as (mall Piftol-bullets ; then I took 

Vol. I. K \wä 



-Ärö TÄtf XiF« and Adventvrb« (f 
foar Mufqaets, and loaded them with two Slugs, and five 
ünall Bnllets .each ; and my two Piflols I loaded with a 
Brace bf BuUets ckch:: I bong my great Sword» as afualy 
iiaked by my Side, and gave Fridaj Iris Hatchet. . 

Whcn I had thus prcpar'd myfelf, I took my Pcrfpcc- 
iive-glafs, and went np to the Side of the HUI, to (ee 
•ivbat Icoulddifcover; andl/oundquickly, by my Glifi« 
that tbcre were one and twcnty Savages, thrce Prifoaers, 
and three Canots ; and thac thdr whale Bufinefs feem'd 
CO hz the triamphant Banquet upon thefe three human 
£odies ; a barbarous Feaft ind^ed, but nothinnr more thaa 
as I had obferv^d was ufual with them. 

I obferv'd alfo, that they were landed, not whcre thcy 
3iad done when Friday made his Efcape, but nearer to mj 
Creek, where the Shore was low» and where a thick 
SV^ood came clofe almoft down to the Sea : This, with 
ihe Abh'orrence of the inhuman Errand thefe Wretche;^ 
icame about, fo üird me with Indignation, that I came 
4down agaih to Friday^ and told himi, I*was refolvM to go 
«down to them, and kill them all; and afk^d him if he 
.WQuId ftand by me. He was now gotten over his Fright, 
and his Spirits being a little rais'd with the Dram I had 
^ivcn him, he was vel-y chearful ; and te!d me, as before, 
,he ivould du njuhen I hid die. 

In this Fit of Fury, I took firft and divided the Arms 
-tvhich I had charg'd, asbefore, between us: I gave FW- 
jü^y one Pidol to flick in his Girdle, and three Guns upoji 
.his Shoulder^ and I took onePiftoI, and theother three, 
noyrelf ; and in this Pollure we raarch'd out ; I took a 
fmall Bottle of Rum in my Pocket, and gave Fridcif a 
largc Bag with more Pow^er and Bullet ; ;Änd as to Or- 
ders, I charg'd him to keep clofe behind me, and not ta 
ftir, or (hoot, or do any thing tili I bid him ; and in the 
mcan Time, not to fpeak a Word : In this Pollure I ferch'd 
ä Compafs to my RightHand of near a Mile, as well t9 
get over the Creek as to get into the Wood ; fo that I 
«lightcomewithin Shot of them before I ihould be difco- 
▼erd, which I had feen by my Glafs it was eafy to do. 

While I was makingthis March, my former Thou^htt 
returning, I began to abace my Rcfolution ; I do not mean, 
rtat I entertain'd any Fear of their Number ; for as they 
wen Jiaked, onarmM Wretches» ^tis certaial was fuperior 

' " t« 



( 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 219 

to them; nay, thoogh I had been alone : But it occarr'd 
to myThoaghts, what Call, what Occafion, much lefs, 
what Neceflity, I was in to go and dip my Hands in Blood, 
to attackPeople,who had neither done or intended me an/ 
Wrong: Who as to me, were innocent, and whofe barba- 
Toos Cuftoms were their own Difafter, being in them a 
Tokcn indccd of God's having left them, wich the other 
Nadons of that Part of the World, to fuch Scupidity, and 
Co fach inhuman Courfes -, bat did not call me to take up- 
on me to be a Judge of their Adlons» much lefs an Exe- 
cbtioner of his Juftice; that whenever hethought fit, he 
woald take theCaufe into his own Hands, and by natio- 
nal Vcngeancc panißi them for national Crimes ; but that 
in the mean Time, it was none of my Bufmeft : That it 
tvastrue, Fr/V^ymight jullify it, becaufc he was adeclar'd 
£nemy, and in a State of War with thofe very patticular 
People, and it was lawful for him to attack them ; but I 
could not fay the fame with refped to me : Thefe thing's 
were fo warmly prefs'd upon my Thoughts all the Way 
as I went, that I refolv'd I would only go place myfelf 
near them, that I might obferve their birbarous Feafl, 
and that I would ad then as God fhould dired ; but that 
«nlefs fomcthing ofFer'd that was more a Call to me thaa 
yct I knew of, I would not meddle with them. 

With this Refolution I enter'd the Wood, and with' 
tll poffible Warinefs and Silence {Friday following clofe 
at my Heels,) I march'd tili \ came to the Skirt of the 
Wood, on the Side which was next to them ; only that 
one Corner of the Wood by between me and them z 
Here 1 call'd foftly to Friday, and fhewing hira a great 
Trcs, which was jaft at the Corner of the Wood, f bad 
hjm go to the Tree, and bring me Word if he could fee 
there plainly what they were doing : He did {o, and came 
immediately back to me, and told me they might be plain- 
ly viewM there ; that they were all about the Fire, eating 
the Flcfh of one of their Prifoncrs ; and that another lay • 
bound upon the Sand, alittlefrom them, whom he faid' 
they would kill next, and which fir'd the very Soul within 
ine. He told mc, it was not one of theirNation^ but one of 
thebearded Men whom he had toldme of, who came to 
their Cöuntry in the Boat. I was filPd with Horror at the 
irery naming the whij^feardcd Man, aud, ^\ti^\^<i^x^ 



^20 7ie Life and AdVentures v/ 
Trte, I faw plainly, bjr my Glafs, a white Man, who lajr 
upon che Beach of the Sea, with his Hands aod hisPeec 
ty*d with Flags, or things like Ruihes; and that he was 
an European, and had Cioaths on. 

There was aaotbcr Tcee, aad a Httle Thicket beyond 
^tf about fifty Yards nearer to them than the Place where 
I was, which, by going alittle Way about, 1 faw I migbt 
come at undifcovcrM, and that then I flioold be within 
half Shot of them ; fo I wichheld my Pafiion« tho* I was 
indeed enrag*d to the higheft Degree; and going back a- 
beut twenty Paces, I got behind fome Balhes, which held 
all the Way tili f came to the other Tree, and then I came 
to a little rifing Ground, which gave me a fuilVitw of them« 
at the Dillanceof about eighty Yard:.. 

I had now not a Moment to lofe ; for nineteen of the 
dreadful Wretches fat upon the Ground all clofe huddled 

Sether, and had juft fent the other two robutchcr the poor 
ißian^ and bring him, perhaps Limb by Liii^b, to their 
Fire ; and they wereftoop'd down to untie the Bands at his 
Feet. I turn'd XJoFriday; Now, fr'tday, faid I, do as I bid 
thee. FnV/tf;?faid,hewould. Then, Fr/V^j^, faid I.docxadl- 
ly as you fee me do ; fail in nothing. So I fet down one of 
theMufquets and the Fowling-piece upon the Gronnd, and 
Frhday did the like by his; and with the other Mufquct I 
took my Alm at the Savages, bidding him do the like. 
Then afking him if he was rcady, he faid, Yes. Then fire 
at them, faid I; and the fame Moment I fir'd alfo. 

Friday took his Aim fo much bttter than I, that on 
the Side that he fhot, he kill'd two of them, and wound- 
cd three more ; and on my Side, I killM one, and wound- 
cd two. They were, you may be füre, in a dreadful 
Conflernation ; and all of 'em, who were not hurt, jump'd 
up upon their Feet immediately, but did not know which 
Way to run, or which Way to look ; for they knew not 
from whence their Deftrudiion came : Friday kept his 
£yes clofe upon me« that as I had bid him, he might ob« 
ferve what I did ; {o^ as foön as the firft Shot was made« 
I threw down the Piece, and took up the Fowling-piecc, 
and Friday did the like; he fees me cock, and prefent ; he 
^id the fame again. Are you ready, Friday P faid I. Yes, 
fays he. Let fly then, faid I, in the Name of God ; and 
with tliat I fir'd again among the amaz*d Wretches, and 

{q 



ROBINSONCRUSOE. 221 

ft did friday ; and as oor Pieccs were now loaden with 
W^iat I caird Swan-fhot, or fmall Pilloi-Bulkts, we found 
only two drop; but fo many were wounded,thattheyran 
about yelhng and fcreaming like m^dCreatureSj alJ bloody 
and miferably wounded, tpolt of them ; whereofthree more 
feil quickly afcer, though not quite dead. 

Now, Fridajy faid I, Jaying down thc difcharg'd Pieces, 
and taking up the Mofqoet, which was yct loaden, Follow 
me» faid I ; which he did, with a deal of Courage ; upon 
which I roih'd out of the Wood, and fhew'd myfelf, and 
Friday clofe at my Foot : As foon as I percciv'd they faw 
ne, I ihouted as loud as I could, and bad Friday doio top ; 
and running as faft as I could, <which hy the *way nvas not 
'oeiyfafl^ hing ioaded ivitb Jrms aslivasy I made directly 
towards the poor Vi^im, whö was, as 1 faid> lying upon 
riieBeach^or Shore, between the Place where they fatand 
the Se»; the twoButchers, who were joft going to work with 
him, had left him, at the Sarprife of our firft Fire, and fled 
. in aterrible Fright to the Sea-fide, and had jumpM into 
a CafiMj and three more of the reft made the fame Way : 
I tom^d to Friday, and bad him ftep forwards, and fire at 
tktmi he underüood me iinm«diately, and running about 
forty Yards to be near them, he ihot at them, and I 
^ooght he had kilPd them all ; for I faw them all fall on 
an Heap into theBoat; though I faw two of them up a- 
gain quickly : However, he kiird two of them, and 
wounded the third, fo that he lay down in the Bottom of 
the Boat, as if he had been dead. 

While my Man Friday fir*d at them, I pull'd out mjT 
Knife, and cut the Tlags that bound the poor Vi^im; 
and loofing his Hands and Feet, I lifted him up, and 
aßc'd him in the Portugurfe Tongue, what he was ? He 
anfwerM in Laiin , Cbrißianus ;' but wa» fo weak and 
£&int, that he could fcarce fland, or fpeak ; I took m/ 
Bottle out of my Pocket, and ga^e it him, makrng Signs- 
that he fhould drink, which he did; and I gave him a 
Piece of Bread, which he eat ; then I afk^d him, what 
Countryman he was? And hefaid, E^^igWf; and, being^ 
a litcle recover'd, let me know, by all che Signs he could 
poflibly make, how much he was in my Debt for hi» 
Deliverance : Se/gmor, faid I, with as much Sfaniyb as 1 
could make up, we will talk afterwards^ ba^ ^^ ycc«S^ 



222 The Lite and ADVEvrvKEs of 

üghtnow: If yoahaveaoyStrength left, take this Plftof* 
and Sword, and lay aboot you : He took them very thankv/ 
fally» and no fooner had he the Anns m his Hands, bot 
as if they had put new Vigour into him, he ficw opon his 
Murderers like a Fary, and had cut two of th^m in Pieces 
in an Inftant ; for the Troth is, as the Whole was a Sur- 
prife to them, fo the poor Creatores were fo much fright- 
ed wich the Noife of oar Pieces, that they feil down foiy 
inere Amazement and Fear, and had no more Power to at* 
tempt their own Efcape, than th«ir Fledi had to refiil our 
Shot; and that was the Cafe of thofe iivt thatFr/V/rj^ fhot 
in the Boat ; for as three of them feil with the Hurt they 
itcciv'd, fo the oiher two feil with the Fright. 

I kept my Picce in my Hand ftill, withöut^firing, being 
wijüng to keep my Charge ready, becaufe I had given the 
Spamard my Fiftol and Sword ; fo I calPd to Friday^ and 
br.d him run up to the Tree from whence we firft Bx^d^' 
rad fctch the Arms which laythere, that had been dif< 
cbargM, which he did wfth great Swiftnefs; and thea 
giving him my Mufquet, I fat down myfelf to load all the 
red again, and bad them come to me when they wanted : 
Whilc I was loading thefe Pieces, there happen'd a fierce 
Engagement between rht Spant ard and one of the Savages, 
who madc at him with one of their great wooden Swords, 
the fame Weapon that was to h^ve kiird him befofe, ifl 
had not prevented it : The Spaniarä^ who was as bold andt 
as brave as couidbe imagin'd, tho* weak, had foughtthii 
Inäian a good while, and had cut him two great Wounds 
«ri his Head ; büt the Savage, being a llout lufty Fellow, 
clofmg in with him, had thrown him down (being faint) 
and was wringing my Sword out of his Hand, when the 
SpaniarJ, tho' undermoft, wifely quittinghis Sword, drew 
the Piftol from his Girdle, fhot the Savage through the 
Body, and kilPd him upon the Spot, before I, who was 
running to help, could come near him. 

Friday^ being now Jeftat his Liberty, purfuM the flying 
Wretches with no Weapon in his Hand but his Hatchet ; 
and with that he difpatch'd thofe three, who, as I faid 
before, were wounded at firil and fallen, and all the reft 
he could come up with ; and the Spamard Coming ta 
me for a Gun, I gave him one of the Fowling-pieces, 
with which he purfu^d two of che Savages^ and wounded 

them 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. aaj 

them both ; but as he was not able to run, they both got 
from him intotheWood, where /T-zV^y purfuM them, and 
kiird one of them ; but the other was top nimble for him -^ 
and tho' he was wounded, yet had plung'd into tbe Sea,. 
and fwam with allhis Might o^tothofe vvho were teft ia< 
the Cauoe, whieh three in the Canoe, v/irh one wounded, 
who w^ know not whet]ier he dy'd or no, were all th^^ 
efcap'd our Hands of one-and twenty. The Accottotof 
the refl is as fol^ow»-; 

3 Kill'd at our Shot from the Trce. 
2 Kili'd at the next Shot. 
rrRiird by FriJay in the Boat. 

2 Kilrd by Diuo, of thofe at firft woundedV 
I Kill'd hyMü/o, in the Wood. 

3 Kiird by the Spaniard, 

^ Kiird, being foand dropt here-and-there of tfaetr 
WoundSy or kilFd hyFriday in his Chace of them. . 

4 Efcap'd in the Boat» w^ereof one wounded, if do^ 
dead. 



ii In all. 



Thofe that were in the Canoe, work'd Eard* to get oot 
•f .Gun-ihot ; and tho^ Friday äiade two or three Shot at 
«hem, I did not find, that he hit any of them : Friday 
would fain have had me take one of their Cances^ and 
parfae them ; and indeed I was very anxious aboat thek 
Efcape, lefl, carrying the News hörne to their People^ 
they, fhould come back, perhaps» with two or three 
hundred of their Canoes, and devour us by mere Mul- 
titudes ; fo I confented to purfue them by Sea $ and 
running to one of their Canots^ I jump'd in, and bad* 
Friday foUow me ; bat when I was in the Canoe^ I was 
furpris'd tö find another poor Creature lie thcre alive, 
bound Hand and Foot, as the 'Spaniard was, for the 
Slaughter» and almofl dead with Fear, not knowing 
what the Matter was ; for he had not been able to look 
up oVer the Side of the Boat, he was tied fo hard, Neck 
and Heels, and had been tied fo long, that he had really 
little Lifis in him. 



224 5"*^ Life and Advei^türes ef 

I immediatcly cut the twifted Flags, or Ruflies, whicb 
thcy had bound him wich, aod woidd have ke]p*d him 
up j biit he could not fhuid, or fpeak, bat groan'd moft 
piteoufly, believing» it feems, fiill that he was only on- 
boand in order to be kilPd. 

When FriJay came to hin, I bad him fpeak to him, 
ind teli him of hibDeliverance; andpolling oat my Boc- 
.cle, nadc him give the poor Wretch aDram, which,wicb 
the News of his being deliver'd, revivM him, and he fat 
up in the Beat; bot when Friday came to hearhim fpeak, 
and Icok'd in bis Face» it would have mov^ any one to 
Tears, to have feen how Friday kifs^d him, embrac'd 
him, hagg'd him, cry'd, laugh'd, hallow'd,J4us>p''daboQt, 
danc'd, fung, tben cry'd again, wrang hisHands, beathia 
own Fac« and Head, and then fung and jompM about a- 
gain, like a di:traä^ Creature: It was a good while, be- 
rort I could make him fpeak to me, or teil me what was 
tj^e Matter, but when he came alittle to kimfelf, he told 
me, that it was his Father. 

It was not eafy for me to expreß how it movM me, to 
fbe what EcHafy and filial AffeAion had vvork'd in this 
poor Savage, ax the Sight of his Father, and of his being 
deliverM from Death ; nor indeed can I dtfcribe half the 
Extravagancies of his AfTeflion after this ; for he went 
into die Boat and out of the Boat a great raany Times : 
When he went in tohim, he would fit down by him, open 
Jhis Breal^, and hold his Facher^s. Head clofe to his Bofom, 
half an Hour together, to »ourühit: Then he took his 
Arms and Ankles, which were numb'd and ftiff with the 
Binding, and chafed and rubb'd them with his Hands; 
and I, perceiving what rhe Cafe was,- gave Kira fomc 
Rum oat of my Bettle to rub them with, which did them 
a great deal of Good. 

T^his Adion put an End to our Furfuit of the Canoi 
with thß other Savages, who were now gotten almoft 
out of Sighi; and- it was happy for us, that we did not; 
for it blew fo hard within two Hours after, and before 
they could be gotten a-Quarter of their Way, and conti- 
«ued blovvingfo hard all Night, and that from the North- 
^eft, which was againft them, that I could not fuppofe 
their Boat could live, or that they ever reach'd to their 
^wn Coaft. 

Bat 



ROBINSON CRUSOE; 225^ 

Bat to retarnjto Friday; he was Co bufy about his Fathcr, 
tliac I could noc find in my Hearc to t^ke him ofF for lotne 
Time : ßuc af cer I thoughc he couki leave him a licrle, Tcal- 
Icd him to me, and t\e came jumping and laughing, and 
pleas'd to the highelt Excrenve. Then I aik'd him» if he 
iad give» his Fächer any Brcad? He fhook his Head, and 
faid, None: Ugly Dog tat all upfelf. So I gave him a Cake of 
B)-ead out of a litt!« Pouch 1 carry 'd on Pui'pofc j I alfo gave 
kirn a Dram for hiinfelf, but he wouid not tafte it, but car- 
»ied it to his Fächer : I had m my Pocket alfo t wo or three 
Buncnes of my Raifins, {<> J gave him a Handful of them 
iox his Fächer He had no fooner given his Father thefe 
Raifias» but I faw him come out of the Boat and ran away 
as if he had been bewicch'd. He ran at fbch a Rate (fos 
lie was the fwifteft Fcllow of his Foot that ever I law) I 
iay, he ran at fach a Rate, thar he wa> out of Sight, as it 
werein aninftant; andtho' Icaird and hallo w'd too aftec 
him, ic was all onej awav he went, and in a Quarter of 
an Hour I faw. him come back again, tho' not {^h.9i a» 
he went ; and as he came ne^irer, I found his Pace was 
flacker, becaufe he had fomething in his Hand. 

When he came up to me, 1 found he had been quite 
Home for an earthen J:i'g, or Pot, to Bring, hi» Father 
ibine freih Water j and that he had got two more Cake» 
or Loaves of Eread The Bread he gave me, but th&^ 
Watcr he carry'd to his Father : However, as I was verjt 
thirfty too, I took a h'ttle Sup of it : Tkis Water reviv'd 
his Father more than all the Rum or Spirlts I had give» 
him ; for he was juft faintirg withThirft. 

When his, Father had drank, I call'd him to know if 
there was any W^'acer left ; he faid, Yes ; and I bad him 
give to the. poor Spaniard^ who was in as much Want 
of it as his Father ; and I fent one of the Cakes, that 
FrUay brought, to the Spamard too, who was indeed 
very weak, and was rcpofing himfelf upon a green Place, 
«nder the Shade of a Tree, and whoie Limbs were alfo 
Tcry ftiff, and very much fwelPd with the rud.e Bandage he 
had been ty'd with : When 1 (aw that upon Fruiay!s Com- 
ing to him wich the Water, he fat up and drank, and took 
the Bread, and began to eac, I went to him, and g^vchim 
an Handful of Raifins ; he look'd up in my Fa^e wich 
all the Tokens of Gratitude and ThanKfulnci» ihat could 



2^6 Thi Life tf«i Adventures of 
appear in any Coantenance ; bat was fo weak, notwitli- 
Ihnding he had fo exertcd himfelf in the Fight, that he 
could not (land ap apon bis Feet ; he tried to do it two 
or three Times, but was reallynot able, bis Ankles were 
fo fwell'd, and fo painful to him ; fo I bad him fit ftili, 
and caasM FrUay to ruh bis Ankles, and bathe them witb 
Rum, as he had done hisFather^s. 

1 obfcrv'd the poor aiFeftionate Creature tvery two Mi- 
nures, or perhaps le(S all the while he was here» tnrn^d 
bis Hcad abont, to fee if his Father was in thefame Place 
and PöAure as he left him fitting ; and at lail he found he 
wä:> not to be fcen i at which he ftarted up, and withoat 
fpeaking a Word, flew witb that Swifcnefs to him, that 
one could fcarce perceive his Feet to touch the Groand 
as he went : But when he came, he only found he had 
laid himfelf down to eafe his Limbs : So FriJaj came back 
to me prefently, and I then fpoke to the Spaniard to let 
FriJay help him up, if he could, and lead him'to the Boat^ 
and then he fhould carry him to our DvlrelUng, wbere I 
would take care of him : But Fr/^/a lufty yoong Fel- 
low, took the Spamard quite «p upoti his Back, and car- 
ijed him away to the Boat, and fet him down foftly upon 
the Sjde or Gunnel of the Canoe^ with his Feet in the Infide 
of it, and then lifted them quite in, and fet him clofe to 
his Father, ard pr.'fently flepping out again, launch^d 
the Boat off, and paddled it along the Shore failcr than 
I could walk, tho' the Wind blew pretty hard tooj fohe 
brought them both fafe into our Creek j and leaving them 
in the Boat, runs away to fetch the other Came: As he 
pafsM me, I fpoke to him, and a(k*d him, whither he 
went ? He told n*.e, Go fetch more Boat \ fo away he 
went, like the Wind ; for füre never Man qr Horfe ran 
like him, and he had the other Canoe in the Creek, almoft 
as foon as I got to it by Land ; fo he wafted me over, and 
then went to help our new Guefts out of theBoat, which 
he did ; but they were neicher of them able to walk ; fo 
that poor Friday knew not what to do. 

To rcniedy this, I went to work in my Thought, aad 
calling to Frideef to bid them fit down on the Bank 
while he came to me, I foon made a kind of Hand- 
barrow to Jay them on, and Friday and I carried them 
wp both togtfcher üpon it betwcen ns : But when we got 

them 



R OB I NT SO KT CR ITS^O e: Tüf 

tftehi to thc putfidc of our Wall, or Fordfication, we 
were at a worfe Lofs than before.; for it was impoffibict 
to get them over ; and I was refolvM not to break ic 
down : So I fet to work agaia ; and Tridajzxi^ J, in about< 
two Hours Time, made a vtxy handfome Tent, cover'd' 
with old Sails, and above that with Boughs of Trees, 
being in the Space without our outward Fence, r^nd be- 
tween that and the Grove of young Wood which I had^ 
planted : And here wemade two Beds of fuch things as I 
liad ; vix, of good Rice-ilraw, with Bknkets laid apon 
k to lie on, * and another to cover them on each Bed. 

Mjr Ifland was now peopleid, and I diought myfelf 
very rieh in Subje6ls ; and it Was a merry Refledlion 
which I frequently made, how like a King I look'd : 
Firft of all, the whole Country was my own merai 
Property ; fo that I had^ an undoubted Right of Domi- 
nion, zdly^ My Pfeople were perfeftly fubjeded : I wasi 
abfolute Lord and Lawgiver; they all ow'd tlTeir Livea 
to^me, and were ready to lay down their Lives, if therei 
haä betn Occaßonfor ity for me : It was remarkable too^. 
I' had but three Subjefts, and they were of threc differcnt' 
ReligionSi My MsLnFndaywas aProtedant; his Father 
a Paga» and a Cambai ; and the Spaniard wa^ ä Päpiß r 
However, I allow'd Liberty of Confcience throughoutmy 
Dominions : Bat this is by the way. 

As foon as I had fecur*d my two weak vefcued Prifb* 
ners, and given them Shelter, and a Place to refl them« 
•pon, I began tathink of mal^ing fome Providon for them :. 
Afid the firft thing I did, I ordec'd Friday to take a yearlhig^ 
GoAt, betwixt a Kid and a Goat, out of my particular 
Flock, to be kiird : Then I cut ofF the hinder Quarter, 
änd, chopping it into fmall Pieces, I fet Fridäy to-work,« 
to boiling and ilewing, and made them a very good Diih» 
X aflareyott, of Flefh and BrotH ; having pnt fome Barle3r 
end Rice alfo, into the Broth ; and as I cook^d it without. 
Doors (fori made no Fire within my inner Wall) fo I 
carried it all into the new Tent ; and havkig fet a Table 
there for them, I fat down and eat my Dinner alfo wicH^ 
them; and, as well as I could, chear*d them and en€Ou- 
raged them, Friday being my Interpreter, efpecially to his 
Father, and indeed to the Spaniard too j for the Spanierin 
^okc the.Langiiagc of thc Sa*vages pretty wdL. 



328 Tbi Life ^^ Adventures of 

After wt had din'd, or rather fapp'd, 1 orderM Friittff 
tocakeosi: oftheGnrMi, and go andfetch oar Mufquets- 
aad ochcr Fifc-arms, which for Want of Time we had 
kft upuD he Place ofBacdc; and the nextDay 1 orderU 
him to go and bury che dead Bodies of the Sa vages, whidi 
Ia> opca to che Sun, and would prefently be offenfive;. 
and I alfo order'd him to bury the horrid Remains oi 
their barbarous Feail, which I knew were pretty much^ 
and which i could not chink of doing myfclf ; nay, I 
cottld noc bcar co fee them, if I went Chat Way : AU 
which he pundlually perfoim^d, anddefac'd the Yery Ap- 
.pcarance of che Savages being chere ; fo that when I 
wentagain, I could fcarce know where it was, ocherwlfe 
than by che Corner of che Wood pointing to che Place. 

I chen began co rnter into a littlc Converfation wich 
my two newSubjeds; and firft 1 fet Friday to inquire o£ 
his Fächer, what he thoughc of the Efcape of the Sa^agei 
in that Canoe^ and whether he might expcd a Retu: n o£ 
them wich a Power coo grcat tor us Co refifl ? His firft O- 
pinion was, thaC che Stevagas in che Boac never could live 
ouc ihe Storm, which bicw that Night they wenC off, bat 
mufl of Nccefljcy be drown'd or driven South to hofe 
other Shores, where they were as füre to bc devour'd, as 
they were to be drown'd if th«:y were caft away ; but as 
to what they would do if they came fafe on Shore» he 
faid, he knew not ; but it was his Opinion, that they were 
fo dreadfuUy frighted with the Manner of being attack'd, 
the Noife, and the Fire, that he believ'd they would teil 
their Pec ple they were all kiird by 1 hunder and Light- 
ning, and not by the Hand of Man; and that the two 
which appearM {yix. Friday and I) were two heavenly 
Spirits or Furies come down to deftroy theiji, and notMen 
with Wieapons. This, h;; faid, he knew, becaufe he heard 
them all cry out fo in their Language to one anocher ; 
for it was impoffible to them, to conceive that a Man 
fhould dart Fire, and fpcak Thunder, and kill at a Di- 
itance, without lifiing up the Hand, as was done now. 
And this oldSavage was in the right ; for, as l underftood 
fince by other Hands, the Savages of that Part nevcr at- 
tetnpted to go over to the Ifland afterwards. They weje 
fb terrify'd with the Accounts given by tbofe four Mea 
(for it feems they did efcape the Sea) that they believ'd, 
4 whccvc* 



R O B I N S ON C RU S O E. M9. 

^koever .went to thac inchantcdJiland^ woald be defiroy- 
cd with Fire from the Gods. 

This, bowever, I knew not, and therefore was under 
continual Appreheailons fbr a good while^ and kept al- 
ways upon my Guard, I and all my Axmy y fbr as we 
were npw four of us, I would have vencor'd upon an hun^ 
dred of them fairly in the open Field at any Time. 

In a little Time, however, no more Canoes appearing^ 
the Fear of their comiiig wore ofF, and I began to take. 
my former Thoaghts of a Voyage to the Main into Con^ 
fideration, beinglikewife alTurM by Fnday''s Fächer, that 
I might depend upon good Ufage from their Nation oa 
kis Account, if I would go. 

But my Thoughts were a little fufpended, when I 
had a ferious Difcourfe with the Spaniard^ and when 
I underftood, that there were iixteen more of his Coun<- 
txymen and Portuguefe, who having been caft away, and 
made their Efcape to that Side» liv'd thex« at Peacc in- 
deed with the Savages, but were very /ore put to it for 
Neceilaries, and indeed for Life: I aik'd him all- the Par- 
ticulars of their Voyage, and found they were sl Spanißh 
Ship, boond from the Rio de la ?lata^ to the Havanna^ 
being direded to leave their Loading there, which wa» 
chieffy Hides and Silver, and to bring back what Euro^ 
pean Good s they could mcet with there ; that they had 
' £ve Portuguefe Seamen on board, whom they took out 
of another Wreck ; that ^vt of their own Men were 
drownM wheA firü the Ship was lofl ; and that thefe 
efcapM thro' infinite Dangers and Hazards, and aniv'd 
almoft flarv'd on the Canihal Coaft, wKerc they expe(5l- 
ed to have been devour'd ^vtry Moment. 

He told me, they had fome Arms with them, but they 
were perfedlly ufekfs, for that they had neither Powdec 
or Ball, the- Wafhing of the Sea having fpoil'd all their 
Powder, but a little which they ufed at their firil Land- 
ing to provide themfelves fome Fuod. 

I afk'd him what he thought wouid berome of them 
diere; and if they had form'd no Defign of making 
any Efcape ? He faid, they had many Confuhacions 
about it; but that having . ei*>ier VeilU, nor Tools to 
]build one, or Provifions of a . Kind, their CounfCiS al- 
w^& ended in T^ars and Defpair. 



230 Tee Lite m/ Advektc-res 9/ 

I i&'d kia kow he tkonght ihej wosld receive a Fro« 
poiäl from me, wiiicii miekt cesd towards an Efcape ; and 
whether» if t&ey wcre allkcre, it a^ht not bedone? I 
taki him wiA Frecdom, I fear'd noftly tiicir Treachcry- 
aad iH LTage of me, if I pot mj Life in their Hands; fbr 
thas Grasinde was no mherest Virtoe intkcNature of Man; 
JLQT did Men alwars fqaare their Dealings by the Obliga- 
tioBs thev had receirM, fo mach as they did by the Ad- 
vantages ther expeded : i told him, it woold be verf. 
kird, Chat I fkouki be the Inftrament of their Delire-. 
rance, and that they fiioald aiterwards make me their 
Pnibner in Netc S^aim, where an Englißmam was certain 
to be made a Sacn£ce, whac Neceffity, or what Accident 
foerer, broogfat him thither : And diat I had rather be- 
deürer'd up to the SaKmges, and be devonr'd aÜTe, tban 
faü into the merdlefs Ciaws of the Priefb» and be car- 
ricd into the h:qaißttom, I added» that otherwife I was 
perfuaded, if diey were all here, we night, with fo many 
Hands, boild a Bark large enough to carry os all away, ei- 
ther to the Brafils Soothward». or to the Iflands or Bfamfi 
Coaft Northward : Bat that if in Re^ital they fhoald,. 
when I had put Weapons into their Hands, carry me by 
Force among their own People, I might be ill us'd for 
my Kindnefä to them, and make my Cafe worfe than it 
was beforc. 

He anfwerM with a great deal of Candoor and Ingenoi- 
Vfy that their Condition was fo miferable,. and they w«re 
fo fenfible of it, that he believ'd they woold abhor the 
Thoaght of ufinganyMan unkindly thatihoold contribute 
to their Deliverance ; and that, if I pleasM, he wonld go to 
them with the oldMan, and difcourfe with them aboat it, 
and retarn again, and bring me their Anfwer : That he 
would make'Conditions with them upon their folemnOath, 
that they would be abfolutely onder myLeading, as their 
Commander and Captain ; and that they fliould fwear ap« 
on the Holy Sacramcnts and Gofpel, tobe true to me,. 
and to go to fach Chriftian Country as I fhould agree to,,. 
and no other ; and to be direfted wholly and abfolutely 
by my Orders, tili they were landed fafely in fuch Coun- 
try as I intended ; and that he would bring a Contrafi 
from them under their Hands for that Purpofe. 
Thenhetold me» he would firfl fwear to me himfelf; 

üuitc 



ROBINSON CHÜSOE. 231 

that he would ncAer dir from me as long as he liv'd, tili 
I gave him Order ; and that he would take my Side ta 
the laft Drop of Blood, if there fhould happen the leafl 
Breach of Faith among his Coüntrymen. 

He told me, they were all of them vcry civil honed 
Men, and they were ander the greateft Diflrefs imagina- 
ble, having neither Wcapons or Cloaths, nor any Food, 
bot at the Mercy and Difcretion of the Savaga ; oat of 
all Hopes of ever retuming to their own Country ; and - 
that he was füre, if I woald undertake thcir Relief, they 
would live and die by me . 

Upon thcfe Aflorances, I rcfolv'd to venture to relieve 
theiD, if poffible, and to fend the old Savage and this Sfa^ 
marJ over to them to treat : Bat when he had gotten all 
things in Readinefs togo, the^/^iff/ar^himfelf iiarted an 
Objedion, which had fo mach Prudence in it on one 
band, and fo moch Sincerity on the other band, that I 
coald not bat be very well fatisfied in it ; and, by his Ad- 
vice, pat ofF the Deliverance df his Comrades for at leaft 
half a Ycar. The Cafe was thus : 

He had been with us now abont a Month ; daring 
which Time I had let him fee in w hat Manner I had 
provided, with the Afliflance of Providence, for my Sap- 

r>rt ; and he faw evidently what Stock of Com and Rice 
had lain up ; which, äs it was more than fuftcient for 
myfelf, fo it was not fufficient, at leail, withoat good 
Halbandry, for my Family, now it was increas'd to Nam- 
ber four : Bat mach lefs woald it be fufficient, if his 
Coantrymen, who were, as he faid, fburteen ftill alive, 
fliould come over; and leaft of all would it be fufficient 
to Visual oar Veflel, if we (hoald build one, for a Voyage 
€0 any of the Chriftian Colonies of America, So he toid 
me, he thought it would be more advifeable, to let him 
and the two other dig and caltivate fome more Land, as 
mach as I could fpare Seed to fow ; and that we (hould 
-wait another Harveft, that we might have a Supply of 
Com for his Coantrymen when they (hould come ; for 
Want might be a Temptadon to them to difagree, or not 
to think themfelves deliver'd, otherwife than out of one 
Difficulty into another : Yoa know, fays he, the Children 
of Ifratl, tho' they rejoic'd at firft at their being deli- 
irer*d out of Egfi^ yet rebclled even againilGod bivc^^^V^^ 
1 ^^x. 



%yi Thi Life iind Adtintures af 

that detiver'd tbem, when thcy cameto want Bread-Io 
the Wiliiernefs. 

His Kaution wai fo fetibnable, and his Advice fo good, 
that I could not but bc vcry weil j^leas'd wich his Propoial» 
as weil as I was fatisfy^d with bis Fidelity : So we feil to 
digging all foar ot U6, ai well &8 the wooden Tools we 
wcre furni(h*d wich permuted f and in aboiit a Month's 
Time, by che End of whicb it was Seed-Time, we had 
gotten as much Land cur'd and trim'd up, as we fow'd 
cwenty two Ba(hels of Barley on> and fixteen Jars of Rice, 
which was, in (hört, all cne Seed we had to fpare; not 
indw-ed did we Icave ourfelves Bariey fufEcient for oor own 
Food for che üx Mönchs that we had to exped our Crop» 
that is CO fay, reckoniog from the Time we fet our Seed 
afide for ibwing ; for .t is not to be lappofed it is fix 
Months in ihe G round in t:iat Country 

Having now Society enough, and our NuTnber berog 
fuflicient to put us ouc of Fi-ar of tne Savagea, if chey had 
comc, unlefs their Number had been yer> great, we went 
freely all over thellland, where-ever wefound Occafion-; 
and as here we had our Efcape or Deliverance upon our 
Thoughts, it was imp >Üible, atleaft for me, tahave the 
Mcans of it out of mine ; to tkis Purpofe, I markM out 
(cveral Trces, which I chought fit for our Work, and I fet 
Fri.iiy and his Fat r. er to cutting them down ; and then I 
cau 'd ihc SpuuiarJ^ towhöm I imparted my Thoughts oa 
that AlFair, lo overfce and di'ecl their Work : 1 fliew'd 
thcm wich what indefatigable Pains 1 had hew'd a large 
Tree inco ün^le Pia ks, and I caus'd themtodo the like, 
tili thcv had made ahouc a dozen large Planks of good 
Oak, ucir wo Kcct broJ, thircy fiveFeet long, and from 
two Ir.ches to foji Inche.- thick : What prodigious Laboor 
it took up, acy ore may imagine. 

At tue tarne 1 iinc Icontri 'd to increafe my little Flock 
of tanieGoa:s as luucn as 1 n^u d i and to th*s Purpcfe I 
in ade F'-iiar aud he S^*MÜ:ra go out ODC Day, and my- 
ft i t\ \M i h. />/-•'.:> . • h- I . c ^ t D ay , for we took o ur T u rns •: 
A d ;>\ thi^ Mc&ns ue or aaouc t»%'enty young Kids to 
brc.-d u:> uiih che rill; for whenever we (bot the Dans 
we fav^d cht Ri.':^ :ir.. üudvd chrm to our Flock : Bot 
abivc all, the 6 a. * rcuring the Grapes comfng on, I 
cauÄ^d luch a prc%i.^;.äd Quanücy to be hmig up in che 

Suo, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 233 

S«n, that I believc, bad we been at Mcanf^ where the 
Ramns of the Sun are cur'd, we (hould have fi:rd fixty 
or eigh:y Barrels ; and thefe, with our Bread, was a great 
Part of our Food, ajid very good liviiig too, 1 aiTure yoa ; 
for ic is an exceeding nourifhing Food. 

It' was now Harveft, and our Crop in good Order ; it 
was not the mofl plentiful Jncreafe 1 had feen in the Ifland» 
buc, how^ver, it was enougk to anfwer oar End ; for from 
twenty-twoBofhels of Barley we broughc in and threfh'd 
out above two hundred and twenty Bufheis, and the Irke 
in Proportion of the Rice, which was Store enough for 
our Food to the next Harved, tho' all the fixteen Spani- 
ards had been on Shore wiih me ; or, if we had been rea- 
dy for a Voyage,tit wouM very plentifully have vidluaird 
our Ship, to have carryM »s to any Part of the World, 
tbcO^is tofaj, oi Jmerica. When we had chns hous'd and 
fecur'd our Magazine of Com, we feil to werk to make 
more Wicker- work ; <üi%, great Baflcets in which we 
kept it ; and the Spamard was very hardy and dextrous 
at this Part, and often biam'd me, that I did not make 
fome things for Defence, of this Kind of Work ; but i 
iaw RO Need of it : And now having a füll Supply of 
Food for all the Guefts expeded, I gave the Spaniard 
Leave to go over the Main, to fee what he could do 
with thofe he left behind him there : I gave him a ftri^ 
Charge in writing not to brins; any Man with him, who< 
would not fird fwear.in the Prefence of himfelf and of 
the cid Savage, that he would no Way injure, fight 
with, or attack the Perfon he fhould find in the Ifland, 
who was fo kind to fend for them in order to their Deli- 
verance ; but that thcy would iland by and defend. him 
againfl all fuch Atcempts ; and where-ever they went, 
would be intirely ander, and fubjedied to hisCommand; 
and that this fhould be put in Writing, and fign'd with 
their Hands : How we were to have this done, when I 
knew they had neither Pen or Xnk, that indeed, was a 
Qucflion which we never afk'd. 

Under tbefe Inrtru6iion$, the Spaniard, and the old 
Savage (theFather of Friday) went away in one of the 
Canees, which they might be faid co come in, or rather 
were broughc in, when they canie as Pcifoners to be de» 
voured by the Savages^ 



234 7ii Life atui Abtemtvres of 

I gave cach of them a Mofqaet with z Firelock od ff^ 
and abont eigbt Charges of Powder and Ball, charging 
tkem to be veiy good Holbands of both, and not to ule 
dthcr of them bat opon urgent Occafion. 

.This was a chear&l Work, being the firft Meafures 
os^d by me in View of my Deliverance ibrnow 27 Years 
and fome Days ; I gave them Provifions of Bread, and of 
dryM Grapes, fufficientibr themfelves for many Days, and 
fnfficient for tbeir Conntrymen fbr about eigbt Days Time ; 
and wifliiBg them a good Voyage, I let them go, agree- 
ing with them aboat a Signal they (honld hang out at thelr 
Retarn, by which I flioold know them again, when they 
came back, at a Diflance, before they came on Shore. 

They went away with a fair Gale on the Day that the* 
Moon was at the Füll ; by roy Account in the Menth of 
Oßober 5 bat as for riic exad Reckoning of Days, after I 
had oncetofl it, I coold ncver recover it agaün ; nor had 
^ kept even the Namber of Yeärs fo ptmAnally, as to be 
fare that I was right, tho% as it prov'd, when I after- 
wards examin*d my Account, I fonnd I had kept a true 
Reckoning of Years. 

It was no lefs than eight Days I walted for them, when 
a dränge and nnforefeen Accident inten'en'd, of which 
the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in Hiftory. I 
was faft afleep in my Hutch one Moming, when my Man 
Friday came running in to me, and cali'd aload, Mafter^ 
Maßer y they are comcy they an come, 

I jump'd up, and, regardlefs of Danger, I went out 
as foon as I could get my Cloaths on, through my little 
Grove, which (by the way) was by this Time grown to 
be a vcry thick Wood : I fay, regardlefs of Danger, I 
went without my Arms, which was not my Cuftom to do ; 
but I was farpris'd, when turning my Eyes to the Sea, I 
prefently faw a Boat at about a League and an half V 
Diftance, ftanding in for the Shore, with a Shoulder -of- 
ntuttim-Saily as they call it, and the Wind blowing pretty 
fair to bring them in : Alfo I obferv'd prefently, that they 
did not come from that Side which the Shore lay on, but 
fromtheSouthermoftEnd of the Ifland : Upon this 1 call- 
cd Frfday in, and bid him lie clofe, for thefe were not 
the People we look'd for, and thät we did not know yct 
wbether they were Friends or Enemie^. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 235 

In the ncxt Place, I went in to fetch my Perfpeflive- 
glafs, to fee what I could make of them ; and having 
taken the Ladder out, I climb'd up to tbc Top of the 
Hill» as I u&M to do when I was apprehendve of an/ 
thing, and to take zny View the plainer without being 
difcoverM. 

I had fcarce fct my Foot on the Hill, when my Eye 
plainly difcover'd a bhip lying at an Anchor, at about 
two Leagues and an half's Dillance from xne, S. S. E. bat 
not above a Leagae and an half from the Shore. By my 
Obfervation it appcar'd plainly to bc an Englijh Ship, 
and the Boat appear'd to be an Engliß Long-boat. 

I cannot exprefs the Confufion 1 was in, though the 
Joy of feeing a Ship, and one whcm I had Reafon to 
believe was mann'd by my own Countrymen, and coij- 
fequently Friends, was fuch as I cannot defcribc; but 
yet I had fome fecret Doubts hang about me, I cannot 
teil from whence they came, bidding me kecp upon my 
Goard. In the firfl Place, it occurr'd to me to confider 
what Bufinefs an Engliß Ship could havc in that Part of 
the World ; fince ic was not the Way to or from any 
Part of the World whcre the E»gliß had any Traffick ; 
and I knew there had been no Storms to drive them in 
there» as in Didrefs; and that if they vtti^ Engliß really, 
it was moft probable, that they were here upon no good 
Sefign ; and that I had better continue as I was, than fall 
into the Hands of Thieves and Murderers. 
. X^et no Man defpife the fecret Hints and Notlces of 
Daoger, which fometimes are given him when he may 
thiiik there is no Poffibility of its being real. That fuch 
Hintf and Notices are given us, I believe fcw that 
have made any Obfervations of things can deny ; that 
they are certain Difcoverics of au invifible World, and 
a Convcrfe of Spirits, we cannot doubt ; and if the 
Tendency of them feems to be to warn us of Danger, 
why (hould we not fuppofe they are from fome friendly 
Agent (whether fupreme, or inferior and fubordinate, 
is not the Queftion) and that they are given for our 
Good? 

The prefent. Queftion abundantlyconfirms me in the 
Juftice of this Reafoning ; for had I not been made cau- 
tlous by this fecret Admonition, come it from whence \i 



236 The LiFE and ADTEHTUItCf 0^ 

will, r had been andoDC ineritablj, and in nfar worfe 
Coodicion than bcfore, as yoo wil! fec prvürnrljr. 

I had noc kept myfslf long in this Poftare, bot I faw 
tbc Boat drew near the Shore, as if thej look'd for a 
Crcek to throft in at for the Conveoicnce of Landisg ^ 
bowcver, as they did not cooie quite £ir cnoogh, they 
did not fcc tbc little Infet wbere I formerlj laiäcd my 
Rafb, but mn their Boat on Short n^^on the Beach, at 
ab ut half a Mile frem mc, whcb was very bappy for 
Be; for otherwife tbcy woald have landed hift, as I 
may fay, at my Door, and woold foon have beaten me 
ont of my CsJülc, and» perbaps» )urt plnnderM ne of 
all I had. 

WhcD t ey wfTC on Sbore, I was fnlly fad»fy*d they 
werc Engli/tmin^ at leaft moft of thcm ; one er two I 
thooght wcre Dtiicb, but it did not prore fo : Theie 
were in all elevcn Men» whercof thrce of them l'fbood 
wcre nnarmM» and (as I thooght) bonnd; and when the 
£rft fonr or fii^ of them were jompM on Sbore, the/ 
took thofe three ont of the Boat as Prifoner» : One of 
the three I coald perceive oiing the moft paflionate Gef- 
tnres of Intreaty, Afflidioo^ and Defpair even to-a 
Kind of Extravagante ; the other two« i conld percdve 
lifted up their Hand» fometimes, and appear^d concern*d 
indeed, but not to fuch a Degree as the firft. 

I was perfcAly contbunded at the Sight, and kneir 
not what the Meaning of ic fhould be; friday calPd oat 
to me in Etigli^h, as \¥cll as he coold, O Maßer! Tom 
Jee Englifh Mofts tat Prißners as 'wiU ms Savage hlam, 
Why, faid f , Friday^ do you think they are going toeat 
them thcn ? Yeiy l'avs Friday^ they 'will eat them, No, nov 
faid I, Friday\ \ am^fraid they will morder them iudeed; 
but you may be füre they will not eat them. 

Ali this while I had no Thought of what the Matter 
really was, b*t Äood trembling with the Horror of the 
Sight, cxpefting every Moment when the three Prilbners 
ihould be kilFd ; nay, once 1 faw one of tfac ViHains 
lift up his Arm with a great Cutlace (as the Seamen call 
it) or Sword, to ftrike one of the poor Men ; and \ 
cxpedted to fee him fa 1 every Moment, at which all 
the Blood in my Body feem'd 10 run chill in my 
Veins. 

I wiflx^d 



R O B-I N S O N C R U S O E. 237 

I wjfh'd hcartily now for tny Spaman/i' and the Savage 
that was gone with hixn ; or that I had any Way Co have 
come ondifcovcr'd within Shot of them, that I might have 
j-efcu'd the three Men ; for 1 favv 110 Fire-arms they had a- 
mong them ; but it feil oüt to my Mind .inother Way. 

After 1 had obferv'd the outrageous üfage of the threc 
^en b.y the infolent Seamen, I obferv'd the Fellows ran 
fcattering abaut the Land, as if they wanted to fee the 
Country : I obferv'd alio, that the three pther Men had 
Liberty to go vvhere they pieas'd^ but they fat down all 
three npon the Ground very peniive, and look'd.Iike 
Men in Oefpair. 

This put me in Mind of the firil Time when I came 
on Shore, and begau to iook about me ; how I gave my- 
felf ovcr for loft, how wildly I look'd round me, what 
dreadful Apprehenfionsl had, ar.d how I JodgM in the 
Tree all Night for fear of boing devour'd by wild Beads. 

As Iknesv nothin^j that Night of the Supply Iwas to 
receivt by the providetitiai Dnving of the Ship nearer the 
Land, by theScorms and Tide, by which I have iince been 
io long nourifh'd and fupported ; fo thefe threc poor de-^ 
iblate Men knew aothing Iiow certain of Deliverance and 
Sapply they were, how near it was to them, and how 
effedually and really they were m a Condition of Safecy, 
at the fame Time they thought themfelves lofl, and their 
Cafe deiperate. 

So little do we fee before trs in the World, and (o 
jnncK Reafon have we to depend chearfuliy upon the 
great Maker of the World, that he does not leave his 
Creatares fo abfolutely deftitute, büt that in the worft 
Circumftances they have alway^ (bmething to be th ink- 
ful for, and fometimes are nearer their Peliverance than 
they imagine ; nay, are even brought to their Delive* 
rance by the Means by which they ^esi to be brought 
|o their Deftru&ion. 

It was -jud at the Top of High, water when thefe 
Peopk caine on Shore, and while partly they Hood 
parjying with the Prifoners they brought, and part'y 
while they rambied about to fee what Kind of Place 
they w«re in» they had carelefly ftaid til^ the Tide was 
fpeot, and the Watef was ebb'd confiderably away, 
feaving their Boat a -ground. 



Ä38 The LiFB and Adventures of 

They faad left two Men in die Boat, who, as I fodnd 
afcerwards, having drank a lictle too much Brandy, feil 
alleep ; however, one of them waking fooner than the 
other, and finding the Boat too faft a*groand for hira to 
flir it, hollow'd for the reft who were ibaggling aboot, 
«pon which they all fbon came to the Boat ; but it was 

Saft all their Strength to launch her^ the Boat belng very 
eavy , and the Shore on that Side being a foft onfy Sand, 
almoft like a Quick- fand. 

In this Condition, like trae Seamen, who are, pcfrhaps, 
the leaft of all I^ankind, given to Forethought, they gave 
ic over, and away they Uroird about the Country again ; 
and I heard one of them fay aloud to another (calling 
them ofF from the Boat ;) Why, let her akne, Jack, cant 
ye? ße'llfioai next Title: By which I was fully confirm'd 
in the main Inquiry, of what Countrymen they were. 

All this while I kept myfelf clofe^ not once daring to 
ftir out of my Caftle, any farther than to my Place of 
Obfervation, near the Top of the Hill ; and very glad I 
was, to think how weil it was fortified : I knew it was 
no lefs than ten Hours before the Boat could be on float 
kgain, and by that Time it would be dark, and I inigbt 
be more ac Liberty to fee their Motions, and to hear their 
Difcourfe, if they had any. 

In the meanTime I fitted myfelf up for a Battle, as be- 
fore, tho' with more Caution, knowing I had to do with 
another kind 6f Enemy than I had ät firü : I order'd 
Fr/V^?/alfo, whom I had made an excellent Markfman with 
kisGun, to load himfelf with Arms : I toök myfelf two 
Fowling-picces, and I gave himthreeMufqiicts: MyFigure, 
ihdeed, was very fierce; Ihädmy formidable Goat- dein 
Coat on, with the great Cap I mention'd, a naked Sword, 
two Piftols in my Bclt, and a Gun upon each Shoulder. 

It was my Defign, as I faid above, not to have made 
any Attempt tili it was dark ; but about Two o'Clöck, 
being the Heat of the Day, I found that in fiiort they were 
all gone ftraggling into the Woods, and, as I thought, 
were all laid down to flccp : The three poor diftrefled 
Men, too anxious for their Condition to get any Sleep, 
were-however fet down under the Shelter of a great 
Tree, at about a Quarter of a Mile from me, and, as I 
thoaghtf out of Sight of any of the reft, y 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 239 

Upon this I refol v'd to difcover ray fclf ro theniy and Icarn 
^mething of their Condition : Immediately I march'd in 
be Figore above, my M^n Friday at a good Diilance be« 
Lind me» as formidable for bis Arms, as J, but not mak- 
ag quitc fo ftaring'a Speärelike Figure as I did. 

i came as near them undifcover'd as 1 could, and then» 
lefore any of them faw me» I called aload tö them in 
'pamßf, Wkatareye^ Gent lernen? 

They ftartcd up at the Noife, bot were ten Times möre 
onfounded when they faw me, and ^he unconth Figure 
hat I made : They made no Anfwer at all, bat I thought 
perceiv'd them juft going to fly from mc, when I fpoke 
otYitm \nEngi\/h: Gentlemen, faid I, do not befurpri- 
ed at me $ perh'aps you may have a Friend near you, 
vhen you did not expcdl it : He muH be fent diredly 
irom Heaven then, Jaid one of them very grwvely to me, 
mdpulling off bis Hat at thefame Time ; for our Condition 
s pail the Help of Man* All Help is from Heaven, 
lir, faid I : But can you put a Stranger in the Way how 
o^elp you ? For you feem to me to be in fome great Di- 
trefs: I faw you when you landed ; and when you feem'd 
b make Apjäication to the Brutes that came with you, I 
aw oxleof them lift up his Sword to kill you. 

The poor Man^ withTears running down his Face, and 
rembling, looking like one adonifhM, retum'd, Jm Itatk- 
ng to God or Man ? Isit a real Man^ or an Angel? Be in no 
'car about that, Sir, faidl: If God had fent an Angel to 
elicvc you, he would have come better cloath'd,. and 
jrm'd after another Manner, than you fee me in ^ pray 
ay aiide yoiir Fears^ I am a Man, an EngUJhmany and 
lifposM to ailifl you, you fee ; I have one Servant only ; 
(^e have Arms and Ammunition ; teil us freely, Can we 
crvc you ? — What is your Cafe ? 

Our Cafe, faid he, Sir, is too long to teil you, while 
mx Murderers are fo near ; but, in (hört, Sir, I was Com- 
nander of that Ship, my Men havingmutiny'd againft me, 
hcy have bcen hardly prevairdori not to murdcr me, and 
tlaft have fetme on Shore in this defolate Place, with thefe 
wo Men with me, one my Mate, the other a Pa^enger, 
^ere we expedied to perifh, believing thePlac« to be un- 
phabited, and know not yet what to think of it. 

Where are thofe Brvtes^ yowr Enemies ? faid I \ do 



040 The Life and Adventores 0/ 
yoa know whcrc ihcy aregone ? Tkeretbeyariy ^/r, faid 
he. pointiDg to a Tbickct of Trces ; my Heart Sremh% 
forfear they ha^efeen us, and beard youjpeak ; ifthef hävt^ 
they iMfili certainly murder us all. 

Have they any Fire arms ? faid I : He anfwer^d, they 
hadonly two Pieces, and one which they lefc in the Boat. 
Well eben, faid I, leave the refl tq me ; I fee they are all 
afleep ; it is an eafy thing to kill them all ; bat (hdl we 
rather take them Prifoncrs ? He told me thcre wcre two 
defperate Villaios among them, that it was fcarce fafe to 
fhew any Mercy 10 ; but if they werc fecurM, he belier- 
ed all the reft would return to their Duty : I afk'd bim, 
which they were ? He told me, he could not at that Di- 
^ance defcribe them ; but he woold obey my Orders in 
any thing I would direft: Well, faid I, letus retreatoat 
of their View or Hearing, left they awakc, and we witl 
refolve farther ; fo they wiUingly went back with me, tili 
the Woods coverM ns from them. 

Look you, Sir, faid I, if I venture upon your Delive- 
rance, are you willing to make two Conditions with me? 
He anticipatcd my Propofals, by telling me, that both hc 
and theShip, if recover'd, ihould be wholly direäed and 
commanded by me in every thing ; and if the Ship was 
not recoverM, he would live and die with me in what 
Part of the World foever I would fend him ; and the two 
other Men faid the fame. 

JVelit faid I, my Conditions are kut t<wo : \, Thatwhilc 
you ftay on this Ifland with me, you will not pretend to 
any Authority here ; and if I put Arms into your Hands, 
you will upon all Occafions give them up to me, and do 
no Prejudice to me or mine, upon this Ifland, and in the 
mean Time be govem'd by my Orders» 

z. That if the Ship is or may be recover'd, you will 
carry me and my Man to England Paflage-free. 

He gave me all the AflÄirance that the Invention and 
Faith of a Man could devife, that he would comply widi. 
thefe mod reafonable Demands, and befides would owe 
his Life to me, and acknowledge it upon all Occafions as 
long as he liv'd. 

Well then, faid I, here are three Mufqaets for yoa, 
with Powder and Ball ; teil me next what yoa think is 
proper to be dooe ; He (hew'd all the Teftunony of his 

Gratitude 



ROBTH so N CRUSOE. 241 

Gratitudc that he was able ; but ofFered to be wholl)^ 
guided by me : I to!d him, I thought it was hard ven- 
turJDg any thing, but the bell Mechod I could think of, 
was to fire upoa them at oncc, as they lay ; and if any 
werc not kill'd at the firft Volley, and. ofFered to fubmit, 
we tnight fave them, and fo pat it whoUy upon Gpd*s 
Providencc to diredt the Shot. 

He fatd very modeftly, that he was loth to kill tbem, 
if he coald help it ; bat that thofe two were incorrigible 
VlUians, and had been the Authors of all the Mutiny in 
the Ship ; and if they efcaped^ we (hould be undone fiill ; 
for they would go on board, and bring the whole Ship's 
Company, and deftroy us all : ff^e// tßen, faid I, Neceffity 
Ugitimates my Advice ; for it is the anly Way to fa^ve our 
Lives, However, feeing him ftill caotious of ihedding 
Blood, I told him, they fhoald go themfelves, and ma- 
nage as they found convenient. 

]n the Middle of this Difcourfe we heard fome of them 
twake, and foon after we faw two of them on their Feet : 
I aflc'd him, if either of them were the Men, who, he 
had faid, were the Heads of Mutiny ? He faid, No* 
Well then, faid I, you may Ict them efcape, and Pro vi - 
dence feetns to havewaken'dthemon purpofe tofave theni- 
felves : Now, faid [, if the reft efcape you, // isyour Fault, 
' Animated with this, he took the Mufqucti had given 
him in his Hand, and a Piftol in his fielt, and his two 
Comrades with him, with each Man a Piece in his Hand : 
The two Men, who were with him, going firft, made fome 
Noife, at which one of the Seamen, who was awake» 
torned about, and, (being thejn Coming, cried ouc to the 
reft ; but it was too late then ; for the Moment he cried 
out; they. fir'd, Imean the t^vo Men, the Captain wifely re- 
ferving bis own Piece : They had fo well aimed their 
Shot at the Men they knew, that one of them was killed 
on the Spot,' and the other very much wounded ; but not 
being dead, he ftarted up upon his Feet, and called eagerly 
for Help to the other ; but the Captain, ftepping to nim» 
told him it was too late to cry for Help; he (hould call 
lipon God to forgive his Villainy ; and with that Word 
knock'd him down with the Stock of his Mufi^uet ; fo 
that he never fpoke more : There were three more in the 
Company, and one of them was alfo flightlv woanded : 

Vol. I. U ^1 



242 Tbe Life and Advestvkm^ of 
By tht3 TixDC I was come ; and wfaen they faw their Dan« 
gcT, and that it was in vain to teüit, they begg*d for 
Mercy : The Captain told thtm, he would fbare theii- 
Livcs, if they would give him any AiTurancc of their Ab- 
horrence of tbe Treachery they h^d been guilty of, and 
would fwear to be faithful to him in recovering the Sliip, 
and afterwards in carrying her back to yamMca^ fnua- 
whence they «ame : They gave him all the Proteftation$ 
of their Sincerity that could be defired, and he was willing 
to believe them» and (pare their Lives, which I was not 
againft ; only I obliged bim to keep them boohd Hand 
and Foot while thev were upon the liland. 
. While this was aoing, I ient Friday with the Captain's 
Mate to the Boat; wjth Orders to fecure her, and bring 
away the Oars and Sail, which they did; and by-and-by, 
three ilraggling Men, that were {happily for them) parted 
front the reft, came back upon heanng the Gans £red ; 
and feeing their Captain, who before was their Prifoner, 
now their Conqueror, they fubmitted to be bound al/b, 
and fo our Vidory was coroplete. 

It now remained, that the Captain and I (hould inquire 
snto one another*s Circumltances ; I began fird, and told 
htm my whole Hiftory, which he heard with an Attention 
even to Amazement, and particularly at the wonderful 
Manner of mv bcing furnifh'd with Provifions and Am- 
in unition ; and indeed, as my Story is a whole Coileäioa 
of Wonders, itafFc6ted him deeply; but when he refledled 
from thence upon himfelf, and how I feemed to have been 
preferved there on purpofe to fave his Life, the Tears ran 
down his Face, and he could not fpeak a Word more. 

After this Communication was at an £nd, I carried 
Kim, and his two Men, into my Apartments, leading them 
in jull where I came out, 'viz, at the Top of the Houfe ; 
where I refreih'd them with fuch Provifions as I had, 
and fliewed them all the Contrivances I had made, du- 
ring my long, long inhabiting that Place. 

AU I ftiew'd them, all I faid to them, was perfeftly 
amazing ; but, above all, the Captain admir'd my For- 
tification, and how pcrfeftly I had concealed my Retrcat 
with a Grove of Trees, which, having now been plantcd 
near twenty Years, and the Trees growing much fafter 
than in England, was become a litcle Wood, and fo 
I thick, 



• ROBINSON CRUSOE, 243 

tliicky that it was anpaiTable in any Part of it, bat at 
,tfaatf)ne Side» where I hed referved my litde winding 
Paflage into ic : This I told him was my Caftle, and my 
Refidecce ; bat that 1 had a Seat in the Coantry, as moll 
Princes have, whither I coukl retreat upon Occafion, and 
I wou]d (hew him that too another Time ; but at prefent 
oar Bufinefs wa^ to confider, iiow to recover the Ship : 
He agreed with me as to that ; but told me, he was per- 
fedly at a Lofs what Meafures to take; for that there 
were ftill fix and twenty Hands on board, who having 
cntered into a curfed Confpiracy, by which they had all 
forfeited thelr Lives to the Law, would.be harden'd in ic 
now by Defperation ; andvwould carry it on, knowing 
that if they were reduced, they Ihould be brought to tht? 
Gallows as foon as they came to England^ or to any of 
x\ic Engliß> Colonies; and thät thereFore there would be 
no attackin^ them with fo fmall a Number as we were. 

I mufed for fome Time upon what he had faid, and 
found it was' a very rational Concluiion, and that there- 
fbre fomething was to be refolved on very fpeedily, as 
well to draw the Men on board into fome Stfare for th^^ir ' 
Sarprife, äs to prevent their landing upon os, and de^ 
Aroyingus: Upon this it prefently occur*d to'me, that 
in a little while, the Ship's Crew, wondering what was 
become of their Comrades, and of the Boat, would cer-^ 
' tainly come on Shore in their other Boat, to fee for them^ 
and that then perhaps they might come armed» and be 
too ftrong for US : This he bllawed, was rational. 

Upon this I told him, the firll thing we had to do» 
was to Have the Boat, which lay upon the Beach, fo thac 
they might not carry her ofF; and, taking every thing 
out of her, leave her fo far ufelefs as not to be fit to fwim ; 
accordingly we went on board, took the Arms whlck 
were lefx on board, out of her, and whatever elfe we 
found there, which was a Bottle of Brandy, and another 
of Rum, a few Bifcuit^cakes, an Hern of Powder, and « 
grcat Lump of Sugar, in a Piece of Canvas 5 the Sugar 
was five or fix Pounds j all which was very welcome to 
me, efpecialiy the Brandy and Sugar, of which I had had 
lione left for many Years. 

When we had carri^d all thefe things on Shore (the ' 
Oars^ Mäil^ Sail; and JBLudder of the Boat, were carried 
L 2 ^v\^^ 



244 Tbehi^E and AdvektuR£S #/* 
away before, as above) we knock'd a^great Hole in her 
Boitom, thac if they had come flrong enoagh to mafler 
US, yet they couW not carry oft' the Boat. 

Indced it was not much in my Thoaghts, that we 
could be capable to recover the Ship ; but my View was, 
that if ihey went away wichout the Boat, I did not much 
(|uenion to make her fit again to carry us away to the 
Leeijoard Ißandt, and call apon our Friends the Sfaniards 
kl my Way, for I had thcm Öill in my Thoughts. 

While we were tbus preparing our Deiigns, and had 
fird, by main Strength, heavM the Boat up upon the 
Beach, fo high that the Tide would not float her oflF at 
high- water Mark ; and, beßdes, had broken an Hole in her 
Botcom, too big to be quickly floppM, and were fat down 
mufing what we fhould do ; we heard the Ship fire a Gun,. 
^nd faw her make a Waft with her Ancient, as a Signal for 
the Boat to comeon board ; but no Boat ftirre^ ; and they 
fir'd feveral Times, making othcr Signals for the Boat. 

At laft, when all their Signals and Firings prov'd fruit- 
lefs, and they found the Boat did not ftir, we faw them 
(by the Help of our Glaffcs) hoift another Boal out, and 
row towards the Shore; and we found, as they approach- 
cd, that there were no lefs than ten Men in her, and that 
they had Fire-arms with them. 

As the Ship lay almoft two Leagues from the Shore, 
we had a füll Vjcw of them as they came, and a piain 
iJight of the Men, even of their FaCes; becaufe the Tide 
having fet them a little to the Eaft of the other Boat, they 
rowed up under Shore, to come to the fame Place, where 
the other had landed» and where tl e Boat lay. 

^y this means, l Tay, we had a füll View of them, and 
the Captain knew the Perfons and Chara«^ers of all the 
Men in the Boat; of whom he faid that there were threc 
very honeft Fellows, who, he was furo, were led into this 
Confpiracy by the reft, being overpower'd and frighted. 

But that for the Boatfwain, who, it feems, was the 
chitf Ofiicer among them, and all the reft, they were as 
outrageous as any of the Ship's Crew; and were, no 
doubt, niade defperate in their new Enterprife ; p.nd 
terribly apprehenlive he was, that they would be too 
powerfui for us. 

Ifmird 



ROHINSON CRirsOß. 245 

I fmil'd at him, and told him, that Men in our Cif- 
cumftances were paft the Operations of Fear : That fecing 
almofl.every Condition that oould be, was better chan that 
WC were fuppos'J to be in, weoughtto.expeft, that the Con- 
fcquence, whetherDeath or Life, would be füre to be a De- 
Kverancc : I alk'd him, whathethoughtoftheCircumftances 
of my Life: And whether a Deliverance wer? not worch 
renturing for. And, where, Sir, faid I, is your Belicf of my 
being preferv'd here onPurpofe to fave your Life, which ele- 
vated you a little while ago? For my Part, faid I, there 
fcems to be but one thing amifs in all the Profpe£l of it. ^ 
Whai'sthat? fays he. Why, faid I, 'tis that, asyoufay, 
therc are three or four honeft Felle ws among them, which 
fhould be fpar'd j had they been all of the wicked Part of 
the Crew, I (hould havc thoughtGod's Providence had 
fingled them out to deüver them into your Hands j for . 
depend upon it, every Manofth^m thatcomes a(hore, are 
oiir own, and (hall die or live, as th&y behave to us. 

As I fpokethis with a rais'd Voice, and chearful Coun- 
tenance, I found it greatly cncourag'd him ; {o we fet, 
yigbroufly to ourBuiinefc : We had, upin the firft Ap- 
peafelice of the Boat's coming from the Ship, confidcr*d 
offepsTf'^ting ourPrifoners, and had indeed fccur'd them 
cffcaualiy. 

Twoofthem, of whom the Captain was lefs aflur'd than 
ordinary, I fent with^r/V^)», and on^ of the three (deliver'd 
Men) to my Cave, where they were remote enough, and 
outof Dangcr of being heard or difcover'd, or of finding 
theirWay out of the Woods, if they could have deliver'd 
themftlves : Here they left 'em bpund, but gave 'em Provi- 
fions, and promis'd 'em, if they continu'd there quietly, to 
give 'em their Liberty in a Day or two; but that if they at- 
t^mpted their fifcape, they Ihould be put to Deaih withoui 
Mercy. They promis'd faithfully to bcar their Confinement 
with Patience, and were very thankful, that they had fuch 
good Ufage as to have Provifions, and a Light left 'em^; 
for Friday gave 'cm Candles (fuch as we made ourfelves) 
fbr ther Comfort; and they did not know but that he 
ilood Centinel over 'em at the Entrance. 

The other Prifoners had better Ufage ; two of them 
were kept pinion'd indeed, becaufc the Captain was not 
free to iruft them ; but the other iwo vjw^ x^'txv.v^vi \sc^. 



246 Th hiTE and Advektvilks üf 
Service opoii theirGaptaiQ's Recommendatran, aad 
their folemnly engadng to liye and die with os ; {o^ 
thein and (he three honeil Men, we were fcven Mei 
arm'd; and I made no donbt we (hould be able t< 
well enongh with the ten that were aconaing, confic 
that the Captain had faid^ there were three or foor 1 
Men among thcm alib. 

As foon as they got to the Place where their 
Boat lay, they ran their Boat into the Beach, and 
all ön Shorc, haling the Boat np afrer them» wh 
was glad to Tee ; for I was afraid they would rather 
left the Boat at an Anchor, fome Diflance freu 
Shore, with fome Hands in her to guard her y a 
we fhonld not be able to feize the Boats. 

Being on Shore, the firil thing tKey did« they ran 
the other Boat ; and it was cafy to fee they were un 
great Sarprife, to £nd her (lripp*d, as above^ of al 
was in her, and a great Hcle in her Bottom. 

After they had mus*d awhile upon this, they fet o] 
or three great Shouts, hollowing with all their Might, 
if they conid make their Companlons hear ; bat all v 
no Purpofe ; then they came all clofe in a Ring, and 
a Volley of their fmall Arms, whicH indeed we heard 
the Echoes made the Woods ring ; but it was all 
rhpfe in the Cave, we were füre, could not hear; 
thofe in our keeping, though they heard it well eni 
yet dürft give no Anfwer to them. 

They were fo allonifli'd at the Surprife of this, ths 
they told us afterwards, they refolv'd to go all on I 
:)gain to their Sbip, and let them know there, ths 
Wen were all murder'd, and the Long- boat ftav'd 
cordingly, they immediately launch'd their Boat a 
and got all of them on board. 

The Captain was terribly amaz'd^and even confoi: 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 247 

falted together upon ; viz, to leave three men m the 
Boat, and che reft to go on Shore, and go up into the 
Country to look for their Fellows. 

Thit was a great Difkppointment to us ; for now we 
wcre at a Lofs what to do ; for oar feizing thofc 7 Mcit 
On Shore would be no Advantage to us if we kt the Boat 
efcape, becaufe they would then row awey to the Ship '; 
and then the refl of them would be füre to weigh, and fet 
Sail, and fo our rccovering the Ship would te lofl. 

However, we had no Remcdy but to wait and fee 
what the Iflbe of things might prcfent : The fcvcn Men 
came on Shore, and the three who remained in the Boat, 
put her olF to a good Diftance from the Shore, and came 
to an Anchor to wait for them ; fo that ic was impoffibl« 
§or US to come ac them in the Boat. 

Thofethat came on Shore kept cTofe together, march- 
ing towards the Top of the little HiH, undcr which my 
Habitation lay ; and we could fee them plainly, tho* they 
coold not perceive us : We could have becn very glad 
they would have come nearer to us, fo that we mighr 
kave fir'd at them ; or that they would have gone farthtr 
ofF, that we might have come abroad. 

But when they wcre come to ibe Brow of the Hi? V 
whicre they could fee a great Way in the Valley and 
Woods» which ]ay towards the North eaft Part, and 
where the Ifiand lay loweft, they (houted and hallow^d 
tid they wcre weary ; and not caring, it fee ms, to ven- 
ture far from the Shore, nor far from onc anoiher, they 
fat down together under a Tree, to confidcr bf it : Had 
they thought fit to have gone to fleep thtrc, as the other' 
Party of them had done, they had done the Job for us ; 
but they werc too füll of Apprehenfions of Dawger, to 
venture to go to fleep, thöugk they could not teil what 
the Danger was they had to fear, neither. 

The Captain made a very juft Propofal to me upon 
this Confaltation of theirs ; <vtz. That pcrhaps they 
would all fire a Volley again, to endeavour to make 
their Fellows hear, and that we (hould all fally upon' 
them, jull at the Jun6lure when their Pieces were ali 
difcharged, and they would certainly yield, and we 
fhould have them without Bloodfhed ; I liked the Pro- 
poialy provided it was done whtk wc were near cnoug^li 
L4 v^ 



24*8 The Life and Adventuäes of 

to come up to them, before they could load their Piecea 
again. 

But this Ev^nt did not happen, and we lay flil] a long 
Time, very irrefoJute what Courre to take; at length I -told 
them, there would be nothing to be done in my Opinion 
tili Night; and then, if they did not return to the Boat« 
perhaps we might find a Way. to get betwcen them and 
the Shore, and fo might ufe fome Stratagem wich them in 
the Boat, to get them on Shore. 

We waited a grcat while, though \ery impatient, for 
their removing, and were vcry uneafy; when, after long 
Confultations, we faw them ftart all up, and march dowa 
towards the Sea : It feems, they had fuch dreadful Ap- 
prehenfions upon them of the Danger of the Place, tbat 
they refolved to go on board the Ship again, give their 
Companions over iov loft, and fo go on vvith their in- 
tendcd Voyage with the Ship. 

As foon as 1 perceived them go towards the Shore, t 
imagired it to be a& it really was ; that they had givea 
over their Search, and were for going back again ; and 
the Captain, as foon as I told him my Thoughts, was 
ready to fmk at the Apprehenfions of it; but I prefentl>^ 
tbought of a Stratagem to fetch them back again, and 
which anfwered my £nd to a Tittle. 

I ordcr'd Friday^ and the Captain's Mate, to go ovcp 
the little Creek Weftward, towards the Place whcrc tb© 
Savages came on Shore when Friday was refcu'd ; and as. 
foon as they came to a lictle riiing G round, at about half 
a Mile's Diilance, I bad them hallow as loud as they 
could, and wait tili they foand the Seamen heard them ;. 
that as foon as ever they heard the Seamen anfwer them,. 
they fhould return it again, and thea keeping out of 
Sight, take a Round, always anfwering when the other 
hallowM, to draw them as far into the Ifland, andamong 
the Woods, as poflible, and then wheel about again to 
nie, by fuch Ways as I diredled. 

They were jull going into the Boat, when Friday and 
the Mate hallow'd, and they prefently heard them, anJ 
anfwering, run along the Shore Weftward, towards the 
Voice they heard, when they were prefently ftoppeJ by 
the Creek, where the Warer being up, they could not 
get over, and cal led for the Boat to come up, and fec 
them over, as indced 1 expeö.c4. Whea 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 249 

When they had fct thcmfelvcs over, I obfervcd thar 
the Boat being gone up a good Way into the Creek, amf 
as it were in an Harbouj- wichin the Land; they took one 
of the three Men out of her to go along with ihem, and 
kft only two in the Boac, haviog faften'd her to the 
Stump of a JittJe Trce on the Shore. 

This was what I wifhed for, and immediately leaving 
Friday and the Captain's Mate to their Bufinefs, I took 
the reft with me, and, croffing the Creek out of their 
Sight, WC furprifed the two Men beforc they were aware, 
one of them lying on Shore, and the other being in the 
Boat ; the Fellow on Shore was between fleeping and 
waking, and going to ftart up, the Captain, who was 
foremoft, ran in upon him, and knock'd him down, and 
then called out to him in the Boat to yield, or he was a 
dead Man. 

There needed very few ATguments to pcrfuade a fingle 
Man to yicld, when he faw üve Men upon him^ and his 
Comrade knock'd down; beiides, this was, itfeems, one 
öf the three who were not fo hearty in the Mutinv as the 
reft of the Crew^^ and therefore was eaiily perfuadcd, not 
only to yield, but afterwards-to join very fincerely with us. 

In the mean Time, Friday^ and the Captain's Mate, fo* 
well manag'd their Bufinefs with the reft, that they drew 
them, by hallowing and anfwering, from one Hill to ano- 
ther, and from one Wood to another, tili they not only 
hcartily tir'd them, but left them whcre they were vtiy 
üire they could not reach back to the Boat before it was 
d^rk ; and indeed they were heartily tir'd'themfelves allb 
by the Time they came back to us. 

We had nothing now to do but to watch fbr them in 
the dark, and to fall upon them, fo as to make füre Work 
with them. 

It was feveral Hours after FriJaf came back to me, 
before they came back to their Boat ; and we could hear 
the foremoft of them, long before they came quite up» 
calling to thofe behind to come along, and cou,Id alfo 
hear them anfwer, and complain how lame and tirM they 
were, and not being ablc to come any fader, which was 
very welcome News to "s. 

At length they came up to the Boat; but "tis impoifible 
to exprei? their Gonfttfion, when they foatÄrkÄ^^^^-'v'^ 
L 5 v-^^^^^ 



250 Thi Life tfni Adventures of 
a-groand in che Creek» the Tide ebb'd out, and their 
two Mcn gone ; we could hcar thero call to one another 
in a moft Umcntable Manner, telling one anocher they 
were gotten into an inchanted ifland; that either there 
were Inhabicants in it, and they (hoald all be murderM ; 
or elfe there were Devils or Spirits in it| and they fliould 
be all carried avvay and devonred. 

They hallow*d again, and caUed their two Comrades 
by their Natr.es a great many Times, bot no Anfwer : 
After fome Time, we conld fee them, by the little Light 
there was, run aboat wringing their Hands, like Men in 
Defpair ; and that fornetimes they would go and fit down 
in the Beat to reft themfel/es, then come aihore, and 
walk about again, and fo the fame thing over again. 

My Men would fain hare had me given them Leave 
to fall upon them at once in the Dark ; but I was will- 
ing to take them at fome Advantage, fo to fpare them, 
and kill as few of them as I could ; and efpecially I was 
nnwilling to hazard the küling any of onr Men, know- 
ing the other were very well arm*d : I- refolved to wait 
to fee if ',they did not feparate ; and therefore, to make 
fure of tl*iem, I drew my Ambufcade nearer ; and or- 
dered Friäay and the Captain, to creep upon their Hands 
and Feet as clofe fo the Ground as they could, that they 
might not be difcovered, and, get as near them as they 
could poffibly, before they offered to fire. 

They had not been long in that Pofture, but that the 
Boatfwain, who was theprincipal Ringleader of theMu- 
tiny, and had dow ihewn himfelf the moft dejedled and 
difpirited of all the reft, came Walking to ward» them with 
two more of their Crew ; the Captain was fo eager, at 
having the principal Rogue fo much in his Power, that 
he could hardly have Patience to let him come fo near ai^ 
to be fure of him ; for they only heard his Tongae be- 
ibre : But when they came nearer, the Captain and Fri- 
day^ Üarcing up on their Feet, let fly at them. 

The Boatfwain was killed upon the Spot; thenextMan 
was fhot into the Body, and feil juH by him, tho* he did 
not die tili an Hour or two afcer; and the third run for it. 

At the Noife of the Fire, I immtdiately advancM with 
my whole Army, which was now eight Men ; nji%, my» 
UM Ccnerali^moi fridccj my Lieatenant-Ceneral ; the 



ROBINSON CRfTSFOir, , J5t 

Captain and his two Men^' and tfae three Prkbners of 
War» whom hc had trofted wich Arms. 

We came upon them indeed in the dark, £b that the)^ 
could not fee our Number ; andImadetbeMan they had- 
Icfc in the Boat, who was now one of hs, to call them by 
Name, to try if I co&ld bring them to a Pafley, and fa 
might perhaps reduce them toTerms ; which feil oucjaft a» 
we deik*d : For indeed it was eafy to thtnk, as the»r Condi'- . 
tion theo was, they woald be very willing to capitulate ; fa 
he calls oat> as loudashe coujd^to ontofthem^TomSmMi. 
Tom Smiib. Tom Smith anfwerM immediately^ fVbo^s^ that? 
. Robinfon ? For it fceros he knew his Voice^ T'other an» 
iwer'd, 4y* ^y i f^ ^^* ^^9 Totti Smith, throw dwim 
jöur Armt^ aniyitUi •ryou an aildead Men thh Moment. 

' ffho nfuß'wijßiÜtof Whereare they? fays Smith againv 
Hiro tbiy are^ iays he ; here is our Captain and fifty Meit 
with him, have been huAting you this two Hour» ; the 
fioatfwain is kiird i WUi, Frye is wounded, and I am a 
Prifoner ; änd if you do not yield, you are all loft. 

Will they eive as Quarter then ? fays Tom Smith; and 
we will yield. n/goandaß, ifyoUfromiß toyiildy f^y^ 
Rohikfin, So he a(k*d the Captain^ and the Captain 
himfelf then calls out ; You, Smith^ you know my Voicc, 
]f you lay down your Arms immediately, and üubmit^ yott^ 
ihall have your Lives> all but IVilL Atkim^ 

Upon this, Will. Atkins cry'd o«t, Tor God*t Sake, Cap- - 
UUMy ginte m$ ^arter : JVhat have Idono ? Thtf, have been all 
euhadas I\ which by the Way was not true, neither; for, 
k feems, this Will. Atkini was the firft Man l^at laid hold 
•f the Captain, when ihey firft matiny'd; and us'd him 
karbaroufly, in tying his Hands» and- giying him injuH'» 
•US Laoguage : However, the Captain told him he muft 
lay down his Arms at Difcretion» and traft to the Gdver^ 
nor'sMercy, by which he meant me ; for Ihey. all call'd 
ae Governor. 

In a Word, they all latd down their Arms, and begg^d: 
their Lives; and I fent the Man that hadparley'd WitK 
tkem, and two more, who bound them alt; and then my 
great Army of fifty Men, which, particularly with chofe 
three, were all bat eight, came up and fe^zM apon them« 
ally and upon their Boat, only thac I kept myfelfy.andone? 
nore^ wx of Sightj i^t Reafons of State« 



2^2 The LtFt and AnrEnrvREs af 

Our next Work was to repair che Boat, and to thinit 
of fcizing the Ship ; and as for the Captain, now he hadr 
Leifure to parley wich them, he expoftulated with thcm 
upon the Villainy of their Praäices with him« and at 
Jengtb, upon the farther Wickedneis of their Defign; and 
how certainl/ it moft bring them to Mifery and Diftrefs 
in the End, and perhaps to the Gallows. 

They all appearM stry penitent, and begged hard for 
their Live» : As for that, he told them they were none 
of his PrifoDers, bat th^ Commander^s of the Ifland ;. 
that they tliought they had fet him on Shore in a banea 
uninbabited Ifland ; but it had pleafed God (b to dired 
them, that the Ifland was inhabited, and that the Co- 
vemor was an EngHßman ; that he might hang them all 
there If he pleafed ; bat as he had giyen.them all Qaar- 
ter, he rappofcd he woold fend them to- EngUnäy to bd 
dealc with there, as Jaflice required, except Atkinsi 
whom he was coramanded by the Govemor to advife to 
prepare for Death ; for that he would be hanged in the 
Morning. 

Thpugh this was all a Fiäion of his own, yet it had 
its defir'd Effcdl : J^kim feil upon his Knees to beg the 
Captain to intercede with the Governor for his Life; and 
all the reft begged of him for God's Sake, that they 
might not be fent to England. 

It now occorr'd to me, that the Time of our Delivc- 
rance was come, and that it would be a moil cafy thing 
to bring thefe Fellows in, to be hearty in getring Poflef- 
fiOD.of th? Ship; fo I retired in the dark from them, that 
they might not fee what kind of a Governor they had, 
and'caUed.the Captain to me ; when I called, as at a 
^ood Diftance, one of the Men was order'd to fpeak a- 
gain, arjd fay to the Captain, Captain^ the Commander 
falls for you ; and prefently the Captain replied, Teil his 
Excellency I am juß a Coming. This more perfedly amus'd 
them ; and they all believed, that the Commander was 
juft by with his fifty Men. 

Upon the Captain's Coming to me, I told him my Pro- 
jeft for feizing the Ship, which he liked of wonderfully: 
well, and refolvM to put it in Execution the next Morning. 

But, in Order to execute it with more Art, and to 
be fecure of Sucufs, l told him we mufl divide the Pri^ 

Toners, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 353 

fbners, and that he fhould go and take Atkins, and twa 
iQoreofthe worft of them., andfendthem pinion'd to the 
Cavc where the others lay i This was committed to Fridaf^ 
and the two Men who came on Shore with the Captain. 

They convey'd them to the Cave, as to a Prifon j and. 
k was indeed a difmal Place^ efpeciall/ to Men ia their 
Coadition. 

The othcr I orderM to my Bower, as IcaU'd it, of which. 
Ihave given a fiill Defcription ; and as it was fcnc'd in, 
and they pinionM, the Place was fecure enough^ confider- 
ing they were upon their Behaviour. 

To thefe in the Morning I fent the Captain, wha 
was to enter irito a Parley wich. them; in a Word, to 
uy them, and teil me, whether he thought they might 
be trailed or no, ta go on board, and furprife the Ship :. 
He.talk'd to them of the Injury done him, of the Con^ 
dicion they were brooght to ; and that tho' the Cover- 
aar had given them Charter for their Lives, as to the 
prefeat Adiion, y et that if.they were fent to England^ 
they would all be hang'd in Chains^ to be füre; but tha^ 
if they would join in fuch an Actempt, as to recover the 
Shijp, he would have the Governor's Engagement for 
their Pardon. 

Any ooe may guefs how readily fuch a Propofal would 
be accepted. by Men in their Condition ; they feil down 
on their Knees to the Captain, and promis'd with the 
deepefl Imprecations, that they would be faithful to him 
to the lafl Drop, and that they fhould owe their Live» 
to him, and would go with him all over the World ; that 
they would ewn him for a Father to them as long as they. 
liv'd. 

Well, fays the Captain, I muft go and teil the Go« 
veinor what you fay, and fee what I. can. do to bring 
bim to confent to it : .So he brought me- an Account of 
the Temper he found them in ; and that he verily be- 
iieved they would be faithful. 

However, that we might be very fecure, I told him he 
Ihould go back again, and choofe out five of them, and teil 
ihem, that they fhould fee that they did not want Men ; 
bat he would take out thofe üve to be his Afliilants, and 
that the Governor would keep the other two, and the 
jchree that were fent Prifoner^ to the CafL^e (mj Caw) 
7 . ' "*^ 



154 TieLiFM stul Adtuktures ^ 
as HoAases, foft tiM Fiddiqr of dbofe ivc ^ »i dbt if 
diej proT*il apfütkfd in die Exeottm, ihc iK« Haiagc» 
ftookl be luui^*d ia Cbaiof alive apoB tke Skoie. 

Tkift look*d lerer», aad coaviac'd ckoB, dbai ehr G»- 
vcTBor was inearnct ; howerer, thej had ao Waj Idt 
ckem bat co accepc k ; aad k was wom tka ITaii i fj of 
the Prifoom» as nach as of die Capcaia, cd r*»^T^^ 
die ocher ive cd do cheir Datf . 

Oar Strengtk was bgw dms ordernd ^y Ae Ezpcdi- 
tiaa : i. The Capcaia. bis Maie, aod Paflei^er. 2. The» 
' die cwo PrUbaers of the iirfl Gang, cd whom, hawiag 
dmr Charadert fron the Capeaia, I \aA gnrea chck 
Liberty, aad rrafied thera wich Arms. 5. Tl^ ocfacr twD 
whom I kepc tili now ia mjr Bower pioioa'd ; b«r, apoa 
tbe Capracn*s Kflotion, had now releas'd. 4. Theie iwe 
refeas*d at laft; {o that they wäre twelre la all, befides 
five we kept PrifoDers in the Cave Ibr Hoftages. 

I afl^'d the Capcain, if he was willisg to ▼eatve 
with thefe Hands on board the Ship : For, as fbr me, 
and my Man Friday, I did not diiak it was proper ibr 
«s to ilir, having feven Men left behind ; and it was £m- 
plovment enoogh for as to keep them afander, and 
iiipply them with Vidaals. 

As to the ^yt in the Cave, I refb'.vM to keep them 
fift ; bat Friäay went twjcc a Day to them, to fopply 
them wiih Neceflaries ; and I roade the other two carry 
Provifions to a certain Diftance, whcre Fri^ was ta 
Cake it. 

When I fhew'd myfelf to the two Hoftages, it was 
with the Captain, who teld them, I was the Perfon 
the Govemor had ordernd to look after them, and that 
it was the GovernoF*s Pleafnre they fhonid not ftir any 
where bat by my Diredlion ; that if they did, they 
fhould be fetchM into the Caftle, and be laid in Irons i 
fo that as we never fuffer'd them to Tee me as GoVemor, 
fo I now appear'd as anocher Perfon, and fpoke of the 
Govemor, tbe Garrifon, the CafUe, and the like, opon^ 
all Occaiions. 

The Capcain now had no Difiicolty before him, bat 
to furnifh nis two Boats, ftop the Breach of one, and 
man them : He made his PaiTenger Captain of one, 
with foor other Men f andhifflfelf^ aad his Mate, and 




'"' '' ""t- 11-4.^ ■'. " *->^^---^-«^lhem«f,./^/,., 



R O B I N S O N C R U S O E. 255 

five more, weüt in the other : And they contrir'd their 
Buünefs very well ; for they came up to the Ship about 
Midnieht : At foon zs they came within Call of the 
Shjp, he made Rohinfon hail them, and teil them he had 
brought ofF the Men and the Boat, bat that it was a long 
Time before they had found them, and the like ; holding 
then in a Chat, tili they came to che Ship's Side ; when 
the Captain and the Mate, entering firft with their Arms» 
immediateFy knock'd down the fecond Mate and Car- 
penter with the But-end of their Mufquets, being very 
faithfuUy feconded by their Men ; they fecur'd «II th« 
reft that were upon the Main and Qaarter-decks, and 
beean to fallen the Hatches to keep them down who wer» 
below, when the other Boat, and their Men, entering at 
the Fore-chains, fecur'd the ForecafUe of the Ship, and 
the Skuttle which went down into the Cook-room, making 
three Men they found there Prlfoners. 

When this was done, and all fafe npon the Deck, the 
Captain order'd the Mate with three Men to break into 
the Round-houfe, - where the new Rebel Captain lay, . 
and, having taken tbe Alarm, was gotten up, and witk 
two Men and a Boy had gotten Fire-arms in their Hands;. 
ar.d when the Mate with a Crow fplit open the Door, 
the new Captain and his Men firM boldly among them, 
and wounded the Mate with a Mafquet'ball, which 
broke his Arm> and woanded two more of the Men, bot 
külM nobody. • 

The Mate, calling for Help, rofliM, however, into the 
Round 'houfe, wouiMed as he was, and with his Piflol 
fiiot the new Captain throngh the Hcad, the Bullet enter- 
ing at bis Mottth, and came out again bekind one of 
Lis Ears; fo that he never fpoke a Word ; npon which 
the reft yielded, and the Ship was taken effednally» 
without any moxe Livea loft. 

As foon as the Ship was thns fecnr^d, the Captain or« 
der'd feven Gans to be fir'd, which was the Signal agreed 
npon with me, to give me Notice of his Snccefs ; which 
yoii may be füre I was very g)ad t& heai, havii^ fat 
yraiching npon the Sbore for it, tiU near two of the Clock 
io theMorning. 

üaving thus heard the Sisnal plainly, I laid me down ; 
»nd it having hctn a Day of grcat Fatigue to um^^ 1 ilept 



256 Tbe Life anJ Adventures tf 

very found, tili I was fomething furpnsM with the Noife- 
of aGun; and prefendy (huiing up, 1 heard aMan call 
Bie by the Name of Cover nor, Governor; and prefently 
I Icnew the Captain'» Voice, when climbine^ip to the Top 
of the Hill, there he ftood, and poiating.to the Ship, he 
embracM me in his Arms ; My dtar Friend and Deüverer^ 
Üys he, there s your Sbip^ forße is eälyours^ andfo are tve, 
and all thai belomg t§ her. I caümy Eyes to thö Ship, and 
there (he rode withln little more than half a Mile of the 
Shore ; for they had weigh'd her Anchor a$ foon as they 
were Maliers of her ; and the Weather being fair, had 
brought her to an Anchor jaft agalnft the Mouth ofa little 
Creek; and the Tide being ap, the Captain had brought 
the Pinnace in near the Plac^ where I firft landed my Rafcs, 
and fo landed jaft at my Door. 

I was, at firft, ready to fink down with the Surprife : 
For I faw my Deliverance indeed vifibly put into my 
Hands, all things eafy, and a large Ship jud ready ro 
carry me away whither I pleas'd to go : At firft, fcr 
fome Time, I was not able to anfwer onc Word ; buc 
as he had taken me in his Arms, I held fall by him, or 
I ihould have fallen to the Groond. 

He perceiv'd the Surprife, and immediately pulFd a 
Bottle out of his Pocket, and gave nie a Dram of Cor- 
dial, which he had brought on Purpofe for me : After I 
drank it, I Tat down upon the Ground, and though ir 
brought me to myfelf, yet it was a gcod while before I 
could fpeak a Word to him. 

All this while the poor Man was in as grcat an Ecilafy^ 
as I, only not under any Surprife, as I was ; and he (aid 
a thoufand kind tender things to me, to compofe and 
bring me to myfelf; but fuch was the Flood of Joy in 
roy Brcaft, that it put all my Spirits into Confufion ; at 
laft it broke into Tears, and in a little while after I re-« 
covered my Speech. 

Then I took my Turn, and embrac'd him as my Dcli- 
verer ; and we rejoic'd together : I told him, I look'd 
upon him as a Man fent from Heaven to deliver me, 
and that the whole TranfaiStion feem'd to be a Chain 
of Wonders ; that fuch things as thefe were the Te- 
flimonies we had of a fecret Hand of Providence go- 
verning the. World, and an Evidence, that the Eyes of 

an 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 257 

9kn infinite Power could fearch into the remoteft Corner 
of the World, and fend Help to tlie^ Miferable whenever 
he pleas'd. 

I forgot not to lift up my Heart in Thankfulnefs to 
Heaven ; and what Heart could forbear to blefs him, 
who had not only in a miraculous Manner provided for 
one in fuch a Wildernef», and in fach a defolate Con- 
dition, but from whom every Deliverance muft alway» 
be acknowledg'd to procecd ? 

When we had talk'd awhile, the Captain told me, 
he had brought me Tome little Refrefhment», fuch as the 
Ship afForded, and fuch as the Wretches, who had been fa 
long his Maliers, had not plander'd him of:*Upon this 
he caird aloud to the Boat, and bid his Men bring the 
ihings a(hore that vvere for the Governor ; and indeed it 
was a Prefent, as if I had been one, not that was to be car- 
riedalong with them, but as if I had been to dwell upoa 
the Ifland ßill, and they were to go without me. 

' Firft, he had brought me a Cafe of ßottlesfull of excel- 
lent Cordial Waters, üx large Bottles of Madeira Wine j 
the Bottles held two Quarts apiece ; two Pounds of ex- 
celleht good Tobacco, twelve good Pieces of the Ship'& 
Beef, and fix Pieces of Pork, wich a Bag of Peas, and 
about an hundred Weight of Bifcuit. 

He brought m^.alfo a Box of Sugar» a Box of Flour^ 
a Bag füll of Lemons, and two Botües of Limejuice, and 
Abundance of other things: Butbeddes thei«, and what 
was a thou^and Times more ufeful to me, he brought me 
fix clean ncw Shirt», fix very good Neckdoths, two Pair 
of Gloves, one Pair of Shoes, an Hat, and one Pair of 
Stockings, and a yery good Soit of Cloaths of his own^ 
which had been worn but very little : In a Word, he 
doath^d me from Head to Foot. 

It was a very kind and agreeable Prefent, as any one 
may imagine, to one in my Circumilances ; but never 
was any thine in the World ofthat Kind fo unpleafant„ 
^ukward, and uneafy, as it was to me to wear fuch. 
Cloaths at their firft putting on. 

After thefe Ceremonies paft, and after all his good 
things were brought into my little Apartment, we began- 
to confult what was to be done with the Prifoners we 
luad ; for it was worth coufidering, whether we might 



2S8 7Zr Life «itf Adybkturbs ^ 
Yentiire to tmke them away with os or no, djpccia!!/ two 
of theo, whom we knew to be iacon^ible and rcftac- 
tory to the laß Degree ; and the Capcain faid, he kocw 
cbej were fuch Rogocf , tbat thcre was no obliging tkem ; 
ard if he did carry them away, it moft bc in IroDs, as 
lAaL.efi^T$ to-be deliverMorertoJaftice at tbe firft JEi^* 
/ißf Co!ony he could comc at ; and I fomd tbat the 
Captain himfclf was very apxioos aboat tt. 

Upon this, I tcld him, that if he defir*d it, Idorft ander- 
take to bring the two Men he fpoke of, tomake it tbeir own 
Rcqued that he flionld leare them upon the Ifland* Ifin^i 
hf ^erj glad'^ftbaty fays the Captain, ^vcith all my Hcart, 

Well, Jaid /, I will fendfor them, and talk with them 
fbr yoa ; So I caus*d FriJmy and the two Hoftages, fbr 
they were now dilcbarg^d, their Comrades having pc('- 
formM their Prom'.fe ; 1 fay, I causM them to go to the 
Cave, ard bring up the hye Men, pinion'd as they were, 
to the Bower, and keep them there tili I came. 

After ibme Time, I came thither drefsM in my new 
Habit, and nbw IVas call^d Govemor again. Beibg all 
met, and the Captain with roe, I caos*d tbe Men to be 
bronght before me, and I told them, I had had a füll Ac- 
coonc cf their vi llainotts Behaviour %o the Captain, and 
how they had ran away with theShip, and were prepar- 
ing to com mit farther Robberies ; bat that Providence 
had enfnar'd them in their own Ways, and that they were 
fajien into thePit which they had digg*d forothers. 

I Ict them know, that by my Direktion the Ship had 
been feiz'd, that fhe lay now in the Road, and they might 
(tt by and by, tiat their new Captain had rtceiv'd ihe 
Reward of bis Villainy; for riiat they might fee him. 
banging at the Yard- arm. 

That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to- 
fay, why I fhould not execute them as Pirates takeh in 
the Faft, as by my Commiflion they could not doubt I 
had.^uthority to do. 

One of them anfwcr'd in the Name of the reft, that 
they had nothii:g to fay but this, That when they were 
taken, the Captain promis'd them their Lives, and they 
humbly implor'd my Mercy : But I told them I knew 
xiot what Mercy to (hew them ; for, as for myfelf, I had 
rcfolv'd to quit the lüand with all my ^Men, and had 

ukcn. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 259 

taken PaiTage with the Captain to go for England: And 
as for the Captain, }>e could not carry them to England^ 
other than as Piifoners in Irons to be try'd for Matiny, 
and running away with the Ship ; the ConPequence of - 
wfatch,-they muft needs know, would be the Gallows; 
fo that I could not teil which was beft for them, un- 
lefs they had a Mind to take their Fate in the Ifland, if 
they defir'd tbat, I did notcare, as I had Liberty toleave 
it; i had fome Inclination to give them their Lives,^if 
they thoaght they could (hift on Shore. They feem'd 
very thAkfuI for it 5 faid they would much rather ven- 
ture to ftay there, than to be carry 'd to England to be 
bang'd ; fo I Jeft it oft that Iffue. 

However, the Captain feem'd to make fome Difficulty 
of it, as if he dürft not leave them there : Upon this I 
feem'd a little angry with the Captain, and told him» 
that they were my Prifoners, not his; and that feeing 
I had ofTer^d them fo much Favour, I would be as good 
as my Word ; and that if he did not think £t to confent 
to it, I would fet them at Liberty as I found them ; and 
if he did not like tliat, he might take them again, if he 
could catch them. 

Upon this they appearM vefy thankfol, and I accord- 
ingly (et them at Lib^irty, and bad them retire Into ihe 
Woodsi to the Place whence they came, and 1 would leave 
thetn fome Fire-arms, fome Ammanidon, and fome Di- 
redlions how they fhould live very well, if they thooght fit. 

Upon this, I prepar*d to go onboard the Ship; buc 
tDld the Captain, that I would ftay that Night to prepare 
my things, and deiir'd him to go on board in the mean 
Time, and keep all right in the Ship, and fendthe Boac 
on Shore the next Day for me; orde:ing him, in the mean 
Time, to caufe the new Captain who was kilPd, to be 
hang'd at the Yard-arm, that thefe Men might fee bim.- 

When the Captain was göne, I fent for the Men up to 
me to my Apartment, and cnter'd ferioufly into Difcourfe 
with them of their Circumftances: I told them, I thoaght 
they had made 1^ right Choice ; that if the Captain carry*d 
them away, they woüld certainly be hang'd : I (hew'd *em 
their Captain hanging at the Yard-arm of the Ship, and 
to'.d them they had nothing lefs to expedt. 

When they had all dcciar'd their WilUa^itC% \ä ^^"^^ 



a6o 72r Life and Advekture^s^ tf 

riien toTd them, I wonld let tbem ioto the Stoiy of mj 
liring therc, and put them into che Way of mnking ir 
eafy to them: Accordingly 1 gave them the whott Fffftory 
of the Place, and of my Coming to it ; (hewM them my 
Fortificationi , the Way I made my Bread, planted my 
Coro, carM my Grapcs ; and, in a Word, aJl that was: 
neceflary to make them eafy : I told them the Story alfo 
of the iixteen Spamiards^^zt were to be ex[>eAed ; for 
whom I left a Letter, and made them promire to treat 
them in common with themfelves. ^ 

I left them my Fire-arms ; «v/jr. ^vc Mofqoets, threc 
Fowline-pieces, and threeSwords: Ihad aboot a Barret 
of Powder left ; for after the hiü Vear or two I as'd bat 
little, and wafled none: I gave them a Defcription of the 
Way I manag 'd the Goars, and Direftions to milk and* 
fatten them, to make both Butter and Cheefe. 

In a Word, I gave them evcry Part of my own Story; 
and I told them, I woold prevail with the Captain to 
leave them two Barrels of Gunpowder roore, and ferne 
Garden- feed, which I told them I would have been very 
glad of ; alfo I gave them the Bag of Peas which the 
Captain had brought nie to eac, and bad them be fare to 
fow and increafe them. 

Having done all this, I left them the next Day, and 
wcnt on board the Ship ; We prepar'd immediately to 
fail, botdid not weigh that Night: The nextMorning 
early, two of the fist Men came fwimming to the Ship's 
Side, and, making a moft lamentable Complaint of die 
etherthree, begg*d to be taken into the Ship, for God's 
Sake, for they (houldbe murder*d; and begg*d the Captain 
to take them on board, tho' he hang^d them immediately. 

Upon this, the Captain pretended to have no Power 
without me ; bat after foaie Difnculty, and after their 
folemn Promifes of Amendment, they were taken on- 
board, and were ferne Time after foundly whipp'd and 
pickrd ; after which they prov^d very honefl and quiet 
Fellows. 

Some Time after this, I went with the Boat on Shore,. 
the Tide bcing up, with the things promis'd to ihe 
Men, to which the Captain, at my Intercelfion, caus'd 
their Cheds and Cloaths to be added, which they tooic, 
and wcrc very thankful for ;. I alfo cncouvag'd them, by 



ROBINSOi^I CRUSOE. ihi 

'lelling them, that if it lay in my Way to fend an/ Veffet 
to take-them in, I would not forget them. 

When I took Leave of this liland, I carry'd on board 
for Reliques the great Goat's-fkin Cap I had made, roy 
UmbrcUa, and one of my Parrots ; alfo 1 forgot not to 
take the Money I formerly mention'd, which had lain 
by me fo long ufelefs, that it was grown rufty, or tar- 
nifhed, and could hardiy pafs for Silver, tili it had bcen 
a little rubb'd and handled ; and alfo the Money I fouod 
in the Wreck of the Spanijh Ship. 

And thus I left the Ifland the nineteenth of /^^r^m^^r, 
as I foui^ by the Ship's Accaunt, in the Year 1686, af- 
ter I had been upon it eight-and-twenty Years, two 
Months, and nineteen Days ; being deliver'd froni the 
. fecond Captivity the Tarne Day of the Month that I firft» 
»ade my Efcape in the Barco-Lofigo, from among the 
Moors of Sal/ee. 

In this Veffcl, after a long Voyage, I arriv'd in Eng- 
iofid tht eleventh of y«»^, in the Year 1687, having 
been thiriy-and-fivc Years abfent. 

When I came to England^ 1 was a perfedl Stranger to 
all the World, asif 1 had nevcr been known there: My 
Benefadlor,^ and faithful Steward, whom I had left iu 
Truft wich my Moneyj was alive, birt had had great Mif- 
fortunes in the World, was become a Widow the fecond 
Time, and very low in the World : I made her cafy as to 
what flie ow'd me, aifaring her, I would give her no 
Trouble ; but on the contrary, in Gratitude to her for- 
mer Care and Faithfulnefs to me, I reliev'd her as my 
litt!c Stock would afFord, which at that Time would in- 
deed allovv me to do but little for her ; but I aßur'd her, 
I would never forget her former Kindnefs to me ; nor 
did I forget her, when I had AiiEcient to help her ; as 
(hall be obferv'd in its Place. 

I went do>vn afterwards into Torkßire ; but my Father 
was dead, and my Mother, and all the Family extindl ; 
except that 1 found two SiAers, and two of the Children 
ofoneofmy Brothers: And as I had been long ago 
given over for dead, there had bcen no Provifion made 
for me, fo that, in a Word, I found nothing to relieve 
or aiTiil me ; and that litrle Money I had, would not do 
fo much ior me, as to fecding in the World. 

"I met 



262 7hi Lirt tfmf Advbnturbs $/ 

I met with one Piecc of Gratitade indeed, which Idid 
not expeA; and this was» that the Mafteir of the Ship, 
whom I had io happily dclivcr^d, and by the fame Means 
fav*d the Ship and Cargo, haring eiven a vcry handfome 
Accoant to the Owntis^ of the Manner how I had fav'd 
the Lives of the Men» and the Ship, thejr invited me to 
meet them» and fome other Merchantt concern*d, and 
all together made me a very handfoine Compliment np- 
on that Sabjed, and a Prefent of almoft two hundred 
Poands Sterling. 

Bat after making feveral Refle6tions opon the Circum- 
ftances of my Life, and how little Way this would go 
toward fettling me in the World, I refolv*d to go to Liß 
hotfy and fee it I might not come by fome Information of 
the State of my Plantation in the Brafils^ and of what was 
become of my Partner, who, I had Reafon to fuppofe, had 
fome Years now given me over for dcad. 

Wiih this View 1 took Shipping for Llßon^ where I 
arriv'd in April following ; my Man Frida) accompanying 
me very honeftly in all thefe Ramblings, and proving a 
mod faithful Ser^ant apon al) Occaiions. 

Whcn I came to Lijboriy I found out by Tnquiry, and 
to my particular Satisfa^ion, my old Friend the Captain 
of the Ship, who firft took me up at Sea, ofF the Shore 
of Africa : He was now grown old, and had left ofF the 
Sea, havingput hisSon, who was far from a young Man, 
into his Ship; and who ftill usM^the Brafil Trade. The 
old Man did not know me, andl indeed, I hardly knew 
him ; but I foon brought myfelf to his Remembrance, 
when I told him who 1 was. 

After fome paffionate Expreflions of ourold Acquaint- 
ancc, I inqair*d, you may be füre, afcer my Planiation, 
and my Partner : The old Man told me, he had not 
bcen in the Braßls for about nire Years ; but that he 
could alTure me, that when he came away, my Partner 
was living ; but the Trullees, whom I had join'd wich him 
to take Cognizance of my Part, were both dead ; that, 
however, he believ*d that I would have a very good 
Account of the Improvement of the Plantation ; for 
that, upon the general ßelief of my being caftaway and 
drownd, my frullees had given in the Account of the 
Pfoduce of my Part of the Plantation, to the Procurator 

Fifca! ; 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 26 j 

Fifcal ; who had appropriated it, in cafe I never came tb 
Claim it, one Third to the King, and two Thirds to ch« 
Monaftery of Si. Juguftitt, to be expended for the Benefic 
of the Poor, and for the Converfion of thi^ Indians to the 
Catholic Faith; but that if I appear*d, or any one for me, 
to Claim the Inheritance, itwould be reßor*d; only that 
the Improvement^ or annaal Produdion, being diflributed 
to charitable Ufes, could not be reftor'd ; but he afTurM 
me» that the Steward of the King's Revenue (from Lands) 
and the Provedore, or Steward of the Monailery, had ta- 
ken greatCare all along, that the Incumbent, that is to 
fay, my Partner, gave every Year afaithful Account of the 
Produce, of which they receiv'd duly my Moiety. 

I afk'd him, if he knew to whatHeight of Improve- 
ment he had brought the Plantation : And whether he 
thought ic might be worth lookiug after : Or whether, 
on my going thither, I (hould meet with no Obilrudlioa 
to my pofTemng my juft Right in the Moiety. 

He told mc, he could not teil exadfy to what Degree 
the Plantation waslmprovM; butthis he knew, that my 
partner was grown exceeding rieh upon the enjpying but 
one half of it; and that, to the beil of his Remembranco 
he had heard, that the King's Third of my Part, which 
was, it feems, granted away to fome other Monaftery, 
or rel'gious Houfe, amounted to above two huhdred 
Moidores a Year ; that, as to my being reflorM to a 
quiet PofieiHon of it, there was no Queftion to be made 
of that, my Partner being alive to witnefs my Title, 
and my Name being alfo inroH'd in the Regifler of the 
Country. Alfo he to!d me, that theSurvivorsof my two 
Truftees were very fair honefl People, and very wealthy, 
and he believ'd I would not only have their AOiftance for 
putting me in PofTeflion, but would find a very confidera« 
ble Sum of Money in their Hands, for my Account, being 
the Produce of the Farm, while their Father^ held^ the 
Trufl, and before it was given up, as above, which, as 
be remember'd, was for about twelve Ycars. 

I fhew'd myfelf a little concern'd and uneafy at this Ac- 
count, and inquir'd of the old Captain, how it came to 
pafs, that the Truftees (hould thus difpofe of my Effeäs, 
when he knew, that. f had made my Will, and had made 
iiixn. the Portugueß Captain, my univerfal Heir, ^c. 

He 



a64 ^-'^ Life and Adventures of 

He told me» that was true ; bat that, as there was no 
Proof of my being dcad, he could not adl as Exccutor, 
until fome ccrtain Account (hould come of my Dcath ; 
and Chat, befides, he was notwilling to intermeddle with 
a thing fo remote: That it was true, he had rcgifter'd my 
Will, and put in his Claim; and could he have given any 
Account ot my being dead or alive, he would have a6led 
by Procuration, and taken PoITeflion of the /s;^^/^ (fothey 
caird the Sugarhoufe) and had given his Son« who was 
now at the Braßls, Order to do il. 

But, fays the old Man, I have onc Picce of News to 
teil you, which perhaps may not be fo acceptable to yoa 
as the reft; and thatis, That, believing you wereloft, and 
all the World believing fo alfo, your Partner and Trnftces 
did ofTer to account to me in your Name, for fix or eight 
of the firfl Years of Profils, which I rcceiv'd ; but thcre 
being at that Time, fays he, great Dilburfements for in- 
creafing the Works, building an Ingenio, and buying 
Slaves, it did not amourit to near fo much as afterwards 
it produc'd : Howevcr, fays the old Man, I ihall give 
you a true Account of what I have receiv'd in all, and 
how I have difpos'd of it. 

After a few Days farther Conference with this anticnt 
Friend, he brought me an Account of the fix firft Years 
Income of my Plantation, fign'd by my Partner, and the 
McrchanL'sTrufteeSjbeing always deliver'd in Goods; wä. 
Tobacco in Roll, and Sugar in Chells, befidesRum, Me- 
lafi'ea, ^c which is the Confequence of a Sugar work ; 
and r found by this Account, that every Year the Income 
confidetabiy increas'd: But, as above, the Difburfemcnt 
being large, the Sum at firfl was fmall : However, the 
old Man Jet me fee, that he was Debtor to me 470 
Moidores of Gold, befidesöo Chefts of Sugar, aod 15 
double^Rolls of Tobacco, which were loft in his Ship, 
he having been fliipwreck'd coming Home to Lijhon^ 
about elevcn Years after my leaving the Place. 

The good Man then began to complain of his Misfor- 
tunes, and how he had been oblig'd to make ufe of my 
Money to recovtr his Lofles, and buy him a Share in a 
new Ship: However, my old Friend, fays he, you fhall 
not want a SuppJy in your Neceflity ; and as foon as my 
Son returns, you fliall be fully fatisfy'd, 

Upon 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. a6$ 

Upon thi$ he puUs out an old Pouch, and gives me 
two handred Fortugal Moidores in Gold ; and ^iving mc, 
the Writings of bis Title to the Ship which his Son was- 
.gone to the Brafih in, ofwhichhewas a Quarter- Parc, 
Owner, and his Son another, heputs them hoch into m/ 
Hands for Security of the re(l. 

I was too much movM with the Honefty and Kindnefs 
of the poor Man, to be able to bear this ; and remenir 
bring what he had done for me, how he had taken me 
up atSea, and how generoufly he had ufed meoa all Oc-, 
cafions, änd particularly, how iincere a Friend he was 
now to me, 1 couid hardly refrain weepinz at what he 
^idtome: Therefore firft I aflt'd him if his Circum- 
ftances admitted him to fpare fo much Money at that. 
Time, and if ic would not ftreighten him ? He told me 
he could not fay butit might ftreighten him alittle ; but,^ 
however, it was my Money, and I might want it more 
than he. 

Every thing the good Man faid was füll of AffeAion,* 
and I could hardly refrain from Tears while he fpoke. In 
ihort, I took one hundred of the Moidores, aiid calPd for 
a Pen and Ink to give him a Receipt for them ; then I re- 
curnM him the reft, and told him, if ever I had Pofleffioa 
of the Plantation, I would return the other ta him alfo« 
as indeed I afterwards did ; and that, as to the Bill of Säle 
of his Part in his Son^s Ship» I would not (ake it by any 
Means ; bat that, if I wanted the Money, I found he 
was honeft enough to pay me ; and if I ^id not, but came 
to receive what he gave me Reafon to exped, I wooki 
never have a Penny more from him. 

When this was pafs^d, the old Man begaa to a(k me» 
if he ihould put me in a Method to make my Claim ta 
my Plantation. I told him, I thought to go over to it my« 
felf : He faid I might do fo if I pleas'd ; but that if I did 
not, there were Ways enouzh lo feciire my Rigbt, and 
immediately to appropriate the Profits to 'my Ufe ; and at 
there were Ships in the River of Ußon^ jult ready to go 
away to Br^tßl, he made me enter my Name in ä 4>ub- 
lic Regifler, with his Affidavit, atErming upon Oath 
that 1 was alive, and that I was the lame Perfon who 
took up the Land for the planting the fai4 Plantatioa 
at firft. 

Vol. l. M 'T^ 



266 The Life and Adventuris of 

This being regularly atteded hy a Notary, and a Pto- 
coration afiixM, he dire6led me to fend it with a Letter 
of his Writing, to a Merchant of his Acquaintance at tlie 
Place ; and then propos'd my ftaying wich him tili «l 
Accoant came of the Return. 

Ncver any thing was morc honourable than the Pro- 
ceedtrgs upon this Procaration ; for in lefs than feren 
Months I receiv'd a large Packet from the Survivors öf 
my Truftees, the Merchants, for whofe Account I went 
to Sea, in which were the following particular Letters 
and Papers inclofed. 

F/;;^, There was the Account cnrrent of the Produce 
of my Farm, or Plantation, from the Ycar when thcir 
Pathers had balanc'd with my old Portugal Captain, be- 
ing for fix Years ; the Balance appear'd to be 1 1 74 Moi- 
dores in my Favour. 

Sicondlyt Therc was the Account of four Years more 
wh'le they kept the EIFedls in their Hands, before the 
Government daini'd the Adminiftration, as being the 
Effefts of a Perfon not to bc found, which they call Ci- 
'^il Death\ and the Balance of this, the Value of the 
Plantation, increafing, amounted to Craifadoes, which 
made 3241 Moidores. 

ThirM)\ There was the Prior of the Jnguflines Ac- 
count, who had receivM the Profits for above fourteen 
Years ; but not being able to account for what was dif- 
pos'd to the Hofpital, very honcftly dcclarM he had 872 
Moidores not diftributed, which he acknowledg'd to 
my Account : As to the King's Part, that refunded 
ÄOthing. 

There was alfo a Letter of my Partner's, congratulatin^ 
me very afFeäionately upon my being alive ; giving me 
an Account how the Eftace was improv'd, and what it 
produc'd a Year, with a Particular of the Number of 
Squares or Acres 'that it contain'd ; how planted, how 
many Slaves there were upon it ; and making two-and- 
twenty Croires for BlefTings, told me, he had faid {0 
many A^e Maria s to thank the Blefied Virgin that I 
was alive ; invicing" me very paflionately to come over 
and take PolTeflion of my own, and in the mean Time 
to give him Orders to whom he (hould deliver my 
E&fls, if 1 did not come myC^lf ; concluding with an 

hearty 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 267, 

hcarty Tender of his Friendfhip, and that of his Fa- 
znily ; and fent me, as a Prefent, feven fine Leopards 
Skins, which he had, ic feems, receivM from J/rica 
by fome other Ship which he had fent thither» and 
who, it feems, had njade a better Voyagc than I : Hc 
fent me alfo five Chefts of excellent Sweetmeats» and a^ 
hundred Pieces of Gold uncoinM, not quite fo lärge a* 
Moidores. 

By th« fajme Fleet my two Merchant-Trudees ihipp'd 
nie 1200 Chefls of Sagar, 800 Rolls of Tobacco, and 
the ttSi of the whole Account in Gold. 

1 might well fay now» indeed, that the latter End oC 
y^b was better than the Beginning : It is impoffible toi 
cxprefs tbc Flutterings of my very Heart, whcn I look'd 
over theie Letters, and efpeciälly when I foand all m/ 
Wealth aboat me ; for as the Braßl Ships come all ia 
Fleets, the fame Ships which brought my Letters broughc 
my Goods; and tke Effeds were Ufe in the Tagus beforc 
the Letter came to my Hand : In a Word, I turn*d pale, 
and grew fick; and had not the old Man run and üetch'4« 
me a Cordial, I believe the fudden Surprife oi Joy had 
overfet Nature, and I had dy*d upon the Spot. 

Nay, after that, I continu*d very ill, and was fo fome 
Hours, tili a Phyfician beinc; fent for, and fomething of 
the real Caufe q( my Illne^ being known, he Order 'd 
me to be let Blood ; after which I had Relief, and grew 
well ; bat I verily believe, if it had not been eas'd 
by the Vent given in that Manner to the Spirics« I 
ihould have dyM. 

I was now Mafier, all on afodden, of aboye 50,000 /. 
Sterling in Money, and had an Eftate, as I might weil 
call ic, in the Brafils^ of above a thoufand Pfunds a 
Year, as füre as an Eftate of Lands in England-, and, 
in a Word, I was in a Condition which I fcarce knew 
how to underfland, or how to compoi'e myfelf in che 
Enjoyment of. 

The firft thing I did, was to recompenfc my original 
Benefaäor, my good old Capcain, who had bc^n üiil 
charitable to me in my Diftrels, kind to nie iu the Be- 
ginning, and honefl to me at the End : I (hew*d hiai 
all that was fent me ^ I told hiro^ liiat, ncji^t co tue 
M 2 ^^^^- 



268 7li LiFfi afid AovENTU&Bs pf 

Providence of Hctven, which difpofes all things, li was 
owing Co htm ; and thaC it now lay od me to reward him« 
wbich I woald de an-hnndredfold: So I firft return'd to 
lum thehandred Moidores' I had receiv*d of htm; then 
I fent fbr a Notarf» and caiis*d hhü to draw up a Gene- 
ral Rcleafe or Ditchaxge tot the 470 Moidores, which 
he had acknowledgM he owed me, in thefuUeft and firm- 
cft Manner poffible; after which, I caas*d a P)nocaration 
to be.drawn, impowcring him to be mv Receiver of ^e 
annoäl Profits of mj Puintation, and appointing mjr^ 
Partner to acconnt to him, and make the Retarns by^ 
the ufaal Fleets to him 'in mj Name : And a Claixie.in^ 
the End, being a Grant of 100 Moidores a Year to hlm. 
dnring his Life, oat of the EIFeös ; aod 50 Moidores a ; 
Yeer to his Son aftcr him, fbr his Life : And thos I[ 
reqoited my old Man. 

' I was now to confider which Way to; fteet my Coörfe 
next, and what to do wich the EfUtt diat Provid^ce 
'Jtad thos pntinto mvHands; and, itidtti, 'I had ii^oce 
Care npon my Head now, than I had k myfilent State 
df Life in the ffland, where I wanted nbthing 'b\it what 
t had, and had nothing bat what I wanted ; whereas I 
hrd now a great Charge upon me, and my Baiinefs was 
h'ow to fecare it ; I had he'er a Cave to hide my Money 
in; or a Place where it might lie wichout Lock or Key, 
tili it grew moaidy and tarnifli'd before any body would 
meddle with it : On the contrary, l knew not where to 
put it, or whom to traft wich ic ; my old Patron, the 
Captain, indeed was hoaefl, and that was the only Re- 
fuge I had. 

In the next Place, my Intereft in the Brafi/s feem'd 
to fummon me chither ; but now I coald not teil how 
to chink of going thicher tili I hadfectled my AfiTairs, and 
left my Effedls in fome fafe Hands behind me : At firft I 
thought of my old Friend the Widow, who I knew was 
honeft, and would be jaft to me ; bnt then (he was in 
Years, and but poor, and, for aught I knew, might be 
in Debt ; fo that, in a Word, I had nö Way but ^o go 
back to England myfelf, and cake my Effects with me. 

I was fome Months, however, before I refolv'd upon 
this ; and therefore as I had reworded the old Captain 

Mly, 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 26g 

fully, and to Satisfa£lion, who had been my former Be- 
nefador, fo I began to think of my poor Widow, whofe 
Hufband had been my firft Benefador, and (he, while it 
was in her Power, my faithful Steward and Inftruäor : 
So the firft thing I did, I got a Merchant in DfiQn to 
write to his Correfpondent in London^ not only to pay 
a Bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in Money an 
hundred Pounds from me, and to taik with her, and 
comfort her in her Poverty, by telling her, fhe (hould, if 
I liv'd, have a farther Supply: At the fame Time I fent 
my twoSifters in the Country, each of them, an hundred 
Poünds, they being, though not in Want, yet not ia 
very good Circumllances ; one having been married, 
and left a Widow, and the other having an Hufband not 
fo kind to her as he (hould be. 

But among all my Relations or Acquaintances I could 
not yet pitch upon one, to whom I durfl commit the 
Grofs of my Stock, that I migbt go away to i\itBraß!s^ 
and leave things fafe behind me; and this greatly per- 
plexed me, 

I had oncc a Mind to have gone to the 'Broßhy and have 
fettled myfelf there; for I was as it were naturalized 
to the Place ; but I had fome little Scruple in my Mind 
about Religion, which infcnfib!y drewme back, ofwhich 
J fhall fay morc prefently. However, it was not Religion 
that kept me from going thither for the prefent ; and as 
I had made no Scruple of being openly of the Religion 
of the Country, all the while I was among them, fo nei- 
ther did I yet 5 only that now-and-then having of late 
thought more of it than formerly, when I begän to think 
of living and dying among them, I began to regret my 
having profefs'd myfelf a Papiß, and thought it might 
not be the beft Religion to die in. 

But, as I have faid, this was not the main thing that kept 
me from going to the Braßls, bat that really I did not 
know wich whom to leave my Eifeds behind me ; fo I re* 
folv'd at lad to go to England with them, where if I arriv'd, 
. I concluded I fiould make fome Acquaintance, or find 
fome Relations, that would be faithful tome; and accord- 
ingly I prepar'd to go for SfglanJ with all my Wealth. 

In Order to prepare things for my going Home^ 1 ftt(i. 
(the Braßl Fleet being iuft goinv ^.wänN x^I^\m'*\ "^.^ ^^^ 



279 Tbe LiFB 0»i ÄDVBNTUltfiS'l/ 

Anfwen faitable t& thc joft and faithful Accoontof 
thingi I btd from thence ; and firft to che Prior of St. 
Amiußim I wrote a Letter fiill of Thanks for his jaft 
Deajings, and the Offer of^'e 8.72Moidores9 which was 
«ndifpoi^d of» which I deiirM might be given, 500 to 
the Moaaftery, and 372 to the Pöor» as the Prior fliould 
dired, defiring the good Fadra Prayer^ for me, and the 
Uke. 

I wrote next a Letter of Thanks to my two Traftees, 
with all the Acknowledgment that fo much JaiUce and 
Honedy callM for; as^rfendin^them anyPiefent, they 
were far above having any^Occa&on of it. 
r, taßly^ I wrote to my Partner, acknowled^ns his In- 
daftry in the improving the Plantation, and his fntegrity 
in increaiing the Stock of tlSe Works, giving him In- 
flroftions for his future Government of my Part, ac- 
cordins to the Powen I had left with my old Patron, to 
whom 1 defir*d him to fend whatever became due to me» 
tili he fhould hear from me more particuiarly ; afluring 
him, that itwas my Intention, not on)y to coine to him, 
butto fettle myfelf there for the Remäinder of te^ Life: 

' To this I added a \txy handfome Prefent.of ^fome ItaUam 
Silks for his Wife and two Daughters, forfuch thc Cap- 
tain's Son inform 'd me he had ; with two Picces .of fine 
^tiglijh Broadcloth, the beft I coulcfjjet in Lißon, five 
Pieces of black Bays, and fome Flanäirs Lace of a gocd 
Value. 

Having thus fettled my AfFairs, fold my Cargo, .aod 
turn'd all my Effeft» into good Bills of Exchange, my 
next Difficuhy was, which Way to go to England: I had 
been accuftomM enough to the Sea, and yet I had a 
iftrange Averfion to go to England by Sea at that Time ; 
and though I could give no Reafon for it, yet the Diffi« 
^ralty increas'd upon me fo much, that though I had once 
fljipp'd my Baggage in order to go, yet I alter'd my 
Mind, and that not once, but two or chrce Times. 

It is true, I had been vcry unfortunate by Sea, and 
this miglit bc one of the Reafons ; But let no Man 
llijght the ftrong Impulfes of his own Thoughts in Cafes 
of fuch Moment : Two of the Ships which 1 had fingled 
out to gein, I mean, more particularly fingled outthan 

^ny other, that is to fay, fo as in one of them to put my 

things 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 271 

things on board, and in the other to have agreed with 
the Captain; I fay, twoof thefe Ships mifcarry'd; 1;/«. 
Orie was täken by ihe Algerines^ and the other was caft 
away on the Start near Torbayy and all the People drown- 
ed except three ; fo that in either of thofe Veflels I had 
been made miferable, and in which mod;, it was hard 
to fay. 

Having been thus harafsM in my Thoughts, my old 
Pilot, to whom I communicated every thing, prefs*d mcr 
earneftly not to go to Sea ; but either to gq by Land to 
the Groyne, and crofs ovcr the Bay of Si/ray or RocJbe/k, 
from whence it was but an eafy and fafe Journey by 
Land to Paris, and fo to Ca/ais and Dover ; or to go up 
to Madriäy and fo all the Way by Land through France, 

In a Word, I was fo prepoflcfs'd . againft my going by 
Sea at all, exccpt fram Calais \q Dover, that 1 refolv'd 
to travel all the Way by Land ; which, as I was not in 
Hafte, and did not value the Charge, was by much the 
pleafanter Way ; and to makc it more fo, my old Captain 
brought an Engliß Genileman, the Son of a Merchant 
In Lt/hon, wbo was willing to travel with me : Afref 
which, we pick'd up two who were Engliß and Merchants 
alfo, and two yosiXi^Pertugue/e Gentlcmeo, the laft ßoing 
to Paris only ; fo that wewere in aU'fix.of us, -and «five 
Servants, the two Merchants, and the twb Portugue/ls, cod- 
tenting thenifelves with one Servant between two, to fave 
the Charge; and as for me, I got an Engliß Sailor ta 
travel with me as a Servjgit befides my Man Friday, v/ho 
was too much a Stranger to be capable of fupplying the 
Place of a Servant upon the Road. 

In this Manner I fet out for Lijion: And our Company 
being all very well mountedand arm'd, we made a litde • 
Troop, whereof they did mc the Honour to call ine 
-Gaptain, as well b^caufe I was the oldeft Man, as be- 
caufe I had two Servants, and, indeed, wa» the Original 
©f the whole Journey. 

As I have troubled you with none of my Sea Journals, 
£b fhall I trouble you' with none of my Land Journal: 
^ut fome Adventures that happenM to us in this tedioua« 
and difBcuh Journey, I muft not omit. 

When we came to Madrid, we, being all of us Strangers 
tpS^ain^ were willing to ftay fome.Time.to. feetheCourt 



272 7he Life and Adventüres of 

of 5/tf/ff, aod to fcc what was worth obfcrving ; but i^ 
bei Dg the latter Part of the Summer, we haften *d away, 
aod fct out from Madrid aboot the Middle of Oßoher : 
But when we came to the £dge of Navarre, we were 
atarmM at feveral Towns on the Way, with an Account 
that (o rauch Snow was fallen on the Frencb Side of the 
Mountains, that feveral Travellers were obligM to come 
back to Fampeluna^ after having attempted, at an ex- 
treme Hazard, to pafs on. 

When we came to Pampeluna itfelf, we found it fo 
indeed ; and to me that had been always us^d to an hot 
Climi^te. and indeed to Countries where we could fcarce 
bear any Cloaths on, the Cold was anfufferable ; nor, 
indeed, was it more painful than it was furprifing, ta 
come but ten Days bcfore out of the Old Caßilfy where 
-the Wcather was r.ot only warm, but very hot ; and 
immediately to feel a Wind from the Pyrenean Moun- 
tains, fo very kcen, fo fevcrely cold, as to be intolera- 
b)e, and to endanger benumbing and periOiing of our 
Fingers and Toe?, was \try dränge. 

PooT Fridivf was really frighted when he faw tbe 
Mountains all coverM with Snow, and feit cold Weather, 
which he had nevcr feen or feit before in his Life. 

To mend the Matter, after we came to Famfelima^ 
it continuM fnowing with fo much Violence, and fo 
long, that the People faid, Winter was come bcfore its 
Time, and the Roads which were difficult before, were 
now quite impaflable ; in a Word, the Snow lay in 
fome Places too thick for us to travel ; and being not 
hard frozen, as is the Cafe in Northern Countries, there 
was no going without being in Danger of being bury*d 
alive cvery Step : We ftaid no lefs than twenty Days at 
Pampeluna; when (feeing the Winter Coming on, and 
no Likelihood of its being better, fc? it was the fevereft 
Winter all over Eurcpe that had been known in many 
Years) I propos'd that we fhould all go away to Font- 
^rahia, and there take Shipping for Bnurd^aux, which. 
Was a very little Voyage. 

Bat while we w^re confidering this, there came in 
foar Fremh Genilemen, who, having been ftopp'd on the 
French Side of the PafTcs, as we were on the Spaniß, ha J 
found out a Guide, who, tra verfing the Country near the 

Head 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. i;^^ 

Head of Languedoc^ had brought them over the Moun-« 
taitis by fuch Ways, that they were not much incom-' 
moded with the Snow; and where they met with SnoW 
in any Qaantity, they faid it was Frozen hard enough . 
to bear thcm and their Horfes. 

We fent for this Guide, who told üs, hewould under- 
take to carry üb the fame Way, with no Hazard from the 
Snowy provided we were arm'd fufficiently to proteft us 
from wild Beafts ; fbr, he faid, upon thefe great Snöws» 
it was frequent for fome Wolves to fhew tnemfelves at 
the Foot of the Mountains, being made ravenous for 
Want of Food, the Ground being cover'd with Snow : 
We told him wie were well enough prepar'd for fuch 
Creatures as they were, if he woutd infure us from a 
Kind of two-legged Wolves, wbich we were told we 
were in moft Danger from, efpecially on i\ie FrencbSidiQ 
of the Mountains. 

He fatisfy'd us there was no Danger of fhat Kind in 
the Way that we were to go: So we readily agreed to fol- 
lüw hio) ; as did alfo twelve other Gentlemen, with their 
Servants, fome French^iömt Spatiiß^ who, as I faid, had 
attempted to go, and were oblig'd to come back again. 

Accordingly we all fet out from Pampeluna^ with our 
Guide, on the iifteenth of November i and indeed, I 
was furpris'd, when, inflead of going forward, he came 
diredly back with us, on the fame Road that we caroe 
from idadridy -above twenty Miles ; when having pafs*d- 
two Rivers, and come into the piain Country, we found 
ourfeives in a warm Climate again, wherc the Country 
was pleafant, and no Snow to be feen; but on afudden». 
turning to the Lefr, he approach'd the Mountains ano- 
thcr Way ; and tho' it is true, the Hills and the Precipices^ 
look'd dreadful, yet he made fo many Tottrs^, fuch Me-^ 
anders, and led us by fuch winding Ways, we" infenfif- 
bly pafs'd the Height of the Mountains, without b?in^: 
moch.incumberM with the Snow ; and all on a fvidd^a 
he (hew'd us the pleafant fruitful Provinces of Langue* 
doc and Gafcoigne^ all green and flonrifliing ; tho' indeed' 
they were at a great Diftance^ and we had' ibme rough 
Way to pafs yet. 

We were a littlc oneafy howcter; when we found it 
fbow'd one wJjol« Daji and »Night, fö-faft^ th«.t ws. 
- M s^ ^^^ 



274 ^' Life and Adventures ef 
could not travcl ; but he bid us be eafy, we ihouid foon 
bc päd it all : Wc found, indecd, that we began to de- 
icend every Day, and to GOine more North than before i 
and fo, depending upon our Guide, we wcnt on. 

It was abouc two Hours before Night, when oar Guide 
bcing fomcthing before us, and not juft in Sight, out 
rulh'd three monftrous Wolves, and after them a Bear« 
out of an hoUowWay, adjoining to a thick Wood ; two of 
the Wolvcs flcw upon the Guide, and had he been half a 
Mile before us, he had been devourM indeed, before we 
could have help'd him: One of them fa(len*d.upon his 
Horfe, and the other attack*d the Man with that Violence, 
that he had not Time, or not Prefence of Mind enough, 
to draw his Pidol, but hallow'd and cry'd out to us moft 
luilily i my Man FrUay being next to me, I bid him ride 
up, and fee what was the Matter : As foon as FrUay 
rame in Sight of the Man, he hallow^d as loud as t^other, 
O Maßtr l O Maßer ! But like a bold Fellow, rode di- 
re£tly up to the Man, and with his Pidol fhot the Wolf 
that attack*d, him into the Head. 

It was happy for the poor Man, that it was my Man 
Friday, for he, having been us'd to that Kind of Crea- 
ture in his Country, had no Fear upon him, but went 
clofe up to him, and fhot him, as above ; whereas aoy 
of US would have fir'd at a farther Diftance, and have 
■perhaps either mifs'd the Wolf, or endanger'd Ihooting 
the Man. 

But it was enough to have terrify'd a bolder Man than 
I, and indeed it alarmM all our Company, when, with 
the Noife of Fridays Piftol, we heard on both Sides the 
difmalleft Howling of Wolves, and the Noifc redoubied 
by the Echo of the Mountains, that it was to us as if there 
had been a prodigious Multitude of them ; and perhaps 
indeed there were not fuch a few, as that we had no Caufe 
©f Apprehenfions. 

Howcver, as Friday häd kill'd this Wolf, the other^ 
that had failen'd upon the Horfe, left him immediately, 
and fled, having happily faften'd upon his Head, where 
the Bofles of the Bridle had fluck in his Teeth, fo tiiat 
he had not done him much Hurt : The Man, indeed, 
was moft hurt : For the raging Creature had bit him 
iwice^ once on the Arm, and the Qther Time a littie 

ibovc 



above hisKnee; andhewasjuft as ic.were tambling 
down by the Diforder o£ thc Horfe, wheii Friday came: 
up, and fhot the Wojf. ^ 

Jt is cafy to fuppofe, that at thc Noife q£ Friday^s Pif- 
tol we all mended our Pace, and rid: up as fall as tlie 
Way (which wasvery difficuU) would.give us Lcavc, to» 
iee what was the Matter : As foon as we came clear of 
the Trees, which blinded us before/we faw plainly what: 
kad been the Cafe, and how Fridajr had ditengag'd the: 
poor Guide ; thoqgh we did not prefently difcern whac. 
K.ind of Creature it was he had Kili*d, 

Bat never was a Fight manag'd (o hardily, and in fachi 
a.furpriiing Männer, as that which follow*d betweea 
FrUay and the Bear, which gave us all (though at firft 
we were furpris'd and afraid for himO the greateil Di- 
▼eriion imaginable : As the Bear is an heavy, clamQr 
Creature, and. dqes not galloj>a» the Wolf does, which is 
fwift and light ; fo he has two partlcular Qualities, which 
generally are the Rule^f hi» Adtions: Firfl, As to Men, 
who are not his proper Prey, I fay, not his proper Prcy, 
becaufe, tho* I can't fay what exceilive Hunger might do, 
which was now their Cafe, the Ground being all <;over'd 
w.ith Snow ; yet as to Men, he does not ufualJy attempt 
them, unlefs they firft atcack him : On the contrary, if 
you meet him in the Woods, tho* if you don't meddle 
with him, he won't meddle with you ; yet then yoa 
muil take care to be very civil to him, and givehim the' 
Road; fbr he is a very nice Gentleman, he won't go a 
Step out of the Way for aPrince; nay, if you are really 
afraid, your beft Way is to look another Way, and keep> 
going on;. fbr fometimes, if you flop, and fland iliU,. 
and look fledfaftly at him, he,takes it for an Affront 4. 
bat if you throw or tofs any thing at him, and it hits; 
him, though it were but a Bit of Stick as big a» ypty, 
Finger, he takes it for an Affront, and fets all other 
Bufinefs afide to purfue his Revenge ; for he will have 
Satisfa^ion in point of Honour, and this is his firfl Qua* 
Jity : The next is, that if he be once affronted, he wiU 
never leave you. Night or Day, tili, he has his Revenge» 
but follow at a good round Rate,, tili he overtakes yoa. 

My Man Fruii^ had detiver'd our Guide, and whea we 
came «p to him» he was helping him off &gm hx& üsxi^ \ 



ayö Thi Life and Adv^stvkes of 
fbr the Man was both hart and frighted, and indeed tBe 
laft more than the firft ; when, on a fudden, we fpy'd 
^e Bear come oat of the Wood, and a vaft monftroas 
one it was» the biggeft by far that ever I faw : We were 
all a little iurpris'd when we faw him ; bat when Friifay 
faw him, it was eafy to fee Joy and Coorage in the Fei« 
low'fi Countenance: O! O! O! fays Fridofy threc Times, 
pointing to him, O Maßtr! Tougive me ie tueve^ meßpokee 
ti Hand <witb him, me makeeyou good Laugb, 

I was furpris'd to fee the Fellow & pkas^d ; 2^1^« Fool 
youy faid I, ke ivill tat yott up : Batet meup! Eatee me up! 
fay» Friday, twice over again ; Me eatee him up : Me makee 
J9U good Laugh : Tou allßay here, meßbew you good Laugh : 
So down he (its, and get his Boots off in a Moment, and 
•put on a Pair of Pumps (as we call the flat Shoes they 
wear) and which he had in his Pocket, gives my other 
Scrvant his Horfe, and, with his Gun, away h« flew, 
fwift like the Wind. 

The Bear was Walking foftly on, and ofFerM to medo 
dle with nobody, tili Friday, Coming pretty near^ calis 
to him, as if tlie Bear could underftand him : Hark ye, 
hark ye, fays Friday, me fpeakee njoityou: We foHow'd at 
a DiiUnce ; for now being come down to the Gafcoigne 
Side of the Mountains, we were enter'd a vaft great 
Foreft, whcre the Country was piain, and pretty open, 
tho' many Trecs in it fcatter'd herc-and-three. 

Friday, who had, as wc fay, the Heels of the Bear, 
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great Stone, 
and throws at him, and hit him juft on the Head ; but 
did him no more Harm, than if he had thrown it againft 
a Wüll ; but it anfwer'd Fridaf% End ; for the Rogue 
was fo void of Fear, that he did it purely to make 
the Bear follow him, and fhew us fome Laugh, as he 
caird it. 

As foon as the Bear feit the Stone, and faw him, he 
tarnsabout, and comes afcer him, taking devililh long 
Stridcs, and Ihuffling along at a llrange Rate, fo as would 
put an Horfe to amiddlingGallop; away runs Fridayt and 
takes his Courfe, as if he ran towards us for Help ; fo we 
all refolv*d to fire at once upon the Bear, and deliver my 
Man; though I was angry at him heartily for bringing 
tlif Bear back upon us, when he was going about his 
- ■ ^ own. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 277 
own Bufincfs another Way ; and cfpecially 1 was angry 
that he had turned the Bear upon us, and then run away ;. 
and I caird out, Tou Dsg, faid I, u this your making «* 
laugh? Come aiva^^ and take your Horfey th^t nne may 
fifoot tht Creature, He hears me, and cries otit^ Uo ßooty 
no ßootf fland fiill^ you get mueb laugh : And as the nim- 
ble Creatare ran two Feet for the Beäd'a one, he turned 
on a fudden, on one Side of us, and feeing a great Oak- 
tree, fit for kis Parpofe, he beekoned us to follow, and« 
doabling his Face, he gets nimbly up the Tree, laying 
his Gun down upon the Ground» at about Ave or fix 
Yards from the Bottom of the Tree. 

The Bear foon came to the Tree, and we followed aC 
a Diilance; the firH thing he did^ he Üopt at the Gun, 
fmelt to it, but let it lie, and up he fcrambks into the 
Tree, dimbing Hke a Cat, though ib monflrouily heavy: 
I was amazed at the Folly, as I thonght it, of my Man, 
and could not for my Life fee any thing to laugh at yet, 
tili, feeing the Bear get up the Tiee, we all rode nearer 
to him. 

When we came to the Tree, there was Friday got out 
to the Small of a large Limb of the Tree, and the Bear 
got about half Way to him : As foon as the Bear got ouft 
to that Part wherc the Limb of the Tree was weaker. 
Ha, fays he to us, nom) you Jei me teathee the Bear dance \ 
ib he falls a jumping,^ and fhaking the Bough, at which 
the Bear began to totter, but dood flill, and began to look 
behind him, to fee how he fhouhl get back ; then indeed 
we did laugh heartily : But Friday had not done with him 
by a great deal ; when he fees hbn fland ilill, he call« 
out to him again, as if he had fuppofed the Bear could 
fpeak Englißy JVhat, you no come fartber ? Fray you come 
fartber. So he left jumping and fhaking the Bough ; 
and the Bear, jufl as if he had underflood what he faid» 
«lid come a little fartber ; then he- feil a jumping again» 
and the Bear flopped again. 

We thpught now was a goodTime to knock him on 
the Head, and called to Friday to fland flill, and we 
would fhoot the Bear ; but he cried out earneilly, O pray ! 
O pray ! no ßoot, me fioot by and tben ; he would have 
iaid by-and-by, Howcver, to fhorten the Story» Fridof 
daoc^d ib mach, and thc'Bßar £ood fo ucklifiv^ x\>ax^«ns 



what dbc F«Uow would do i ipr firft fve lho9ght he db- 

jMnded joikmi AftkUig tlie 9<ar.pfi:i .ai;4 pw]» iba«d the 

3i8ur»w«t-^lop ^^luuiiDg.fer tW tP9 ; ÄMr.-lie^wvild jio( gO' 

,wti«r»eiMgli .«0 he.lbrDwa,dQiniv:botcIiiig« ^ witit 

Jos .gmÄ ^bmd -filam 4ad ^Ff«t»ib t^atwecoold net 

ilMMaiiie vhtt wOBld.|M Ae find Afit, «Bö^^ 

jvouid Jie at laft. 

., .fituiHd9«piu.MOotofI)odbt4|UQ^ 

Jh«r diag uft tt> cke.Boqgki» .A|id>tliitt-£e «onld no^bfr 

4^erfiiid«i «0 xomt. JUI7 tfiurthflr » Wtllt mmli, /fiiid Fr»^ ^ 

-4iMMr .t9 jmi And qpon thiske goes oatlo^ke fmaUeft: 
Jhd of tbe Booghy wliese k (bonla bend witb Us Wcäght». 
Mod gexk^ lett himlelf down hy it, 'iliding down tbi- 

J?ect» jmd away lie ran to Jus G«n» tak« it np andlbuds» 

WdHf faidI.to him, Fridtg^^ Wl^at will jon do nawf 
Why don't yoo ihoot hira ? No ßM, fays Fridäf, myHf. 
.mi ßmt noWf mt no üffi imß^y^ gtfoijtu 9m more Lmgb\, 
and indced fo hedid» as yon williee pwfently ; .fbr whea 
tke Bear faw bis Enemy gone« hecomes back ^m the: 
Boneh wbere be ftood» bat did it migbty leifurely» look-r 
log bebind bim eytty Step, and Coming backward tili 
ibegotrinto tbe Body of tbe Tree : Tben» mtb tbe fame 
Junäer £nd foremgA» be €ame down tbe Tree, grafping. 
it with bis Claws, and moving one f 00t at a Time».veiy 
Jejfurely ; at tbis Janäure, and juft befbre be coold &t 
'h\% bind Feet npon tbe Ground, FrUiay ftepped dofe to« 
Jiiffly dapped tbe Muzzle of bis Piece into bi» £ar, and. 
ihot bim dead as a Stone. 

Tben tbe Rpgoe tarn*d abont, to iee if we did not 
.tangh ; and wben be faw we were pleas*d by our Looks,, 
«be tzXh a laaghing bimfelf very lond : So <tue MU Bior in- 
nty Qountry^ fays Friday ; (o you kill tbem,. faid I, why 
you häve no Gans : Ifoy iays be» mGtm, Jbut Jboai ff^eat 
mucb long Arrvw, ' 

This was, indeed, a good JOiveHion to n»; but we 

were Hill in a wild Place, and our Guide very mach bart, 

and what to do we hardly knew; tbe Howling of Wolves 

uxL macb iiv my Head ; and indced,. .e:i(cqtt thc Noife I 

7 once 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. ^79. 
once heard on the Shore of ^frica^ of which I havc faid 
fomething alreädy, I never heard any thing th^at filled 
mp with fo much Horror.; 

Thefe ^hings, and the Äpproach of Night, called us- 
ofF, or elfe, as Ffidcrf would have had us, we fhould cer- 
tainly havetaken the Skin ,of this monArous Creature 
olF, which was worth (aving; .but we had three Leagues 
to go, and cur Guide haften -d os ; fb we lefc hioii zxA 
went forward pn our Journcy. 

The Grofind was üill covered with Snow, tho* not fo> 
deep and dangerous as on the Mountains ; and the ra- 
venous Creatifres, as we heard afcerwards, were come 
down into che Foreft, and piain Country, prefs^d by 
Hunger, to feek for Food ; 2XtA had done a great deal of . 
Mifchief in the Villagcs, where they furprifed the Coun- 
try-people, killed a great many of their Sheep and 
Horfes, and fome Feople too. 

We had one dangerous Place to pafs, of which our 
Guide told us, if there were any njore Wolves in the 
Country, we fhould £nd them there; and this vsas a 
fmall Piain, farrounded with Woods on every Side, and 
a long narrow Defile or Lane, which we were to pafs to^ 
get through the Wood, and then we fhould come to the 
Village where we were to lodge. 

It was within half an Hour of Sun-fet when we en- 
tered the firll Wood ; and a little after Sun-fet when we 
came into the Piain. We met with noching in the firll 
Wood, except that in a little Piain within the Wood,- 
which was not above two Furlongs over, we faw fivc 
great Woives crofs the Road, füll ^ Speed one after an* 
€ther, as if they had been in Chace of fome Prey, and 
had it in View ; they took no notice of us, and were 
gone, and out of oor Sight, in a few Mpments. 

Upon this our Guide, who, by the way, was a 
wretched faint-hearted Fellow, bad us keep in a ready 
Poflure j for he belle ved iherc were more Wolves z. 
Coming. 

We kept our Arms ready, and our Eye» about us ; 
but we &w no more Wolves tili we came through that 
Wood, which ^as near half a League, and enter'd the 
Piain ; as foon as we came into the Piain, we had Oc- 
xafion enough CQ look about us ; the £ift Obje^ we met 



aSo Tbi LiPB ofui Advbntuiibs of 

with, was a dcad Horfe ; that is to fay, a poor Horfc 
which tlie Wolves had kilJed, and at leaft a Dozen of 
them at work ; we could not fay eadng of him, bat 
pickiog of hit Bones radier ; fbr they had eaten up all 
thc Fltfti bcforc. 

We did not tbink fit to diflarb tbem at tbeir Feaft, 
seither did they uke mach notice of as ; Fn^ay would 
have let fly at them, bnt 1 woold not faffer him by anv 
Means ; for 1 foond we were like to have more Bafinefs 
npoa our Hands than we were aware of We were 
not half gone over the Piain, bot we began to hear tue 
Wolves howl in the Wood on our Left, in a frightful 
Manner ; and prefently after we faw about an Hundred 
Coming on directly towards ns, all in a Body, and 
moft of them in a Line, as regalarly as an Army 
drawn up by experienc'd Officers: I fcarce knew in 
what manner to receive tbem ; but found, to draw our- 
felves in a clofe Line, was the only Way : So we form'd 
in a Moment : But, that we might not have too much 
Interval, I ordered, that only every other Man fliould 
fire; and that the others, who had not fired, (hould 
ftand ready to give them a fecond Volley immediately, 
if they continued to advance upon us ; and that then 
thofe who had fired at firft, fhould not pretend to load 
thcir Fufils again, but ftand ready, with twery one a 
Piftol, for we were all armed with a Fufil, and a Pair 
of Piflols, each Man ; fo we were by this Method able 
to firc fix Vollcys, half of us at a Thne : However, at 
prefent we had no Neceffity ; for, upon firing the firlt 
Volley, the Enemy made a füll Stop, being terrified, as 
well with the Noife, as with the Fire 5 four of them, 
being fhot in the Head, dropped ; feveral others were 
wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could fee by the 
Snow : I found they ftopped, ' but did not immediately 
retreat ; whereupon, remembring that I had been told, 
that the fierceft Creatures were terrified at the Voice of a 
Man, I cauled all our Company to hallow as loud as we 
could, and I found the Notion not altogether miftaken ; 
for, upon our Shout, they began to retire, and turn a- 
bout ; then I ordered a fecond Volley to be fired in their 
Jtear, which put them to the Gallop, and away they 
wcnt to the Woods, 

Thij 



ROBINSONCRUSOE. 281 

This gave us Leifure to charge our Pieces again, and 
that we might lofe no Time, we kept doing ; but wc 
had but little more than loaded our Fufils, and put our- 
felves into a Readinefs, when^vve heard a terrible Noifc 
in the fame Wood, on our Left ; only that it was farther 
onward the fame Way we were to go. 

The Night was- coming on, and the Night began to 
be dufky, which made it the worfe on our Side ; but, 
the Noife increafing, we could eafily perceive, that it 
was the Howling and Yelling of thofe hellifh Creatures ; 
and, on a fudden, we perceivcd two or three Troops of 
Wölves, one on our Left, onebehind us, and oneonour 
Front ; fo that we feemed to be furrounded with them ; 
howevei^, a^ they did not fall upon bs, we kept our 
Way forward, as faft as we could make our Horfes go, 
which, the Way befng very rough, was only a good 
largc Trot ; and in this Manner we only came in View 
of the Entrance of the Wood, through which we were 
to pafs, at the farther Side of the Piain ; but we were 
greatly furprifed, when, coming near the Lane, or Pafs, 
we faw a confus'd Number of Wolves fianding jult at 
the Entrance. 

On a fudden, at another Opening of the Wood, wc 
Ijeard the Noife* of ä Gunj and, looking that Way, out 
rufhed an Horfe, with ^ Saddle and a Bridle on him, fly- 
' ing like the Wind, and fixteen or fcventeen Wolves after 
him füll Speed ; indeed the Horfe had the Heels of them ; 
but as we fuppofe, that he could not hold it at that rate, 
we doubted not but they would get up with hini at lad ; 
and no queftion but they did. 

Ilere we had a moft horrible Sight ; for, riding up to 
the Entrance where the Horfe carae out, we found the 
Carcafe cf another Horfe, and of two Men devoured by 
the ravenous Creatures, and one of the Men was no 
doubt the fame whom >ve heard fire the Gun j for there 
lay a Gun juft by him firM ofF.; but, as to the Man, his 
Head, and the Upper Part of his Body, were eaten up. 

This filled us with Horror, and we knew not what 
Courfe to take 5 but tbe Creatures refolvcd us foon ; 
for they gathcred about us prefently, in Hopes of Prey ; 
and I verily believe there were three hundred of them : 
It happened very mach to our Advantage« that ^t. x^^ 



282 The Life and Adventures tf 
Entrance into the Wood, but a littlc Wty ffom it^^ tlicre 
]ay fome large Timber-trees» which had been cut dowa 
che Summer before, and I ruppofe lay tbere for Carhage: 
I drew my lictle Troop in among thefe Trees» and pla- 
cing ourfelves in a Line, behind one long Tree, I advifed 
them all to alight, and» keeping that Tree before as, for 
a Brcaft work, to ftand in a Triangle, or three FrontSi 
inclofing our Horfes in the Centre. 

We did fo, and it was well we did ; for never was a 
more furtous Charge tban the Creatores made upon us ist 
this Place : They came on us with a growling kiad of a 
Koife, and mounted the Picce of Timber (which, as I 
iaid, was our Bread-work,) as if they were only rufhing 
upon their Frey ; and this Fury of theirs, it feems, was 
principally occafion'd by thcir feeing cur Horfes behind 
US, which was the Frey they aimed at : I ordered cur 
Men to fire as before, ev6ry other Man ; and they took 
their Aim fd füre, that indeed they kiüed feveral of the 
Wolves at the firft Volley ; but there was a Neceffity to 
keep a continual Firing, for they came on like Devils, 
thofe behind pufhing on thofe before. 

When we had hred our fecond Volley of our Fufils, 
we thought they ilopped a little, and I hoped they woald 
.have gone ofF, but it was but a Moment, for others came 
forward again ; fo we vfir'd our Vollcys ©f our Fiflols, 
and I believe, in thefe four Firings, we killed feveniecft 
or eighteen of them, and larocsd twice as many; yet they 
came on again. 

1 was loth to fpend our lad Shot too haflily ; (b I call'd 
my Servant, not my Man Friday, for he was better em- 
,ployed ; for, with the greateft Dexterity imagi nable, he 
^harged my Fufil, and his own, white we were en- 
.gaged; but, as I faid, I called my other Man ; and, givr- 
ing him an Hörn of Powder, I bad him lay a Train, all 
along the Picce of Timber, and let it be a large Train ; 
he did fo, and had but juft Time to get away, when ihe 
Wolves came up to it, and fome were got up upon it; 
when J, fnapf ing an uncharged PiHol, clofe to the Pow- 
der, fet it on Fire ; and thofe that were upon the Timber 
were fcorched with it, and fix or feven of them feil, or 
.rath»:r jumped in among us, with the Force and Fright 
.©f tJ;e.fir.e ; we difpatched thefe. in aa,lnllant, and the 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 283 

refi were fo frighted with the Light, which the Nigh;, 
for now it was vcry near dark, made xnore terriblc, that 
they drew back a little. 

Upon which I ordcr'd our laft Piftols to be fir'd pfF in 
©ne Volley,' and after that we gave a Shout ; upon this, 
the Wolvcs turn*d Tail, and wie fallyM immediately upon 
near twenty lame önes, which we found Äruggling on the 
Ground, and feil a cutting them with our Swords, which 
anfwer'd our Expcdation ; for the Crying and Howling 
they made were better underftood by their Fellows ; fo 
that they fled, and left us. 

We ha^, firft and laft, killM about thrcefcorc of 
them ; and had it been Daylight, we had kilPd many 
more : The Field of Battle being thus clear'd, we made 
fo? ward again ; for we had ilill near a Leagae to go : 
We hcard the ravenous Creaturcs howl and yell in the 
Woods as we went, feveral Times j and fometimes we 
faniied we faw ferne of them, but the Snow dasdingoor 
Eyes, we were cot certain ; fo in about an Hour more, 
we came to the Town, where we were to lodge, which 
we found in a terrible Fright, and all in Arms 5 for it 
feems, that, the Night before;, the Wolves and fome 
Bears had broken iato th^ Village, and put tbein in a ter- 
rible Fright; and they wer.e obug*d to keepG'uard Night 
and Day, but efpecially in the Night to preferve thcir 
Cattle, apd indeed their People. 

The next Morning our Guide was fo ill, and hb 
Limbs fo fwell'd with the rankling of hris two Wound^, 
that he could go no farther ; fo we were oblig^d to take 
a new Guide tliere, and go to Tholoufit where we found 
a warm Climate, a fruitful pleafant Country, aod no 
Snow, no Wolves, or any tHing like them; but whea 
we told our Story at Thohuß^ they told us it was .no- 
thing but what was ordinary in the great Fored ^t the 
Foot of the Mountains, efpecially when the Snow läy 
on the Ground: But they inquir'd much what kind 
of a Guide we had gotten, that would venture to 
bring us that Way in fuch a' fevere Seafon ; and told uf^ 
it was very much we were not all dcvour'd : When we 
told them how we plac'd ourfelves, and the Horfes in 
the Middle, they blam'd us exceedingly, and told us, it 
was iifty to Que bat we had beeU: all deAroy'd ; foc v^ 



284 ne Life and AdventuRES* tf 

was thc Sight of the Hor{es that made the Wolves fo. 
furious, fceing their Prey ; and that at ocher Times 
they are realiy afraid of a Gun; batthey being excefüve 
hungry, and ragine on that Account, the Eagernefs to 
come at the Horles had made thcm fenfelefs of Danger ; 
and that if we had not by the continoed Fire, and ac 
laft by the Stratagem of the Train of Powder, mafler'd 
them, it had been great Odds bat that we had been torn 
to Pieces ; whereas, had we been content to have fat flill 
on Horfeback» and fir'd as Horfemcn, they wpuld not 
have taken the Horfes fp much for their own, when Men 
wcre on their Backs, as otherwife; and withal they told 
U8, that at laft, if we had flood all together, and ieft our 
Horfes, they would have been fo eager to have dcvour'd 
them, that we might. have come ofF fafe, cfjpecially 
having oar Fire-arms in our Hands, and being fo many 
in Number. 

For my part, I was never fo fen$ble of Danger in my 
Life ; for leeing above three hundred Devils come roar- 
ing and open-raouth'd to devour us, and having nothing 
to Ihelter us, or retreat to, I gave myfclf. over for loft; 
and as it was, J believe, I (hall never care to crofs 
thofe Mountains again; I think I would much rathcr go 
a thoufand Leagues by Sea, though I were füre to mect 
wich a Storm once a Week. 

I have nothing uncommon to take Notice of, in my 
Paflage through France ; nothing but what other Travel- 
lers have given an Account of, with much more Advan- 
tage than I can : I travell'd from Jhohufe to Parhy and 
without any confiderable Stay came to Calah, and landcd 
iafe at Do'ver, the fourteenth of January^ after having 
had a fevere cold Seafon to travel in. 

I was now come to the Centre of my Travels, and 
had in a little Time, all my new-difcover'd Eflate faFc 
about me, the Bills of Exchange, which I brought with 
me having been very currently paid. 

My principalGuide, and Privy Counfcllor, was my 
good anticnt Widow, who, in Gratitude for the Moncy 
1 had fent her, thought no Pains too much, or Care too 
great, to employ for mc ; and I trufted her fo intirely 
with every thing, that I was perfedlly eafy as to the Se- 
curit/ of my Efi'eäs j and indeed I was very happy frora 

my 



R O B I N S O N C R U S O E. 285 

tay Beginning, and now to the End, in the unfpotted In- 
• tegrity of this good Gentlewoman. 

And now I bie^an to think of leaving my EfTeäs wi(ii 
this Woman, and fetting out for Lißon^ and fo to the 
Braßls: Bat now aaothcr Scruple came in the Way, and 
thac was Religion ; for as I had entercained fome Doubts 
about the Roman Religion, even while I was abroad, efpc-, 
clally in my State of Solltude ; fo I knew there was no 
going to the Braßls. fox me, much lefs going to fettle 
there, unlefs I refolved to embrace the Roman Catholic 
Religion, without any Refervc} except on the other 
hand I refolved to be a Sacrifice to my Principles, be a 
Martyr for Religion, and die in the Inquifition ; fo I re- 
folved to ilay at honie, and, if I could £nd Means for it» 
to difpofe of my Plantation. 

To this Purpofe I wrote to my old Friend at Lifion^^ 
who in Return gave me Notice, that he could eadly dif- 
pofe of it there : But that if 1 thought fit to give him 
leave to ofFer it in my Name to the two Merchants, the 
Survirors of my Trudees who lived in the Braß/s, who 
mufl fully underHand the Value of it, who lived juft up- 
on the Spot, and whom I knew to be very rieh, {o that 
fae believed they would be fond of buying it ; he did not 
doubt, but I fhould make 4 or 5000 Pieces of Eight the 
more of it. 

Accordingly I agreed, gave him Orders to offer it to 
them, and he did fo ; and, in about eight Months more, 
the Ship being then return 'd, he fent me an Account, 
that they had accepted the OfFer, and had remitted 33,000 
Pieces of Eight to a Correfpondent of theirs at Ußon, 
to pay for it. 

Tn Return, I figned the Inflrument of Säle in the 
Form which they fent from Ußon^ and fent it.to my 
old Man, who fent me the Bills of Exchange for 32,800 
Pieces of Eight for the Ellate ; referving the Payment of 
100 Moidores a Year to him, the old Man, during his 
Life, and 50'Moidores afterwards to hisSon for his Life, 
whtch I had promifed them ; and which the Plantation 
was to make good as a Rent-charge. And thus 1 have 
given the firft Part of a Life of Fortune and Adventure, 
a Life of Providence's Chequer-work^ and of a Variety 

which 



286 7J/LiFE fl«rf Adventures 9f 
which the World will feldom be able to (hew the like of: 
Beginning rooIiOily, but clofing much xnore happily than 
any Parc of ic ever gave me Icave fo mach' as to hope 
for. 

Any one wouldthink, that in this State of com plicated 
good Fortune, I was paft runnine any more Hazards ; 
and fo xndeed I had been, if ocher Circomfiances Lad 
concurred ; but I was inur^d to a wandering Life, had 
no Family» nor many Relations ; nor, howeverrich, had 
I contraAed much Acqaaintance ; and tho* I had fold my 
Eftate in the Braßls^ yet I coald not keep that Coontfy 
out of my Head» and had a great Mind to be npon the 
Wing again ; efpecially I could not refift the fbong In- 
clination I had to fee my Ifland, and tb k'now if the poor 
Spaniards were in Being there ; and how the Rognes I 
left there had ufed them. 

My true Fricnd the Widow carneftly diffuaded me 
from it, and fo far prevaüM with me, that almoft for fe- 
ven Years fhc prevented my running abroad ; during 
which Time I took my two Nephews, the Children of 
one of my Brothers, into my Care : The eldeft, having 
fomething of hts own, I bred up as a Gentleman^ and 
gave him a Settlement of fome Addition to his Eftate af- 
ter my Deceafc ; the other I pot out to a Captain of a 
Ship ; and afrcr five Years, finding him a fenfible, bold, 
cnterprifing young Fellow, I put him into a good ShIp, 
and fent him to Sea : And this young Fellow aftenvards 
drew me in, as old as I was, to farther Adventures my- 
felf. 

In the mcan timc, I in part fetded myfelf here : For, 
firft of all I marrvM, and that not either to my Difad- 
vantage or DilFatisfaftion ; and had three Children, two 
Sons and one Daughter : Bat my Wife dying, and my 
Ncphew Coming home with good Succefs from a Voyage 
to Spain, my Inclination to go abroad, and his Importu- 
nlty, prevaik'd, and engaged me to go in his Ship as a 
private Trader to the Eaß-lndies: This was in the Year 
1694. 

In this Voyage T vifited my new Colon^ in the Ifland, 
faw my Succeflbrs the Spaniardsy had the whole Story of 
thcir Lives, and of the Villains 1 lefl there ; how at firft^ 

they 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 287 
tliey infuiced che poor Spaniards^ how they afterwards 
agreed, difagreed, united» feparated, and how at lad the 
Spaniards were obliged to ufe Violence with them ; how 
they were fubjefted to the Spaniards ; how honcdly tbe 
Spaniards ufed them ; an Hiftory, if it were entered into» 
as fall of Variety and wonderful Accidents» as my own 
Part ; particalarly alfo as to their Battles with the Carik* 
heansy who landed feveral Times upon the Ifland, and as 
to tbe Improvement they made upon the IHand itfelf; 
and how five of them made an Attempt upon the main 
Land, and brought away eleven Men and iivt Women 
Prifoners; bywhich» at my Coming» I found about twen- 
ty young Children on the Ifland. 

Here I flayed about twenty Days, left them Supplies 
of all neceflary things, and particularly of Afms, Pow- 
der, Shot, Cloaths, Tools, and two Workmen, which I 
brought ivom England Ww^i me ; 'viz. a Carpenter and a 
Smith. 

Befides this, I Ihar'd the Ifland into Parts with them, 
refcrv'd to myfelf the Property of the Whole, bat gave 
them fuch Parts, refpeftively, as they agreed on ; and, 
having fettled all things with them, and engaged them 
not to leave the Place, I left them there. 

From thence I touchM at the Braßlsy from whence I 
fent a Bark, which I bought there,. with more Pcople, 
tp the Ifland ; and in it, befldes other Supplies, I fent 
leven Women, being fach as I found proper for Service, 
or for Wives to fuch as would take them : As to the 
EvgUßmen^ I promifed them to fend them fome Women 
from England^ with a good Cargo of Neceflaries, if they 
would apply themfelves to Planting, which I afterwards 
could not perform : The Fellows proved very honeft and 
difigent, after they were mafter'd, and had their Proper- 
ties fet apart for them. I fent them alfo from the Braßis 
üve Cows, three of them being big with Calf, fome Sheep, 
and fome Hogs, which, when i came again, were confl- 
derabJy increafed. 

But all thefe things, with an Account how 300 Carih* 
hees came and invaded them, and ruin'd their Plantations, 
and how they fought with that whole Number twice, 
and were at firfl defeated, and one of them kilFd ; but 

at 



a88 ' 71f Life ^i AoVjei^tures lic. 
«tlaft a Storni dedroying their'E/iemiei Canoes,. they 
famifli'd or deftroy'd almoft all tbe Tcft, and renew*d and 
recovered the PofTeffion of cheir Planution, and ftili liv'd 
lipon the Ifland. 

All thefe things, with fome very furprifing Inrident» 
in fome ncw Adventures of my own, for ten Years more» 
I may, perhaps, give a farther Account of hereafter. 



. ^h$ EHD ff ßeTiiisj Yai*t7Jw6* 




:r-. ' '"■(■--■'J^'-^V'.' 






•'t^ 




1 



v^ ^t; 



\. 



