
■V ,r 




'■'■L:i'»i^.i.^-X 



t-^fjO^'^'^^^-L '^' 



cK9 d.X\-p.'U 




Y2z^€¥^■a^?'l 




':ny 



V4. ^4A^:tegi 



I 



'^Mk 



A\D MOST SURPRISING 

A D V E N T U R E .S 

V * O F 

ROBINSON CRUSOE, 

Of YORK, Mariner; 

W H O 

Lived Eiglit and Twenty Years in an uninhabited Illana. 

on the Coaft of America^ lying near the Pv'Iouth of 

the great river of Oroonoque : Having been caft 

on Shore by Shipwreck, wherein all the 

men were drowned but himfelf : 

AS A L S O5 

A Rk I. ATI ON bow he was wonderFullv dcii\ 
ered by PIRATES. 



ThizohoU Thrci VdUrtieX f(iithfully abridged. 



r X ' I K.x'^ h * At '• >( "G & •if «} X;, ' 
I. THOMAS AND E. t.' ANDREWS, 
Faust's Statue No 45 Nizvbury Styet, 



tue INO 45 iSiivbiiry Citi^t, 

...... Q, 



% ^ 



A^i 



G^ F. LIBBIE a: 00 • 
W£:3^. 15, 1918 

A 



PREFACE. 



It is very well known zi)hat univ erf al reception 
the life of this man has met with in the worlds and t hire- 
fore needs little or no apology for this edition^ which, 
coviprizes the three volumes into one faithful abridgment. 
In the perufal of which, you will find fo many curious 
moral obfervations, fo many divine refieclions to cornfort 
the aJliEted mind, and fiich an heavenly profpeSi of the 
wonderful Providence of God, that fear ce any zoho read 
it but what may make fow. application of it to themfelves, 
and pleafingly be led to a knowledge of the divine bleffings^ 
' But here I amfenfihle, that as there arefome who com- 
plain agaivfl the dejigji in general, as an Inconfijient ro- 
mance ; fo there are others who, I doubt not, will not 
fail depreciating the performance of this in particular * 
they may reprejfent, that the abridging a work is fcanda- 
lous and ridiculous j and that thereby is taken away 
frojyi it the only ornaynents that recommend it to wife 7nen» 
If this be true, and they could perfuad.e the. world fo, I 
know not what muji become of thofe many curious abridg- 
ments that are extant among us, far more pleafant tnu/t 
the tirefome eloquence of larger volumes ; nor how well 
the common fort of people will be pleafed in being with- 
held^ by an excejive price, from a hijiory fo inJlruRive 
and entertaining : and do affure my readers, whatever 
they may allege againjl this abridgement, there are not 
only many errors corrected, out fever alp alp ahls and grofs 
contradidions rectified and amended : in a word, there is 
not one material circumjiance omitted ; neither is there 
any deprived of its mojt proper obfervaiions. 

Thefrji volume treats of his Shipwreck, the manner of 
his Deliverance upon the Defolate Ifland, and tells of all 
that anxiety of mind he endured, till the uncommon acci- 
dent of his being releafcd, after eight and twenty yearns 
folitude. 

In the fecovd he appears in his prof per ous conditio?;, 
till the death of his dear wife ; when^ refuming his form- 
er wandering inclinations j it necejfarily leads us to his 
future adventures, and remarkable travels by land from- 
the Eaftern countries, which are as amufng and inftrud" 
Tve as his voyage byfea. 

In 



iv PREFACE. 

In the lajl place isjhezon to us a profp^Ei of the angelic 
zvcrld, the blejjings of peace ^ retirement^ and contentment, 
which is the end of life^ the glory of happinefs^ and an 
introduSiion to the divine and bleffed vianfions above. 

When this book firjt appeared in the world, hozo de- 
lightful, hozu ^ravifiing did it feem to every reader? 
Here the pafjions of the mind were fo beautifully exprejf- 
ed, both in the nature of his adverfty and profperity, 
that they melted every hcort with a tender fymp at hy and 
iompafjion. Robinfon Crufoe was in every body's mouth as 
much as in the mouth of Pretty Poll ! But fince to this a- 
iridgemcnt there are added two parts more, with the nat- 
ural co7ifequcnce of life, it cannot, methinks, but give an 
entire fatisfaclion, as much as any thing of this kind 
can pojfjjlydo j and therefore, I cannot otherwife think 
hut It xoill be well worth my reader's ptrufal ; and, I 
hope, merit his approbation toa, 

' Needlefs thtrefoxe it is to enlarge any farther on this 
performance, but leave it to the ingenuity and candour of 
■unbrejudiced perfons : and whatever may be the fate of 
-li^ I do affure the public, that no pains or labour have 
been wanting to render this hijiory delightful^ injiruii-- 
•ive, and entertaining. 



THE 

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 

O F 

ROBINSON CRUSOE. 



IN the year 1632, I was born at Tork, oi a reputable family. 
My father was a native of Brcmsfiy who, merchandizing at 
Hull for fome time, gained a very pientirui fortune, and mar- 
ried my mother in Tork, who received her firll breath in ih?.t 
country : And as her maiden name was Robinfon, I was called 
Robin/on Kreutznaer ', which not being eafdy pronounced in 
the Englifh tongue, we are commonly Known by the naoie of 
CrujGc. 

V I was the youngeft of three brothers; the eJceH was a 
Cieutenant Colonel \n Lockhart'sr^gxmtnXj but fiain by the 
Spaniards : What became of the other I could never iearn. 

No charge nor pains were wanting in my education, my 
father defigning me for the law ; yet nothing would ferve me, 
but I muft go to lea, both againft the will of my father, the 
tears of my moiher, and the entreaties of trier.ds. One 
morning my father expoftuVated very warmly with me : Says 
he, what reafoi have you to leave your native country, where 
there muft be a more certain profpedt of content ano happ<- 
nefs, than to enter into a wandering condition ot uuearinefs 
and uncertaiiity ? He recommended to me Agar s wlfli, neither 
10 defire arkverfity, nor riches 'j that a middle Ilate of life was 
the moft happy } and that the high towering thoughts of 
rafmg our condition by wandering abroad, were fiU rounded 
with mifery and danger, and often ended with coufufion and 
difappointment : I ewtreat you, nay I command you, iaid he, 
to defifl from thefe intentions : Consider your eldt:lt' brother, 
who laid down hisMife for his honour, or rather icfl it ior liii* 
difobedience to my will. If you will go, added he, my prayers 
however fhall be offered for your prefervation •, but a time 
may come, when, defolate, oppreft, cr forfi<ken, yvu may w-Ui 
A z ■ V u 



you had taken your poor defpifed father's counfel. He pro- 
nounced thefe words with Tnch a moving and paternal eloquence, 
while floods of tears ran down his aged cheeks, that feemed 
to ftem the torrent of my refoliitions. 

But this wore off foon, and a little after I informed my 
mother, that I could not fettle to any bufinefs, my refoiutions 
were fo ftrong to fee the world ; and begged fhe would gain 
my father's confent, only to go one voyage, which if it did not 
prove profperous I would never attempt a fecond : But my 
defire was as vain as my folly in afking : my mother palTion. 
ately exprefi her diflike of this propofal, telling me, Jhat as 
Jhefaiu I nvas bent upon my oicn defiruifiony contrary to their 
'Will and my duty y Joe ^Mou/dfay no more, but lewve me to myfelj\ 
to do iJohatfoe'ver I pleafed. 

I was then I think, nineteen years old, when one time be- 
ing at Hullf I met a fchool fellow of mine, going along with 
his father, who was mafter of a (hip, to London : And ac- 
quainting him with my wandering defires, he alTured me of 
my free pafTage, and a plentiful fliare of what was necelTary. 
Thus, without imploring a blefling, or taking a farewell of 
my parents, I took fliipping on the firft of September 1651. 
When our (hip having no (ooner left the Number adern, but 
there arofe fuch a violent ftorm, and being extremely 
ica fick, I thought that the judgments of God defervedly 
followed me for my difobedience to my dear parents. It was 
thei) only I called to mind the good advice of my father ; 
how eafy and comfortable was a middle (tate of life ; and if 
It pieafed God to fet me on dry land once more, I wculci re- 
turn to my parents, implore their forgivnefs, and bid a final 
adieu to my wandering inclinations. 

Such were my thoughts while the (torm continued; but 
ihele good refoiutions decreafed with the danger. More 
efpecially, when my companion came to me, clapping me on 
Jhe (boulder : IFbaff B.>b ! faid hcyfureyou 'was not frightened 

laji night^withfcarceacapfullofivind? And do you^ cry'd 

I, call fuch a violent Jlorm a cap full of ivind ? A florm, you 
fool you, faid he, this is Jiothing ; a good fbip andfea room alivays 
baffle fuch a fooUpf quail oj nx>ind us that : But you're a frefh 
nuater failor : come^ boy, turn outy fee nuhat fine lucather nve 
^ave no-iVy and a good boivl of punch ivill dro-ivn all your pajl 
forronvs In (hurt t!ie punch was made, I was drunk, and in 
one night's time drowned both my repentance and my good 
refoiutions, entirely forgetting the vows and promifes I made 
in my diftrefs : And whenever any reflections would return 
on me, what by company and drinking, I foon mafiered thofe 
its, as I deridingly called them. But this only made way for 

another 



anotlier trial, wliereby 1 could not but fee iiow much I 
was beholden to kind providence. 

Upon the fixth day, we came to an anchor in Harwich road, 
where we lay wind bound with fome Neivcajlle fhips j and 
there being good anchorage, and Oiir cables lound, the fea- 
nicn forgot their late toil and danger, and {'pent their time 
as merrily as if they had been on fhore. But on the eighth 
day there arofe luch a briik gale of wind, which prevented 
our tiding it up the river, and frill increafing, our fliip rid 
fore cafllein, having (hipped feveral large feas. 

It was not long before horror feized the feamen themfelvcs, 
when I heard the mafter exprefs this melancholly ejaculation^ 
Lord ba've mercy upon us, <wc Jhall be all loft and undone ! For 
my part, fick unto death, I kept my cabin, till the univerfal 
and moft dreadful apprehenfions among us of our fpeedy fate, 
made me get up upon deck ; and there I was dreadfully af- 
frighted indeed : The fea went mountains high : I could fee 
nothing but dlflrefs around us : Two fhips had cut their marts 
onboard, and another was foundered. Two more, had loft 
their anchors, were forced out to the mercy of the ocean ; 
and to fave our lives, we were ft^rced to cut our fore mail and 
main mafi quite away. 

Who is there fo ignorant as not to judge of my dreadful 
condition t I was but a frefh wa^er iiailor, and therefore it 
feemed more terrible. Our flnp was very good, but too 
much loaden, which made the failors ofrcij cry oat, Sbe (ivill 
founder ; words I then was ignorant of i All this while the 
Itorm continuing, the mafier and the more fobcr part of his 
men went to prayers, expetSting deaih every moment. In the 
middle of the night one cried out, We hadfprung a leak, another, 
I'hat there n.vas four feet ^.tsater in the hold. I was jufl ready to ex- 
pire with fear, when immediately ai! hands were called to the 
pump ; and the men forced me alfo iu that extremity to fhare with 
them in their labour. While thus employed, the maftcr efpying 
fome light colliers, fired a gun as a fignal of diftrefs ; v^hich i,not 
undeiftandins^; what it meant, and thinking that eiiher the fhip 
broke, or rome dreadful thing happened, fell into a fwoon j 
but in that common condition of woe, no body minded me, 
excepting to thnift me ahde with their feer, thinking me dead, 
and it was a great while before I recovered. 

Happy it was for us, when upon the figr.al given, they ven- 
tured out tlieir t^oats to fave cur lives. All our pumping had 
been in vain, and vain had their .attempts been, had they not 
come to our (hip's fide, when our men calt^hem a rope ovtr 
adern with a buoy to it, vvhich after great labour they got 
Jiold of, and we hawlin-: ihem to us, got into their boat. So 
leaving our fhip, we perceived it fink in lefs than a quarter of 

. h.oiir, by which I knew whut was faundering at fea. And 

now 



J 8 



now the men incedanlly laboured to recover their own firi'p, 
but the fsa ran fo high, and the wind blowing harcl^ they 
thought it convenient to bawl within fhoie; which with 
great difficulty and danger at laft we happily efFe^'^ed, land- 
ing at a place called Cromer, not far from Winterton light 
houfe : From whence we all walked to Yarmouth, where, as 
objefts of pity, maay good people furniflied us with necefia- 
lies for our fubliftcnee either to Hnll or London. 

'Tis flrange, that after all this, like the Prodigal fon, I did 
not return to my father j who hearing of the (hip's calamity, 
for a long time thought me entombed in the deep. No doubt 
l)ut I fhould have Jbared in his fatted calf ^ as the fcripture ex- 
prefTelh it : But my ill fate flill pufhed me on, in fpite of the 
powerful conviction of reafon and confcience. 

"When I had been at Yarmsuth three days, I met rny old 
companion, who had given me the invitation to go on board 
along with his father. His behaviour and fpeech was altered, 
and in a melancholy manner afked me how* I did, telling his 
father who 1 was, and how I had made this voyage for a trial 
only to proceed farther abroad : Upon which the old gentle- 
man turning to me, gravely faid, young man, ym might never /». 
g9 tofea any more, but to take this for a certain fign that you loiil 
net'er profper in a Jea faring condition. S'lTyanpwered I, will you 
take the fame refolution i 'Tis a different cafe, faid he, 'tis my 
calling, and confequently my duty j but as you hanje made this 
njoyagefor a trial, you fee 'what ill fuccefs heanjen has fet before 
your eyes j and perhaps our miferies ha^ue been on your account, like 
Jonah in the fbip of Tarfhifh : But pray ivhai are you, and on 
ivhat account did you go to fea P Upon which 1 very freely de- 
clared my whole ftory ; at the end of which he made this ex- 
clafttiation. Ye facred powers ! what had I committed, th?t 
luch a wretch fliould enter into my &ip to heap upon me fucli 
a deluge of miferies ! But foon recollefhng his palTions, 
Young manf faid he, depend upon it, if you do not go hack, lohere- 
enjer you go, you ixiillmeet ivitb difafiers ond difappointments^ till 
your father' s ivords are fulfilled upon you. And fo we parted. 

1 thought at firft to return home, but fhame oppofed that 
good motion, as thinking I fhould be laughed at by my neigh- 
bours and acquaintance. So ffrange is the nature of youth, 
who are not afbaracd to fin, but yet afliamed to repent ; and 
far from being afhamed of ihofe actions for which they may 
be accounted tools, think it folly in returning to their duty, 
which is the principal mark of wifdom. In fhort, I travelled 
up to London, refolved upon a voyage ; and a voyage I foon 
heard of, by my acquaintance with a Captain who took a fan- 
cy to me, to go' to the coafl of Guinea. Having fome money^ 
and appearing like a gentleman, I went on board, not as a 
common failor or foreroafl man 3 nay, the commander agreed 

i fhould 



1 ilioiild go that voyag:e with liim without any cxpenfe ; that 
1 fhould be his niefs mate and companion ; and I was very 
welcome to carry ^»y thing vvitli me, and make the beft Kier- 
chandize I could. 

I bIcWed my happy fortune, and Iiumbly tlianked my Cap- 
tain for his offer ; when acquainting mv friends in Tork/bit^, 
forty pounds ivere fent me, tiie greatel^ part of which 1 be- 
lieve my dear father and mother contributed to ; and with 
ivhich I bought toys and trifles as tli'e Capttin Qire6ted me. 
My Captain alfo learned me navigation, how to keep an ac- 
count of the fiiip's coiirfe, take an obfervation, and led me 
into the knowledge of feveral ufeful branches of the mathe- 
matics. And indeed this voyage made me both a failor and 
merchant : For I brought home 5 pounds 9 ounces of gold 
duft for my adventure, which produced at my return to Loft' 
(ion, almofl three hundred pounds. But in this voy^ige 1 was 
extremely fick, being thrown into a violent calenture, through 
exceflive heat, trading upon the coaft, from the latitude of 15 
degrees north, even to the line ilfelf. 

But alas 1 my dear frien<l the Captain foon departed this 
life, after his arrival. This was a fenfible grief to me j yet 
1 refolved to go another voyage with his mate, who had now 
got command cf the fhip. But this proved unfuccefsful : 
for though I did not carry quite ^100 of my late acquired 
wealth, lo that I had ^200 left, which I depofited with the 
Captain's widow, who was an honell gentlewoman, yet my 
misfortunes in this voyage were very great upon me ; tor our 
liip failing towards the Canary iflands, we were chafed by a 
'a/ee rover ] and in fpite af all the fail we could nnake, by 
crowding as much canvafs as our yards would fpread, or 
n)H[h cany, the pirate gained upon us, and fo we prepared 
curfelves to fight. They had i8 guns, and we had but li. 
About three in the afternoon there was a defperate engage- 
ment, wlierein many were killed and wounded on both fides ; 
but finding ourfelves overpowered with numbers, our fnip 
difabled, and ourfelves too impotent to have the leau hopes 
of fuccefs, we were forced to furrender, and accordingly were 
all earned into the port of Sake. Gur men were fent to the 
Emperor's court to be fold there; but the pirate Captain tak- 
ing notice of me, kept me to be his own (lave. 

In this condition I thought myfelf the moft miferable crea- 
ture on earth, and the prophefy of my farher came afrefh into 
ny thoughts. As it happened, my condition was better than 
1 thought it to be, as will foon appear. Some hopes indeed I 
had, that my new patron would go to fea agiin, where he 
might be taken by a Spani/i or Portuguej'e man of war, and then 
I fhould be fet at liberty, liut in this I was miftaken, for he 
never took me with him, but left me to look after his little 

garden, 



lO 

garden, and do the drudgery of his houfe ; and when he re- 
turned from fea, would make me lie in the cabin, and look 
after the fhip. I had no one that I could communicate my 
thoughts to, which were continually meditating my efcape ; 
p.o EngllfhrnaTty rn/Ijtnan, or Scotchman here, but myifislf; and 
for two years I could fee nothing prafticable, but only pleafe 
myfelf with the imagination. 

After ipnie length of time, ray patron, as I found, grew fo 
poor, that he could not fit out his /hip as ufual : And then he 
iifed conftantly, once or twice a week, if the weather was fair, 
to go out a fifhing, taking me and a young Morefco boy to row 
the boat ; and fo much pleafed was he with me for my dex- 
terity in catching the fifh, that he would often fend me with a 
MooVf who was one of his kinfmen, and the Morefco youth, to 
catch a difh of filh for him. 

Or.e morning, as we were at the fport, there arofe fuch a 
thick fog, thai we loft fight of the fiiore ; and rawing we knew 
not which way, we laboured a:! the nighr, and in the morning 
found ourfeives in the oce^n, two leagues from land ; how- 
ever, we atrained there at length, and we made the greater 
haftejbecaufe our ftomachs were exceedingly (harp and hungry. 
But the better to prevent fuch difaflers, my patron ordered a 
carpenter to build a little flaterporn or cabin in the middle 
of the long boat, with a place behind it to fleer and hawl 
home the main fheet, with other conveniences, to keep him 
from the weather, as alfo lockers to put in all manner of pro- 
vifions ; with a handfome fhouldcr of mutton fail, gibing 
over the cabin. 

In this he frequently took us ri fifliing ; and one time invit- 
ing two or three perfons of diftlnftion to go with him, made 
proviiion extraordinary, providing alfo three fuzees, vvi:h 
powder and fnot, that they might have fome fport at fowling 
along tl:e fea coafr. The next morning, the boat being clean, 
her ancienrs and pendents out, and every thing ready, their 
minds altering, my patron ordered us to go a fifhing, for that 
his gueiTs would certainly fup with him that night. 

And nov/ I began to think of my deliverance indeed : In 
order to this, I perfuaded the Moor to get fome provifionson 
board, as not daring to meddle with our patron's ; who, tak- 
ing my advice, we flored ourfeives with rufk bilcuit, and 
three jars of water; behdes I privately conveyed into the 
boat a bottle of brandy, fome twine, thread, a hammer, hatch-^ 
et, and a faw ; in particular fome beefwax, which was a great 
comfort to me, and ferved to make candles. 1 then perluad* 
ed Mrley (for fb was the Moi)r called) tu) procure fome powder 
and ili;jt, pretending to kill fea curlews, to which he innocent- 
ly and readily agreed. And in fliort, beirg provided with all 

tliin^is 



11 

things neceflary, we failed out, refolving for my own part to 
make my elcipe, though it might cod me my life. 

When we had parted the caflle, we fell to fifhing; but 
thougli I knew there was a bite, I diflembled the matter, in 
order to put farther out to fea. Accordingly we ran a league 
fartlier ; when giving the boy the helm, and pretending to 
ftoop for fomething, I ieized Muley by furprifc, and threw 
him overboard. He was an excellent {wimmer, foon arofe, 
and made towards the boat ; upon which I took out a fuzee, 
and prefenred it at him : Muley, faid I, / ne<veryet dejtgned to do 
you any harrrij and feek nothing nonv but my redemption. 1 knono 
you are able enough to ftoim to Jbore and fa<ve your life '^ but 
if you are refol^ved to follo^w met '^ *^^ endangering of mine, 
the njcry moment you proceed I 'will Jboot you through the head. 
The harmlefs creature, at thefe words, turned himl'elf from 
me, and I make no doubt got fafe to land. Then turning 
to the boy Xury^ I perceived he trembled at the aftion ; but 
I put him out of all fear, telling him, that if he. would be true 
and faithful to me, I would do well by him : Arid therefore, 
faid I, you mujl Jlroke your face to be faithful, and, as the Turks 
haue learnt you yf'wear hy Mahomet, and the beard of your father ^ 
or elfe I ivlll throio you' Into th^ fea alfe. So innocent did the 
child then look, and with fuch an obliging fmile, confented, 
that I readily believed him, and, from that day forward, be- 
gan to love him entirely. 

Thus we purfued our voyage, and that they fliould think 
me gone to the Strait's mouth, 1 kept to the fouthward to the 
truly Barbarian coaft ; but in the dufk of the evening, I 
changed my courfe, and ftcered diredtly S. by E. that I might 
keep near the (hore j and having a frefh gale of wind, with a 
pleafant fmooth fea, by three o'clock the next day I was 350 
miles beyond the Emperor of Morocco's dominions. Yet dill 
having the dreadful apprehenfions of being retaken, I continu- 
ed failing for five days lucceflively, till fuch time as the wind 
(hifting to the fouthward, made me conclude, that if any vef- 
fel was in chafe of me they would proceed no farther : And after 
fomuch fatigue and thought, I anchored in the mouth of a 
little river, 1 knew not what, or where ,• neither did I then 
lee any people. What I principally wanted was frefh water ; 
and I was refolved, about dufk, to fwim afhore. But no 
fooner did the gloomy clouds of night begin to fucceed 
the declining day, than we heard fuch barking, roar- 
ing, and howling of wild creatures, that one might have 
thought the very ftrangeft monfters of nature, or infernal 
fpirits, had their refidence there. Poor Xury, almoft dead 
with fear, entreated me not to go on fiiore that night. Sup^ 
fojing I don't Xury, faid I, and in the morning <voe Jhould fee men^ 
nxjho are ivorfe than thoje icv fcar\ ivhat then ? O den ijoe may 

gi've 



gi'ue dim de JJjcot gUTiy replied Xury^ laughing, and de gun mahe 
dent all run a'way. The wit, and broken EngUJhy which the 
boy had learnt from the captives of our nation, pleafed me en- 
tirely, and to add to his cheerfulnefs, I gave him a dram of the 
bottle i We could get but little deep all the night for the ter-. 
rible bowlings they made ; and indeed we were both afFrigT^ted 
vepy much, when, by the rowlingof the water, and other tok- 
ens", we juftly concluded one of ihofe monlfers made towards 
cur boat 5 I could not fee it till ic came within two oars 
length, when, taking my fuzce, 1 let lly at him ; Whether I 
hit him or no, I cannot tell ; but he made towards the fhore, 
and the noife of my gun encreafed the (tupenduous noile of 
themonfter?. 

The next morning, I was rcfolved to go on fliore to get 
frefh wafer, and venture roy life among bealis or favages, 
fhould either attack me. Xur^ faid he would take one of the 
jars and bjring tne feme. I afked him why he would go, and 
not I. The poor boy anfv.ered, if'vjUd mans come ^ they eat me, 
J on go a'vjay. A mmd fcarcely now to beimitated, io contra- 
ry to felf prefervation, the mod powerful law of nature 1 
This indeed encreafed my afFe6tion to the child, l^ell) dear 
Xury, faid I, m}e ^il! both go af/jorey both eat ivild mam, and 
they /ball eat neither of us. So giving Xuty a piece of ruik 
bread to eat, and a ciam, we waded ailiore, carrying nothing 
with us but our arms, and tv^o jars for water. I did not go 
out of fight of the boat, as dreading i}>e favages coming down 
the river in their canoes. But the boy feeing a low defccnt, 
or VA'e, about a mile in the country, he wandered to it ; and 
then running back to me with great precipitaticn, I thought 
he was purfued by fonie favage or wiid bead, upon which I 
approached, refolving to perifli or proteft him from danger. 
As he came nearer to me, I faw lomcthing hanging over his 
fhoulders, which vvas a creature he had fliot, like a hare, but 
different in colour, and longer legs ; liowever, we were glad 
of it, for it proved wholefome nouiifhing meat; bi'.t what 
added to cur joy v/as, my boy aiTured me tliere was plenty of 
water, ai)d tha^ he fee no ivi/d mans. And greater ftill was' 
our comfort,. when v\e found ircih wafer in the creek, where 
we were, when the tide vvas out, without going fo far up into' 
the cotintry. ': 

In this plnce I began to conOder that the Canary and the 
Cape de Verd iflands lay nut far t.ft' ; butliaving no infirumenr,' 
1 knew not what latitude, or when, to ftand off to lea for them ; 
yet my hopes v.ere, 1 fhould rneer fome of the Englifh trading 
ve/Tels, wlio would relieve and take us up. 

The place I was in was, no doubt, that wild fort of country, 
inhabited only by a few, that lies between the Emperor of 
JJfor(?<rr(jV dominions and the AV^rc^^; It was filled with wild 
>, bca(t5, 



beafts, and l}i€ Afeorj.ufe it for hunting chiefly. From tbis 
place I thought I faw the top of the mountain Teneriffetan 
the Canaries i whkh made me try twice to attain it, biitijas 
often was I drove back, and lo forced to purfue my fortune 
along the Hiore. 

Early one morning we came to an anchor under a little 
point of land, but pretty high, - aad the tide beginningito 
flow, we lay ready to go farther in : But Xmy, whofe youth- 
ful and penetrating eyes were fliarperihan mine,'ina (oittpjie, 
defired me to keep far from lar.d, leil vye Ihould be d<?vouKfd : 
For, look yonder, Meyur, faid he, and fee de dreadful monfier fajl 
afleep on the fide of the hill. Accordingly, looking where he pomt- 
ed, I efpied a fearful monfter indeed ; it was a terrible great 
lion that lay on fliore, covered, as it were, by the fhade of a 
piece of the hill. XUry, faid \,youfhall go onfhoreartd kill%im. 
But the boy looked amazed : Mekill kim,\dy?>\\Q, he eat' me 
at one mouth ; meaning one m^outhful. Upon which I bid j)im 
lie flill, and charging my bjf^geft gun vvith two flugs, arid a 
good charge of powder,! fuoKJhebefl: aim I could to flioot him 
through the head, but his W lying over his nofe, the Aug 
broke" his knee bone. Thcilon, awaking with the pain, got 
up, but (oon fell down, giving the mod hideous groan I .ever 
heard : Hut taking.tuy fecond piece, I fliot him through the 
head, and then he itfy' ftruggling for lite. Upon this Xury 
took heart, and defired my leave to go on ftiore. Go then, 
faid I. Upon which takitig a little gun in one hand, he fvvam 
to fhore wirh the other, and coming clofe to the lion, put at 
period to his life, by (hooting him again through the head. 

But this was {pending our ammunition in vain, theflefh not 
being good to eat. JG^r)' was like a champion, and comes on 
board for a hatchet to cut otF the head of his enemy ; which 
not having flrength to perform, cut off a foot. But*l be- 
thought myfelf that his fkrn would be of great tife, which 
coft Xury and I a whole dav's work ; when fpreading it on the 
top of our cabin, the hot beams of the fun fo effeffualiy dried 
it, in two days time, that it afterwards ferved me for a bed t* 
r.e upon. 

And now we failed fouthwardly, living fparingly on our pro- 
vifions, and went no oftener on fliore than we were obliged 
for frefn water. My dcfign was to make the river Gambia 
or Seftegal, or any where about the Cape de Verd, in hopes to 
rreet fonie £«r«/)<:^m.(hip. If Providence did not fo favour, 
my next cnurfe was to feek for the iflands, or lofe my life 
■among the Negioes. A*nd, in a word, I put my ^whole ftre'fe 
X'tii^on i\-\\%, either thjt I mufi meet njoiih fome fhifyor certainfy 
perifh. • -■. 

but, as we were failing along, we faw people Hand on the 
fhore to look at ui j we could alio perceive they were black 
B and 



14 

and fiark naked. I was inclined to go on fhoee ; biit ^Xmy 
cried, Noy no ; however, I approached nearer," and' 1 found 
they ran along the (hore by me a good way : They had no wea- 
pons in their hands ; except one, who held a long (tick, which 
Xury told me was a lance, with which they could kill at a 
grtat diRance. I talked to them by figns, and made them 
fenfible I vvanted fomething to eat : They beckoned to me to 
ftop my boat, while two of them run up into the country and 
in;ders than haU an hour came back and brought with them 
twb pieces of dry flefh, and fome corn, which we kindly ac- 
cepted 5 and to prevent any fears of either fide, they brought 
the food to the /here, laid it down, then went, and (tood a 
great way off, till we fetched it on board, and th'en came clofe 
to us again. 

But while we were returning thanks to them, being all we 
coitild offer, (wo mighty creatures came from the mountains, 
cn^ as it were punuing the other with great fury, which, we 
were inclined to believe, becaufe they feidom appear biit in 
the night \ and both thefe patTmg fwiftly by the Negroes, 
jumped into the fea, wantonly ^wimming about, as though 
t!w diverfiorti: of the waters had' put a Hop to their fiercene/s. 
At Jaft, one ot them coming nearer my boat than 1 expefled 
or deli red, I, fhot him directly through the head; upon 
which he funk immediately, yet rifing again, would have 
wiliingly made to the (bore ; but between the wound and the 
Ihangling of the water, he died before he could reach it. 

It is not: poflible tor me to exprels the confternation tjie 
pcor Negroes were in at the firing my gun ; much lefs can I 
•mention their furprife, when they perceived the creature to 
be (lain by it. I made Hgns to them to draw near it, and 
then gave them a rope to hale it on (hore. It was a beautiful 
leopard, which made me defire its fkin ; and the Negroes 
feeming to covet the carcafe, I very freely gave it to them. 
'A» lor the other leopard, It made to fhore, and ran with a 
prodigious fwiftnefs out of fight. The Negroes having kindly 
^irnifhed me with water, and with what roots and grain their 
^ coui>rry afforded, I took my leave, and after eleven days fail, 
rircame in fight of the Cci/i/r/^- r^r^, and thofe iflands called 
t>y it3 name. But the great diftancel was from it, and fearing 
contrary w>nd3 would prevent my reaching either of them, I 
.grew melancholy and dejed^ed ; when, on a hidden, Xuty 
jeried our, Majler, Majler, a JJjip njjith a Jail ; and looked fo 
f;riighi'ened,as if it was his mafier's fhip lent in fearch of us : 
But i foondifcovered (he was a Portugueze fiiip, and, as I 
^tliousihr, boimd to the coafi: pf Guinea^ for Negroes. Upon 
which I itvoJi for lite to get v)r) to them ; but vain Irad it been, 
if, thr.oughrjthei^ perlpedtive glaffes, they had not perceived 
Jifip, an^ifh/^rtened their fail to let nae come up. Encouraged 
r " ' ' ' at 



^5 

at this, I (et up my patron's ancient, and fired a gun, botii as 
fjgnals ot diftrefs ; upon which they very kindly lay to; fo 
lliat in three hours time I got . up with il^em. They fpoke 
to me in Portuguefe, Sfan'ijhy and French, but neither, of thelC; 
did I underhand; till at length a Scotch Tailor called, and then I 
rold him 1 was an Engl!jlj?nafiy who had efcaped from the: 
Moors q{ Salle \ upon which they took me kindly on board, 
with all niy effedts- 

Surely none can exprefs tliat inconceivable joy my heart 
felt at this my happy deliverance ; who, from being a mifer- 
able and forlorn creature, was not only relieved, but in favour 
with the mafter of the fhip, wljom in return for my deliver- 
ance I offered all I had to him ; God forbid, faid he, that I 
Jlould take any thing from you \ ei'Cry thing fhaU be deU<vered to 
jou ivhenyou come to BraCA : If 1 ba^e fa-ved your life, it is no 
more than Ijhould expeSI to receinje myfelffrom any other ^ ivhen in 
the fame circumfiances I fhould happen to meet the like delinjerance j 
andfhould I take from you nvhat you ha-ve, and league you at Brafil, 
nxihy this --would only be taking aivay a life I ha^je ginjen ; my 
charity teaches me better ; thofe effeSIs you ha^ve^ ivill fupport you 
there, and pro^oide you a fafjage home again. And indeed he 
aiSted with the ftricteft jufiice in what he did, faking my 
things in his pofleflion, and giving me an exadl inventory, 
even to my earthen jars. He bought my boat of m? for the 
fhip's ufe, giving me a note of eighty pieces of eight, payable 
at ^ro/z/, and if any body offered more he would make it up. 
He alio gave me fixty pieces for my boy Xnry, It was with 
great reluctance I was prevailed upon to fell the child's lib- 
erty, who had lerved me lo faithfully ; but the boy himfelf 
was willing, and it was agreed, that after ten years, he fhould 
be mane tree, upon his renouncing Mahom.eianifm and embrac- 
ing Chriftianity.' 

Having a pleafant voyage to the Brafus, we arrived in the 
Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints Bay, in about az days 
after. And here 1 cannot icrget the generous treatment of 
the Captain ; he would take nothing for my paflTaiie, gave me 
2o ducats for the leopard's Ikin, and 30 for the lion's : Every* 
thing he caufed to be delivered ; and what I would fell he 
bought. In Ihort, I made about zio pieces of my cargo, and 
with this ftotic I entered once more, as 1 may lay, into tlic 
fcene of life. 

Being recommended to an honefl planter, 1 lived with, him 
till fuch time as I was informed of the manner of their pJant- 
ifkg and making fugar j and feeing how well they lived, and 
how fuddenly they grew rich, i was filled witli aH emuiaiion, 
at Icaft, to fettle among them, refolvmg to ^et my money rr: . 
milted to me, and to purchafe me a plaiitation. 



To be brief, I bought a fcttlement next door to an bonelt 
and kind neighbour, born at L'ljhon, of Englijh parents, whole 
plantation joining to mine, we improved it very amicably to- 
gether : Both our flocks were low, and for two years we 
planted only lor food : But the third year we planted fome 
tobacco, I'leparing each a large piece of ground for planting' 
canes the enfuing year; but now wanting alliftance, 1 re- 
pented the lols of my dear bey Xury. ■<. 

Here having none to affifl me, my father's-words came n- 
gain into my mind ; and if only a middle fiation of life [ 
fought, why could it not as well be obtained in England a'^ 
iere ? When I pondered of this wijh regref, th« thoughts of 
my late deliverance forfock me ; I had none to converle with 
but my neighbour ; no work to be done but by niy own 
hands ; and tliis oh'en made me fay, my condition was like 
ihat of a man caft upon a defolaie i/lund. So unhappy are we 
in our reflections, lo forgetful what good things we receive 
ourfelves, and fo unthankful for our deliverance from thofe> 
calamities thst others endure. ' ' 

I Was in fome meafure fetfled before the Captain who took 
me up departed fro-rj the Brafils. One day 1 went to him, 
and told him whaf itofk I had in London, defiring his afUliance 
in obtaining its remittance. ~ To which the good gentleman 
readily cc'^ienied, but would only have me fend for half my 
snoney, lelt it fhould rnifcarry, which, if it did, the remainder 
inight jfupport me : And lo taking letters of procuration from 
ine, bid me trouble myfelf no farther about it. 

And indeed wonderful was his kindnefs towards me ; for 
he not only procured the money I had drawn for upon my 
Captain's widow, but fent me over a fervant, with a cargo 
proportionable to my condition. He alio fent me over tools 
of all kr?s, iron work, and utenHls necelFary for my v~la'^f^- 
tion, and which proved of the greatelt ufe to me in my bu^i- 
nefs. 

Wealth now accumulating on me, and uncommon fuccef* 
crowning my profperous labours^ I might have relted happy 
ift that middle ilate of life my father had {o often recommend- 
ed ; yet nothing would content me, fuch was my evil genius ; 
but 1 muft leave this happy liatiun, for a foolifh ambition in 
rifing greater than the nature of the thmg admitted ; and thus, 
once more>I cafi rnylelf into the deepeft guh of mifery that ev, 
er abandoned creature fell into. For having lived four years 
in Brajil, I not oidy learnt the language, but contracted ac- 
fjuaintance with the moft eminent planters, and even the 
inerrhants of St. Ssl'vadore\ to whom, by way of difcourfe, 
giving an account of rav two voyages to the coaft of Guinea^ 
and the manner of trading there for mere trifles, by whtch 
we might furnifh our plantations with Negroes, they gave fuch 

attention 



attention to what I faid, that three of them came one morning 
to me, and told me they had a fecret propofal to make. Af- 
ter enjoining me to fecrefy (it being an infringement on rhe 
powers of ihe Kings of Portugal and Spain) they told me they 
had a mind to fit out a fhip to go to Guinea, in order to itock 
the plantation with Negroes^ which, as rhey could not be pub- 
licly fold, they would divide among them; and if I wouid go 
their fupercargo in the fliip, to manage the trading part, I 
fhould have an equal rtiare of the Negroes, without providiRg 
any (lock. The thing indeed was fair enough, liad I been in 
another condition ; but 1, born t© be my own deftroyer, could 
nor refifl the prop'ofal ; bur accepted the offer, upon condition 
of their looking after my plantation: So, making -a foinia*! 
will, I bequeathed my effeds to my good friend tlie Captain, 
as my univerfal heir ; but obliged him to difpofe of my effe'fts 
as diredted, one half of my produce to himfeif, and tiie other 
to be ihipped for Engtmid. 

The Ihip being fitted out, and all tilings ready, we fet (ail 
the firft of September, 1659, being the fanje day eiglit years I 
left my father and mother in Torkjblre. We failed north- 
ward upon the coafl, in order to gain Africa, till we made 
Cape Augufiirw, from whence going furth.tr in the ocean, out 
of light ot land, we fteered as though we were bound for the 
ifle of Ftrriand de Noremba, leavaig the iflands on the eaft ; 
and then it was we mer with a cruel tempeft, which held us 
for twelve days fucccilively ; fo that the waters carried us 
wherefoever they pleafed. In this perplexity one of our men 
died, and one man and the boy were wafhed overboard. 
Wlien the weather cleared up a little, vve found ounelves 
eleven degrees north latitude upon the coaft of Guinea. Upon 
this the Captain gave reafons for returning, which 1 oppoled, 
counfelling him to fland away for Barbadoes, which, as 1 fup- 
pofed, might be attained in 15 days. So altering our courfc, 
we failed north weft and by weft, in order to reach the Lee-ju- 
ard \{linds i but a fecond ftorm lucceeding, drove us to the 
weHward.fo that we were juftly afraid of failing into the hands 
of cruel Salvages, or the paws of devouring beafts of prey. 

In this great diftrefs, one of our men, early in the morning, 
cried out. Land! Land! when no fooner looking out, hut 
our ftiip ftruck upon a land, and in a moment the fea broke 
over in fuch a manner, tiiat we expected we ftiould all have 
pcrifhed immediately. We knew nothing where we were, or 
upon what land we were driven ; whether an ifland or the 
main 5 inhabited or not inhabited ; and v>c could not fo much 
as hope that the fliip would hold many minutes, witlicut break* 
ing in pieces, except, the wind, by a niiiaclt, ftioukl turn a- 
bout immediately. While we ftood looking at one another, 
cxj.eCtirg death every rnoment, tlie mate laid hold of the bear, 
B z ' and 



and, with the help of the reff, got her fiung over the fliip's 
fide, and getting all into lier, being eleven of us, committed 
ourfelves to God's mercy, and the wild fea. And now we 
law that this laft effort would not be a fufBcIent proteitioa 
from death ; fo high did the fea run, that it was impofllble the 
boat (hould live. As to making fail, we had none ; neither 
if we had, could we make ufe of any. So that when we had 
rowed, or rather were driven about a league and a half, a rag- 
ing wave, like a lofty mountain, came rolling a fiern of u^, 
and took us with fuch fury, that at once it overfet the boat. 
Thus being fwaliowed up in a moment, we had hardly time 
!o call upon the tremendous name of God ^ much lefs to im- 
plore, in dying ejaculations, his infinite mercy, to receive our 
departing fouls. 

Men are generally counted infenfible, when flruggling in 
the pangs of death ; but while I was overwhelmed with water, 
I had the moft drtadiul apprehenhons imaginable ; for the 
joys cf heaven, at'd torments of helJ, feemed to prefent them- 
felves before me in thefe dying agonies, and even in thefraail 
fpace cf time, as it were, between life and death. I was going, 
I thought, I knew not whither, in a difmal gulf unknown, 
and as yet unperceived, never to behold my friends, nor the 
light of this world any more ! Coilld i even have thovght an- 
niliilntion, or a total diflolution of foul as well as body, the 
gloomy thoughts of having no further being, no knowledi^eof 
what we hoped for, bcit an eternal quietus, without life of 
lenfe ; even that, 1 fay, would have been enough to ftrike me 
with horror and confulion ! But itnvingto tiie laft extremity, 
'^vhile I thought ail my com.panions were overpowered and er,- 
tombed in the deep, it was with great difficulty 1 kept my 
breath till the wave fpent itfelf, ana retiring back, left me cu 
ihe fhore half dead with the water I had taken in. However, 
I got on my feet as faff as I could, left anotiier wave fliould 
purfue, and carry me back again ; but fcrall tlie hade I made, 
I could not avoid itj for the fea carne after me like a h'gh 
mountain, or furious enemy, fo that my feufinefs was to hold 
my breath, and by raifing mylelf on the wafer, preferve it by 
fwimming ; the next dreadful wave buried me at once twenty 
or thirty feet deep, but at the fame time carried me with a 
mighty force and fwifmefs tovvards the fhore ; when raiftng 
mjifeii, I lield out as well as poflible, till at length the water 
having fpent itfelf, began to return, at which I (truck fi/rward, 
and feeling ground with my feet, I took to my heels again ; 
thus being ferved twice more, I was at lafl dafhed agamffa 
piece of a rock, in fuch a manner as left me fenfelefs ; but re- 
covering a little before the return of the waves, which, no 
doubt, then would have overwlielmcd me, I held faft by the 
rock nil thofe fucceeding waves abated; and then, fetihit-.g 

a«iother 



anoiher run, was overtook by a fmall wave, which was fooa 
conquered ; but before any more could overtake me, I reach- 
ed the main land, where clambering up the clifts of the ftiore^ 
tired and alnjoit fjient, I fat dowii on the graf?, free from the 
dangers of the foaming ocean. 

No tongue can expreis the ecftafies and tranfports that my 
foul felrat this hspp'y deliverance; it was like a reprieve to a 
dying malefactor, with the halter about his neck, and ready 
to be turned off. I was wrapt up in contemplation, and often 
lifted up my hands, with the^ profoundefl: luimility, to the 
Divine Power, fcr faving my life, when the reft of my com- 
panions were ali drowned. And now I began to caft my eyes 
around, to behold wrkat place I was in, and what I had next 
to do. I could lee no houfe, nor people : 1 was wet, yet had 
no clothes to fhift m.e ; hungry and thirfly, yet nothing to eat 
or drink ; no weapon to deftroy any creature for '\ny fufte- 
nance, nor defend myfelf againft devouring beaits : In fhort, 
1 had nothing but a knife, a tobacco pipe, and a box half fill- 
ed with tobacco. The darkfome night coming upon me, in- 
crcafed my fears of being devoured by wild creatures ; my 
mird was i'unged in defpair ; and, having no profpedt, as I 
thcijght, of life before me, prepared fcr another kind of death 
than what I had lately efcaped. I walked about a furlong, 
to fee if I could fipd any frefh water, which I did to my great 
joy, and taking a'quid of tobacco to prevent hunger, I got up 
into a thick buihy tree, and [eating myfelf fo that I could not 
tall, a deep fleep overtook m.e, and for that night buried my 
Ibrrows in a quiet repofe. 

It was broad day the next morning before I awaked; 
when net only I perceived the tcinDeft was ceafed, but the fliip 
was driven almoft ss far as tiie rock before mentioned^ where 
the waves had dafhed me againf^, and which was about a raile 
from the place where 1 was. When I cam.e down from my 
apartment in the tree, 1 perceived the fhip's beat two miles 
d'ftant on my right hand, lying on fhore, as the waves haacaft 
her. I thought to have got t^o htr, but there being an inlet 
of water of about half a mUe's breadth between It and me, I 
returned again towards the O-vip, as hoping to find iomething 
fi)r my more immediat? (ubfiflence. About noon, when the 
fea was calm, that I could rome wiihin a quarter of a mile of 
her, it was to my grief I perceived that, if we had kept on 
board, all our lives had been faved. Thefe thoughts, and my 
lolitnde, drew tears from my eyes, tliough ail m vain. So 
refolving to get to the fhip, 1 rtript, and leapt into the water ; 
when Iwimming round her, 1 was afraid 1 fiiould not gel any 
thing to lay hold of ; but it was my good fortune to efpy a 
fmall piece of rope hang down by the tore chains, fo low, that 
with ijreat diCiciilty, €y the help'of it, T got into the forecaille 

ot 



of the fliip Here I found that tlie fhip was bulged, and had 
a great deal of water in her hold j her ftern was lifted up a- 
gainft a bank, and her head almofl in the water. All her 
quarter, and what was there, were free and dry. The pro- 
vifions I found in good order, with which I crammed my 
pockets; and, lofing no time, ate when I was doing other 
things J I alfo found fome rum, of which I took a hearty 
dram ; and now I wanted for nothing except a boat which in- 
deeed was all, to carry away what was needful for me. 

Neceflity occafions quicknefs of thought. We had feveral 
Ipare yards, a fpare topmafl: or two, and two or three large 
fpars of wood : With thefe I fell to work, and flung as many 
cf them overboard as I could manage, tying every one of 
them with a rope that they might not drive away. This done, 
I went down the fhip's fide, and tied four of them fait togeth- 
ef at both ends, in form of a raft, and laying two or three 
ihort pieces of plank upon them crol sways, 1 found it would 
bear me, but rot any confiderable weight. Upon which I 
went to work again, cuttinga fpare topmaft into three lengths, 
adding them to my raft with a great deal of labour and pains. 
I then confidered what I fhould load it with, it beiwg not abie 
to bear a ponderous burden. And this I foon thought of, 
firft laying upon it all the planks and boards I could get ; 
next I lowered down three of the feamens' chefts, after I had 
filled them with bread, rice, three Dutch cheefes, five pieces 
of dried goats' flefh, and fome Eurdpean corn, what little the 
rats had fpared ; but for the liquors, 1 found feveral cafes of 
bottles belonging to our (kipper. In which were fome cor- 
dial waters, and four or five gallons of arrack, which I flowed 
by themklves. By this time the tide beginning to flow, I 
perceived my coat, waiffcoat, and fhirt fwim away, which I 
had left on the fhore ; as for my linen, breeches, and flock- 
ings, 1 fwam with them on to the fhip : But I foon found 
clothes enough, yet took no more than I wanted for the pre- 
fent. My eyes were chiefly on tools to work with ; and after 
long fearch 1 found out the carpenter's chefl, which I got fafe 
down on n;y raft : Then 1 looked for arms and ammunition, 
and, in the great cabin, found two good fowling pieces, two 
piftols, feveral powder horns filled, a fmall bag of fhot, and 
two rufly old (words. 1 alfo found tluee barrels of powder, 
two of which were good, but the third had taken water j with 
two or tlirec broken oars, two faws, an axe, and a hammer, 
I put to (ea ; and in getting to fliore, I had three encourage- 
ments ; 1. A fmocth calm lea. 2. The tide rifing and Ut- 
ting in to the fliore. 3. The little wind there was blew tow- 
ards land. But after I had failed about a mile, 1 found the 
raft to drive a hltle diflance from the place where I firfl land- 
ed 5 and then I perceived a little opening of the land, with a 

flroog 



2 I ■' 

wroTig current of (he tide rvinr.ing in^o it, upon which I kept 
13 the middle of the (treani : But ^reat w^s my concern, v/hea 
on a fudden the tore part of my raft ran aground ; fo that had' 
I^not with great difficulty-, tor near half an hour, kept my 
'orotic . ftiaimng agatnit the che({s, to '.- eep ray cffjdts in their 
places, all I had would liave gone into the fea. Sut after 
lome fine, the rifing of the vvatev caufed the raft to float a- 
g-jin, when coming up a little river, with land on both fides, 
i landed in a little cove, as near the mouth as poffible, the 
Ixrter to dilcovcr a faii, if any fuch providentially paiTed by 
that vvay, - 

Not far off, I fpied a hill of a ftupcndous height, furround- 
ed with lelier hills about it : And thither I was refoived ta 
go and view the country, th.it I might fee what part was the 
bell place to fix my habitation in : 'Accordingly, arming my- 
/elt with a piflol, a fowling piece, powder, and ball, I afcend- 
ed the mountain : There I perceived I was in an ifland en- 
tompHfled by the lea ; no diflant lands to be leen, but fcatier- 
ed rucks that lay to the welt j that it feemed a barren place, 
and, -as I thought, inhabited only by wild beafts. I perceived 
abundance of fowls, but v^'as ignorant of what kind, or wheth- 
er good for nourilhment ; I fhot one of them at my return, 
which occafioneda confufed fcreamin^ among the other birds j' 
and I found it, by its colour and beak, to be a kincT of hawk, 
but its fle/h was pertefl carrion. 

When 1 came to my raff, I brought my effeifts on fhore, 
which work fpent that day entirely ; and fearing that feme 
cruel beafts might devour me in the night while I flept, 1 
n;ade a kind of a hut or barricade with the cherts and boards I 
brougiit from fliore. That night I flept very comfortably, 
and the next morning my thoughts were employed to make a 
further attempt on the fhip, and bring away what necelTaries 1 
could find, before another (rorm ftiouid break her to pieces. 
A«-Cordingiy, I got on board as before, and prepared a fecond 
raft, Tar more nice than the firft ; upon whiclv'r brought away 
the caiper.ter's (lores, two or three bags full of nails, a great 
jack fcrew, a dozen or two of hatchet?, and a grinoJlone. I 
alfo took away feveral things that belonged to the gunner, par- 
ticular.y two or three iron crows, two barrels of mnficet bul- 
lets, another fowiuic/ piece, a fmall quantify of powder, and a 
large bag full of fmali (hot. Befides thefe, I took all the mens' 
cioth.cs ! could find, a fpare fore top faii, hammock, and fome 
btdding ; and thus compL'ting my (econd cargo, I made all 
tlie hide to (horc I could, fearing fome wild beafl might de- 
flroy what I had there already. But I only foimd a little 
wild cut licring or one of the chcfis, who not feeming to fear 
me, or the gun that I piefented to her, I threw her a piece ot 

Tcuir, whiclj (he inftantly ate, and departed. 

V.'hcn 



£.2 

When I had gotten thefe effe6ls on fnore, I wentto .woik,- 
JDt order to make me a little tent with the fail and lonive poles 
ivhich I had cut for that purpofe ; and having finiifhed it,' 
what things might be damaged by the weather I brought in, 
piHng all the empty chef^^s and cafks in a circle, the better to, 
fortify it againft any fudden attempt of man or beaf^. .After 
this I blocked up the doors with fome boards, and an empty 
cheft turned the long way without. I then charged my gun 
and piftol ; and laying my bed on the ground, flept as com- 
fortably, till next morning, as though I had been in a Chril- 
tian country. 

:Now, tliough I had enough to fubfift me a long time, yet, 
defpairing of a fudden deliverance, or that both ammunition, 
and provificn might be fpent before fuch a thing happened, I^ 
coveted as much as I could : And fo long as the fhip remained ? 
in that condition,! daily brought away one neceflary or other;' 
particularly the rigging, fails, and cordage; fome twine, a: 
barrel of wet powder, fome fugar, a barrel of meal, three cafks 
of rum ; and what indeed was moft welcome to me, a whole 
Iiog/head of bread. 

The next time I went, 1 cut the cables in pieces, carried off 
a haufer whole, with a great deal of iron work, and made a- 
jjother raft with the mizen and fparit fall yards ; but this being 
fo unweildiy, by the too heavy burden I laid upon it, and not 
being able dextroufly to guide it as the former, both my cargo 
and I were overturned. For my part, all the damage I fuf- 
lained was a wet Ikin ; and at low water, after much labour 
in diving, I got moft of the cables, and fome pieces of iion. 

Thirteen days had 1 now been in the ifland» and eleven 
times on board, bringing away all that was pollible; though, 
I believe, had the weather been calm, I fhould have brought 
away the whole fhip, piece by piece. As I was going the 
twelfth time, the wind began to rife j however, I ventured at 
low water, and rummaging the cabin effe6tu»ally, in a locker I 
found feveral razors, tcilfars, and fome dozens of knives and 
forks ; and in another, thirty fix pounds in pieces of eight, 
filver, and gold. Jb ! fimfle 'vanity^ faid I, ijuhom this 'world 
fo much doats on^ luhere is neix) tby fvlrtue^ thy excellence to me F 
Tou cannot procure me one thing needful^ nor remonje me from this 
defolate ifland to a place of plenty : One ofthefe knlnjes, fo meanly 
ejieemedy is to me more preferable than all this heap : E'en there- 
fore remain ivbere thou art, to fink in the deep ^ as unregarded^ even 
as a creature 'xvhofe I ft is not nvorth prefer'ving. Yet after all 
\his exclamation, I wrapt it up in a piece ot canvas, and began 
to think of making another raft ; but foon I perceived the 
wind began to rife, a fre(h gale blowing from the /hore, and the 
fky overcaft with clouds and darkncfs. So thinking a raft 
to be in vain, I let myfelf into the water with what things 

I h«id 



-!1 

1 had about me, and it was with much difficulty I got a- 
fhore, when foon after it blew a fearful ftorm. 

That night I flept very contentedly in my little fenr, 
furrounded with all my efFeds ; but when I looked out in 
the morning,' no more fhip was to be [ttn. This much fur- 
prifed me for the prefent, yet when I confidercd I had loft no 
time, abated no pains, and had got every thing ufeful out of 
her, I comforted myfelt in the bed manner, and entirely iub- 
mitted to the will of Providence. 

My next thoughts were, how I (hould defend and fecure 
myfcif from favages and wild hearts, if any fuch were in the 
ifland. At one time I thought of digging a cave ; at anofher, 
I was for erecting a tent ; and, in fhort, I refolved to do 
both : The manner or form of which will not, I hope, be un- 
pleailng to defcribe. ,. 

• When I confidered the ground wherei was; that it was 
moorifh, and had no freHi water near it i my -relb-lutjons were 
to fearch for a foil healthy and well watered^, where I might 
not only be fheltered from the fun's fcorchrng heat, but be 
more conveniently fituated, as well to be fecured from wild 
men and hearts of prey, as, more eafily to difcover any diflant 
fail (hould it fo happen. 

And indeed it was not long before I had my defire ; I found 
a little plain near a rifing hill, the front towards which being 
as ^eep as a houfe fide, nothing could defcend on me from 
the top. On the fide of this rock was a lilt.e hollow place re* 
■fumbling the entrance or door of a cave. Juft before this 
place, on the circle of the green, I refolved my tent fhould 
tland. This plan did not much exceed loo yards broad, and 
about twice as long, like a delightful green before my door, 
with a pleafing, though irregular defcent every way to the low- 
grounds by the fea fide, lying on the N. N. W. fide of the 
hill, fo that it was fheltered from the excefiive heat of the fun. 
After this I dr^v: a femicircle, containingten yards in its femi- 
diamerer, and twenty yards in the whole, driving down twu 
rows of firong flakes, not fix inches from each other. Then, 
wiih the pieces of cable which i had cut on board, I regularly 
laid them in the circle between the piles up to their tops, 
which were more than five feet cut of the earth, and after 
drove another row of piles looking within fide againft 
them, between two or three feet high, whicii made me con- 
clude it a little impregnable caflle, from men and bealfs : 
And, for my better fecurity, I would have no door, but en- 
tered in and came out by the help of a ladder^ which I alfo 
made. 

Here was my fence and fortrefs, into which 1 carnied all 
my riches, amnumition and flores. After which, working on 
the roik, what with the dirt and ftont-s I dug out, I not only 

railed 



24 

raifed my grour.d t!*o festi .but made s litije celliir to my man- 
iion houl'e ; and this coft me many daj's labonrand pains. But 
one day in particular a fliower cf, lam falii;ig,r thunder and 
Jightning enfued, which put me.ifl terror, left my powder 
.fhould take fire, and not only hinder my neceflX^y fubfiftejicc 
by killing me food, but even blow up n.e and my habaa- 
tion :^ To prevent which, I f^M to making boxes and bags, 
in order to feparate it,., having by me near' 150ft. vve\giit. 
And thus being eftabliflied as king of the ifland, every ■'day 
I went cut with my gun to fee what I could kill that- was fit 
to eat. I lOon perceived numbers of goats, but very fliy : 
Yet having .watched. narrowly, and feeing I could better fhoot 
off the rocks, than w-hsn in the low grounds, I one day happened 
to flioot a fhegoat fucklinga young kid; who not thinking 
Jts dam flain, (toed by her urlct^ncerncd ; and when I took 
the dead creatoEeu'pi the young one followed me even to the 
incloi'ure, llrffeflidie kid over the pales, and woitld willing, 
ly havekept/itii'lwe ; but finding it could not be brought to 
Cut, I wa^ foncejito flay it alib for my own fubfiflence. 

Thus entered into a ftrange fcene of life, as ever any -man 
wa& in, I had mo't mtiancholy apiprehenfions concerning my 
deplorable condition ; and many times the tears would plen- 
lifully run down nty face, when I confidered howT was. de- 
barred iVom all communication with human kind. And 
while fome defponding cogitations would feem to make me 
arcufe providence, other good thoughts would interpofe and 
reprove, after this manner : Well, (uppollng you are defol- 
iate, n's it not better to be fo, than totally perifli ? Why 
were you fingled out to be faved, and the reft deliroyed j? 
Why fhould you complain, when not only your life is pre- 
ierved, but tlie fhip driven even into your reach, in order 
to take what was necelTary out of her for your fubfift- 
ence? But to proceed : It was, by the account 1 kept, 
the 30th of September^ when I firft landed on this ifland ; 
About twelve days after, fearing I (bould lofe my reckon- 
ing of time, nay even forget the Sabbath-days, for want of 
pen, ink, and paper ; I carved it with a knite upon a larg6 
poft, in great letters, and fetting it up wheie I landed, viz. 
1 cameonJJjore Sept. 30, 1^59. Every day! cuta notch witJi 
my knife on the ftdes of this fquare po(t, anid that on Sabbath 
was as long afiain as the red ; and every firft day of the 
month as long again as that long one: In this maimer I 
kept my kalendar, weekly, monthly, or yearly reckoniit^ET ^'f 
time. But iiad I made a more llritl fearch (as I did alter* 
wards) I need not have fet up this mark : For among the 
pnrcels belonging to the gunner, carpenter, and Captain's 
n.iate, thofe very things I wan*ed I found, particularly i;ens, 
ink, and paper j alfo two or 'three compalTes, fome mathemati- 
cal 



pa! inflrumefvfs, diair, pcrfpedli.ves, books ©f navigation, three 
EngVffj bibles, and feveral other good books, which I careful- 
ly put up. But here I cannot but call to mind our having a 
dog and two cats on board, whom I mndc hihabitants with me 
in my callle. Bur though one might think I hnd ail fuch necef* 
fariesas were defirable, yet flill I found feveral things want- 
ing. My ink was daily wafting ; I wanting needles, pins, and 
thread, to mend or keep my clothes together ; particularly a 
fpade, pick axe, or Ihovel, to remove the earth : It was a year 
before I finifhed my little bulwark ; and having (bme intervals 
of relaxation, after my daily wandering abroad for provifion, 
I drew up this plan alternately, as creditor and debtor, to re- 
mind me of the miferies and bleffings of my life, under fo mu- 
ny various circumftances. 



EVIL. 

I am call upon a defolxU r- 
Jlandy halving no hopes ^ no prof- 
pccJ of a ivficomf cleli'verance. 

TiiiS m'ferably am I fmglgd 
«ut frtm the enjoyment or com- 
pany of all mankind. 

Like an hermit (rather JJjould 
I Jayy a lonely anchorite) am I 
forced from human coniierfat'ion. 

My clothes, after fome time, 
nvill be ivorn out ; and then I 
(hull hanje none to co-i'er me. 

When mv ammunition is luajl- 
edy then Jhall I remain =vjithout 
any defence againjl ivild men 
and heafls. 

I haije no creature, no foul to 
fpeak to ; none to beg ajjiftance 
from. Some comfort ivould it 
be to refound my ^vocs, ivhere f 
am undcrjhsd ; and beg afjift- 
arue, -ivhere I might hope for re- 
lief 



GOOD. 

But yet I am preferrued, ivhilt? 
my companions haue perifhed in 
the ragirg ocean. 

Tctfet apart to be f pared front- 
death ! and he -rvho has fo pre- 
feri:ed me can defrjer me front 
this condition. 

Hoivenjer I ha-je food to eat, 
and enjen a happy prof peel ftf 
fubffence -rvhilji life endures. 

At prefent I enjoy 'what is ab- 
folutely needful ; and the climate 
is fo hctf that, had I e*verfo ma- 
ny, I Jbould hardh toear them. 

Yet if it does, I fee no danger 
of any to hurt me, as in Africa : 
And -what if I had been cajl a- 
•ivay on that coajl ? 

Is there not God to con<verfe to^ 
and is not he able to relienje thee? 
Already has he afforded thee fuf- 
tenance, and put it in thy pozver 
to pro^jidefor thyfclj till he fends 
thee a delinjerance* 



And now eafing my mind a little by thefe refledlions, I be- 
gan to render mv life as eafy as poHible. 1 muft here add, to 
the defcription I have given of mv habitation, that having 
raifed a turf wall againft the outfide of it, I thatched it /c> 
clofe, as might keep it from the i-»clcmenty ct the weather. 
1 alfo iniprovcd it within, enlarged mv cave, a;id made a pa(- 
C fago 



26 

lage and door in the rock, v. hich came ont beyond the pale of 
n)y fortification. I next proceeded to make a chair and table, 
and fo began to (ludy thole mechanical arts that (eenied to n^e 
pradlicable : For when I wanted a plank or board, I hewed 
down a tree with my hatcher, making it as thin with my axe as 
pofiible, and then fmooth enough wiih my adze to anfwer my 
dcfigns ; yet this way cciild I make no more than one board 
out of a tree : But in length of time I got boards enough to 
ihelter all my liores, every thing being regularly placed, snd 
my guns fecurely hanging againft the fide of the rock. All 
this made it a very pleafant fight to me, being the refult of 
vart labour and diligence ; which leaving for a while, and me 
to the enjoyment of, I (hall give the reader an account of my 
Journal, from the day of my landing, till the fixing and fet- 
tling of my habitation, as heretofore fliewn, 

JOURNAL. 

September 30, 1659, I unhappy Robin/on Crufoe, having/uf- 
fered Ihipwreck, was driven on this defolate ifland, which I 
jiamed the Defolate //land of De/pairj the red being fwallowed 
up in the lempeltuous ocean. The next day I fpent in confid- 
eration of my unhappy circumltances, having no profpe6i, but 
of death, either to be ftarved with hunger, or devoured by 
beads or mercilefs favages. 

O^lob. I. Thaf morning, with great comfort, I beheld the 
ihip drove afhore. Some hopes I had, that when the florm 
was abated, I might be able to get fome food and neceflaries 
out of her ; which I conceived were not damaged, becaufe the 
Ihip did (bnd urright. At this time I lamented the lofs of 
my companions, and our misfortune in leaving the veflTel. 
When I perceived the ihip, as it were, lie dry, I waded through 
the fands, then fwam aboard, the weaii:. being very rainy, 
and with fcarcely any wind. 

Tb the i4th of this month, my time v. as employed in mak- 
ing voyages, every tide getting what. I could out of the Ihip. 
The weather very wet and uncertain. 

Oclob. 20. My rait, and all the goods thereon, were over- 
fet ; yet 1 recovered moil of them again at low water. 

O^ob. 25. It blew hard, and rained night and day, when 
the ftiip diifolved in pieces, fo that nothing was leen of her but 
the wreck at low Water. This day I fecured my goods from 
the inclemency of the weather. 

0(^ob, 26. I wandered to fee where I could find a place con- 
venient for my abode. I fixed upon a rock, in the evening, 
marked out a half moon, intending to ereit a wall, fortified 
with piles, liRcd within with pieces of cablcp, and covered witii 
turf. 

Nov. 



-'7 

Nov. I. I erci^cd my tent under a reck; and took up my 
lodging very contentedly in a hammock that night. 

No^j. 2. This day I ter.ced niyfel/ in with liinber, chefl5, 
and t)oards. 

Nov. 3. I (hut two wild fowl, refembiing ducks, which were 
good to cat ; and in th^? atrernoon made me a table. 

No-z>, 4.. I be^:an to live regularly : In the morning, I al- 
lowed myfelf two cr three hours to walk out with my gun ; 
then worked til) near 11 o'clock : And after refrefhed nnfeif 
with what I bad to eat. From iz to 2 1 would lie down to 
deep. Extreme luUry weather; In tlie evening go to work 
again. 

No'V. 5. Weisr out with my gtm and dog, fnot a wild cr.t 
^viih a (oft fKir, but lier fl^Oi was gcod for .nothiiig. The 
tkins of thofe I kdied J preierved. in my return I perceived 
many wild birds, and was terrified by iome feals, which tnads^ 
cff to fea. 

No^>. 6. Completed my table. 

Nov. 7. Fair weather. 1 worked till tlie Jifh, but omitted 
the nth, which, according to niy ra'cuiatiju, J luppo(cd t<i 
be Sii?:daj. 

No'v. 13. Rain in abunaancp, which h.owever much cooled 
the earth, when thunder and lijzhtnincJ caufed in me a terrible 
lurprjz^. The weather clearing, in (enarate parcels I (ecured 
luy powder, 

Non). 14. to 16. I made little boxes for my powder, lodging 
ihem in feveral places. I alfo (hot a large fowl, which prov- 
ed excellent meat. 

AW, 17. I began to dig In the rock, yet was obliged to de- 
fift for Want ot a pick axe, (hovei, and wheelbarrow. Iron 
crows I caufed to (upply tlie place of the firfl; but with all ir.y 
art could not ma' _ a wheelbarrow. 

Nov. 18. It was my fortune to find a tree, refembiing what 
the B'^ofiUans call an iron tree. I had like to liave fpoiled my,^' 
axe with cutting ir, being very hard, a-'id exceeding heavy ;^ 
\et with much labour and induftry 1 made a fort of a Tpade 
out fcf it. 

Nov. 25, Thefe. tools being made, I daily carried on my 
biifrnf^ls ; eighteen days i aMowed for enlarging my cave, that 
it might (erve me not only for a warehoule, but kitchen, par- 
lour, and cellar. I commonly lay in the tent, unle(3 the 
v.eathcr was rainy tiiat I could not lie dry. So wet would it 
beat certain feafons, tTiat I v as obliged to cover all within the 
pale with long poles in the form of rafters leaning againfl the 
reck, and load them with flags and large leaves ot trees re- 
K'fT.bhng a tliatch. 

Dec. 10. No fooner did 1 think my habitation finifhed, but 
U.ddeiiiy a great deal of tlie top broke in, fo that it wa& a mer- 
cy 



cy I was not buried In the ruins. This orcafioned a greet 
<^€al of pains and trouble to me, before i could make it firm 
and durable. 

Dec. 17. I nailed up fome fhelves, and drove nails and fta- 
ples in the wall and pofts, to hang things out of the way. 

Dec. 20. Every thing I got into its place, then made a fort 
«>f a diefler, and another table. 

Dec. 24, 15. Rain in abundance. 

De«. 26. Very fair weather. 

Dec. 27. I chanced to light on fome goats, fuot one, wound- 
ed another. I led it home in a ftring, bound up its leg, and 
cured it in a little time ; at length it became fo tame and fa- 
miliar, as to feed before the door, and follow me where I 
pleafed. This put me in mind to bring up tame crealures, in 
Older to fupply me with food after my ammunition was fpent. 

Dec, 28, 29, 30. The weather being excedive hot, with lit- 
tle air, obliged me for the mod part to keep within doors. 

Jan. I. Still fultry. However, obliged by necedity, I went 
out with my gun, and found a great ffore of goats in the val- 
lies J they were exceedingly fliy, nor could my dog hunt them 
down. 

Jan. 3, to 14. My employment this time was to finifh the 
wall before defcribed, and fearch the ifland. I difcovered a 
kind of pigeons like our houfe pigeons, in a neft among the 
rocks : I brought them home, nurfed them till they could fly, 
and then they left me. After this I fliot fome, which proved 
excellent food. Some time I fpent vainly in contriving to 
make a cafk ; I may well fay it was vain, becaufe I could 
neither join the ffavcs, or fix th€ heads, fo as to make it tight. 
Then taking fome goat's tallow I had by me,and a little oakum 
for the wick, I provided myfelf with a lamp, which ferved me 
jnilcad of candles. 

But now a very flrange event happened : For being ^n the 
height of my fearcl), what fhould come into my hand, but a 
bag, which was ufed to hold corn (as I fuppofed) for the 
f jwls : So immediately refolving to put gunpowder in it, I 
ihoQk all the hulks and dirt upon one fide of the rock, little 
iufpefiing what the confequence would be. The rain had 
fallen plentifully a few days before ; and about a month after, 
to my great amazement, fomething began to fprout out very 
i;reen and flourilhing : And when I came to view it more 
likely every day, as it grew, I found about 10 or 12 ears of 
j^recn barley appearing in the very fame fliape and n^ake as 
%!iat in England. 

J can fcarce cxprefs the agitations of my mind at this figl>t« 
Hitherto I liad looked upon the actions of this life no other- 
wife than only as the events of blind chance and fortune: 
Uut now, :hc appearance of this barley, to that fort of grain, 

fiourifhino; 



fioiiriiliirg 't. a bnrren foil, and my ignorance in not conceiv- 
ing how it Hiould come there, made me conchide, that miracles 
'-ii'ere not yet a&fed : Nay, I even thought that God had ap- 
pointed it to grow there wirhoiit any feed, purely for my fuf- 
tenance in this mifcrable and defolate ifiand. And indeed 
liich great effect had this upon me, that it often made me melt 
into fears, through a grafefai fenfe of God's mercies j and the 
greater rtill was my thankfulnefs, v/hen I perceived, about tkis 
iittle field of barley, feme rice (talks, wonderfully flourifhing 
in proportion to the crop within. 

While I was thus wonderfully pleafed in mind, I concluded 
there mufl be more corn in the iHand ; and therefore made a 
dUigel^t fearch narrowly among the rocks, but could not find 
j^ny; when, upon a fudden, it came into my mind, how I had 
fliaken the hufks of corn oiit of tl>e big, and then my admira- 
tion ceafed, with my gratitude to the Divine Being, as thinking 
h ivas but naturaly and not to be conceived a miracle ; though 
even the manner of its prefervation might have made ine own 
it as a wonderful event ol God's kind Providence. 

It was about the latter end of June wheii the ears of this 
corn ripened, which I laid up very carefully, together .with 
30 or 30 fta'ks of nee, expeding one day I fliould reap the 
fruit of my labour ; yet four years were expired before I 
could allow myfelf to eat any barley bread, and mnch longer 
time before I had any rice. After this, with indefatigable 
pams and induftry for three or four months, at laft I finifhed 
my cave on the 14th oi April^ having no way to go into it, but 
by a ladder againft the wail. 

JlprU 16. I finifhed my ladder, and afcended it ; after puU- 
f d it up, then let itdjwn on the other fide, and defcended in- 
to my new habitaiion, where I had fpace enough, and fo for- 
tified that nothing could attack me without Icaling the walls. 

But what do all human pains and induftry avail, if the blefT- 
ings of God do not crov/n our labours? Or, who can ftind 
before the Almighty, wlien he ftretcheth forth his arm : For 
one time, as I was at the entrance of my cave, there happened 
fuch a dreadful earthquake, that not only the roof of the cave 
ranje crumbling about my ears, but the pofls feemed to crack 
Terribly at the lame time. This made me, in great amaze- 
ment, run to my ladder, and get over the wall : When there, 
I plainly knew it was an earthquake ; the place I flood on fuf- 
taining three terrible fhocks in lefs than three minutes. And 
when I faw the top of a great rock rjU into the fea, then I ex- 
pected the ifiand would be fwallowtd up every moment : Add 
dreadful if'was to fee the fea thrown into the moll violent agi- 
tat'r»n and dslorder by this tremendoiis arcidcnr. 

V:v my parr, I fiood like a criminal, at the place of execu- 
tion, ready lo expire. At the movitig of tlie earth; I was a"' 
C 1 it 



it wer«, fea fick ; aad very much afraid left the rock, under 
which was my fence and habitation, fliould overivhelm me 
«tnd it in a lading tomb. 

When the third dreadful fliock had fpent itfeif, my fpirits 
began to revive ; yet ftill I would not venture to afcend the 
ladder, but continued fitting, not knowing what I {hould do. 
So little grace then I had, only to fay, Lord bwve mercy upon 
me ! and no fooner was the earthquake over, but that paihetit 
prayer left me. 

It was not long after when a horrible tempefl: arofe, at th« 
fame time attended with a hurricane of wind. The fea feem- 
ed mountains high, and the waves rolled fo impetuoufly, that 
nothing could be perceived but froth and foam. Three hours 
did this ftorm continue, and in fo violent a manner, as to tear 
the very trees up by the roots, which was fucceeded by abund- 
ance of rain. When this was over, I went to my tent, but the 
rain coming again upon me in a furious manner, obliged me 
to take fhelter in the cave ; and tlien I was forced to cut a 
channel through my fortification to let the water out. It con- 
tinued raining all that night, and fome time the next- day : 
Yet, no fooner did the weather clear up, but I refolvcd to build 
me a little hut in fome open place, walled round, to defend me 
from wild creatures and favages, as not thinking but at the 
next earthquake the mountain would fall upon my habitaliou 
and me, and fwallow up all in its bowels. 

April 19, 20. Thefe days 1 fp«nt in contriving how and in 
what manner I fliould fix my place of abode : All this while I 
was under the mofl dreadful apprehenfions. When I looked 
round my habitation, every thing I found was in its proper 
place. 1 had feveral refolutions wliether I fhould move or 
not. At length I refolved to ftay where I was, till I had 
found a convenient place where I might pitch my tent. 

Apr. 2x, When I began to put my refolutions in prafUce, 
I was ftopt for want of tools and inflruments to work with, 
Moft of my axes and hatchets were ulelefs, occafioned by cut- 
ting the hard timber that grew on the ifland. It took me up 
a full week to make my grind ff one of ufe to me, and at latt 
1 found out a way to turn it about with my foot, by the help 
of a wheel and a firing. 

Apr, 28,29. Thefe days were fpent In grinding my tools. 

Apr. ZO' My bread falling fhort, I allowed myfelf but one 
bifcuit a day. 

May J. As I walked along the fea fliore, I found a barrel 
of gunpowder, and feveral pieces of the wreck, which the fea 
had flung up. Having fecured thefe, I made to the fliip, 
whofe ftern was torn oft, and vvafhed a great diftance afhore ; 
but the red lay in the fands. This, I fuppofed, was occafion- 
ed by the earihqualtt. Nuvr J ref\;lvtd to keep my old place 

of 



of abode ; and aUo to go to the iiipthat day, but found it im- 
poiTible. 

May 3. I went on board, and with my faw fawed off 
one of the beams which kept her quarter deck ; then I 
cleared the fand till flood. 

May 4- I caught fome fifh, but they were not wholefome. 
The fame day I alfo caught a young dolphin. 

]\Iay 5. This day I alfo repaired to the wreck, and fawed 
anflajier piece of limber : and w hen the flood came, I made 
a float of three great planks, whicji was driven afliore by 
the tide. 

MiTy 6, 7, S, 9. Thefe days I brought off the iron bolts^ 
opened the deck with the iron crow, and carried two planks 
to land, having made a way into the very middle of the 
wreck. 

May 10 f 11, 12, 13, 14. All this time I fpent in bringing 
©fi^'j'reat quantities of iron and timber. 

May 15. Took with me two hatchets, on purpofe to cut 
fome lend cff the roll, but all in vain, for it lay too low un- 
der water. 

May 16. I omitted going to the wreck this day ; for em- 
ploying ravfelf in looking for pigeons, I outflayed my time. 

May \-j. I perceived feveral pieces of the wreck blovra 
afhore, which I found belonged to the head of the Ihip. 

May 24. To this day I worked on the wreck, and with 
■great difficulty loofened fome things {o much with the crow, 
that at the firft flowing tide feveral cafks floated out,, and many 
of the feamens' cherts ; yet that day nothing came to land, but 
pieces of timber, and a hogfhead which had fome Brajilpork in 
jt. 1 continued working to the 15th o^ June (except neceffa- 
ry times for food and refi) and had I known how to have built 
a boat, I had timber and planks enough : I had alio near one 
■ hundred weight of fheet lead. 

June 16. As I was wandering towards the feafide, I found 
a large tortoife or turtle, being the firft I had feen on the iiland ) 
though, as I afterwards found, there were many on the other 
fide of it. 

June 17. This day I fpent in cooking it, found in her three 
fcorc eggs, and her flefh the moftfavoiiry and pleafant I ever 
tailed in my li(e. 

June i2>. I (laid within this day, there being a continual 
rain ; and it was fomeihing more chilly and cold than ufual. 

June 19. Exceeding bad, taken with a trembling and fhiv- 
cring. 

June 20, Awake all night, my heud rack'U with pain, and 
fcveri/li, 

June 



Jum 21. Sick unto dfrath, and terrified with i^ie difina'. 
apprehenfion's of my condition : Piayed to God trcquenily, 
bii^ very confufedly. 

June 11. Something better, but fiill uneafy in my mind. 

June 23. Again relapfed, much as before. 

June 24. Mended a I'econd tiine. 

June 25. A violent ague for feven hours, cold and hot fifs 
Succeeded, with faint (weats. 

Juncz'^. Better, but very weak ; yet I fcrambled out, fljjt 
a (he goat, brought it home, and broiled foine of it : I would 
willingly have ftewed it, and niade iome broth, but had no 
pot. 

June 27. All this day I wasafflifled with an a^ue ; thirflv» 
yei could not help myfelf to v^ater : Prayed to God in thele 
words: Lord ^ in fhy look upon me ^ Lord hwoe mercy upon me^ 
ka<ve mercy upon me ! After this I fell aileep, which I found 
had much refrelhed me when I awaked. I fell afleep a 
fecond time, and fell into this ftrange and terrible fort of 
dream. 

Metliought I was fitting on the fame fpot of ground, at the 
cutfide ot the wail, where I fat when the iiorm blew after 
the earthquake ; and that I faw a man defcending from a 
great black cloud, and alight upon the ground. He was ail 
over as bright as a flafh of fire, that a little before furrounded 
him; his countenance irtconceivabiy terrible; the earth, as 
as it were, trembled when he ftept upon the ground, and 
flaflies of fire feemed to fill all the air. No fooner I thought 
him landed upon the earth, but with a long fpear or other 
weapon he made towards me ; but firft alcending a rifing 
ground, his voice added to my amazement, when I thought 
1 heard him pronounce thefe dreadful words. Unhappy ivretch ! 
feeing all thefe things haue not brought tkee to repentance ^ thou 
fbalt immediately die. In pronouncing this dreadful fentence, 
1 thought he went to kill me with the fpear that was in his 
hand. 

Any body may think it impoflible for me to exprefs tl;e. 
horrors of my mind at this vifion ; and even when I awaked, 
this very dream made a deep imprefiion upon my mind. 
The little divine knowledge I had, I received from my father's 
.infirudtion?, and that v^as worn cut by an uninterrupted feries 
of leafaring impiety, for eight years (pace, except what fick- 
nefs forced from me ; I don't remember I had one ihougiit 
of lifting up my heart towards God ; but rather had a certain 
ftupidity of foul, not having the lead: fenfe of fear of the om- 
nipclcnt Being when in diilrefs, nor oi gratitude to him K'!' 
his deliverances. Nay, when I was on the def[>erate exped - 
ticn on the ^z{-^\\ African (hore, I can't remember I had one 
tiiought of what would becooie of mc, and b^g his confolation 

and 



an3 affiance in my rtifferings and diftrefs. Wiien the Portu- 
gtiefe captain took me up, and honourably ufed me j nay, farther, 
v^hen I was even delivered from drowning, by efcaping to this 
jiland, I never looked upon it as a judgment, but only (aid 
I was an unfortunate dog, and that's all. Indeed fome fecret 
tranfports of foul I had, which wps not through grace, but 
only a common flight of joy, that I was yet alive, when my 
companions were all drowned : and no other joy could I 
conceive but wliat is common with ihe failors over a bowl of 
punch, after they have efcar-ed the createft dangers. 

Tiie likelihood of wanting for neirher food nor conveniences 
Tuight have called upon me for a thankful acknowledgment to 
Providence. Indeed the growth o': my corn touched me witii 
fome fenfe, but that foon were ofr agim ; The terrible earth- 
quake pointed tome as it were .Nie finger of God, but my 
dreadful amazement continued no longer than its diiration. 
But now, when my fpirits began to fink under the burden of 
a firong diftemper, and I could leifurely view the miferle* 
of death prefent itfelf before my eyes, then my awakened 
confcience began to reproach me with my paft life, in which 
I had fo wickedly provoked the juftice of God to pour down 
his vengeance upon me. 

Such reflexions as thcfe opprcffed me even in the violence 
of mydiftemper. Some prayers I uttered, which only pro- 
ceeded from my fear of death. But when I confidered my 
father's advice and prophecy, I could not forbear weeping: 
For he told me. That if I did perfijl in my folly I Jheuld not only be 
deprived of God's blcffmgy but ha've time €?wugb to refieSl upon my 
defpifing his injltu/llons ; and this in a ivretched time^ 'when none 
£ould help me. And now concluding it to be fulfilled, having 
no foul in the ifland to adniinifter any comfort to me, I pray- 
ed, however, earneilly, to the Lord, that he v;ould help me in 
this my great calamity : And this, I think, was the firft time 
I prayed in finccrily tor many years. But now I mufl return 
lo my Journal. 

June 28. Something rcfreflied with fleep, and the fit quite 
off, 1 got up. My dream ftill occafioned in me a great con- 
flernation ; and fearing that the ague might return the fuc- 
ceeding day, I concluded it a time to get fometbing to com- 
fort me. I filled a cafe bottle with water, and fet it witl^ini 
the reach of my bed ; and to make it more nourifhing, and 
le's chilly, I put fome rum into it. The next I did was to 
broil me a piece ot goat'& flefh, of which I ate but little. I 
was very weak, however walked about, dreading the return 
of my diflemper j and at night I fupped on tiiree of the tur- 
tle's egj^s which I roafled and ate, begging God's bleflin^ 
lhcre\Tith. 

After 



After I hadeafcn, I attempted to walk again oirt of doort 
^ilh my gun ; but fo weak, that I fat down and looked at 
the fea, which was finooth and calm : While I coiuinucd here, 
ttiefe thought came into my mind. 

In what manner is tlie prodinflionof the earth and Tea, which 
I have ieen i"o much of ? From whence came niyleU", and a-ll 
other creatures living, and of what are we nir.d« f 

Our beings were alfuredly created by fome Almighty in- 
vifible Power, who framed the earth, the fea, and air, and all 
tlieirein. But what is that Power r 

Certainly, u muii follow, that God Jjis created it all. Yet, 
f«id i, if God has made ail this, hi nrjuft be the iiiler of them 
aiJ, and what is relating thereto j for certainly the power that 
makes, mu/i indifpulably have a power to guide and direct 
them. And if this be (o (as certainly it muff) nothing can 
}?appen without liis kriowjedoe or appointment. Then furely, 
if nothmi^' happens witi-,'nit G^d's appointtnent, certainly God 
i:as appointed ihti'e my fii/fcrings to befal me. And liere [ 
fixed my lura beJ-icf, that ir was iiis v/iil that it fli-D^jid be fo ; 
VAud then proceeded to enquire, why fhould God deal with me 
in this manrier ? Or what had 1 done thus to deferve his in. 
dignation ? 

Here confcience fiew inniy face, reprehending me as a blaf- 
phemer ; crying u'iHi a loud snd piercin^^ voice, Unwori/jy 
nvretch ! dare you ajk 'what you haue done ? Look upon your pajl 
i'tfey and fee 'XxAatyou ha^ve left undone. Alk thyfelf, why thou 
Vv-ert not long ago in the mercilefs hands of death ? Why not 
drowned in Yarmouth roads, or killed ii the fight when the 
fliip was tsken by the Sallee man of war ? Why not entombed 
in the bowels of wild beafls on the /Ifrlcan coafl, or drowned 
here, when all thy companions fiiffered thipwreck. 

Struck dumb with thefe refle<5fions, I rofe up in a penfiv? 
manner, beinjc fo thoughtful that I could not go to fleep : And 
fearing th.e dreadful rerurn of my diRemper, it caufcd me to 
remember that the Braftl'ians ufe tobacco for aimofl all difeaf- 
es. 1 then went to uiy cheff, in order to find fome, where 
lieaven no doubt dire».*ted me to a cure for both foul and b >- 
dy ; for there I found one of t\\t bibles which till this time I 
fiad neither'T^ifure nor inclination to look into : I took both 
the tobacco and that out ot the cheff, and laid them on the ta- 
b!?. Several experiments c»id I try with the tobacco: Firll F 
tack a leaf, and chewed it; but it being verygreen arid 
flrong, almod ftupified me. Next 1 fteeped it in iome rum an 
hour or two, relolving when I went to bed to take a dofe of 
it ; and in the third place, I burnt fjme over a pan of fir«=', 
holding my nofe over it fu long as i could endure the lealt 
feat tv.tlit'iil li;tIln:ation 

In 



In the intervals of this operation, though mv head was gid- 
dy and diiturbed vviih tee tobacco, I took up the bible to read : 
No fooner did I open it, but there appeared to me thcfe wcrus, 
Call on me in the day of trouble y and I -zviU ddi-ver, and tboti fbalt 
ghnfy me. 

Ac firft this fentence made a very deep iiBpredion on my 
heart ; but luon wore cff again, \^hen I conlidered the vvord 
delinjer was foreign to me. And as X\\t chiidren of Ifracl i'aid, 
when they were pronii'ed flefh to eat, Can Godffread a tah^eln 
theixjildernefs ? In like manner 1 began to (ay, Can G( d hun* 
leit deliver me from this defoiale illand f Hovsever, the words 
wonld ftill return to my mmd, and after made a great im- 
prelfion upon me. As it now was very late, and the tobacco 
had dozed my head, I was inclined to deep ; but betcre i 
would lie down, I fell on my knees, and implored the prcm- 
ilc rliat God had made to me in tiie Holy Scriptures, that •// 
called upon bim in the day of trouble^ ke ivculd aeii'ver tne. Wiih 
much difficulty I after drank the rum, wherein I had ftceped 
the tobacco ; which flying in my head very violently, threw 
me into fucli a profound flcep, that it was three o'clock the 
next day before I awaked ; or rather, I believe, 1 flept two 
days, having certainly loft a day in my own account, and I 
could never tell any other way. When I got up, my (pirifs 
were lively and cheerful j my flomach much better, being ve- 
ry hungry j and, in fnort, no fir returned the next day, whicU 
was the 29th, but much altered for the better. 

The 3oih, I went abroad with my gun, but not far, and 
killed a lea towl or two, refembling a brand goofe, which yet 
I cared not to eat when I brougltt them home, but d^ned on 
two more of the turtle's eggs. In the evening 1 renewed my 
medic'ne, except not taking that quantity, neither di\A I chew, 
of the leaf, or hold my head over the hiioke, yet the next day 
I had a little fpice ot the cold fit, which was en the ift of 

Jidy 2. I took my medicines as I d.d the firft time. 

July 3. The fit quite left me, but very weak. In this con- 
dition I often thought of tliefe words, I'voiliddi'vcr thee j and 
while at fome times I would think of the impQlIibiliiy of i', 
other tlioughts would lepreiiend me, for difregarding the de» 
iiverances I had received, even in the moft torlcrn and diC- 
irelfed condition. What regard had I to Goo's abundant 
mercies r Had I done my part ? Me bad delixeied me^ but i had 
Jiot glorified him j as much as to fay, I had not own'd and been 
thankful for that as a deliverance, and how could I expert a 
greater ? So much did this fenlibly touch my heart, that I 
gave God thanks for luy lecovery from fickyefs in the mult 
humble proftration, 



'^uly 



35_ 

July 4. This morninw I began ferioiifly to ponder on what 
h \sv\X\tnm \hc Neiv-Teftamenty refolving to read a chapter 
every morning and night, as long as my thoughts would en- 
gage Rie t But when foon after I fet about this work fcrionf- 
ly, I found my heart deeply affe(5ted with the impiety of my 
paft life : Thele words that I thought were fpoken to me ia 
my dream revived, All thefe things ha-vc not brought thee to re- 
fcntancc. After this, I begged of God to aflilt me witii his 
lioly fpirit in returning to my duty, when peruJin^ the fcrip- 
tures one day, I came to thefe words. He has exalted a Pr'mce 
and a Sanjmir^ to gi've repentance and to fi<ve rem/JJion : Imme- 
diately I laid down the book, and with uplifted hands to liea- 
ven, loudly cried, O blejjedjefusy than Sen of David, JefuSy thou 
fxahed Prince and Sa-vioiiry give me repentance ! And now in- 
deed I prayed with a true fenfe of my condition, and a more 
certain hope founded on the word of God : Now I had a dif- 
ferent fenfe of thefe words, Call on me and I <will deli'ver you ; 
that is, from the dreadful load of guilt, which oppprefled my 
finful loul ; and not from a folitary life, which might rather 
be called a bleffmg (feeing I wanted neither food nor raiment) 
than living among the race of human kind, furrounded with 
fo nmch oppreflion, mifery andafflidion : And, in a word, I 
came to this conclufion ; That a deliverance from lin, was 
a much greater blefling than a deliverance from afflidion. 
But again I proceed to my journal. 

To the 24th of Ja/y I walked about with my gun, a little 
and a little at a time, having been reduced to the greatefl ex- 
tremity of weaknefs. The application and experiment I uled 
were perfc-ftiy new ; neither could I recommend it to any 
one's practice. For though it carried off the fit, it very much 
weakened me ; and I had frequently convulfions in my nerves 
and limbs for fome time. From hence 1 learned, that going 
abroad in rainy weather, efpecially when it was attended with 
Itorms and hurricanes of wind, was molt pernicious to health. 
Inthisifland I had been about ten months, never ail the 
while having feen any human kind, and fo accounted myfelf 
as fole monarch } and, as I grew better, having lecured my 
habitation to mv mind, I refolved to make a tour round my 
kingdorH, in order to make new difcoveries. 

The 15th of July I began my journey. I nrfl went to the 
creek, where I had brought my rafts on fhore ; and travelling 
farther,iound the tide going no higher than two miles up, where 
there was a little brook ci running v ater, on the banks of 
which were many pleafant favannas or meadows, plain, fmooth, 
and covered with grafs : On the rifing parts, where I fup- 
pofed the water did not reach, I perceived a great deal of to- 
Isacco growing to a very ftrong flalk : Several other plants I 
likewile foujjd, tlie virtues of which I did not underfland. But 

a long 



3L 

a long time I fearched for the calTava root, which I knew the 
Indians in that climate made their bread of, but all in vain. 
There were (everal plantsof aloes, though at that time I knew 
not what they were : Likewise I faw feveral fagar canes, but 
imperfedt for want of cultivation. With thefe few difcoveries 
I came back that night, and flept contentedly in my little 
caltle. 

The next day, being th^ i6th, going the fame way, and 
farther than the day before, I found the country more adorned 
with woods and trees. Here I perceived different fruits, 
which lay in very great abundance. The melons ui plenty lay 
on the grouad ; and cluffers of grapes, ripe and very rich, 
fpread over the trees. You may imagine I was glad of this 
difcovery, yet ate very fparingly, left I fhould throw myfelf 
into a flux or fever. As for the grapes, 1 found them of ex- 
cellent ufe ; for when I had dried them in the fun, which pre- 
ferved them as dried raifins are kept, they proved very wholc- 
fome and nourifhing, and ferved me in th»fe fca(ons when no 
grapes were to be had. 

The night drav/ing on apace, I afcended up a tree, and 
Jlept very comfortably, though it was the firfi time I had 
lain out of my habitation. And when the morning came, I 
proceeded with great pleafureon my way traveUing about four 
miles, as I imagined by the length of the valley, directing my 
courfe northward, there being a ridge of Jiills on fouih and 
north fide of me. At the end of this valley I came to an 
opening, where the country feemed to defcend to the weft : 
There I found a little fpring of frefh water proceeding out of 
the fide of a hill, with its chryftal ffreams running dire6f ly 
eaff. And indeed here my fen(es were charmed with the mo(t- 
lovely objeft nature could afford ; for the country appeared 
fo flourifiung, green and delightful, that to me it feemed like 
a planied garden. I then defcended on the fide of that deli- 
cious vale, where I fo'jnd abundance of cocoa, orange, lemon 
and citron trees, but very v^ild and barren at that time : 
The juice of which I afrerwards ufed to mix in water, wiiicU 
made it very cool and refrefhing. And now, I was refolved 
to carry home and lay up a (lore of grapes, limes, and lemons, 
againft (he approaching wet fealon : So laying up in feparate, 
p;ircels, and then taking a few of each with me, I returned to . 
my little caffle, after having fpent three days in this journey r' 
But before 1 got home, the gri'.pes were fo briiifed that they 
were utterly fpoiled, the limes indeed were good, but few, 
could I bring away. *v 

Jufy 19. Having pVepared two bags, I returned thither 

again ; but to my great furprize found all the grapes fpread 

about, trod to pieces, and abundance eaten, which madr 

me to conclude there were wild creatures thereabouts. Tor 

D remedy 



_38_ 

remedy this, Igathered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung 
them uponthc out branches of the trees, that they might cure 

-"fend dry iri:rthe fun ; and having well loaded myfelf with 

'vlimes and lemons, I leturned once more to my old place of 

^ refidence. 

And now it was, that contemplating on the fruitfulnefs of 
the valley, the pleafanmefs of the fituation, the fecuriry from 
Jlorms on that fide the water, and the deiif^hthilnefs of an ad- 
jacent wood ; I concluded 1 was fettled in the woiii part of 
the country, therefore was thinking to remove my habitation. 
But when I confidered again, that thougli it was pleafant it 
■was not by the fea fide, where there was a poiribility, lowr.e 
time or other, a (hip might either be driven to, or (ail by that 
coaft : and that to enclofe my'elf among hills and woods muit 
certainly fruftrate ail hopes of a deliverance ; T refolved to 
let my caftle remain where Providence had firft afligned ir. 
Yet, fo raviflied was I with this place, that 1 made me a little 
kind of bower, furroundifjg it at a dil^ance with a double 
hedge, as high as I could reach, well (taked and filled witti 
bulrufhes, and having (pent a great part of the month of 
jfuly^ I think it was thefirlt of Augujl before 1 began to enjoy 
iTiy labour. 

Au^. 3. Perceiving my giapes to be dry, I took them from 
the frees, and they proved excellent good raifins of the fun ; 
the mod of which I carrried to my cave ; and happy for me 
1 did fo, by which I faved the be(l part of my winter food. 

Augyii^. It began to rain this day ; and though 1 had made 
me a tent like the other, yet having no (belter of a hill lo 

• keep me from (forms, nor a cave behind me to retreat to, I 
was obliged to retreat to my old caflle. Still the rain 
continued more or lefs every day till the middle of Odober ; 
and fomenmes fo violently, that I could not llir out cf my 
cave for feveral days. This (eafon* I found my family to 
increafe ; for one of my cats that ran away from me, and 

'■yhom I thought had been dead, returned about Auguflj with 

ithree kittens at her heels, like herlelf, which I thought ff range, 
becaufc both my cats were fema'es, and the wild cats of the 
jfiand fcemed to be of a different kind from our European cats ; 
but from thefe cafs proceeded fuch numbers, that I was forced 

■ to kUl and dcftroy them as I would do wild bealfs or vermin. 

To the 26th of this m.onth I could not ftir out, it raining in- 
cefiTantly ; when beginning to want food, 1 was compelled to 
venture twice, liie firli of which I (hot a goat, and after found 
a very large tortoile. The manner of regulating my foo4 
was thus : A bunch of raiiins ferved me for breakfaft ; a 
piece of goat's flefli or turtle broiled for my dinner; an:' 
two or three turtle's eggs for my fupper. While the rain 
lafled, I daily worked two or three hours at enlarging my cave^ 

and 



39 

and by degrees worked it on towards one fide till I came to 
the out tide of the hill, and made a door or way out, whicli 
came bevond my fence or wall, and lb 1 came in and out this 
way. But after I had done this, I was troubled to fee my- 
felt thus exposed, (hough I could net perceive any thing to 
tear, a goat being the biggeft creature I had leen upon this 
ifljitd. . 

Sept. 30. Carting up ray notcheson my pod, -which amounting 
to 365, 1 concluded fhia to be the anniverfary of my landing ; 
and therefore humbly proifratmg mylelf on the ground, con- 
felfing my fi/is, acknowled;;ing God's righteous judgrtients up- 
on me, and praying ro^^j C/br/;'? to have mei:cy on lue, I fafted 
for twelve hours, till the going down of the fun, ; and* then eating 
a bifcuit and a bunch of grapes, laid me onthe bed, and.with greiat 
comfort look my night's repofe. Till this time having no lenfe 
of religion, I never diOinguifhed the Sal>b4tb-Jay ,\\i\\\. now 
I made a longer notch than ordinary for \\\t days of rt'ft, and 
divided the weeks as vveil as I could, though 1 found, I had 
loft a day or two in my account. Scon after, my ink failing, 
1 omitted a daily menjprandum oi in^'lferenf things, and con- 
tented my/elf to write down only the moTl remarkable events 
of my life. T'le rainy and dry fcafons appeased now regular 
to me, and experience taught me how to provide for ihem ; 
yet, in one thing ! am going to relate, my experience very 
much failed me. You rbay call to mind what I hiVG men- 
tioned of fome barley and rice which I had faved j about thir- 
ty rtalks of the former, and twenty of the latter ; and at that 
time the fun being in its fouthern pofition going from me, 
together with the rains, made me conclude it a very proper fea- 
fon to fow it. Accordingly, I dug up a piece of ground with 
my wooden fpade, and div'iding it in two parts, foived about 
two thirds of n)y feed, prefifrving by me about a handful 
of each. And happy it was I did lb, ifor no rain falling, it v/as 
c^b,Paked uf^, and h'ever appeared above the earth till the wet 
feafon cara^ again, iwid then rt ere was If it had been newly 

I was refolved ftill to make another trial ^, vir.d feeking for 
a moiiler piece of ground near my bower, tht re 1 fowed the 
reft of my feed \n Tebruayy, a little before- the vjernal equi- 
nox, which having the rainy months of March and /ipril to 
water it, 'yielded a rtobie crop, and fprung up very pleafant- 
ly. Part of'the ieed I had yet faved, not darif)g to venture 
all ; and my crop amounted to above half a peck of each fort. 
But by I his time T found the proper /ealbns to fow in ; and 
that two feed times and two harvefts 1 might expc<5l every 

No fooner were the rains over, and the ftakc^, which I ha4 
cut from the trees, ftwoting like willow trees the firft year af- 
ter 



4^- 

tes lopping their heads, than I was ignorant of the tree I cut 
them from; but they grew fo reguhrly beautiful, that they 
made a moft lovely appearance, and flouriflied fo in three years 
time, that 1 refolvedio cut fome more, and thefe foon growing, 
made a glorious fence, as in order I fliall oblerve. 

And now I perceived that the feafons of the year might 
j^nerally be divided, not into fummer and winter, ^s in Europe, 
but into wef and dry feafons, as in this manner ; 

Half Febt:ua)y\ . , 

Ma • 
Half Jp 
Half Jpril 



archf:, -,y ;jR<ati^, fufi coming near the equinox. 

April, -\ ■ 

May, : / 

'ijune, \ Dry, fun geitlng mrth 9f the line. 

'July, \ 

Augujl, ^^ 

September, \ Wety the fun being th 
Oclober, J 



Half 

Half ..__, 

hen come back. 
Half 

Half Oaober, 
No^embery 

December^ > Dry, Jur^ running foiith of the line, 
January^ 
fp^^Mruary. 

As the winds happened to blow, fo the wet feafons would 
continue longer or fnorter : But when I found the ill confe- 
^^uences ^^being abroad in the rain, I took care beforehand to 
furnifli myielf with provifions, and during the wet jnonths lat 
•within doors as much as poilible : And in this time I contriv- 
ed to roake many things that I wanted, though it was with 
snuch labour and pains before I could aecomplifli them. The 
■firfll tried was 10 make a balTsiet ; but all the twigs 1 could 
get proved fo brittle, that I could not tl>en perform it. But 
510VV; it proved of excellent advantage to me, that when a boy, 
I tooic great delight. in landing at a .bja^et maker's in the 
fame tov.n vvhere ray father Uved, to view tjiem at work, and 
like other boys curious to fee tlie manner'ot their working 
thefe things., and very officious to alTift, I perfedly learned 
the method of it, and wanted noihing but the tools. And 
ihen it came into my rnind, that the twigs of that tree of which 
I made my flakes might be as tou^h as fallow, willow, and 
©fiers, growing in Enghmd ; and fo refolving to make an ex- 
periment, I went the next day to my country ieat, and found 
^^^lome fit for my turn ; „ and cutting down nuD}bers with my 
hatchet, I dried ihem in my pale, and when fit' to work with^ 

carried 



carried them to my cave, where I employed myfelf in makwg 
feveral ftjrts of bafkets to put in whatfoever I pleafed : It is 
Hue thev were not cleverly made, yet they ferved my turn 
upon all occafions. 

But itill I wanted fwo neceffary things ; I had not any caC:: 
to hold my liquor, except two runlets almoft full of rum, a 
few bottles of an ordinary fize, and fome Iquare cafe bottle? ; 
Neither had I a pot to boi! any thing in, only a large kettle, 
iiiftr to make broth, or (tew a b t of meat in. After this, 
1 wanted a tobacco pipe ; for which lad I found an expedient. 

I kept myfelf employed in planting my feccnd row offtakes, 
and worked in this wicl<er the dry ieafon. You may reme^n- 
ber before^ that \^ hen I travelled up to the brook, 1 had a mind 
to fee the whole ifland ; accordingly, taking m.y dog, gun, 
hatchet, two bi.'cuit cakes, a great hunch of raifins, w'uli- h 
larger quantity of powder and fhot than ufual, I began' my 
journey. And' having palTed the vale where my bower ftood, 
1 cameWithin view of the fea, lying to the wcfi, when it .be- 
ing a clear day, I fairly defcried land, but could not fay whe- 
ther it was an i(\M)d or a continent : It extended from the W. 
to the W. S. W. about ten or fifteen leagues, as I concluded. 
Neither could I tell what place this might be, only thought it 
was part of America^ and where I might have been in a mifer- 
able condiiion had I landed. Again, I confidered, that if 
this was the S pamji coa(\, certainly one time or other I fhould 
fee fome fliip pafs by j and if it was nor, then it muft be the 
lavage coafl, between the Spanijb country snd Btnjil, which 
abounds with cannibals or man eaters, that devour humiaa. 
kind. 

As I proceeded forward, I found this fide of theiHand much 
more pUal'ant than mine, the fields fragrant, and adorned wirh 
f'weet flowers and^erdant grafs, top/ther with feveral very 
fine woods. There were parrots in plenty, which made me 
iong for one to be my companion j but it was with great dif- 
ficulty that I could knock it down with my (lick; and it was 
fome years I kept him at home, before I could get him to call 
me by my name. 

In »he low grounds I found various forts of hares and foxes, 
as I thought tficn., but much different from all 1 had met 
with : Several ofthcfe I killed, but never ate th.em ; neither 
indeed had I any occali . i ; for aboundiig with goats, pigeons, 
turtle, and grapes, I ecu d defy LeacUnhall piarket to furnilh 
lue a better table. In this jjurney I did not travel above 
two niiles in a day, becaufe I tojk fever.il turns and windings, 
to fee what di'cuveries 1 cuuld mal:t ; returning weary enough 
to the place where 1 defiyned to reft all night, which was eith- 
er in a tree, or in a place which I furrounJed with flakes, 
tliat no wild creature might fuddenly furprifc me. Whtn 
13% i came 



I came to the Tea fhorej, I was amazed to fee the fplendour 
otit : Its ftrand was covered with (hells of tlie molt beautiful 
fifii, and conftantiy abounding with innumerable turtles, and. 
fowls of many kinds, which 1 was ignorant oi, except thole 
called Penguins. I might have (hot as many as I pleaied, 
but was (paring of my ammunition, rather chuling to kill afne- 
goat, which wiih much difficulty 1 did, becaule ot the flatncfs 
of the country. ' ,,. . ,, 

Now though this journey produced (he raoft pleaGng fatis- 
fadlion, yet m.y habitation was fo natural to me, that I did 
not repine at my being featfed on the worii part of the ifland : 
i\nd fo travelling about 12 miles towards the EaJIy I let a 
great pile on the fliore for a mark, concluding that my next 
jv'urney (hould be on the other hde of the ifland, ea(t from 
my caffie, and fo round till I came to my putt again. How» 
ever I took another way back, tninking I could not mil's by 
Imvinga conltaiit view of the country ; but fcarcely had 1 trav- 
elled three miles, when I delcended into a very large valley,^ 

cfurrounded with hills that were covered with wood, that 
3had no guide but by the fun, nor even then, unlefs I knew 
well the pofition of the fun at that time of day. "What added 
to my misfortune was, the weather proved lo hazy, for three 
or four days, as to oblige me to return to my poff by the 
lea fide, and fo backward the fame way I came. My dog (ur« 
prized a kid in this journey, and would have killed it, had I 
not prevented him. I had often been mufing, whether 1 could, 
not get a kid or two, and (o raiie a breed of tame goats to fupply 
me after my ammunition was fpent. Upon which, I made a 
'(Collar for this httle creature, with a ftring made of rope yarn, 
-which 1 always carried about with me ; and when I came, to 
my bower, there I inck)fed and left hin, and afier a month's 
time in this journey I came home to my oM habitation. 

Nobody can fuppofe otherwife, but that I had a pleafing fat- 
isfaction, when I returned to my htile caftie, and repoled myfelf 
in my hammock. After this journey I reited myfelf a week,, 
and the principal concern I then had, wa?, to make a cage for 
my pretty Pull. And then I bcg^n to confider the poor kid I 
had left at my bower ; and immediately L, went to fetch it 
home. Whenl cam.e there, 1 found the young creature "al- 
moft ftarved } when feeding it with branches of fuch flirubs 
as 1 could find, 1 tied it as before ; but there was no occafion, 
for it followed me like a dog ; and as I conffantly fed it, be- 
came lo loving, gentle and fund, that it cooamenced one of .my 
domeftics, and would rjever leave me. 

The rainy feafon of the autumnal equinox being now come, 
1 kept the 30th of September in the moft folemn nianner, as 
wfual, it beipg the third year of my abode in the ifland, I 

fpent ihc >Thole day in acknowledging God's mercies $ ia 

givmg 



43 

gK-ing him thanks for making this folitary life as agreeable, 
and le'fs fintul, than that of human fociety ; and for the coni- 
numications of his grace to my foul, fupporting, connroning, 
and eocoiuaging me to depend upon his providence, and hope 
for-his eternal preferice in the world to come. 

Before I confidered how hipj»y I was in this ftate of life,com- 
pared with tiiat acturfed manner of living I formerly ufed, 
>v)ii!e either I was huniing or viewing the country, the an- 
^uiih ot my loul would break out upon me on a hidden, and 
my very heart would fn.k within nie, to think of the woods, 
the mountains, the defaiisl was in j and how I was a prifoner, 
locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an 
iiRinhabited wilderr.efs, without hopes and without redemp- 
tion. And in this condition, 1 would often wring my hands 
and weep like a child : Even in the middle of my work, this 
fit would take me ; and then I would immediately fit down 
and figh, looking on the ground for an hour or two together, 
till iuch time as my grief would be vented, by burfting out in- 
to melting tears. 

As one morning I was fuddenly pondering in my mind, I 
opened my Bible, when immediately I fixed my eyes upon 
tliefe vvords, I nvill ne-vcr /ea^-e thee nor forfake ihee ! Surely,, 
thought I, thele words are dire6ted to me ; or elfe, why fhould 
they appear juff at a moment when I am bemoaning my for- 
lorn condition ? And if God does not forfake me, what mat- 
ters it, fince he can make me more happy in this fiate of life 
than if I enjoyed the greateH: fplendour in the world ? But 
while I was going to return Gad thanks for my prefent ftate, 
fomething fcemed to fhock my mind, as if it had thus faid. Un- 
worthy wretch I can you pretend 'O be thankful for a condi- 
tion, from which you would pray to be delivered ? Here I 
ftopt. And though I coukl not fay, I thanked the Divine 
Majedy for being there, yet I gave God thanks for placing to 
jny view my formef wicked courle of life, and granting me a 
true knowledge of repentance : And whenever I opened or 
fhut the Bible, I bleft kind Providence that dire(5fed my goods 
, without my order, and for adifting me to fave them from 
the power of the raging ocean. 

And now beginning my third year, my feveral daily em- 
ployments were thefe : Fif% iVIy duty to heaven, and diligent- 
ly reading the Holy Scriptures, which I did twice or thrice 
every day. Secorulhy Seeking provifion with my gun, which 
commonly took me up, when it did not rain, three hours eVery 
morning. Thirdiyy The ordering, cunng, prelerving, and 
cooking what 1 had killed or ca"tched for my fupply, which 
took me up a great part of the day : And in the middle of the 
day, the fun being in it heighth, it was fo hot that I could'not 
ftir out J fo that I had ))\^ four hours to W9rk in : And then 

my 



44 

my want of tools, help, and VtiWl, waficda grea^ deal of time ; 
fur I was two and lorfy days making a bjard fit for a long 
Hieif ; whereas, two lawyers, with tiieir tools and faw pi', 
would have cut feveral out vi the fame tree in half a day j biit 
this was Uie cafe, it was to be a large tree, becaufe my board 
was t:j be broad ; 1 was three days iti cutting it down, and two 
more in lopping oft the boughs, and reducing it to a piece of 
timber; this i hack'd acd hew'd o^ each fide till it became 
light to move, then I turned it, niade one fide of it /moo^rt 
and flat as a boaid, from end to end, then turned it down- 
ward, cutting the other fide, till I brought the plank to be a- 
bcut «hree inclies th;ck, and fmocth on both I'jries. Any body 
may jiidge my great labour and fati^-ue in fuch a piece of work ; 
but this I went through with pa ♦' r.ce, as alio many other 
thinf,s that my circurriltances rriide necetiary ftir me ro do. 

But now cknie my harveli niouths, Nouem^er and December^ 
in which I had the pleaiing pr,>fpe<!t of a very good crop ; Bur 
iuch was my misfortune, that the goats and hares haviDg onre 
cafled of the iwcetnefs ofihe blade, kept it fo fhort, that it bad 
not (trength to fhoot up into a flaik : To prevent which, I en- 
cloled it with a hedge, and by day, Hiot Tome of its devourers j 
aiid my dog, which 1 liad tied to the field gate, keeping bark- 
ing all night, frightened t!ie creatures away. 

No fooner did I get rid of th^fe, but other enemies appear- 
ed ; whole flocks of feveril forts of bird*, who only waited till 
my back was turned to ruin me. So much d:d this provoke 
me, that I let fiy, and killed three of the malefaftors j and af- 
terwards, fervmgthem c*s they do notorious thieves in England^ 
hung them up in chams as a terror to others. And inoeed fo 
,good an ttfedt had thi5, that they not only forfook tne corn, 
but all that part of th.* ifland, fo long as thele criminals hung 
there. 

My corn having ripened apace, the latter end of December^ 
which was my fecond harveil of the ye^r, I reaped it with a 
fcythe made of one of my broad fwords. 1 had no greatfa- 
tigue in cutting down my firftcrcp, it was fo llcn.ler ; the eais 
of which I carried home in a halket, rubbing it out with my 
hands inliead of thrafhing it ; and when my har'veit v\as over, 
1 found my ha!f peck of feed had produced near two bufnels 
of rice, and two buHiels and a halt of barley. And now I 
plainly forefaw that, by God'» goudr.els, I fh^uld be fuiniflied 
V ith bread ; but yet i was concerned, hccaulc I knew net how 
to grind or make meal of my corn ; nor bread, nciilier knew 
how tj bake it. Upon thefe conliderat.on>, 1 would not tafie 
any of the crop, but preferve \i againll ihe next Icafbn, and in 
the mean while nfe niy beft cndeavouis tju p.ruvidc my. 'elf with 
nxaterials to make bread. 

But 



But where were my labours to end ? The want of a plough 
to turn up the earth, or fhovel to dig it, I coiiquered, by mak- 
ing me a wooden fpade after a wooden manner : The want of 
a harrow, I fupplied enyfelf, by dragging over tl-.c co'rn a great 
bough of a tree : When it was growing or fully ripe, I was 
forced to fence it, mow it, carry it home, thrafh ir, part it 
from the chdff, and fave it: And after all this, L wimted a 
mill to grind it, fieves to dreH^ it, yeaft and fait to make'it in- 
to bread, and an oven to bake it. This fet my brains on 
work to find fome expedient for every one of thefe neceflar'ies 
agaimt the next harveft. ^ '^ ; ' 

And now, having more feed, my firft care was to prepbire 
me more land. I pitched upon two large flat pieces of'gfpu,n(i 
rear my ca(tle, for that purpdfe, in which I fowed my Teed, 
and fenced it with a good hedge, which took me up, three 
months, "by which time it was the wet feafon. While the raia 
kept^me within doors, I found feveral occafions to employ 
myfelf ; and v\hile at work ufed to divert mylelf with talking 
to my. parrot, learning him to know and fpeak his own name, 
POl£, the firft welcome word 1 ever heard fpcke on the i- 
iland. I hud been a long time contriving how to make earthen 
vefTels, which I wanted extremely' ; and when I confidered the 
heat of the climate, I did not doubly but, if I could find any 
proper clay, I might botch up a potyHtong enough, when dri- 
ed in the lun, to bear handling, and to hold any thing- that 
was dry ; as corn, riieal, and other things. 

To be fhort, the clay I found ; but it would occafion the 
molt ferious perfon to Imile to fee what aukward ways I took, 
.and what ugly milhapen things I made; how many either fell 
out or crack'd by th6 vio^ehrheatof fun, and iell in pieces 
when they were removed : So that I think it was two months 
time before I could perfeft any thing ; and after this great fa- 
tigue, made two clumly things in miitation of earthen jars. 
Thele, however, I very gently placed in Wicker bafkci^, made 
on purpofe tor them, and between the pot and the bafkets, 
fluffed it tuil of rice and barley ihaw ; and thefe I prefumcd 
Would bold my dried corn, and perhaps the meal wht-n the 
corn was bruifed.. But as for fmaller things, I made them 
with better fucceTs, which the fun baked veVy hard, fuch as 
little round pots, Hat dilhes, pitchers, and pipkins. 

Yet ftili I wanted one thing ab/oiutely necellary, and that 
was an earthen pot, not only to hold any liquid thing, but to 
bear the fire, which none of thefe could do. It once happen- 
ed, that as 1 was putting out my fire, I found therein a broken 
piece of one of my vefiels, burnt hard as a rock, and red as a 
tile. This maiie me contrive how to order my fire, fo as to 
make it burn fouje pots; and having no notion ot a kiln, or 
•f glazing them wilh load, I ^xed three large piipkins, and two 

or 



or three pots, in a pile one iip»n another. The fire I plied 
roui)d the outfide and on the top witii dry wood, till I faw the 
pots in the iiifide red hot, and tound that they did not crack 
at all ; and when 1 perceived tkeni perfetlly red, I let one of 
ihepi Hand in the tiie about five or fix hours, till the clay 
melted by the extremity of the heat, and would have run tp 
gla/s, had I (uffered it ; upon which, I flacked my fire by de- 
grees, till tlie rednefs abated ; and watching them till the 
morning, I found I had three very good pipkins, and two 
earthen pots, as well burnt and fit for my turn as I could de- 
fire. 

No joy can be greater than mine at this difcovery : For af- 
ter t]jis, I may fay, i wanted for no fort of earthen ware. I 
filjed one of my pipkins with water to boil me Tome meiat, 
"which it did admirably well, and with a piece of kid I made 
me lome good brotb, as. well as my eircutiiliances' \youId ai- 
ford ipe ^t!Jlar time. 

The next concern [ had, wasi, to make me a ftone mortar to 
bear fume corn in, inftead of a mill to grind it. Here indeed 
I was at a great lofs, as net beiiig fit for a fione cutter ; and 
many days I fpent to find out a great Hone big enough to cut 
hollow and make fit for a n^ortar, and Ihong enough to bear 
the weight of a peftle, as would break tlie corn without filling it 
with fand : But all the.flones of the iila.nd being of a mould- 
ering nature, rendered my (earch fruitlefs ; and then 1 refolv- 
ed to look out a great bloclc.of hard wood ; which having foon 
found,! formed with my c»xe ai\d hammer, and then with in- 
finite labour made a hollow place in it, jufl as the Indians of 
£ ra/il mSkkQ thc\r caftQfS, When T had finished this, T made a 
great peftle of iron wood, whiq^ I h^d /ormerlY laid up.ag^infl 
my fucceeding harved. ,,*<,-,' '^ . 

My next biifinefs vvs.s tp'rpak^ hie a 0ev,?, to fi/t ^i^y, mgal, 
and part it from the bran and the huilc. Having no tine thin 
canvas to fearch th^ meal thrpugh, I CPM^^ ^^^ ^^'^ ^^^^^ ["^ 
do ; what linen I havj was reduced to rags : I had goats' hair 
enough, but neither tools to work ir, nor did 1 know how to 
ip'm it : At length, I remembered I had fome r.eckclolhs of 
callico, or muflm, of the failors, which I had brought out of 
the fiiip, and with thefe 1 made three fmall fievcs, prpperf;- 
nough for the work. 

And now I come to confider the baking part ifl courfe. 
The want of an oven J fuppiied by making fome ea/then pans 
very broad but not deep. When I had a mind to bake, I 
made a great fire upon my hearth, the tiles of which i had 
made myfelf, and when the wood was burnt into live coals, I 
ipread them all over ir, till it became very hot i then fweeping 
them away, 1 fet down my loaves, snd whelming down the 
earthen pots upoa them, drew the afiiss and ccals all around 



ihc oiiifide of the pots to continue the heat : And in this man- 
Bcr I uled to b?ke my barley loaves, as well as if 1 had been a 
comp-iete pixflry cook, making myfelf of the rice feveral cakes 
and puddings. 

It is no wonder that all thefe things took n,e up the beft 
part of a year, (ince what intern^edia^e time I had, was tcJtow- 
cd in managing my new harvelt and hiifDindry ; for in the 
proper I'eafon 1 reaped my corn, carried it home, and laid it up 
in the eir in my large bafkets, (ill I had time to rub, inftead of 
thrafhing it. And noyv indeed my corn increnfed fo much, 
that it produced me about twenty bufhels of barley, and as 
much of rice, that I not only began to ufe it freely, but was 
tiiinking how to enlartje mv b&rns, and was rtfclved to fow fo 
much at a time aa would be fuffioent for me a whole year. 

All this while the profpedt of land, whicii I had {ttx\ from 
the other fide of the iiland, ran in my mind. 1 ftill meditated 
a deliverance from this place, though the fear of greater mif- 
fortunes might have deterred me from it : For after I had at- 
tained that place, 1 run the hazard of being killed and eatea 
by the devouring cannibals ; ai^.d if they were not (o, yet I 
might be flain, as other Europeans had been, who fell into their 
hands. NitwithHandsng all this, my thoughts ran continually 
upon my acquiring that fhore : And now I wanted my boy 
Xury^ and the long boat, with the flnniider of mutton fail. 
Then I went the fh-p's boat that had been call a great way on 
the Ihore in the late fiorm. She was but a little removed; 
but her bottom was turned up by tiie imperu .fityard fury of the 
waves and wind. With ail the Krength I had, I tried whatever 
I could do, with levers and rollers 1 had cut trom the wood, to 
turn her, and repair the damages fhe h.ad (uftained. This 
wojk took me up tliree or four weeks, when finding my little 
ftrength all in vain, I fell to undermininL; it, by digging away 
tiie (and, and to make it fall down, fettifg pieces of wood to 
thruff and guide it in the fall. But after this was done, una- 
ble was I to ftir it up again, or to get under it, much lefs to 
move it forward towards the water, and fo 1 was forced to 
^ive it over. .1 

Not: conten'ted wjth this difappointmenf, I began to think 
whether it were not pclTible for me to make a canoe or peri- 
a^ua, fuch as the In. Hans make of the trunk of a tree ; but 
here I lay under particular inconveniences j want of tools to 
make it, and wnnt of hands to move it to the water when it was 
made. However, to work I went upon it, flopping all the 
enquiries I could make, with this very fimpie anfwer I made 
to myfelf, let's firft make it, I'll warrant 1*11 find (ome way or 
other to get it along when it is done. 

I firlf cut down a cedar tree, which was five feet ten inches 
4iameter at the lower part next the ftump, and four feet eleven 

inches 



48 

" -^ . 

inches diameter at the end of twenty two feet, after which it 
lefTened for a (pace, and then parted into branches. Twenty 
days was I hacking and hewing this tree at tiie bottom, tour- 
teen more in cutting off the branches and limbs, and a whole 
month in fhaping it hke the bottom of a boat ; as for the in- 
flde, I was three weeks with a maliet and chiffel, clearing it la 
Aich a manner as that it was big enough to carry twenty fix 
men, much bigger than any canoe 1 iaw in niy hfe, and 
confequentlv fufficient to tranfport me and all iny etFe<!:ls to 
that wiHied for fliore 1 fo ardently defired. 

Nothing remained now, but indeed the greateft difficulty, 
to get it into the water, it lying about loo yards from it. To 
remedy the firft inconvenience^^, which was a riling hill between 
this boat and the creek, with' "^wonderful paios and labour I 
dug into the furface of the earth, and made a declivity. But 
when this was done, all the ftrength I had was as infufficient 
to move it, as it was when I attempted to move the boat. 
Then I proceeded to meafure the diftance of ground, refolving 
to make a canal, in order to bring the water to the canoe, 
iince 1 could rot bring the canoe to the water. But as this 
ieemed to be impracticable to my/elt alone, under the fpace 
QT eleven or twelve years, it brought me into fome fort of 
confideration, that I concluded it impoffible to be done, and 
lb this attempt was in vain alfo. And now I faw, and not be- 
fore, what ftupidity it is to begin a work before we reckon its 
cofts, or judge right of our own abilities to go through with 
its performance. 

It was in the heiglifh of this work, my fourth year expired, 
fince I was caft on this ifland ; and then I did not forget my 
anniverfary, but kept it with the fame ardent devotion I had 
done before.^ But now my hopes being Iruftrated, I looked 
upon this world as a thing I had nothing to do with ; and ve- 
ry well might I fay, as father Abraham unto Dl^eSy Betujeen 
me and thee there is a gulf fixed. And indeed from the world I 
was feparated, from its wickednefs too, having neither the lull 
of the flefh, the lufl: of the eye, or the pride of life : I had 
nothing to covet; being lord, king, or emperor over the 
whole country I had in pofTefllon, without dilpute, and with- 
out control. I had loadings of corn, plenty of turtles, tim- 
ber in abundance, and grapes above measure ; but after I was 
ferved, what was all the reft to me ? The money I had by me 
Jay as defpicable drofs, which I would freely have given for a 
grofs of tobacco pipes, or a hand mill to grind my corn : In a 
word, the nature and experience of thefe things di(5^ated to me 
this jufl refie(5ti(in, that the good things ol this world are no 
farther good to iis than they are for our ufe ; and tliat what- 
ever we may heap up to give others, we can but enjoy as much 
as we u(e, and no more. 

Thefe 



Thefc tlioughts rendered ray mind more eafy than ufual. 
Every time I lat down to eat, I dfd il with thankfulnefs ; ad- 
miring the providential hand of God, that in tliis wifdernefs 
had ipread this table to me. And now I confidered what I 
enjoyed, rather than what I wanted ; connpared my prefent 
condition with what I at firft expected it (hould be; howl 
fhould have done, if I had got nothing out of the (hip j that I 
jmift have penflied before I had caught tifli or turtles ; cr liv- 
ed, had 1 found them, hke a mere favage, by eating them raw, 
and pulling them in pieces with my claws, like a beaft. I 
next compared my ftation to that which I deferved ; how un- 
dutiful 1 had been to my parents, how deftitute of the fear of 
God ; how void o\ every thing that was good ; and how un- 
grateful for thofe abundant mercies I had received from heav. 
en ; being fed, as it were, by a miracle, even as great Elijah's 
bemg fed by ravens ; and caft on a place where there was no 
venomous creature to poifon or derour me : In fliort, makings 
God's tender mercies matter of great confolation, I relinquifti- 
cd all fadnefs, and gave way to contentment. 

As long as my ink continued, which, with water, T madeJafI: 
as long as I could, I ufed to minute down the days of the 
month on which any remarkable thing happened. And, 

Firfl, I obferved, That the fame day I forfook my parents 
and friends, and ran away to HuU, m order to go to fea, the fame 
day afterward, in the next year, I was taken and made a flave 
by the Sal/ee rover. 

The very day 1 efcapcd out of the wreck of the /hip in I'ur- 
mouth road?, a year after, on the fame day, I made my efcape 
trom S^alleCy in my patron's fifhing boat. 

The 30th of September, being the day of the year J was born 
on, on that day twenty fix years after, I was miraculoufly far- 
ed, and cafl on fiiore on this ifland. 

The next thing that wafted, after my ink, wa-s the bifcuit 
which I had brought out of the fhip : And though I allowed 
niyrelf but one cake a day, for above a twelvemonth, yet I was 
quite out of bread for near a year befcre I got any corn of my 
own. 

In the next place, wy clothes begsn to decay, and my linen 
bad been gone long before ; however, I had prelerved about 
three dozen of the failors* check fhirts, which proved a 
r.reat refrefhment to me, when the violent beams of the f\m 
would not fufler me to bear any of the fe^mci^s' heavy watch 
toats, which made me turn taylor, and, after a miferable botch- 
ing manner, convert rhem into jackets. To prefcrve my 
head, I made me a cap of goat l^cm, with the hair outwards, to 
keep out the rain ; which mdced ferved me fo well, that I af- 
terwards made me a wailtcoat and open knee'd breeches of the 
lame : And then J contrived a fort of an umbrella, covering 
1 it 



so 

it with (kins, wh'ch not only kept out the heat of the fun, but 
the rain alfo. Thus being eafy and feitied in my mind, my 
chiefeft happinefs was to converfe with God, in moft heavenly 
and comformble ejaculations. 

For five years after this I cannot fay any extraordinary 
thing occuFred to mc. My chief employment was to cure my 
railins, and plant my barley and rice, of bolh which I had a 
year's provifion beforehand. But though I was difappointed 
in my firlf canoe, I mad» it, at intermediate tintes, my bufinefs 
to make a fecond, of much mferior fize ; and'it was two years 
before I finifhed it. But as I perceived it would no ways an- 
Iwer my defign of failing to the other (here, my thoughts were 
confiwed to take a tour round the ifland, to lee what further 
difcoveries I could make. To this inte-nt, after having moved 
her to the water, and tried how {he would fail, I filled up a 
little mart to her, and made a fail of the fhip's fail that lay by 
me. I then made lockers or boxes at the end of it, to put in 
TiecelTary provifions and ammunition, which would preferv« 
them dry either from rain, or the fpray of the feaj and in the 
infide of the boat I cut a long hollow place to lay my gun, 
and to keep it dry, made a flag to hang over it ; my umbrella I 
fixed in a ftep in the ftern like a malT, to keep the heat of the 
fon off me : And now, refolving to fee the circumference of 
my little kingdom, I vidualled my fhip for the voyage, put- 
ting in two dozen of my barley bread loaves, an earthen pot 
full of parched rice, a little bottle of rum, half a goat, powder 
and fiiot, and two watch coats. It was the 6th ti Nonjember^ ia 
the 6lh year of my reign, or captivity, that I fet out in this 
voyage, which was much longer than I expecStcd, being oblig- 
ed to put further out, by reafon of the rocks that lay a great 
way in the fea : And indeed fo raucli did thefe rocks furprife 
me, that I was for putting back, fearing, that if I ventured 
farther it would be out of my power to return. In this con- 
fuiion I canve to an anchor juft cfF fhore, to which 1 waded 
with my gun on my fhoulder, and then, climbing up an hill, 
which overlooked that point, I faw the full extent of it, and 
refolvcd to run all hazard. 

In this profpetl from the liill, I perceived a violent current 
running to the eaft, coming very clofe to the point j which I 
the more carefully obferved, thinking it dangerous, and that, 
when I came to it, I might be drove into the (ea by its force, 
2ind not able to return to the ifland ; and certainly it mull 
have been fo, had I not made this obfcrvation ; for on tbe 
other fide was the like current, with this differeHce, that it fet 
off at a greater diftance ; when I perceived there was a Urong 
eddy under the land, (o that my chiefeff bufinefs was to work' 
out of the firfi: current, and convenrently get i.nto an eddy. 
Two days I ftaid here, the wind blowing vtx^ brifkly E. S. E. 

which. 



which, being contrary to tlic current, leaves a great breach on 
the iCA upon ihe point ; fo it was not fit for me to keep too 
rear the (here, upon account of the breach ; nor fo ftand at 
too great diflance, for fear of the flreams. That night the 
wind abating, it grew fo calm that I ventured out ; but fureiy 
1 was to be a memento to a!I ra(3i and ignerant pilots : For I 
was no fooner come to the point, and not above the boat's 
length from t]ie fliore, but I was got into a deep wat^r, v/ith a 
current Hke a mill, wiiicli drove my boat along fo violently, 
that )t was impoflible for me to keep her fo much as t.o tlie 
edge oi it ; but it forced me more and more out from the eddy 
to the left of me, and all I could do with my paddles was iifc- 
lefs, there being no wind to help me. 

Alas! now 1 began to think mvlelf quite loft • fir.ce, as the 
current ran on both fides of the ifiand, I was very certam thay 
mud join again, and then I had oo hop?s but of perifhin?; for 
ivant, in the lea, after what provifions I had was jpent, cr be- 
fore, if a florm thould happen to arife. 

Who can conceive the prefent angu!fh of my mind at this 
calamity ? With longing eyes did I look, upon my little kipg- 
dom, and tliou^ht the iflind the i>!eafantc:fl olnce in tke 



uni 



veife. Happv, thrice happy de(arf, faid I, fhall i ricver fee 
thee more ? Wretched creature ! wliitlier am I going } Why 
did I murmur at my lonefome condition, when now I would 
give the whole worid to be there again ? While I was thus 
contemplating, I found myfelf to be driven about two leagues 
into the f«a ; however, i laboured till my ftrength vvas fpenr. 
to keep my boat as far north as poffibiy I could, to that fide of 
the current where the eddy lay on. About noon, 1 perceiv.- 
ed a little breeze of wind fprmg up from the S. S. E. which 
overjoyed my heart the n>ore, when, in about half an hour, it 
blew a gentle fine gale. Had any thick weathev fprung up, I 
had been loft another way ; for having no ccmpafs on board, 
I ftiould never have found th.e way to fteer towards the ifland, 
if once it had difappeared ,- but it proving tlie contrary, I fet 
lip my maft again, fpread my fail and ftood away northvtard, 
as much as I could, to get rid ot the current ; And no fooner 
did the boat begin to ftretch away, but I perceived by the 
clearnefs of the water, a change of the curreiit vvas near ; for 
where it was clear, the c'urrent abated. To the eaft, 1 fooa 
faw, about half a mile, a breach of the fea upon fome rocks, 
which cauf d it again to ieparate ; and as the aiain force drove 
away more fouthwardly, leavii^ the rocks to the north eaft, fo 
the other came back by the repulfe of the rocks, making a 
fharp eddy, which returned 4)ack again to the north well with 
"-A very fwift ftream. 

They who have experienced what if is to be reprieved upon 
Ihe ladder, or to be faved fro-m thieves juft going to lake away 

thfir 



52 

their lives, or elfe fuch who have been in the like calamities, 
ir.ay guefs my prefcnt excefs of joy ; how heartily I run my 
boat into the dream of this eddy, and how joyfully 1 Ipread 
my fail to the refrefhing wind, iilanding cheerfully before it 
with a fmart tide under foot. By the altiftance of this eddy, I 
was carried above a league hon)e again, when being in the 
wake of the ifland, betwixt the two currents, I found the wa- 
ter to be at a fort of a ftand. About four o'clock in the af- 
ternoon I reached within a league of the illand, and perceived 
the points of the rock, which caufed this dilafler, ftretching 
out as 1 obferved before, to the TouthA-ard, which, throwing 
off the current more fouthwardly, had occafioned another ed- 
dy to the north. But having a fair brifk gale, I flretched a- 
crofs this eddy, and in an hour came within a mile of the 
ibore, whefe I foon landed to my unfpeakable comfort : And 
after an humble proftration, thanking God for my deliverance, 
•with a refoluiion to leave all thoughts of efcaping afide, I 
brought my boat fafe into a little cove, and laid roe down to 
:ake a wefcome repofe. When I awoke, I wa« confidering 
how I might get my beat home ; and coafting along the (hore, 
I came to a good bay, which ran up to a rivulet or brcok^ 
'where finding a fafe harbour, I flowed her -as fjife as if Ihe had 
been in a dry dock made on purpofc for.her. 

And now I perceived my lei f not far from the place where 
before I had travelled on foot ; when taking nothing with me* 
except my gun and umbrella, I began my journey, and in the 
evening came to my bower, where I again laid me down to 
reft. B\\i It was not long before I was awakened, in great fur- 
prife, by a flrange voice that called me feveral times, Robin^ 
Rcbin, Robin Crufoe^ Poor Robin ! Where are you^ Robin Crufoe ? 
Where are ycu ? Where ba<ve )Qu been ? 

So faft was 1 afleep at firJi, tJaat I did iiot awake thoroughly ; 
but half afleep and balf awake, I thought I dreamt that fome.. 
body fpoke to me. But as the voice repeated Kobinjon Cruj'ce 
feveral times, being terribly affrighted, I ftarted up in the ut- 
moft confufiipn j wnen no (ooner were my eyes fully open, but 
1 beheld my pretty Poll fitting on the top ot the hedge, and 
ibon knew that it was he that called me; for juil in inch fee- 
Wbiling language I ufed to talk and teach him, vvljich he fo ex. 
a6tly learned, that he would fit upon my finger, and lay his 
bill clofe to my face, and cry. Poor R^^hinfon Crufoe, nvkete ate 
you ? Where ha^ve you been ? Hoiv ca>7ie you here? And lacii 
like prattle as I had conltantly taught him. But as I knew it 
to be the parrot, it was a great while before I could adjuft my- 
felf; firfh I was amazed, how the creature got thither, and 
that he fhould fix about that place, and no where elfe. When 
1 was allured it could be no other than my honeft Polly my 
wonder ceafcd ; fo reaching out my hand> and calling familiar * 



)y, Poll, Ihe creature came to me, and perched upon my 
tluimh, as he nas wont, conHantly prating m me, wkh Poor 
Robinfn Crufoe, and Hvw did I come here? and Where had I 
been ? As if the bird was overjoyed to fee me j and fo I took 
liim home along with me. 

Now ihough 1 was pretty w«II cured of my rambling to Tea 
again, yet 1 could wifti my boat, which had coft me fo much 
trouble and pains, on this fide tlie ifiand once more, which in- 
deed was impradlicabie. And fo I led a very retired life,, living 
near a twelvemonth, in a very contented manner, wantuig for 
nothing except converfation. As to mechanic labours, which 
my neceffitits obliged me to> I fancied I could, upon occafion, 
make a tolerable carpenter, were the tools 1 had to work 
withal but good. BeHdes, as 1 improved in my earthen ware» 
I contrived tamake them with a wheel, which I found much 
cafier and better ; making my work fhapeable, which before 
was rude and ugly. But I think I was never fo elevated with 
my own performance, or prcjetl, as for being able to make a 
tobacco pipe ', which though it proved arr aukward, clumfy 
thing, yet it was very found, and carried the fmoke perfectly 
T\e!l, to mv great fatisfadlion. 

A lib I improved my wicker ware, making me abundance of 
necelTary bafkets, which though not very handfome, were very 
handy and convenient to fetch things home in, as alfo for hold- 
ing my ftores, bi*rley, rice, and other provifions. 

My powder beginning to fail, made me examine after what 
manner I fhould kill the goats or birds to live en, after it was 
all gone. Upcn which I contrived many w^ys to enfnare the 
goats, and fee if I could catch them alive, particularly a flae 
goat with young. At laft 1 hadmydefire; for making pit- 
fall* and traps, bated with barley and rice, I found one morn- 
ing in one of them an old he goat, and in the other three kids^ 
one male, the other two females. 

So b lilterous was the old one, that I could not bring him a- 
wav. But I forgot the proverb. That hunger 'Vj'iU tame a lion ," 
For had I kept him three or four days without vivrluals, and 
then given him fome water with a little corn, he would have 
been as tame as a young kid. The other creatures I bound 
with strings together.- But I had great diffivulty before I 
could bring ihem to my habitation. It was lame time before 
Ihey would feed, when throwir)g tl\pm Tome corn, it fu uuicH. 
templed them, that they began to be tame ; from hence I con- 
cluded that if I defigned lo turnifh myielf with goats' fiefli* 
when my awmunitiion was fpent, the tamely breeding them up- 
like a flock of fheep about my fettlemeiit, was the only meth- 
od 1 could take. I concluded alfo, 1 muR (operate the wilri 
from the fam*, or elle they would always run wild as they 
grew up ; and the bti\ way for this was i« have iomc encloit^ 
£ i- j?iecc 



54 

piece of ground, vrell fenced, either witii hedge or pale, t© 
keep them fo eireclually, that ihcTe within rni^ht not break 
out, or thofe without bre*(k in. Such an undertakiifc was 
very great for one pair of hands ; but as there was an ablolute 
necellity for doing it, my firrt: care was, to find a convenient 
piece of ground where there was |ikely to be herbage for them 
to eat, waier to dri.:k, and cover to keep them from ihe fun. 
But here I began madly, pitching upon a piece of meadow 
Jand fo large, th^t had I enclofed it with infinite pains, this 
hedge or pale muft have been at ieart two miles about. In- 
deed had it been ten miles I Irad time enough to do it in ; but 
then 1 did not confider that my goats would be as wild in la 
much compaf?, as if they had had the whole inand,and confe- 
quently as difficult for me to catch them. And this thought 
came into my head, after I had carried on, I believe, about 
fifty yards; when I refolved to enclole a piece of ground 150 
yards in length and loo in breadth, {ufficient enough for as 
many as would maintain me, till fuch time as my flock en- 
creafed, and then I could add more ground. Upon which, I 
\igoroully profecuted my work, and it took me about three 
juoRths in hedging the firft piece j in which rime I tethered 
the three kids in the befl part of it, feeding them as near me as 
poITible to make them familiar : and indeed very often would 
"J carry fome ears of barley, or' a handful of rice, and feed 
them out of my hand ; by which means they grew fo tame, 
th^t when my enclofure was finifhed, and I had let them loofe, 
they would run after me for an handful of corn. This indeed 
anlwered my end } and in a year and a half's time I had a 
flock of about twelve goats, kids and all ; and in two years 
after, they amounted to three and lorty, befides what I had 
taken and killed for my fuHenance. After this, I enclofed 
five feveral pieces of ground to feed them in, with pens to 
drive them into, that I might take them as I had occ^fion. 

But (Hll I. had additional blellings, not only in having plen- 
ty of goats' flefli, but milk too, which in my beginning I did 
ftor fo much as think of : And indeed, though I had never 
milked a cow, much kfs a goat, or feen butter or cheele made> 
yer, after fome eilays and mifcarriages, I made me both, and 
jiever afterwards wanted. 

How mercifully can the Omnipotent Power comfort his crea- 
tures, even in the midlt of their greatelt calamities : How can 
he fweeren the bittereft i^rovidences, and give us reafon to 
magnify him in dungeons and prifons I wjiat a bounteous ta- 
tle was here fpread in a wildernefs for me, when 1 expe^Hed 
nothing at firfl but to perifh with hunger. 

Certainly, a floic would have fmiled to have feen me at din- 
ner ; there was my royal Majedy, an abfolute prince and nU- 
er of ij^y kingdom, auendcd by my dutiful Iwbjefts-, whom, 

if 



55 

if I pleafed, I could either hang, draw, quarter, give libertj^^ 
or take it away. When I dined, I Teemed a King, eating 
alone, none daring prefume le do (o till I had done. Poll, as 
if he had been my principal court tavourite, was the only per- 
fon permitted to talk with nie. My old but faithful dog, 
now grown exceeding crazy, and had found no fpccies to 
inultiply his kind upon, continually fat at my right hand ; 
while my two cats fat on each (ide of the table, expecting a 
bit from my hand, as a principal mark of my royal favour. 
Yet thefe were not the rats I bad brought from the fhip ; they 
}ud been dead long before, and interred near my habitation 
by mine own hand : But one of them, as 1 fuppofe, generat- 
ing with a wild cat, thefe were the couple I had made tame j 
whereas the reft run into the woods, and grew fo impudent as 
to return and plunder me ©f my (lores, till fuch time as I Ihot 
a great many, and the re(i left me with this attendance. And 
in this very plentiful manner did I live, wantmg for nothing 
but converfation. One thing more indeed concerned me, 
the want of my bo^t. I knew not which way to get her roimd 
the ifland. 1 refolved one time to go along the ihore by land 
to her , but had any one \v\ England rnet fuch a figure, it 
would either affright them, or make them burlt into laughter s 
Na}, myfelf could not but finile at my habit, which 1 think, 
in this place, it is very prope - to defcribe. 

The cap I had upon my head was great, high, and fhapelefs, 
made of a goat Ikin, with a fljp or penthoufe hanging down 
behind, not only to keep the fun from me, but to fhoot the 
rain off from running into my neck, nothing being more per- 
nicious than the rain falling upon the flefh in thefe parts. I 
had a fhurt jacket of goat (kin, whofe hair hung down fuch 
a length on either fide, that it reached down the calves of my 
legs. As for flioes and ftockings I had none, but made a re- 
femblance of fomething, I know not what to call them ; they 
were made like bufkins, and laced on the fiu'eslike fpatter- 
dafhes, barbaroufly Shaped, like the reft of my habit, I had 
on me a broad belt of goat fkin dried, girt round with a cou- 
ple of thongs inffead of buckles ; on each of which, to fup- 
ply the deficiency of fword and dagger, hung my hatchet and 
faw. I. had another belt, not fo broad, yet faftened in the 
lame manner, which hung over my (houlder ; and at the end 
of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, made alfo of goat 
&in, to hold my powder and fbot. My balkct I carried on my 
back, and my gun on my flioulder, and over my head a great 
clurafy ugly goat fkm umbrella, which, however, next my gun 
was the mofi nccetfary thing about me. As for my face, the 
colour was not fo fwarthy as the mulattoes, as might be ex- 
pe(5ted from fuch a perfon as I, who took fo little care of it in a 
ilimate waliia nine or ten dearies froRi the equator. At one 

liruc 



time my beard grew fo long, rhat it hung down above a quar- 
ter of a yard ; but as i had Ijoth razors and fciflTars in i^ore, 
I cut it all off, and lutFered none to grow except a large pair of 
Mahometan whflcers, the hke of whitli 1 had feen worn by 
iome Turks at Sal'ee, not long enough to hang a hat upon, but 
of fuch a moniirous fize, as would have amazed any in Eng- 
land to liave feen. 

Biit all this was of no confequence here, there being none 
to obfervc fuy behaviur or habit. And fo without fear, and 
without ccntroi,! proceeded on myjuBrney, the profecution of 
which took me up five or fix days. I firft travelled along the 
fea fliore, dirediy to the place where I firft brought my boat to 
an anchor, to get upon the rocks. But now, having no boat 
to take care of, I went over the land a nearer way, to the 
fame heig'hth that I was upon before j vvl-,en looking forward 
to the point of tlie rock which Jay out, and which I was forc- 
ed to double with my boat, I was amazed to fee^ the Tea fo 
fmooth and quiet, there being no ripling, motion, or current, 
any more than in other places : Which n)ade me indeed pon- 
der fome time to imagine the reafon of it, when at I aft I was 
convinced liow it was, which was this ; the ebb Yetting from 
the weft, and joining with tiie currents of waters from tome 
great rivers on the fhore, muft be th§ occafion of thefe rapid 
streams ; and that confequently ^s the winds blew more vvefl- 
wardly, or more foutherly, fo the current came the nearer, or 
went the further from fhore. To fatisfy my curiofity, I wait- 
ed there till evening, when the tide of ebb being made from 
the rtfck, I plainly perceived the current again as before, with 
this difference, that it r:4n farther off, near half a league frotn 
the fhore 'whereas iu my condition, it fet qtiite upon it, fu- 
rioudy hurrying me and my canoe along with it, which at a- 
noth.er time it would not have done. And now I was con- 
vinced, thaf, by obfervin^ the ebbmg and flowing\)f the tide, I 
might eafily bring my boat round the ifiand again : but wlien 
I began to think of putting it in pra<^ice, the remembrance of 
the late danger I was in, ftruck me with fuch horroar, that I 
changed ray refolution, which was more fafe, though more la- 
borious ; and this was to make another canoe, and fo have 
one for one fide of the ifland, and one for the other. 

Here I think it very proper to inform my readers,, that I 
liad two plantations in the ifland j the fufr was my little for- 
tification, fort, or caflle, with many large and fpacious im- 
provements : For by this time I had enlarged the cave behind 
me with feveral little caves,, one VN^ithin another, to hold my 
bafkets, corn apd firaw. The piles with which I made my 
Vk'all were grown fo lofty and great, as obfcuied my habita- 
tion : And near this commodious and pleafant fettlement lay 
»ny two well cultivated and improved eorn fields, which kind*. 



57 

ly yielded me their fruit in the proper feafon. My feconJ 
plantation was that near rpy country feat, or little bower, 
where my grantee flourilhed, and where, having planted many 
(lakes, I made enclofurcs for my goats, (o ftrongly fortified 
by labour and time, that it was much ftronger than a wall, 
and confequently impoffibic for them to break through. As 
for my bower itfelf, I kepi.it conftantly in repair, and cut the 
trees in fuch a manner as made them grow thick and wild, 
and form the mod delightful (hade. In the centre *f this 
ftood my tent, thus ered^ed : I had driven four piles in the 
ground, fpreading over them a piece of the (hip's fail ; beiieatli 
which I n»ade me a fort of a couch with the flcins of the crea- 
tures I had (lain, and other things j and having laid thereon 
one of the failors' blai^kets, which I had (aved from the wreck 
of the fhip, and covering myfeif with a great watch coat, i 
took up this place for my country retreat. 

Very frequently from this fctllement did I ufe to vifit my 
boat, and kept her in very good order. And fometimes I 
would venture in her a ca(t or two froiii fhore, but no farther, 
left either a (Irong current, a fudden (iormy wind, or forae un- 
lucky accident, (hould hurry me from tne ifland as before. 
But now I entreat your attention, while I proceed to inform 
you of a new but mo(t furprifing fcene of life, wherein I waa 
acting again in a (Iranger manner. 

You may fuppofe that after I had been here fo long, noth- 
ing could have been more amazing than to have feen a human 
creature. But one day it happened, that, going to my boat, I 
law the print of a man's naked foot on the (hore, very evident 
on the faiid, as the toes, heel, and every part of it. Had I feen 
an apparition, in the moft frightful manner, I could not have 
been more confounded : My willing ears gave the ftri^left at- 
tention. I call my eyes around, but neither could fatisfy the 
one or the other. When I proceeded alternately to every part 
of the fliore, (till it was all as one j neither could 1 fee any 
other mark, though the fand about it was as fufceptible to take 
imprefiion as that which was fo plainly (tampt. Thus, (truck, 
with confulion and horroiir, I returned to my habitation, fright- 
ened at every biifh and tree, as taking them for men ; and, 
being polfefTed with the wildelt ideas, got over I cannot tell 
how. But that night myejes oever clofed, though farther 
from danger, when even then, I formed nothing but the moft 
difraal imaginations, thinking it mu(l be the mark of the De- 
vil's foot which I had ften : For otherwife hu-v could any 
mortal body come to this ifland ? And if fo, where was the- 
(hip that tranfpi^rted tliem > And what fi;^ns of any other 
footlleps ? Though thefe (eemed very flrong rcafons for fuch a 
fuppofition, yet, (thought I) why (liould the Devil make the 
prii;t of his foot to no purpofe, as I can fee, when he might 

have 



have t-^ken other ways to have terrified me ? Why fhould hf 
leave his maik on the other (ide of the ifland, and that too oa 
the fand, where the furging *vaves oi' the ocean might (ooii 
ha-ve erafed the ii-nprefTion. Surely this adion is not confid- 
ent with the fiibtiity of sat an, faid I to rhyfelf, but rather 
iiMift he fome dangerous creature, fomc wild favage of the 
main land over againft mo, that, venturing too far in the ocean, 
«vas driven here either by the viv>lenr currents or contrary 
%vind»-; and fo, rot caring to ftay on this defolate ifland, was 
gone back to fea again. 

f lappy was 1 in my thoughts that no favage had feei? me ia 
that place, yet much terrified, left, having found my boat, 
»hey fhould return in numbers and deitroy '^-e, or at leaft car- 
ry away al! my corn, and deliroy my flock of tame goats : la 
a word, all my religious hopes vanilhed, as though I thought 
God could not prote*5> me by his power, who had fo vtonder* 
lullv preferveri me To loog. 

What various chains of Providence there are in the life c-f 
iTiati I How changeable are cur affections, according to difTer- 
cnt circumilances ? We love to «lay what we ha(e to morrow ; 
Vie /bun one hour what we feek the next ; ar,d this .vas evi- 
«3ent m me in the moft perfpicuoiis manner ; for I, wlio be- 
fore had (o much lamented my condition, in being baniflied 
from all human kind, wasnow'almcft ready to expire, wlien I 
conHdered that a man had fet his foot on this defolate ifland. 
But when I conSderrd my ftation of life, decreed by the infi- 
nitely wife and good Providence of God ; that I ought not to 
difpute my Creator's fovereign:y» ^ho had an undoubted right 
to govern and difpofe of his creatures as he thinks convenient ; 
and that his juftice and mercy could either punifii or deliver 
xne : I fay, when I confidered all this, 1 comforfabiy f*und it 
jny duty to truft fmcerely m him, pray ardently to him, and 
hum.b'y refign myfelf to his divine vvilL 

One morning, lying on my bed, thefe words of the facred 
writings carite a<?ain into my mind, Call upon me hi the day J 
trouble^ and I iluII ddi'vcr thee^ ana ihou /halt glorify me. I' pon 
this fenrence, rifing niore cheerfully from my bed, I offered 
up my prayers in the moft heavenly manner : And when I 
hid done, taking up my Bible to read, thefe words appeared 
f.rti- in my light : Wult cfi (he Lord, and be of good cheer^ and be 
/hall f.ren^i hen thy beari ; 'wait, Ifay^ on the Lord. Such di^Vfie 
ccmiort did this give me, as to rem.ove all caufe of faduefs 
upon that occaHon. 

Thus, after a world of apprehenHons and fears, for three 
davs and nights, at lad I ventured out c/ my caitle, and 
milked my goats, one of which wns aln oft (poiled for want 
of it.' r next, though in great fea,r, vihted m,y bower, and 
milked my fiocks there alfo j when growing bc^lder, I wenr 

dew ft 



59 

down lo ihe fhore ar'ain, and mesfiiring the print of the foot 
to mine, to fee whether, perhaps, I mj 'ejf had not occadoned 
that mark, I found it much liiperior in largenefs ; and fo i re- 
turned home polfeired with the notion, fhar either fome mea 
bad been dfhcre, or that the liland muff be inhabited j and 
therefore, that I iright be furprifed before I was aware. 

Struck with a fecond and more terrible fear, feveral thoughts 
of fecurity came into my mird : And that night I was firft 
propofing ro cut down my enclolnres, and turn my tame cattle 
wiidinto ihe woods, that the enemy imglit not fi id them, and 
frequent the ifland in hop?s of the fame. Secondly^l was for 
digging up my corn fields, for the very fame reafon : And, 
Lajllyy I concluded to demolidi my bower, left feemg ftich 
a place of human contrivance, they might come farther and 
attack me in my little caftle. 

Such notions did the fear of danger fiiggeif unto me ; and 
I looked, I thought, like the unfortunate King Saul^ wheri 
not only oppreflTed by the Philijlhies^ bat alfo forfiken by God 
himfelf : And it is (irange, that a little before having entire- 
K rciigned myfelf to the will of God, I fhculd now have fa 
little confidence in him, fearing thole m.ore who might kill 
this fading body, than him who could deliroy my immortal 
foul. 

Sleep was an utter ffranger to my eyes that night j yet na» 
ture, fpent and tired, fubmitted to a lilent repofe the next 
morning : And ttien, joining reafon with my fear, I confider- 
ed, that fhis delightful and pleaOmt 'flnnd might not be en- 
Hrely forlaken, as I might think ; or that the inhabitants 
from the other (hore might fail either vvith {^qCx^-a or necelTity 
by crofs winds ; and if the latter drcumflance, they departed 
upon the firft opportunity. But (lill my fear occalioned mo 
to think of a place for retreat, upon an attack. I now re- 
pented that I had made the door that came out beyond my 
fortification} but refolving to make mea fecond, I drove be- 
tween that double row of trees, which I planted about twelve 
years before, feveral piles, thickening it with pieces of timber 
and old cables, and ftrengthe^ing the foot of it with earth 
which I dug out of iriycave. I alfo made me feven holes, 
wherein I plaraed my miiflcets like cannon, fitting them into 
frames refembling carriages. This being finifhed with inde- 
fatigable induftry, for a great way round I planted flicks of 
oficr like wood, about twenty thoufand of them, leaving a 
large fpace between ihem and my wall, that I might have 
room to fee an enemy, and that they might not be Iheltered 
by the young trees, if they offered to approach the outer wall. 
And indeed fcarcc two years had patfed over my head, when 
there appeared a lovely (liady grove, and in fix years it became 
a thick wood perfcdly impaffable. For my fafely, 1 left no 



6o 

avenue to go in or out ; inftead of which I fet tw'o ladders ; 
one to a part of the rock which was low, and then broke in, 
leaving room to place another ladder upon that ; fo that when 
1 took thofe down, it was impofTible for any man to defcend 
without hurting himfelf ; and if they had, they would (till be 
at the outlide of ray outer wall. But while I took all thefe 
nieafures of human prudence for my own prefervation, I was not 
altogether unmindful of other affairs : To prefave my fiock-s 
of tame goats, that the enemy ihould not take all at once, I 
looked out for tlie molt retired part of the ifland, which was 
the place where I had loft rryfelf before mentioned, and there 
finding a clear piece of land, containing three acres, furround- 
ed with thick woods, I worked fo hard, that in lefs than a 
month's tiirie 1 fenced it fo well round, that my flocks were 
very well fecured in it, putting therein two he goats and two 
{lie ones. As this labour was occafioned purely by my fear- 
ful apprehenfions, on account of feeing the print of a man's 
foot ; not contented with what I had done, I fearched fora- 
nother place toward the weft point of the ifland, where I might 
alfo retam another flock. Thea methought I perceived a 
boat at a great diftance in the fea ; but could not poffibly tell 
what it was, for want of my perfpeflive glafs. I confidered 
then it was no ftrange thing to fee the print of a man's foot ; 
and concluding them cannibals, bleffed God for my being cafl 
on the other fide of the ifland, where none of the favages, as I 
thought, ever came. But when I came down tlie hill to the 
fhore", which was the S. W. point of the ifland, I was not only 
amazed, but perfe6lly confirmed in my opmion : For the place 
was fpreadwith fkulls, hands, feet, and bones of human bodies ; 
and then I perceived a fpace like a circle, in the midft of which 
had been a fire; about this fire I conjectured thefe wretcheg 
fat, and unnaturally lacnficed and devoured their fellow crea- 
tures. 

The horror and lothfomenefs of this dreadful fpeflacle both 
confounded my fenfes, and made me dilicharge the violent dif- 
order from my flomach. So that when I had vomited in a 
very exceffive manner, I returned towards my habitation ; and 
in my way thither fliedding floods of tears, and falling do\»n 
on my bended knees, gave God thanks for making my nature 
contrary to thefe wretches, and delivering me fo long out of 
their hands. 

Mow, though reafon and my long refidence there had afTured 
me, that thele favages never came up to the thick woody parts 
of the country i and that I had no occaHon to difcover myfelf, 
who was fo perfectly concealed from them ; yet fuch an ab- 
horrence did I flill retain, that, for two years after, I confined 
mvfelf only to my three plantations .; I mean my caftle, coun- 
try feat, and enclofure in ihe woods. And when, in this foli- 

tarjr 



tary life, my dreaduil apprehenfio'ss began to wear away, yet 
my eyes were more vigilant for fear of being furprized, and I 
was cautious of firing my j^un, left being heard by thofe crea- 
tures, they fhould proceed to attack me ; but refolving man- 
fully to lofe my life if they did, I went armed with three pif- 
tols ftuck in my girdle, wh'ch, added to the defcription I have 
given of myfelf before, made me look with a very formidable 
appearance. 

And thus my circumfiances for fome time remained very 
calm and ufidiffurbed. When Lcompared my condition to 
others, I found it far from being miferable : And indeed 
would all penons compare their circumftances, not with thofe 
above them, but with thofe innumerable unhappy obje<5ls be- 
neath them, I am fure we fhould not hear thofe daily mur- 
inurings and complainings that are in the world. For my 
parr, I did not want many things : Indeed the terror which 
the favages had put me in fpoilt fome inventions for my owa 
conveniences ; one of which was really very ridiculous, ex- 
cept I could accomplifii it, and happy it was they hindered me 
from putting it in practice. My deligri was to brew me fome 
beer, when 1 had neither cafks fufBcient, nor could make any, 
to preferve it m ; neither had I hups to make it keep, yea(t ta 
make it work, nor a copper or kettle to make it boil. Per- 
haps indeed, after fome years, I might bring this to bear, as I 
bad done otlier things : But now my inventions were placed 
another way ; and one was, how I might dellroy fome of theie 
cannibals, when proceeding to their bloody entertainments ; 
and fo fdving a vid^im from being facrificcd, he might after 
become nay fervant. Many were my contrivances for this 
purpofe, and as many o.ore objeftions occured after I hatched 
them: For when 1 contrived to dig a hole under the place 
where they made their fire, and put therein five or fix pounds 
of gunpowder, which would confequently blow up all thofe 
that were near it ; why then I was loth to fpend fo much up- 
on them, left it fhould not do that certain execution I could 
defire ; and but only affright, and not kill th^m. Having laid 
this defign afide, I propofed to myfelf to lay privately in am- 
bufti, in fome convenient place, with my three guns double 
loaded, apd let fly at tbem in the midft of their dreadful cere- 
mony ; and having killed two or three of them at every ftiot, 
fall upon the reft fuddenly with my three piftols, and not let 
one mother's fon eftape. And fo much did this imagination 
pleafe my fancy, that I ufed to dream of it in the night time. 
To put my de(ign in execution, I was not long feeking for a 
place very convenient fjr my purpofe, where, unfeen, 1 might 
behold every a6lion of the favages. Here I placed my tw» 
mufkets, each of which was loaded with a brace of flogs, and 
four or live Imaller Wallets, about the fise of piftoi bullets; 
F the 



62 

the fowling piece was charged with near a handful of the larg- 
eft (wan fhot ; and in every piftol were about ^our bullets. 
And thus all things being prepared, no fooner would the wel- 
come light fpread over the eiemenr, bur, like a giant refrejljed 
*ivuh Txincy as the Scripture has it, would 1 ilfue forth trom 
my cattle, and, from a Ictty hill, three miles diftant, view if I 
could fee any invaders approach unlawfully to my kingdom. 
But having waited in vain two or three months, it nat only 
grew very tireforae to me, but brought mc into fome confider- 
ation, and made me examine myfelf, what right I had to kill 
thefe creatures in this manner ? 

If (argued I to myfelf) this unnatural cuftom of theirs be a 
fm offeniive to heaven, it belongs to the Divine Being, who a- 
lone has tlie vindiftive power in his hands, to fhower down 
vengeance upon them : And perhaps he does fo, in making 
them become one another's executioners. Or if not, if God 
thinks thefe doings juft, according to the knowledge which 
they conceive, what authority have I to pretend to all the de- 
crees of Providence, which has permitted thefe adions for fo 
many ages, perhaps from almoft the beginning of tiie creation > 
They never offended me, what right had I thet* to concern 
myfelf in their fhedding one another's blood ? And, as I have 
iince known, they value no more to kill and devour a captive 
taken in war, than we do to kill an ex, or eat mutton. From 
hence it followed, that thefe people were no more murderers 
than Chriftians, who nvany times put whole troops to the 
:6^ord, after throwing down their arms. Again 1 confidered, 
that if I fell upon them, I fhould be as much in the wrong as 
the Spaniards^ who had committed the greateft barbarities up- 
on thefe people, who had qever offended them in their whole 
lives J as if the kingdom of Spain wsis eminent for a race of 
men without common com;pallion to the miferable, which is 
reckoned to be a principal fign of the mo!f generous temper. 
In a word, I concluded never to attack them, whofe numbers 
might overpower me ; or that fome efcaping, might bring 
thoufands to my certain deftruftion ; nor fo much as to fliew 
myfelf, which might oblige me even to a neceflary duty of de- 
fence. And indetd religian took their part fo much, as to con- 
vince me, how contrary it was to my duty to be guilty of fhed- 
ding human blood, innocent as to my particular, whatever 
they are to one another ; and that I had nothing to do with it, 
but leave it to the God of all power and domiiiion, as I faid 
before, to do therein what feemed convenient to his heavenly 
wifdom. And therefore, on my knees, I thanked the Alaiigh- 
ty for delivering me from blood guiltinefs, and begged his pto- 
tef^ion that I might never fall into their hands. 

Thus, giving over an attempt which I had rafhiy begun, I 
nearer afcended tke bill on that occaflun aiierwards j only i re- 

moved 



_63_ 

movtd rny boat which lay on the oJher fide of the ifland, and 
every thing, fuch as they were, that belonged ro her, towards 
the eaft, into a little cove, that there mighr not be the leafl 
fhadow of difcovery of any boat near, or habitation upon the 
ifland. And then my callle became my cell, keeping very re- 
tired in it, except to milk my (lie goats, and order my little 
flock in the wood, which was quite out of danger ; for lure it 
is, thele lavages never came here with expedations to find any- 
thing, and confequently never wandered from the coafi" ; and 
as they might have feveral tia^cs been on fhore, as well before 
as afiermy dreadful anprehenfions, I looked back with horrour 
to think in what a (bre I might have been, had I fuddeniy 
met them flenderiy armed, with one gun only loaded witli fmall 
fhot : And how great would have been my am. zemenr, if, in- 
ffead of feeing the print of one man's foot, I had perceived 
fifteen or twenty favages, who, havmg once let their eyes up- 
on me, by the IwifrneTs of their feet, there was no podibility ot 
my efcapirg ? Thefe ihoughss would (ink my very loul within 
me, fo that I would fall into a deep melai choiy, till fiich time 
as the conHderarion of my grantude to the Divine Being moved 
it trom my heart. And then I fell into a coniemplatlon of 
the (ecret fprings of Providence : How wonderfully we are 
dehvered, when we are infenfible of it ; and when intricated ia 
Mricertain mazes or labyrinths of doubt or hefitation, what fe- 
cret hint fhall direft us in the right way, when we intended to 
go out of it ; nay, perhaps, contrary to our bufinefs, lenfe or 
inclination. Upon which, I fixed within me this as a certaiit 
rule, Nevir to difobey thofefecret imprsfflons of my mindy to the aS}- 
ing or not acling any th'ing that offered^ for ivhkh I yet could af" 
jlgn no reafon : But let it be how it will, the advantage of tliis 
condudt very eminently appeared in the laiter part of my a- 
bode on this ifland ; 1 am a frranger in determining whence 
thefe fecret intim?)tions of Providence derive ; yet, methink^, 
they are not only fome proofs of the converfe of Ipirits, but 
alfo of the fecret communications they are fuppofed to have 
virith thofe that have not paflTcd tlirough tlje gloomy vale of 
death. 

As in thefe many anxieties of mind, the care of my pre- 
fervatlon puta period to all inventions and contrivances, eitiicr 
for future accommodations or conveniences ; fo I never cared 
to drive a nail, chop a ftici^, fire a gun, or make a fire, left 
either the noife fhould be heard or the fmoke difcover me : 
And, upon this acccount, I ufed to burn my earthen ware pri- 
vately in a cave which 1 found in the wood, and which 1 made 
convenient fcr that purpofe : But the principal caule that firft 
brought me here, was to make charcoal, fo that I might bake 
and drefs my bread and meat, without any danger. While I 
was cutting- dowft foaie wood for this purpofe, I perceived a 

cavity 



tavity behind a very thick branch of under wood. Curious 
:o look, into it, I attained its month, and perceived it fnfficient 
for me to /tand upright in it. But when I had entered and 
took a further view, two rolling fhining eyes, like flamfng 
Itars, feemed to dart themfelves at me, fo that I made all the 
hafte out that I could, as not knowing whether it was th* 
Devil or a monfterthat had taken up bis refidencein that place. 
But when I recovered from my hirprize, I called rayfeif a 
thoufand fools, for being afraid to fee the Devil one moment, 
who had now lived aimoft twenty years in themoft retired foU 
itude : And therefore, reiuming all the courage I had, I toole 
up a flaming firebrand, and in I rufhed again ^ when not hav- 
ing proceeded above thr^c fleps, 1 was more affrighted than 
before ; for then I heard a very loud frgh, like that ot a hu- 
man creature in the greateft agony, fucceeded with a broken 
liOife, refembling words half expre (Ted, and then a broken figh 
again. Stepping back, Lord 1 (ihought I to myfelf) where am 
1 got ? Into what enchanted place have I plunged rriyfelf, 
fuch as are reported to contain mifcrable captives, till death 
puts an end to their forrcw } And indeed fuch a great airaic^- 
ment was I in, that it ftruck me with a cold fweatj and had 
my hat been on my head, I believe my hair would have moved 
it off. But again, encouraging myfelf with the hopes ef God's 
proteiflion, 1 proceeded forward, and, by the light of my flre- 
krand, perceived it to be a monftrous he goat, lying on the 
ground, gafping for life, and dying of mere old age. When 
at firft I flirred him, thinking to drive him out, the poor an- 
cient creature ftrove to get upon his fe,et, but was not aWe ; 
jfo I e'en let him lie fiill, to affright the favages, fhould they 
venture into this cave. In the mean tinae, I looked round 
xne, and found the place but fmall and fhapelefs : At the furth- 
er fide of it I perceived a fert of an entrance, yet fo low as 
jnuft pblige me to creep on my haods and knees to it ; when, 
having no candle, I fufpended my enterprize till the next day, 
ar.d iheu I came provided with fix large ones of my own mak- 
ing. 

When, upon my hands and feet I had crept through the 
flraight, I found the roof rofe higher up, I think, about twen- 
ty feet : But furely mortal never faw fuch a glorious fight in 
this illand before ! The roof and walls of this cave refle(^ed 
Sk. hundred thoufand lights to me from my two candles, as 
though they were indented with fhininggold, precious fiones, 
^r fparkling diamonds. And indeed it was themoft delight- 
ful cavity or grotto, of its kind, as could be defired, though 
entirely dark : The floor was dry and level, and had a kind of 
gravel upon it; no naufeous venomous creature to be feen 
there, neither any damp or wet about it : I could find no fault 
kut in th« snlrance, which I thought m^ight be very neccffary 



for my defence, and therefore was rcfolved to make this place 
my mo(t principal magazine. I brought hither two fowling 
pieces and three mufkets, leaving only five pieces at my qaftle, 
planted in the nature ot cannon, in a barrel of gunpowder^ 
which I took out of the fea, I brought away ab®ut fixty pounds 
of good powder, which was not damaged ; and thefe, with a 
great quaatity of lead for ballets, I removed from my cartle to 
this retreat, now fortified both by art and eature. 

Surely it is no wonder, if at this time I thought myfelf like 
ene of the giants ot old, who were faid to live in c«ves and 
holes among the rocks, inaccefTible to any but themfelves, or» 
at leaf^, moft dangerous to attempt. So that now it feems t 
defpilcd both the cunning and Itrength ef the (avagci^ cither: 
to fifjd me out or to hurt me. 

But I muff not forget tliC old g©at, who caufed my late dread- 
ful amazement : Tlie poor creature gave up the ghoft the day 
alter my difcovery ; and it being difficult to drag him out, I 
dug his grave, and honourably entombed him in the fame 
place where he departed, with as much ceremony as any Jfe/J^ 
goat has been interred about the high mountain Penmenmoure* 

I think I was now in the twenty third year of my reign, 
and much eafier were my thoughts than formerly, contrivmg 
feveral pretty amufements and diverfions, to pafs away tlic 
time in a rleafanr manner. By this time my pretty Poll had 
learnt to fpeak Rngl-Jh^ and pronounce his words very articu- 
lately and plain ; lo that for many hours we witdi to chat to- 
gether after a very familiar manner, and he lived with me no 
lefs than twenty fix years : My dog, who was nineteen years 
cid, fixteen years of which he lived with m.e, diad of mere old 
age ; As for my cats, they multiplied fo faO, that I was forced 
to kill or drive them mto the w oods, except two or three, whicJi 
became my particular favourites. Befides thefe, I continually 
kept two or three houlehold kids about me which I did leara 
to feed out of my hand, and two more parrots which would 
talk indifferently, and call Rohlnfon Crufoe^ but not fo excellent 
as the fi rft, as not taking that pains with them. SeveraJ fea- 
fowis I had alio, which having wounded, I cut their wings, 
and growing tame, they ufed to breed among the low trees 
about my cadle walls ; ail which v,'ere very agreeable to me. 

But what unfore(een events fuddenly deflroy the enjoyments 
cf this uncertain rtate of life, when we leaft expect them I It 
was now the month fcf Decembtr, m the Southern rolllice, and 
particular time of my liarvtR, which 'required my attendance 
in the fields ; when gf>ing out pretty early one morning, be- 
fore it was day light, there appeared to me, (roru the fea Ihore, 
a flaming light, about two miles from n e, at the ^afl end ot* 
the :fl;ind, where 1 )iad cbferved fome lavages had been, a:S 
F 1 fee I we. 



b6 

before, but not on the other fide; but, to mygreatafHiflion, 
it was on my lide of the ifland. 

Struck with a terrible luiprife, and ray ufual apprelienfions, 
that the favages would perceive my improvements, I returned 
directly to my caftle, pulled up the ladder afier me, making all 
things look as wild and natural as poflibly I could. In the 
next place I put myfelf in a pofture of defence, by loading my 
muflcets and piflols, and committing myfelf to God's protec- 
tion, refolving to defend myfelt till my lateft breath. After 
two hours fpace, impatient for intelligence, I fet my ladder up 
to the fide of the hill where there was a flat place ; and then 
pulling the ladder after mc, afcended the top, where, laying 
myfeU on my belly, with my perlpeciive glafs, T perceived no 
lefs than nine naked favages, fitting roanda fmali fire, eating 
as I fuppofed, human flefh, with their two canoes haled upon 
fhore, waiting for the flood to carry them off again. You can- 
not eafiiy exprefs the conflernation I was in at this fighr^ efpe» 
cially feeing them near me *, but when I perceived their com- 
ing muft be always with the current of the ebb, I became mere 
c^fy in my thoughts, being very fully convinced, that I might 
go abroad with fecurity all the time of flood, if they were not 
before landed. And indeed this proved jufl as I miagined j 
for no fooner did they ail take boat, and paddle away, but the 
tide made northweft. Before they went off, they danced, 
making ridiculous poflures and gefture?, for above an hour, 
all flark naked, but whether nnen,,or women, or both, I could 
not perceive. When I faw them gone I took two guns upon 
my fhoulders, and placing a couple of piftols in my belt, with 
jny great fword bangiflg by my fide, I went to the hill, where 
at firft I made a difcovery of thefe cannibals, and then faw 
there had been thre« canoes more of the favages on (hore at 
that place, which, with the reft, were making over to the 
wain land. 

But nothing could be more horrid to me, when going to 
the place of facrifice, the blood, the bones, and other mangled 
parts of human bodies, appeared ia my fight ; and lo, fired 
*vith indignation, I was fully refolved to be revenged ot the 
firft that came there, though I loft my life in the execution. It 
then appeared to me, that the vifits, which they made to this 
ifland, were not very frequent, it being fifteea months before 
they came again ; all this time I was very uneafy, by reafon of 
the difroal apprehenfions I had ©f their furprifing me unawares j 
Ror dared I oftcr to fire a gun on that fide ot the ifland where 
they ufcd to appear, left taking the alarm, the favages might 
itturn with many hundred canoes, and then God knows in 
what manner I ftiould have made my end : And thus I was a 
year or more, befor« I fver iskYf any of thefe d^voiiring cannU 
\i^\i 9£ain. 

4ul 



But to ^fave this difconrfc for a while, the following acci- 
dent demands your attention, which for a while eluded tlie 
force of my thoughts in revenging myfelfon thofe heathens. 

It was the i6ih of ATay (according to my wooden calendar) 
that the wind blew exceedingly hard, accompanied with abund- 
ance of lightning and thunder all that day, and fucceeded by a 
very ftormy night. What cccafioned this I could not imagine 5 
but as the feeming anger of the heavens ma-ie me have re- 
courle to the Bible, whiKt I was feriouily pondering upon it, I 
was fuddenly alarmed with the noife of a gun, which 1 conjec- 
tured was fired upon the ocean. Such an unufual furprize, 
made me ftart up in a minute, when, with my ladder, afcemd- 
ing the mountain as before, that very moment a fjafii of tire 
preCaged the report of another gun, which I prefently heard, 
and found it was from that part of the^fea where the current 
drove me away. I could not then think otherwife, but that 
this muft be a fhip in diftrefs, and that thefe were the melan- 
choly fignals for a fpeedy deliverance. Indeed, great was my 
forrow, upon this occafion, but altogether vain and fruitlefs. 
However, I brought together all the dry wood that was at 
hand, a^.d making a handfome pile fet it on fire on the hiil. 
Certain it was, that they plainly perceived it, by their firing 
another gun, as foon as it began to blase, and after that fever- 
al more from the fame quarter. All the night long did I keep 
up this fire; and when the air cieartd up, I perceived fome» 
thing a great way at fea dircdiy caft, but could not diflinguifii 
what it was, sven with my glafs, by reafon the weather was fo 
very foggy out at fea. However, keeping my eyes direftly 
fixt upon it, and perceiving it not to ftir, I prefently concluded 
it muft be a (hip at anchor ; and io very hafly I was to be fatis- 
lied, that, taking my gun, I went to the fouih eaft part of the 
ifland, to the fame rocks where I kad been formerly droTe away 
by the current ; in which time the weather being perfe6tly 
cleared up, to my great Torrovv, I perceived the wreck of a (hip 
caft away upon thofe hidden rocks, which I found when I wzs 
out with my boatj and which, by making a kind of an eddy^ 
were the occafion of my preservation. 

Thus, what is one man's fatety is a»other's ruin : For un- 
doubtedly this (hip had been driven on them in the night, the 
wind blowing flrong at E. N. E. Now, had they perceived 
t^e ifland, asl could not ima^^ine they did, certainly, inftead of 
firing their guns for help, they usight rather have ventured in 
their boat, add (avcd them.Vfves t^hat way. Then I thought, 
that perhaps they had dooe fo, upon feeing my fire, and were 
cafl away in the attempt ; for 1 perceived no hoat in the (hip. 
Again, I imagined, that perhaps they had another veiTel in 
company, which, upon fignal, faved their lives, and look the 
koai up ; Or laltly, liiat the boat might bcdiivtn info the 



main ocean, where thefe poor erealiire« might be in (he moii 
reiferable condition. Bui as all thefe conjectures were very 
uncertain, I could do no more than commilerate their diftrefs, 
and rhank God for delivering me, in particular, when fo many 
per;fhed in the ra^^ing ocean. 

When I cenfidered ferioufly every thing concerning this 
vireck, I coi^ld perceive no room to luppofeany ot them lav- 
ed : 1 cannot explain, by any poflible force of words, what 
longings my foul felt upon this fight, often breaking out in 
this manner : Oh ! that there had been but two or three, nay 
even one perlon faved, that we might have lived together, 
convcrfed with and comforted one another I And fo much 
were my defires moved, that when I repealed thefe words, 
Cb I that there had been but one! my hands would fo clench 
together, and my fingers prefs the palms of my hands fo clofe, 
that had any foft thing been between, they would have crufh- 
ed it involuntarily, while my teeth would ftrike togettirr, ar.d 
fet againf^ each other fo ftrong, that required fome time for 
me t© part ihera. 

Till the lafl year of my being on this ifland, I never knew 
if any had been faved out of this Ihip or not ; and had only 
the affl dion fome time after, to fee the corpfe of a drowned 
boy come on fhore, at the end of the ifland, which was next 
tbefhipwreck : There was nothing on him but a feaman's 
waiftcoat, a pair of open knee'd Imen drawers and a blue 
linen fhirt ; but no particular mark to guefs what nation he 
v/as of. In his pocket were two pieces of eight and a tobacco 
pipe, thelafl of which I preferred much more than I did 
the firft. And now the calmnefs of the fea tempted me to 
venture out in my boat to this wreck, not ouly to get fome- 
thing necelTary out of the (liip, but perhaps fome living crea- 
ture might be on board, whofe life I might preferve*. Tl-iis 
had fuch au influence upon my mind, that immediately I went 
home, and prepared every thing neceflary for the voyage, car- 
rying on board my boat, provifions of all forts, with a gotJd 
quantity of rum, frefh water and a compals. So putting off, I 
paddled the canoe alonvj the fhore, till 1 came at laff to the 
N. £. part of the ifland, from whence I was to launch into th<; 
©cean ; but here the currents ran fo violently, and appeared 
fo terrible, that my heart began to fail mc ; foreleeing that if 
I was driven into any of thefe currents, I might be carried not 
only out of the reach or fight of the ifland, but even inevita- 
bly iofl in the boiling furges of the ocean. 

So opprelfed was 1 at thefe troubles, chat I gave over my 
cnterprize, failing to a little creek on the fhore, where ftep- 
ping out, I fat "me down on a rifing hill, verf penfive and 
thoughtful. I then perceived, that the tide was turned, and 
the Siood canie on, vvhith made it unprafticable for me to go 
' out 



•tit for fo many %ours. To be more certain, how the fers of 
the tides or currents lay when the flood came in, J afcesded z 
bigher piece of ground, vvhich overlooked the fea both vays, 
and here I found, that as the current of the ebb (et out clo(e 
by the fouth point of the ifland, fo the current of the flood let 
in clofe by the ihore of the north fide ; and all that I had to, 
do, was, to keep to the north of the ifland in my return. 

That night I repofed myfelf in my canoe, covered with my 
watch coat inftead of a blanket, the heavens being my tefler. 
I fet out with the firft of tlie tide full north, till I felt the be- 
nefit ot the current, which carried me at a great rate ealfward, 
y*t not with fuch impetuofity as before, as to take from me all 
government of my canoe ; fo that in two hours finre I came up 
to the wreck, which appeared to me in a mo(f melancholy man- 
ner. It feemed to be a Spanijh vefTel by its building', fluck taft 
between two rocks ; her flern and quarters beaten to pieces 
w ith the fea ; her main mart and fore raaff were t^rought cfF by 
the board ; as much as to fay, broken fliort off. As T ap- 
proached nearer, 1 perceived a dog on board, who perceiving 
me coming, yelped and\:ried, and no fooner did I rail him, 
but the poor creature jumped into the fea, out of which I took 
him almofl famifhed'with hunger and third : So that when I 
gave him a cake of breacf, no ravenous wnlf could devour it 
more greedily ; and hf drank to that degree of freifh water, 
that he would have burft himfelf had I fuftered him. 

The firft fight I met with in the f}iip, were two men drown- 
«d in the cook room or forecaf^le, encloied in one anotlier's 
arms : l!&r;c3 I very probably fappofed, that when the vefiel 
(truck in the* florin, fo high «ind inceJlantly did tl.e waters 
break in, ?:id over her, that the men, not being able to bear 
it, were firangled by the conitant lu.liing in of the waves. 
There were feveral cafks of liijuor, v.hcther wine or brandy, I 
could not be pofitive, which lay in the lower hold, as wer« 
plainly perceptible by the ebbin'^ O'Jt of t-he water, yet wer« 
♦.,»o large for me to pretend to meddle with : Likewife I per- 
ceived Several chefts, which I thought might belong to the (ea- 
men j two of them 1 got into my boat, without examining 
then what were in them. Now had the flern of the fhip been 
fixed, an<i the fore part broken oflT, certain I am I fliould have 
made a very profperous voyage ; fince by what I after found 
in thefc two chefls, I could not otherwifc conclude, but that 
the fhip muft have abundance of wealth on board ; nay, it I 
muft guefs by the courfe fl)e fleered, foe muft have been boujjd 
from Buenos Ayres, or Rio de la Plata, in the foutherri 
y)zrt of yimencay beyond the Braji Is , to the Ha<vanahy\n the 
£ulph of Mexico, and fo perhaps to Spain. What became of 
the red of her Jailors, I could not certainly tell j and all her 
riches fij^^'fied nothing at that lime to any body. 

Searching 



Searching farther, I found a cafk, containing about twenty 
gallons, full of liquor, which with fotue labour I got into my 
boar ; In a cabin were feveral nuifkets, which I let remain 
there, but took away with nie a great powder horn, and about 
four pounds of powder in it ; I took alfo a fire fhovel and 
tongs, two brafs kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and 
a gridiron, dli which were excremely neceffary to me, elpeci- 
ally the fire fhovel and tongs. And fo with tjiis cargo, accom- 
panied with iny dog, 1 cante away, the tide ferving for that 
purpofe J anJ that fanne evening, about an hour within 
night, I attained the ifland, after ihegreateft toil and fatigue 
imaginable. 

That night I repofed my weaned limbs in the boaJ', refolving 
the next morning to harbour what I had gotten in my new 
found fubterraneous grotto, and not carry my cargo home to 
my ancient caftie. When I had refrefhed mvTelf, and got all 
iTjyeffecis on fnore, 1 proceeded to examine the particulars : 
And fo tapj.ir.g the caJK, I found the liquor to be a kind of 
rum, but not like what ue had at the Brq/i/s, nor indeed near 
fo good. At the opening of the cheft, feveral things appeared 
very ufefol to me : For inftance, I found in one a very fine 
cafe of bottles, containing the ftneft and befi forts of cordial 
waters : Each bottle held about three pints, curioufly tipt with 
fiiver. I found alfo two pots full of the choiceft fw'cet-meatSj 
and two more which the water had ur-erly fpoiled. There 
were likewife feveral good fhirts, exceedingly welcome to m^, 
and about a dozen and a half of linen white handkerchiefs and 
Ct^nured ueckloihs, the former of whicli were ablolutely ne- 
ceffary for wiping my face in a hot day ; and in the till, I found 
three bags of pieces of eight, about eieven hundred in aU ; in 
all of v/nich, decently wrapt ud in a piece of paper, were fix 
doubloons of gold, and forue fmall bars and wedges of the 
fame metal, which I believe might weigh near a pound, la 
the other died, which I gueffed to belong to the gunner'5 mate, 
by the mean circumflances that attended it, I only found fome 
clotlie* of vci-y little valvie, except about two pounds of fine 
glazed powder, in tJiree flaiks, kept, as I believe, for charging 
their fowling-pieces on any occafjon. So that on the whole, 1 
tad no great advantage by this voyage : The money was in- 
deed as mere d;rc to me, ufelefs and unprofitable, a^l which I 
would have freely parted vviih for two or three EngliJIj pair of 
fkoes and fiorkings ; things that for many years i had not 
worn ; except lately thofe which I had taken off the feet ©f 
thofe unfortunate men I found drowned in the wreck, yet not 
fo good as Lnglijh ihoes, either for safe or fervice : And hav- 
ing found in the feanien's chert about fitty pieces of eight in 
rials, but no goid, I fuppofe what I took from the firft be- 
longed to an officer, to wiioai this feetned to have a much 

iaferiur 



7^ 

is ferior perfon its owner. Well, th2 money, as defpicable as 
it feemed, 1 likewife lugged to my cave, laying it up fecurely 
as 1 did the rcll of my cargo. Afier I bad done all this, I 
rerurntd back, to niy boat, rowing or paddling her along till 
I came to my old haibuur, where 1 carefully laid her up, and 
lb made tlie bed of my way to my cadle. When I arrived 
there, every thing Teemed fafe and quiet; fo that now my 
only bufinefs, was to repofe myfelf after my wonted manner, 
and take care of my dome(t;c affairs. But though I might 
have lived very ea(y, as wanting tor nollvng abfoluteiy need- 
ful, yet {till 1 was more vigilant than uhi;d on account of- 
the favages, never going much abroad : or if i did, it was to 
the £^y? part of theilhnd, where I v\as well afFured rhat the 
lavages never came, aiid where I might not be troubled to 
carry tbrtt heavy load of weapons for my defence, as I was 
obliged to do it I went the oiher way. 

Two years did I live in this anxious condition, in all which 
time, contrary to my former refolutions, my heart was filled 
with nothing but projects and deligns how I might efcape frora 
this ifland ; And fo much were my vvandering thoughts bent 
on a rambling difpofition, that had 1 the (ame boat 1 wertt 
from Sallce in, I fhculd have ventured once more fo the uncer- 
tainty of the raging ocean. 

But certainly 1 was an unhappy inflance of that part of 
mankind, who make themfelves wretched by their diflatisfac- 
tion with tbe ftatioa which God has placed tber': in : For not 
to take a review of my primitive condition, and my father's 
excellent advice, the contrary to which vras, as 1 m^xy fay, my 
original fijiy my following miftakes, of the fame nature, had 
been tlie means of my prefent unhappy lotion. What bufi- 
refs had I to leave a fettled fortune, and well flocked plan- 
tation, improving and inciealing, where by this time I might 
have been worth a hundred thouland moidores, to turn fuper- 
cargo to Guinea, to fetch Negrces, when time and patieoce 
would have fo much enlarged our flock at home, as to be 
able to employ thole, whofe raore immediate buQnefs it was to 
fetch them home, even to our doors ? 

But as this is very commonly the fate of young heads, fo as 
a ferious refledfion upon the folly of it, ordinariiy attends the 
exercife of future year?, when the dear , bought experience of 
time is fo much repented of. Thus it was with me, at that 
feafon ; but notwithltanding what I had, or might fuffer up- 
on thefe occafions, the thoughts of my deliverance ran fo 
Itrongly in my mind, as feemed to check all the di(ftates of my 
poor reafbn and philofophy. And now to ufher my kind lea- 
der, with greater plealure to the remainiog part of my rela- 
trons, 1 flalier myfelf it will aot hfi taJcea amils to give him 

an 



72 

an account ef my firrt conce^ieions on the raanner of efcaping^ 
and upon whab foundation I laid out my foolifh fcbemes. 

I muft now fuppofe rayfelf rerired to my ca(tle, after my 
late voyage to the ftiip, my frigate laid up and fecured, as 
ufual, and my condiiion in the i^me manner as befon?, except 
being richer ; though I had as little occafion tor riches as the 
Indians of Peru had for gold, before the cruel Spaniards came 
among them. One night m March, being the ramy feaion, in 
the four and twentieth year of this ray folitude, I was lying 
on my bed awake, very well in health, without diftemper, pain, 
or uncommon uneafmefs, either of body or mind ; yet for all 
thif, 1 could not compofe myielf to fleep the night long. All 
this tedious while, it is impodible to exprefs what innumerable 
thoughts cao'C into my head : 1 traced quite over the whole 
hiftory ot my life in miniafure, from my uimoft remem- 
brance of things, till I came to this ifland ; and then proceed- 
ed to examine every aftion and palTage that had occurred, 
fince I had taken poflTelHon ©f my kingdom. In ray rcfle£lions 
upon the latter I vras comparing my happy pofture of afi'airsin 
the beginning of my reign, to this life of anxiety, fear and con- 
cern, lince 1 difcoverad the print of a foot in the fand ; that 
while 1 continued free without notions, I was capable of term- 
ing any dreadful apprehen(ions ; though 1 cught rather to be 
thankful for the knowledge of mv danger, fince then it was 
the greateft happinefs to have fufficient time to provide for ray 
refletbon : How fJupendous is the goodne/s of providence, 
which lets fuch narrow bounds to the fight and knowledge of 
human rrature, that v;hile men walk in the midft of (o many 
dangers that furround them, till perhaps they are difilpated 
and vaniflicd quite away. 

And when I came more particularly to confider of the real 
danger 1 had for fo many years efcaped ; how I had walked a- 
b< lit in the greatefl fecurity and tranquillity at a time, perhaps 
vrhen even nothing but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the 
common approach of night, had only interpofed between me 
and the deliruftive hands of xh^ cannibals, who would devour 
j-ne with as good an appetite as I tvould a pigeon or curlew. 
Surely all this, I fay, could not but make me finccrely thank- 
ful to my great preferver, whofc fingular protection I acknowl- 
edged with the greateft humility, and without which I mufl in- 
evitably have fallen into the cruel hands of thefe devourers. 

Thus having difculTed thefe thoughts in the cleareft mannet 
according to my weak underltanding, I next proceeded to con- 
fider the wretched nature of thefe deftroying favages, by fcem- 
ing, though with great reverence, to inquire why God flaould 
give up any of his creatures to fuch inhumanity, even to bru- 
tality itfeif, to devour its own kind ? But as this was rather 
matter of abftruie fpeculation, it better became me to enquire^ 



■73 

what part of the world tJiefe wretches h'ved in ; how far oft the 
coaft was from wlience they came ; wh}' they ventured over 
fo far from home ; wliat kind of hoats conveyed them hither ; 
and why 1 could not order myfelf, and my bufinefs fo, that I 
might be as able to attain their country, as they were to come 
to my kingdom. 

Never had 1 the leaft thoughts how I ftiould manage myfelf 
when I fhoiild go thither ; what would become of me if I fell 
into the hands of the lavages ; or how I (he uld efcape from 
them if they made an attempt upon me. And fuppofing I 
fhould fall into their power, what could I do for provifion, or 
uijich way fliould I bend my coiwfe ? Now though thefe things 
did exprefs tl.ie greateft horrour and confulion imaginable, yet 
(fill I looked upon my prelent condition the moft miferable 
that pofllbly could be, and tlut nothing could be worfe except 
death. For (i bought ]) could I ..but attain llie (hore of tt*e 
main, I might perhaps njeet witii fome relief, or coaft it along, 
as I did with my boy Xuryy on the African (liore, till I came to 
fome inhabited country, where I might meet with fome relief, 
or fall in with fome chnftian fhip that might take me in ; and 
if I failed, why then I could but meet with death, which would 
put an end to all my miferies. But yet I mufi here note, that 
all this was the fruit of adi^empered mind ; an impatient tem- 
per, made defperate, as it were, by long continuance of the 
troubles and the difappointments I had met with in the wreck, 
where 1 hoped to have found fOme living perfon ts fpeak to, by 
whom I might have known in what phce I was, and of the 
probable means of my deliverance. Thus, while niy thoughts 
were agita'ed, my refignation to the will of^ heaven was entire- 
ly fufpended ; fo that I had no power to fix my mind t© any 
thing but the projecf of a voyage to the main. And indeed 
fo much was I inflamed upon this account, that it ^tl my blood 
into a ferment, and my puile beat liigh as though I had beea 
in a fever ; till nature being, as it weie, fatigued and exhauft- 
ed with the very thoughts ot it, made me lubmit myfelf to a 
filent repofe. 

Certainly it is very flrange, that I did not dream of what I 
WIS (o intent upon ; but iiiflead of which, my rnmd roved on 
a quire difFerent thifjg, altogether foreign to it. I dreamt, 
that as I was iflning from my caftle one morning, as cuftoma- 
ry, I perceived upon the fhore two canoes, and eleven lavages 
coming to land, who had brcugRt with them another Indian^ 
whom they defigned to make a facrifice of, in order to devour : 
But julf 3:5 they were going to give thic fatal blow, methought 
the poor defigned vi£\im jumpt away, and ran dire6tly into a 
little thick grove before uiy fort'fication, to abfcond from his 
enemies; when", perceiving that the others did not follow htm 
that way, I appeared to hiizi j that he humjply kneel'd dow* 
G before 



74 

before mf, featiing to pray for my a{!t!T2ncc i up«n which I 
fhewed him my ladder, made iiim ai'cend, carried him to my 
cave, and he became my fervarit ; and when I had gotten this 
man, I faid to myfelf, now furely I may have fome hopes to 
attain the main land ; for this fellow will (trve me as a piiot, 
tell me what to do, and where I muft go for provifions ; what 
places to fhun, what to venture to, and what to elcape. But 
when I awak'd, and found all thefe inexprefTible impreilions of 
joy entirely vaniftied, I tell into the greatelt dejection of fpirits 
imaginable. 

Yer, after all, I made tViis conchifion,that my only way of ef- 
caping was to get a favage ; and after I had ventur'd my life to 
deliver him from the bloody jaws of his devoiirers, the natural 
ienfe he might have of fuch a prefervation, might infpire him 
with a lading gratitude and moft fincere affection. Bat then 
this obje6tion reafonably interpos'd : How can I efFe6t this 
(thought I) without I attack a whole caravan of them, and 
kill them all i Why fhouid I proceed on fuch a defperate at- 
tempt, which my fcruples had before fuggefled to me were un- 
Jawful, and made my heart tremble at the thoughts of fo much 
blood, though it were a means to procure my deliverance I And 
though I might, according to my reafon, fuppofe that thefe men 
were the re;*! enemies to my life, and would devour me, were 
5t m their power, fo that it was felf prefervation in the highefl 
degree, to free myfelf from this dread of death, by a(^ling in 
my own defence, as if they were actually affaulting me ; 
Though all thefe things, I fay^ feemed to me to be of the great- 
rit weight ; yet, as I jufl faid before, the dreadful thoughts of 
ihedding- human blood, liruck fuch a terrour to my foul, that 
it was a long time before I could reconcile myfelf to it. 

But how far. vvill the ardency of defire prompt us on ? For 
Botwithltanding the many difputes and perplexities 1 had with 
myfelf about it j right or wrong, I was refolved to get one of 
thefe favages into my hands, let it cofl what it would,, or lofe 
jny life in the attempt. Thus infpired with a firm refolution, 
all my wits were at work, in the next place, to find out vvhat 
methods I fhouid take to anfwer my defign ; and this indeed 
^as very difficult to refolve on. Since then I could not pitch 
tjpon any probable means for it, I refolved continually to be 
an a vigilant ponure, to perceive when the favages came on 
ihore, and fo leave the reft to the event, let the opportunities 
offer as they would. 

Such was my fixed refolution, and accordingly I fet myfelf 
upon the fcout as often as I could, till fuch time as I was 
heartily tired of it. 1 waited for above a year and a half, the 
greateft part of which time L went out lo the welt en'i, and 
fouth weft corner of the ifland, almoft every day, to fee for ca- 
noes, bnt noae appeared. Th» was a very great dikouiagenienf, 

at 



in 

,»! which I was v-ny much concerned j yet n^vfr did this wear 
ofFrhe edge of my defire to the thing ; but the longer it (cem-. 
cd to be delayed, the m.;re eager I was for it : In a word, I 
was never at firft (o careful to fhun the loathed fight of thefe 
favages, as I was now eager to be i;pon them. Befides, I 
thought rDyfelf fufficiently able to manage one, two or three 
favages if I had them, fo as to make them my entire Have?, to 
do wbatibever I ftiould direft them, and prevent their being 
able at any time of doing me a mifchief. Many a time did I 
ule to pler.fe nnfclf with this affair, with long and ardent ex- 
))eCtatiot)s, but nothing yet prtfenJed ; all my deep projeded 
ichemes and numerous fancies vanifhfd away, ^s though, while 
I retained the fe thoiighrs, the decree of providence was fuch, 
that no ravages were to come near me. 

It was about a year and a half, that as I was mofl reriouHy 
niufmg of fundry ways how I fhould attain rt\y end, one morn- 
ing early I was very much fiirprifed by feeing no lefs thati 
live canoes all on Ihore together, on my /ide theifland, and the 
creatures that belonged to them all landed, avw] out oi my 
fight. Such a number cf them difconreried ail my meauircs ; 
for feeing io many boat?, each ot which would contain fix, 
and fometimes more, 1 could not tell what to rinnk of ir, or 
how to order my meafnres, to attack twenty or thirty men fia- 
gle handed : Upon which, much difcomfcrted and perplexed, I 
lay ftili in my caftle; however I put myfelf in the fame pofture 
for an attack, that I had iormerly provided agai^ift, and was 
ready to enter upon an engagement, fliould they attempt it. 
But when I had waited a long while, til) fuch time as my im- 
patient temper would let me bear it no longer, 1 fet my gU4i« 
at the foot of my ladder, and as ufual afcended up to the top 
of the hill at two flages ; however, Handing that my head did 
not appear above the hill fo that by any means thsy could not 
perceive me ; and here I obferved, by the alliflance of my per- 
fpedf ive glafs, no lefs than thirty in number around a fire, 
feafling upon what meat they had dreffed : How they ceoked 
it, or what it was, 1 could not then perfectly tell ; but they 
were all dancing and capering about the flames, uling many 
frifehtful and barbarous geftures. 

But while with a curious eye I was beholding thefe wretches^ 
my fpirits funk within me, when I perceived tliem drag two 
mifisrable creatures from the boats to ad afrefh the dreadful 
tragedy, as I fuppofed they had done joefore. it was not long 
btiure one of tliem fell upon the ground, knocked down, as I 
iuppofed, with a club, or wooden fword 5 for that was their 
manner, while two or three others went immediately to work, 
cutting him open for their cookery, and then fell to devour 
hioi as they had done the former, while the laR unhappy cap- 
tive, was left by himfelf till fuch time as they were ready for 

him. 



ii 

him. The poor creature looked round h|n with a wifcful 
eye, trembling at the thoughts of death, yet feeing himfelf a 
little at liberty, nature that very moment as it were infpired 
him with hopes of life, that he ftaried away from them, and 
ran wit)i incredible fiviftnefs along the fands diredtly to that 
part of the coart where my ancient and venerable caftle flood. 

You may imagine I was dreadfully affrighted upon this oc- 
cafitjn, when as 1 thought, they purfued him in a whole bod}^ 
all runing towards my palace. And now indeed I expeiUd that 
part of my dream was going to be fulfilled, and that he would 
certainly fly to my grove for protedion j but for the reft of 
iny dream I could depend nothing on it, that the favages would 
purfue him thither and find him there. However my fpirits 
beginning to recover, I ftill kept upon my guard, when I plaisj- 
]y perceived there were but three men out of the number, that 
purfued him ; and I was infinitely pleafed with what fwiflnefs 
Jthe poor creature ran from his purfutrs, gaining much ground 
of them, that I plainly perceived, could he thus hold it for 
half an hour, there was not the \cA\ doubt but he would fave 
iiis life from the power of his enemies. 

Between them and my ca(He there was a creek, that very 
fame where I failed into with all my effecfs from the wreck of 
the Ihip, on the fieep banks of which I very much feared the 
poor vi(ftim would be taken, if he could not fwim for his ef- 
cape : But 1 was foon cut of pain for him when lie made noth- 
Mig of it though at full tide; but with an intrepid courage, 
fpurred on by the fen fe of danger, he plunged into the flood, 
jwimming over in about thirty (Irokes, and then landing, raa 
with the fame wonderful (Irength and fwiftnefs as betore. 
When the three purfuers canie to the creek, one of them, 
»vhom I perceived could not fwim, happily for his part, re- 
turned back to his company ; while the others with as equal 
courage, but much lefs fwiftnefs, attained the other fide, as 
aiiough they were refolved never to give over their purfuit. 
/\nd'^now, or never, I thought was the time for me to procure 
a (ervanr, companion or altiltant; and that I was decreed by 
yrovidence to be the inftrumeut that fhould fave this poor 
creature's life. I immediately dcfcended my two ladders with 
Jlie greatell expedition, took up my two guns, which I faid 
before were at the bottom of them ; and getting up again, 
with the fame hafte towards the hill, I made nearer the fea : 
Jn a word, taking a (hort cut down the hill, I interpofcd be- 
J ween" the purfuers arni the purfued, hallooing aloud Jo the 
Jatter, who venturing to lookback, was no doubt at firft as 
much'' terrified at me as them. J beckoned to him wuh my 
liand to return back, in the mean time (Icr/iy advancing tow- 
ards the purfuers ; when fuddenly rufhing on the foremoft, I 
knocked him down with the flock of my piece, and laid him 
~ flat 



IL 

flaf cn (hf gfotind, I «^as very unwlllliig to fire left the reft 
fhoiild hear, though at that diftance I queftion wl^ther they 
could or nut ; and being out of fight of the I'mcke, they could 
not ealily have known what to make of it. The other favage 
leeint; his tellow fall, fiopt as if he had been amazed, when ad- 
vancing towards him, I could perceive him take his bow from' 
his back, and fixing an arrow to if, was preparing to fh;ot at 
me, and without dvTpute might have lodged the arrow in my 
•breafl, had I given him leave ; but in this abfolutely necefTary 
caufe of felf ptefervation, 1 immediately fired at him, and fhot 
him dead, juft as his hand was going to draw the fatal ftring. 
All this while the favage who had fled before, flood ftill, had 
the fatisfadtion to fee his enemies fall, or killed as he thought, 
■who defigned to take away his life : So affrighted was he with 
the fire and noife of my piece, that he flood as it were, like 
Lot's wife, f!xt and immoveable, without kn^c^ and without 
motion* This made me halloo to him again, making the plain- 
efl figns I could to him to draw nearer: I perceived he un« 
derftood thefe tokens, by his approaching to me a little way, 
when, as if atraid I ftiould kill him too, he ftopt again. Sev- 
eral times did he advance, and as often ffopt in this manaer^ 
till coming more to my view, I perceived him trembling, as if 
he was to undergo the fame fate. Upon which I looked upon hin* 
with a fmiling countenance, and flill beckoning to him^t lengtFi 
he came clufe to me, kneeled down, kiffed the ground, laid 
his head upon it, and taking me by my foot, fet the fame up-, 
on his head : And this, as I underftood afterwards, was a tok- 
en of fwearing to be my flavc forever. 1 took him up, and 
making very much of him, encouraged him in the beft n^nner 
I could. But here my work was not yet finiflied ; for I per- 
ceived the favage wham I knocked down, was not killed, bu& 
Aunned with the blow, and began to come to himfelf. Upoa 
which I pointed to my new fervant, and fh«wing him that his; 
enemy was not yet expired, he fpoke fome words to me, but 
what I could not underftand ; yet being the firft found of a 
man's voice I had heard for above thefe twenty five years, they 
were very pleafing to me. But there was no time tor reflec- 
tion now, the wounded favage recovering himfelf fo fjr as to 
(it upon the ground, which made my poor prifoner as much 
afraid as before ; To put him out of which fear 1 prefented 
my other gun at the man, with an intent to fhoot hmi ; but 
my favage, for fo I miift now call him, prevented my firing, 
by making a motion ro me to lend him my (word, wlvich hung 
r.dkcd in a belt by my fide. No locner did I gr nt his requeft, 
but away he runs to his enemvj and at one blow cut off his 
head, as dexterouflv as the molt accomplilhed execofioner in 
'Germany cou'ld have done : For it fcems thefe creatures make 
ufe of wvoden fy\ords, madt-of hard we&d^ which will bear ar» 
G ft ' ed^e. 



edge, enough to Cut ofFheads and arms at one blow. Whenthis 
valorous exploit was done, he came to me laughing, and as a 
token of triumph, delivered me my fword again with abund- 
ance of furprizing geftures, laying it along with the bleedmg 
and ghallly head of the Indian at my feet. 

The greateft afionilhment that my new fervant conceived, 
was the manner of killing the favage at fuch a diftance without 
a bow and arrow : And luch was his longing defire to know 
it, that he fird pointed to the dead creature, and then made 
figns to me to grant him leave to go to him. Upan which I 
bid him go, and as well as 1 could made him fenOble I granted 
his requeft. But when he came there, how wonderfully was 
he ftncken with amazement ! firft he turned him on one fide, 
then on the other, wondering he could perceive no quantity of 
blood, he bleeding inwardly : And after fufficiently admiring 
the wound the bullet had made in his breaft, he took up his 
bow and arrows, and came back again j upon which I turned 
to go away, making many figns to him to follow, lead the refl, 
anifling their companions, might come in purfuit of hira And 
this I found he underftood very well, by his making me uti- 
■derftand that his defign was to bury them, that it might not be 
ittn if it happened ; and which by figns again, I made him {q\\» 
?^ble I very mucii approved of. Immediately he fell to work, 
and never was grave digger more dexterous in the world ^lan 
he was ; for in an inftant, as I might fay, he fcraped a large 
hole in the fand with his hands, fufficient to bury the firft in, 
there he dragged him, and without any ceremony covered him 
c »7er. In like manner he ferved the other : So that I am fure 
3J0 undertaker could be more expert in his bufinels, for all this 
was done in lefs than a quarter of an hour. I then called him 
away, and inflead of carrying him dirciStly to my caftle at firft, 
J conveyed him to my cave on (he further part of tlie ifl.ind : 
And fo my dream was not fulfilled in that particular, that my 
grove (hould prove an afylum or lan<5tuary to him. 

Weary and faint, hungry and thirfiy, undoubtedly muft this 
poor creature be, (upported chiefly by that vivacity of Ipirit, 
and uncommon tranlports of joy, that his deliverance occa- 
fioned. Here I gave him bread, and a bunch of raifins to eaf, 
and water to drink, of which feeding very cheerfully, to his 
exceeding refrefhment, I made him a convenient bed with a 
parcel of riceftraw, and a blanket upon it, (a bed which I uf- 
ed myfelf fometime?) and then pointing to him made fi^ns for 
him to lie down to lieep, upon v^'.hich the poor creature went 
to take a welconne repofe. 

Indeed lie was a very comely handfome young fellow, ex- 
tremely well made, with (trait long limbs, not too large ; tall,. 
and well ftiaped ; and, as I could reckon, about twenty fix: 
years gf age, Bis countenance Uad uything. in it fierce and 

fwly, 



79 

furiy, but rather a forf of rmjefiy in Ivs face ; and yet," e{- 
pecially whe/i he Imiled, he had a.l the iweetnefs and foftnefs 
of an European. His hair was not curled like wool, as many 
of the blacks are, but long and black, with the mo(t beautiful, 
yet careleis trefies fpreading over his ftiuulders. He had a ve- 
ry high and large forehead, with a great vivacity and fparkiing 
lliarpnefs in his eyes. His fkin was not {o tawny as the Vir- 
gin'mnsy BrafilianSf or other Americans^ but rather of a bright 
dun olive colour, that had fMuetioing agreeable in it, thougii 
not very eafy to give a defcription of. His face was round 
and plump, with a fmall nofe, very different from the flatnefs 
of the negroes, a pretty fmall mouth, thin lips, fine teeth, ve- 
ry well fet, and white as the driven fnaw. In a word, fuch 
handfome features, and exact fymnnetry in every part, made 
me coBfuier that I had faved the life of an Indian prince, no 
lefs graceful and accomplifhed, tiian the great Oroonokoj whofe 
memorable behaviour, and unhappy contingencies of life, has 
charmed the world both to admiratiou of his perfon and com- 
panion to his fuflerings. 

But let him be either prince orpeafant aU my happinefs cen- 
tered in this, that I had now got a good (ervant, or companion* 
to whom, as he deferved, I was relolved to prove a kind maf- 
ler, and lafting friend. lie had not, 1 think, flept above an 
hour, but he awakened again, and while I was nr.ilkitg my 
goats hard by, out he ran from the cave, towards me in my 
enclofure, and laying himfelf down on the ground in the low- 
eft proltration, made all the antic geftures imaginable, to ex- 
prefs his thankfulnefs to me for being hi-s deliverer. I confefs, 
though the manntr of his behaviour feemed to be iudicreus e- 
nough to occafion laughter ; yet I was very much moved at 
his affedlion, fo that my heart melted within me, fearing he 
might dxe away in exccfs of joy, like reprieved malefactors ; 
and then I was incaiuble either to let him blood, or adminif- 
ter phyfic, And i wi(h many chriftians would take example 
by this heathen, to have a lading remembrance of thofe great 
benefits and ^ieiiverances ihey have received, by the kind me- 
diation and po^verful interpofition of their benetadlors and de- 
liverers : And I ftiould be glad alfo, if 1 had no occafion to 
blame many, vvl>o' inftead of thankfully acknowledging thefe 
kind of favours ^nd benefits, rather abule and contemn thole 
^ood perfons who Jiave been the principal inftruments to favc 
them fron; de(huftion. 

But leaving ihefe. very^'ufl reflections, I muft return to the 
cbjeiT: that occafioned them : For my man, to conclude the 
}art ceremony of obedience, laid down his head again on (he 
ground, dole to my foot, and fet my other fo^t upon his head, 
as he had done before, making all the figns of fubjeclion, i'tr-. 
yitude and fubmillioniiijagiuablc; to let nie underftvud he. 



8o 

would fefre me as Icng as his life" endured. As T underftood 
him in many things, 1 niadehinn fenlible I was very well pleaf- 
ed with him ; and in a liule time I began to fpeak fo him, and 
learn him how to ta!k fo me ag<m. In the fir ft place I made fiira 
to iinderfUnd his name to be Friday, becaufe it was upon t'tiat 
day 1 faved his life. Then I taught him to fay Majter, which 
I made him fenlible was to be rny name. I likewsfe learned 
him to fay yes and no, and to know what they meant. 1 gave 
him fome milk in an eartlien pot, making him view me while 
I drank it before him, ?.nd foped my bread in it ; and I gave 
him a cake of bread, caufiig him fo do the like, to which he 
readily conlented, making figns of the greateft faiisfavtion im- 
aginable. 

All that night did I keep him there, but no fooner did the 
irjorning light appear, when I ordered h"HD to arife and come 
along with me, with certain tokens that i would give him 
fome clothes like mine ; at which he Teemed very glad, as be- 
ing ftark naked, not fo much as any thing to cover what ought 
to be concealed. As we paifed by the place where the two 
rnen had been interred, rny man pointed* directly t^ their 
graves, fhewing me the marks that he had made to find thenj 
again; giving me to underftand by figns, that he fhould dig 
them up and devour tliem : Upon which I appeared extreme- 
ly difpleafed, exprefTed my utmoft abhorrence, made as if I 
would vomit at the apprehenfions of it, beckoning him with 
my hand to come away, which he did with the greateft rever- 
ence and fubmilTion. After this I conduded him to the top 
cf the hill, to view if the reft of the favages were yet remain- 
ing there ; but when I looked through my perfpedive glafg, I 
could fee no appearance of them, nor of their canoei, io that 
it was very evident they never minded their deceafed com- 
panions whom he had flain, which if they had, they would 
furely have fearched for, or left one boat behind for them to 
follow, after they returned to their purfuit. 

But ftill my curiofky and defire of fatisfafiion animating my 
fpirit with frefli courage, 1 took my man Frjtin/whh me, put- 
ting a fword into his hand, with the bow aiid arrows at his 
back, which 1 perceived he could ufe very dcxteroufly, caufinj; 
him to carry one gun for me, and I two for myfelf j and 
thus equipped againft all attacks, away we marched diredly 
to the place of their bloody entertainment. But when I came 
there, I was ftricken with the ufual horr.;ur at fo dreadful a 
fpeitacle ; whilft Friday indeed was no way concerned about it j 
being, no doubt, in his turn, like one of thefe cevourers. Here 
lay (everal human bones, there feveral pieces of mangled flefh, 
>»aif eaten, mangled and fcorched ; whi'ft ftreams i-f bioofi 
ran promifcuoufty as water from a fountain. As I was muf- 
ing ki ihis dreadful fight, Friday took all tlie pains he coiUd, by 

parriciiiar 



Si 

j>arnciilar fipns, to make me underhand, that thev had brought 
over four priloiiers to feaft upon, three -of which they 1.'.<1 
eaten, and that as he was the fourth, pointing to himfeif : 
That ihere bad been a bloody battle between them and his 
great king, in the juft defence of whom he was taken prifoner, 
with many others ; all which were carried to feverai places to • 
be devoured by thefe conquerors, and that it was his foitune 
to be brought hither by th'-.fe wretches, for the fame purpofe. 

After I was made fenlible of thefe things, I caufed FrUay to 
gather thofe horrid remains, and lay them together upon a 
hea-s Ahich I ordered to be fet on fire and fo iDurnt them to 
afte's : Aud ftili I found my man retained the sature of a can- 
nibal, having a hankering liomach after Tome of the Sefn : 
But fuch an extreme abhorrence did I exprels at the laff ap- 
pearance of if, that he durft no otherwife than conceal ; tor I 
made him very fenfible that if he offered any fuch thing I 
would certiinly flioot him. 

All this being done, 1 carried my man with me to my caRie ; 
and then I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had tak- 
en out of the poor gunner's chelf before mentioned; and 
which with a little alteration fitted him very well: In the 
next place I made him a jerkin of goat's fkin, (uch as my fkill 
was able to manage, though I thought myfclf then a tolerable 
good taylor. 1 gave him alfo a cap, which I made of a hare's 
flcin, very convenient and fafhionabie. Thus being clothed 
tolerably well, my maa was no lefs prone! of his habit, than 
I was in feeing him in it. Indeed he went very aukwardly 
in thefe things at firft, the drawers being toi heavy on his 
thighs, not ufed to wear nny weight, and the fleeves of the 
wailtcoat galled liis (boulders, and the innde of his arms ; but 
a little eafing them, where he complained they hurt him, and 
ufing himfeif to them, at length he took to them very well. 

My next concern was where I (hould lodge hmi ; and that 
I might do very well by him, and yet be perlc6tly eafy myfelf, 
I eretted a tent for him in the vacant place between my two 
fortification?, in the infide of the la(l, and outfide of the firfi : 
And as there was an entrance or door in my cave, I made a 
formal framed door cale, and a door to open on the inlids. 
I barred it up in the night time, taking in my ladders too ; 
fp that was my man to prove treacherous, there would be no 
way to come at me in the infide of my innermoft wall, without 
making fo much noife in i;etting over, thit it mufl needs waken 
me i for my firfl wall had now a complete roof over it of long 
poles, fpreading over my tent, and leaning up to the fide of 
the mountain, which was again laid acrofs with fmaller (licks 
infteaj of laths, thatched over a great thicknefs with the ncc 
ftraw, which was as ftrong as reeds ; and at the hole of the 
place, leti on purpofe tt> ^o in or out by the ladder, I had 

placed 



82 

placed a kind of trap door, which if it had been attempted or 
the oiitfidej would not have opened at all, but have fallen 
do« n and made a great noifc ; and as to my weapons, every 
night I took them ail to my bed (ide. 

But there was no occaiion fjr this precaution ; for furely 
never mafter had more fincere, faithful and loving fervant than 
Friday proved to me ; without pafTion, rnllennefs or Ae(\gr\^ 
perfectly obliging and engaging : I. s affe(ftion$ were a.s much 
tied (o me, as thufe of a child to hiS parents ; and I might 
venture to fay, he would have facrificed his life for the faving 
of mine, upon any occafion whatfoever. And indeed the ma- 
ny tefiimonies he gave me of this, very fnfficiently convinced 
me, that 1 had no occaHon to nfe thefe precautions. And here 
I could not but reflect, with great won#ler, that however it 
has pleafed the Almighty in his Providence, and. in the gov- 
ernment of the creation, to take from ^o great a part of the 
world of his creatures, the nobleft ufes to which their facul- 
ties, and the po'.vers of their fouls are adapted ; yet that he 
has bcffowed upon them the fame reafbn, afft-il^ions, fenti- 
ments of kindnefs and obiiga'ion, paflions of reienttwent, fjn- 
cerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of do'ng and receiving 
good, that he has given us ; and tiiat when i)e is grscioufiy 
pleafed to offer them occafions of exerting thefe, they are as 
ready, nay, more ready to apply them to the proper ufes for 
which they were bef^owed, thm we are fometimes. Thefe 
thouohts woi^ld make me very melancholy, ei'pecially when I 
confidered how mean a ufe we make of all lUcie:., even though 
we have thefe powers enlightened bv the holy fpirit of God, 
and by the knowledge of his word, as an addition to our un- 
derfianding } and why it has pleafed the heavenly wifdom to 
conceal the like faving knowledge from fo many millions of 
fouls, who would certainly make a much better ufe of it, than 
mrinkind generally do at this time. And thefe rsficctions 
would fometinses lead me fo far, as to invade the fuvereignty 
of Providence, and, as it were arraign the juftice of fuch arbi- 
trary difpcliiion of things, th^t fhould obfcure that light from 
fome, and reveal it to others, and yet expect a like duty fron* 
all. But 1 doled ir up, checking my thoughts with this con- 
ciuilon : FirJ}, that we were ignorant ot that right and law by 
which thefe fhould be condemned ; but that, as the Almighty 
was neccfTarily, and by the nature of his elFence, in6')itely julfc 
and holy ; {o it could not be otherw:fc, but that if thefe crea- 
tures were all deftine'l to abfence from him.felf, it was on ac- 
count of finning againfl that light which, as the fcripture fays, 
was a law to themlejves, and by fuch rules as their cunfcience 
wiHjld acknowledge to be ju(l, though the firft foundation was 
ncrt dilcovered to us j and, Jaondlj^ that (till as we are the 

clay 



-1 

day In the band of the pofter, no vcfTel could thus fay to him, 
Why haft thou t'afhioned me after fhis manner. 

I had not been above two or three days returned to my caf- 
tle, but my chief defign was, how I fhould bring Fria'ay cW 
from his horrid way of feeding ; and to take from him Uiat in- 
Iniman rehl'b he, by nature, had been accullomed to, I thout^ljt 
it my duty to let him talte other Hefh, which might the rather 
tempt him to the fame iibhorrence I io often exprefled againii 
their accurfed wav of hving. Upon Vvhicli, one m.orning, i 
took him out with inc, with an inlenrion lo kill a kid out of 
ihe fiock, and bring it home and dre(s it ; Eur as I was going, 
I perceived a fhe goat lying down in the (hade, and two young 
kids fitting by her. Immediately I catrhcd hold of mv man 
Friday and bidding him (land If ill, and notfr-r, I prcienttfd tny 
jaiece, and fiiot one of the kids. My poor fervant, who had at 
a diftance perceived me kili hxa adverfary, and yet did not know 
by what means, or how it was done, ftood trembling and fur- 
prized, and locked fo amrzed, that I thought he would have 
funk into the earth. He did not lee the kid I aimed af, or be- 
held I had killed it,but ript up his wailtcoat to fee if he was not 
*vounded, thiiiking my reiolution was to kill h.im ; fo coming 
to me, he fell on his knees, earncftly pronouncing many things 
which I did not underhand, (he meaning of which at length I 
perceived was, that I would not fake away his life. 

Indeed I was much concerned fo lee him in that condition 
where nature is upon tiie fevereft trial, when the immediate 
hand of death is ready to put for ever a period to this mortal 
life ; And indeed fo njuch compafiioa had I for this creature, 
that it was with difficulty I refrained from fears. But, howev- 
er, as another fort of countenance was necelTary, to convince 
him that I would do him no harm, I, fmiling, took him by 
ihe hand, then laughed at lum, and pointing to the kid wliicli 
I had flain, made figns to him to fetch it, which accordingly 
he did. He was no lefs curioMS in viewing how the creature 
was killed, than he had been before in behddiag the Indian'^ 
while he was admiring it, I charged my gun again, and pre- 
fenlly perceived a great fowl like a liawk, perching upon a 
tree within fliot ; and therefore, to let Friday underftand 
what I was going to.do, I called him tome again, pointing at 
the fowl, which I found to be a parrot. I nsade him under- 
hand that I would (hoot and kill that bird ; accordingly I fired, 
and bad him lock, when immediately he faw tke piinot fall 
down. Agam he liood like one an.azed, notwitlUtanding all 
I had faid to him ; and the more conruunded he was, becaufe 
he did not perceive n'.eput any tiding into my gun. Undoubt- 
edly, a thing fo utterly itrange, carrying death along with if, 
far or near, either to man or bead, muft certainly cieate 
Ihe grealefi afionilhmenl t« one who had n«vcr iieaid o\ luch 

a thing 



a thing in his whole life: And really his asnaEement con- 
tinued (o long, that, had 1 allowed if, he would have prof- 
trated hiroftil before me and my gun, with the greateft wor» 
ih'p and iod adoration. As for the gun in particular, he would 
rot fo much as fuiTer his fingers to touch it for feveral days 
after ; but uould ccn)e and comm\inicate his thoughts to it, 
and talk to it, as if the fenfeefs piece had tinderftuod and an* 
jwered him : All this I could perceive hirn^o, when he thought 
my back was turned ; the chief intent of which was, to de- 
Jire it not to kill him, as I afterwards came to underliand. 

I never Itr-^ve to prevent his admiration nor hinder him 
from thoi'e comical geflures he ufed on fuch occafjons : But 
v'licn his aftonifiimcnt was a little over, I made tokens to him 
to run awd fetch the parrot that T had fhor, which he accord- 
ingly did, fraying lome time longer than ufual, by reafon the 
bird, not being quite dead, had fluttered fome way farther from 
the place where he fell. In the mean time as he was looking 
for her, I took the advantage of charging my gun again, that 
I might be ready for another mark that might offer itfelf ; but 
nothing more occurred at that time. So I brought home the 
kid, and the fame evening took off the fkin, and divided the 
carcafe as well as I could. Parr of this flefh I flawed, or 
boiled, in a pot I had for this occafion. And then fpreading 
my table, I fat down, giving my man fome to eat too, who 
was wonderfully pleafed, and Teemed to like it very well, but 
what was m»)lt jurprifmg to him, was to fee me eat fait with 
it : Upon which he m^de me to underfiand, that the fait was 
very bad for me ; when putting a little into his mouth, he 
feerned to naufeafe it in fuch a manner as to fpit and fputlcr 
at it, and then waihed his mouth with frefh water : But to 
(hew him how contrary his opinion was to mine, I put fome 
meat in my mouth without fait, and feigned to fpit and fputter 
as much for want of it, as h.e had done at it : Yet all this prov- 
ed of no (ignification to Friday : And it was a long whiie be- 
fore he could endure fait in his meat or broth, and even then, 
but a very fniall quantity. 

Thus having fed him fufficiently with boiled meat and broth 
that rime, the next day I was refolved to feart him with a 
roailed piece of the kid. And having no fpit to faften it, nor 
jack to turn it, I make ufe of that common artifice, wliich 
many of the people of England have ; that is, to fet two poles 
upon each fide of the fue, and onecrofs on tlie top, hanging 
the meat thereon v.ith a (hin^', and fo turning round coptinu- 
ally, roaff i», as we read bloody tyrants have cruelly roafled 
martyrs. This practice caufed great admiration in my man 
Fridayy which is another guefs way, to what the barbarous fav- 
ages were accuftomed. But when he came to tuHe the fweetnefs 
aud te^idernefs of il<e flefh, he ex prelled his entire faiisfattioji 

ia 



8r, 



in above a thoufand different ways. And, as I could not but 
underftand his meanings you may be fure I was wonderfully 
pleafed ; efpecially when>he made it alfo very plain to nie, 
that r.e would never whilli he lived, eat man's flefh more. 

Well, now It was hi^h time I ihouid (et rny ferrant to work ; 
and To the next day I put him to beat out feme corn, and fi'ic 
it in the fame manner as I had done before. And really the 
fellow was very quick and handy m the execution of any thing 
1 ordered him to go about, I inade him underftand that it 
was to make bread for us to eat, and after let him fee me make 
and bAe it : In (hort, he did every thing as I ordered him, 
in a little time, as well as 1 could doit myfelf. 

When 1 confidered, that 1 had two mouths to feed inftead ofi^ 
one, I was necefTarily obliged to think, that, in confequence 
thereof, I muft provide more ground for my harveft, and plant 
a larger quantity of corn than I commonly uled to do ; upon 
which I marked out a bigger piece of land, fencing it in the 
fame manner as I had done before ; in the execution of which 
I muft give Friday this good word, that no man could work 
more hard or willingly than he did : And when I made hinti 
fenfible that it was for bread to ferve him as well as me, he 
then very pafliorately made me underfland, that he thought £ 
liad much more labour on me on his account alone, than I had 
for myfelf; and that no pains or diligence fhould be wanting 
in him, if I would but direct him in thofe works wherein he 
might fucceed. 

1 muft certainly own, that this was the mofl pleafant year I 
ever had in the ifland : For, after fome time, Friday began toi 
talk pretty well, and underfJand the names of thofe things! 
which 1 was wont to call for, and the places where I ufed to 
fend him. So that my long filent tongue, v/hich had been 
ufelefs To many years, except in an exclamatory manner, eithec 
for deliverance or bleifings, now began to beoccuj.ied, in teach* 
ing and talking to my man Friday ; for indeed I had fuch s 
fmgular fatisfattion in the fellow himfelf, fo innocerU did his 
Cmpie and unfeigned honeliy appear more and more to me e- 
very day, that I really began entirely to love the creature : 
And, for his part, I believe there was no love loft, and that 
his nature had been more charmed with my exceeding kind- 
nefs, and his afFediofts more placed upon me, than upon any 
other object whatfoever among the Barbarians. But flill I h?A 
a great mind to try if he had any hankering inclination to re- 
turn to his otvn country again : And by this time, having 
learned him Englijb fo well that he could give me toleiableTln. 
fwers to any quetlions which I demanded, I afked lum wheth. 
er that nation, to which he belonged, never conquerpd in bat_ 
tie \ This queftion made Friday (mile, and to which h.e mfwe,-, 
^^i^^hy^h "^e al'wayf Jight the betur ^ as much as lo fay, th^y 
H ^ alwav^ 



86 

always got the better in fi^hf. Upon which we {proceeded on 
the following difcourfe. You fay, faid I, that you always fight 
the better ; why then, Friday^ hovv came'you to be taken pri- 
foner ? * . 

Friday. But for all that ray ration beat much. 

Mafter. How, fay you, beat ! if your nation beat them, how 
canie you to be takea ? 

Friday. They more many mans than my nation in the place 
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me ; My na- 
tion much over beat them in the yonder place, where me no 
\vas ; there my nation mans beat one, two, three great tou- 
land. 
^ Majler. Then why did not your men recover you from the 
hands of your enemies ? 

Friday. They run, one, two, or three, and me ; they make 
all go in the canoo ; my nation have no canoo that time. 

Majler. It's very well, Friday : But what does your nation 
do with the prifoners they take ? What do they carry them a- 
way, and eat them, as thefe have done ? 

Friday. Yes, yes, ray nation cat mans too, eat up all. 

Mafter. To what place do they carry thefti to be devoured f 

Friday. Go to other nations where they think. 

Majitr, Do they bring them hither ? 

Friday. Yes, come over hither, come over other place. 

Majler. And have you been with them here, Friday? 

Friday. Yes, me been here : (pointing to the north wefl of 
the ifland, being the fide where they ufed to land.) 

Thus having got what account I could- from my man, I 
plainly underftood, that he had been as bad as any of the reft 
of the cannibals, having been formetly among the favage$,who 
uled to come on (hore on the fartheft part of the ifland, upoa 
the fame bloody occafions as he was brought here for : And 
ionie time after I carried him to that place where he po nted ; 
and no fooner did he come there, but he prefently knew the 
ground, fignifying to me, that he was once there, when they 
ate up twenty men, two women, and a young child. But as he 
could net explain the number in Englijhy he did it by fo many 
ftones in a row, making a fign to me to count them. 

This pafiage 1 liavelhe rather mentioned, becaufe it led to 
things more important and ufeful for m*c to know : For after 
1 had this (atisfaif^ory difcourfe wiih him, my next qnefiion 
was, how far it was from the ifiand to the fhore, and whether 
the canoes were not often loft in the ocean ? to which he an- 
fwered, there was no danger, no canoes ever loft ; but that af- 
ter a little way out to the fea, there was a ftrong current, and 
a wind always one way in the afternoon. This I thought at 
firft to be no more than the fets of the tide, of going out, or 
coming in j but I afterwards undcrftood it was occaJioned by 

the 



the great draught and reflax of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the 
mouth or gulph of which I imagined my kingdom lay ; and 
that the land which I perceived to the W. and N. vV. mtrfi be 
the great ifland Trinidad, on the north ot tiie river. A thou- 
fand quertioiis (if that would fatisfy me) did I afk Friday about 
the nature of the country, the fee, the coafts, the inhabitants, 
and what nations were nearefl them : To which queftions, the 
poor fellow declared all he knew, with the greatslt opennefs and 
iitmoft (inc^rity. When I demanded of him the particular 
names of the varioub nations of his fort 01 people, he could 
only anfwer me in general that they were called CavibOee, 
Hence it was I confidered, that thefe mufl be the Caribbees^ fo 
much taken notice of by our maps to be on that parr o\ Ame^ 
rica, which reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to 
Guiana^ and fo on to St. Mariha. Then Friday proceeded to 
fell me, that up a great way beyond the fnoon, as much as tc» 
iay, beyond the fetJirig of the moon, which mu!l be W. from 
their country, there dwelt white bearded men, fuch as I was, 
pointing to rny whifl:crs, and that they had kil'ed much mans. 
I was not ignorant ^\\\\ wjiat barbarity the Spaniards treated 
thcfe creatures; fo that I prcfenily concluded it rnuffbe ihem, 
whofe cruelties had fpread throughout AmericUt to be remetn- 
bered even to fucceeding generations. 

Well, you may be fure, this knowledge, which the imper. 
fe6l information of my man had let me to, was very comforta- 
ble to me, and made me fo curious as to afk him, how I might 
depart from this ifiand, and get arwong thofe white men ? he 
»told me, yes^ yes, I might go in tvjo canoes. In two canoes, 
thought I, what does my man mean ? furely he means one for 
lumfeif and another for me;. and if not, how mult two canoes 
liold me, without being joined, and then put one part of my 
body in one, and the other part in the otiier j and indeed it 
was a long wh:le berore 1 underftood hss tneaning, which was, 
that it mud be a large boat as big as two canoes, able to bear 
with the waves, and not fo liable to be overfel as a fmall one 
muft have tieen. 

I believe there is no fiate of life hnt what may be happy, if 
people would but endeavour for their part to iMake it fo. lie 
is not the happieft mart that has the mofl riciies, but he that is 
content with what he hath. Eefore I had my fervtnt I thought 
myfelf miferabie till I bad him ; and now I enjoyed the happy 
benefits of him, I retained the fame thoughts tor want ot a de- 
liverance from a place of retirement, eafe and plenty, where 
providence had fufficiently blclTcd me : In a word, from this 
time I entertained fome hopes, that one time or other I might 
find an opportunity to make my efcape from this i{!and,and 
that iliis poor lavage might be a great furtherance ihereto. 

AM 



8S 

All the time fince my man became fo intelligent as to nn- 
ilerftand and fpeak to me, I fpared no pains or diligence to in- 
ftrucl him, according to my poor fiiare of knowledge, in the 
principles of religion, and the adoration that he ought to pay 
to the true God. One time, as I very well remember, I afked 
him who made him ? at fitft, the innocent creature did not 
underftand what I meant, but rather thought I afked him, who 
M/B& his father ? upon which I took another way to make him 
fenfible, by demanding of him an anfwer to this queftion; 
Friday, (faid I)-who is it th;it made the fea, this ground where- 
on we walk, and all thefe hills and woods which we behold ; 
and here indeed I did not mifs of my intention j for he told 
me it was one old Benamxckeej (the God whom I fuppofed 
thefe favages adored) who lived a great way beyond all. But 
9S for his attributes, poor Friday was an utter Granger to them. 
He could defcribc nothing of this great perfon ; and all that 
he could fay was, that he was very old, much older than the 
iea and land, the moon, or the fiars. Friday, (faid I again) if 
this great and old perfon has made ail things in the world, how 
comes it to pafs, that all things, as me in particular, do not a- 
dore and worJhip him ? upon this looking very grave, with a 
perfett fweet look of innocence, he replied, ma/ler, a!l thitifs 
fay to himf by which it may reafonably be fuppofed he meant 
adoration. And where, faid T, do the people of your country 
>go when they die? he anfwered, they all go to Beaamuckee. 
What, ^nd thofe people that are eaten up, do they go there ? 
Said he, Benamuekee lo've them dearly 'y ive pray to Benamuc- 
jkee in de CanoOy and Benamuekee ivould iove me, *when dey eat 
a me all up. 

Such difcourfes as thefe had I with my man,and fuch as made 
me fenfible, that the true God is worfliipped, though under iwi'- 
perfeft fimilitudes. And that the falfe adoration which the 
heathens give to their imaginary deity, is as great an argument 
of the divine efTence, as the mod learned atheifts^/a^^yb called, 
can bring againft it : For God will be glorified in his works, 
let the denomination be what it will ; and I cannot be of that 
opinion which forae conceive, that God ftiould decree men to 
be damned for want of a right notion of faith, in a place where 
4he power of the Almighty has not permitted it to be preach- 
-cd ; and therefore can*iot but conclude, that fince obedience is 
ihe bed facrifice, thefe poor creatures, a6fing by that light and 
knowledge wh ch they are poffelfed of, may undoubtedly ob-' 
tain a happy falvation, though not that enjoyinent with Chr'tfi 
as his faints, confellors and martyrs. 

But leaving tbefe determinations a(ide, more fit for the obleft 
divines than me to difcufs, I began to inftrudt my fervant in 
the faving knowledge of the true Deity ; in which, the direc- 
tions of God's holy fpirit aflifted me. I lifted up my hands to 

heave n^ 



heaven, and pointing thereto, told him, that the great Maker 
of heaven and earth lived there : That as his infinite power 
fafhioned this world oat of a ccnfufed chaos, and made it ia 
that beautiful frame which we behold, fo he governs and pre- 
ferves it, by his iindoubred knowledge, Ibvereign greatnefs, and 
pecaliar providence : That he was omnipotent, could do every 
ihing for us, give every thing to us, and take every thing away 
from us : That hs was a rewarder and punifher of good and eviZ 
actions : That there was nothing but what he knew, no thoughts 
fo fecret but he could bring to light : And thus by degrees I 
opened his eyes, and defcnbed to him the manner of the creatiom 
of Che world, t(;e fituation of paradife, the tranfgredions of our 
firti: parents, the wickednefs of God's peculiar people, and the 
univerial fins and abominations of the whole earth. When 
ihefe things were implanted in his mind, I told him that as 
God's jurtice was equal to his mercy, he rpfolved to deftroy 
this world, till his (on, Jefus Chriji, interpofed in our behalf, 
and to procure our redemption, obtained leave of his heavenly 
Father to come down from heaven into the world, where he 
Jook human nature upon him, inftrufted us in our way to eter- 
nal life, and died as a facrifice for our fins : That he was now 
afcended into heaven, mediating for our pardon, delivering 
our petitions, and obtaining all thofe benefits which we afked 
in his name, by humble and hearty prayers, which were heard < 
in tlie throne of heaven. As very frequently I ufed to inculfc. --jil 
cate thii»gs into his mind, Friday one day told me that if our ■?- 
^reat God could hear us beyond the fun, he mud then furely 
be a greater God than their Ber.amuckecy who lived but a lit.tfe 
way, and yet could not hear them, till they afcended the grbat' 
mountains, where lie dwells, to fpcak to him. What, faid I, 
Friday^ did you go thither to fpeak to him too ? he anfwcredj, 
no, they never went that were young men ; none but old men,, 
called their Oo-ivokakee, meaning the Indian prielis, wh.o went 
to fay O, (fo he called laying their prayers) and they returned 
back, and told them what Eenamuckee laid. From hence I 
could not but obferve how hsppy we Chriflians are, who have 
God's immediate revelation for our certain guide; and that 
our *"aith is neither milled, nor our reafon impofed upon, by 
any let of men refembling thefe Indian impodors. 

But to cl<.^ar un this palpable cheat, to my man Friday, I told 
him, that the preirnce of their ancient m*'n g^'ing up to the 
mountains to lay O to their god Benamuckee, v/as an impoflor ; 
And that their bringing back an anivvcr was all a fiiam, if n.-r 
worfe ; for if theie was any fui.h thing fpoken to them Ibmc . 
times, it tnuft proceed from an infernal fpirir. And jiere I 
thon-ht it r.eceflary to enter into a lang dilcourfe with hitn^ 
which I did after il^is manner ; 

ri -. Iriday, 



90 

Friday, (kiid I) you muft know, that befere this world was 
made, there was one Almighty Power, exiltent before the be- 
ginning, by whofe po^wer all things were made, and whofe 
majefty fhail have no end. To be glorified and adoied by be- 
ings ot a heavenly nature, he created angels and archangels, 
that is, glorious (pints relembling himlelt, to encompals round 
his throne, eternally Tinging forth his prai/e in the moft hea- 
venly founds and divine harmony. And among this heavenly 
choir, Lucifer bore a great fway, as being then one of the par- 
ticular favourites of thefe celeftial abodes : But he, contrary 
to that duty he owed his heavenly fovereign, with unbounded 
ingratitude to his divine creator, not only envied him that ad- 
oration which was his due, but thought to ulurp that throne, 
which he had neither power to keep, nor title to pretend to. 
He raifeda difl'ention and civil war in heaven, and Iiad a num- 
ber of angels to take his part. Unbounded folly ; ftupendous 
pride ; thus to hope for victory, and al'pire above his powerful 
Creator ! the Deity, not fearful of fuch an enemy, yet juftiy 
j)TOVoked.at this rebellion, commilTions his arcliangel St. Mi- 
£bael to le|fl forth the heavenly hoft, and give him battle j the 
advantage of which was quickiy perceived, by Satan's being 
--^terthrown ; and the prince of the air, (for fo the Devil was 
■ called) with ail h.is fallen angels, driven headlong into a dif- 
-mal place, which is called hell. 

The recital of this truth made my man give the greeted at- 
tention, and he exprelTed a great fatisfaftion, by his geftures, 
that God had fent the devil into the deep hole. And then I 
defired him to give great heed to what I had further fo fay. 

No fooner (proceeded I) was God freed from, and the heav- 
ens clear of this arch tiaitor, but the Father fpeaks to the Son 
and Holy Spirit, who belonged to his eflence, yet equal to him 
in power and glory, Let us make man (faid he) in our e'Tvn im^ 
age-, after onr onjun iikenefsy Gen. i. 26. to have dominion over 
the creatures in the world which we have created. And thefe, 
he intended fhould glorify him in heaven, according to their 
obedience in this (late of probation on earth, which was as it 
•were to be the fchool to train them up for thofe heavenly 
manfions. Now Satan, feeing himfeif foiled, yet that God 
ihad not taken the power from him, as prince of the air, which 
power heaven defigned he fhould retain, whereby his creatures 
TOightbe tried. In revenue of the difgrace he had received, he 
tempts Adams wife, Enje^ to tafle of the tree of knowledge of 
good and evil, which God had forbidden. He appears to her 
in the fhape of a ferpent, being then a mofl beautiful creature, 
and tells her, that it was no better than an impofition which 
God had put upon her and her hufband, not to eat of that fair 
fruit which he had created ; that the tafte thereof would make 
thera immortal, like God himfeif; and confequentiy as great 

and 



9t 

and powerful as he. Upon which, ftie not only* ate thereof 
herfelf, but made her hufband eat alfo, whjch brought them 
both under the heavenly difplealure. 

Here Friday exprelFeda great concern : Ah! poor mans! 
(cned he) naughty IVomans ! naughty Denjil! make God not lo-ve 
de manSf make man like De^vil him/elf. 

Fridajy faid I, God ftill loves mankind ; and though the 
Yif^vW tempted human nature (o far, he would not fufFer him 
to liave abfoiute power over them. 1 have told you before of 
his tender icve to his people, till they, like Lucifer^ dilobeyed 
his commands and rebelled agaiuft hiin j and that even then, 
how jeius Chrift his only fon came to fave finners. But ftili 
every man that lives in the world, is under temptation and tri- 
al. The Devil has yet a power, as prince ot the air, to luggeft 
evil cogitations in our minds, and prompt us on to wicked ac- 
tions, that he migiit glory in our dehruction. Whatever evil 
thoughts we ha»e, proceeded from him. So that God, in this 
our diltreis, expects that we fhouid apply ourfelves to him by 
fervent prayer for our Ipeedy redreis : He is not jike Befia- 
muckeet to let none come near him but Ootuokakee ; but fufFcrs 
the' peoj'le as well as priefts, to offer themielves at his feet, 
thereby to be delivered from the power and temptation of the 
Devil. 

But though at firfl, my man Friday exprefTed feme concern 
at the wickednels of LucifeVy i round it not fo eafy to imprint 
the right notions of him in his mind, as it was about th.e di- 
vine eflence of d : For there nature affifted me in all my 
arguments to fhew to him plainly the neceliity of a great firlt 
caule, and overruling governing power, a lecret directing pro- 
vidence, and ot the equity and reafonablenefs of paying adora- 
tion to ©ur Creator : Whereas there appeared nothing of all 
this in the notion of an evil fpirit, of his firft beginning, his 
nature, and above all, of his inclination to evil actions, and 
his power to tempt us on to the like. And indeed this un- 
learned Indian, by the mere force of nature, puzzled me wijh 
one particular queliion, contrary to whatever I had expefted 
from him. 

1 had, it feems, one day, been talking to him of the omnip- 
otent power of God, and his infinite abhorrence of fin, inlo- 
much that the fcriptures fhled him a conjuming fire to all finful 
workers of iniquity ; and that it was in his power, whenever 
he pleafcd, to deff roy all the world in a moment, the greater 
part of which are continually offending him. 

When, with a ferious attention, he had liftened a great while 
to what I faid, after I had fceen telling him, how the Devil was 
God's enemy in the hearts of men, and ufed all his vtii^^ 
and flcill to defeat the good defigns of Providence, and t® def- 
troy the kingdom ot Qhriji in the world, and fo forth : Very 

weli. 



92 

vv'ell, mafter (Aid Friday) you fay, God i& fo (Irong, fo greaf, 
is he not much ffrongcr, much mightier than the haughty 
Devil? to be fare, Friday, (aid I, G id is more wife, and 
ftronger than the ierpent ; He is abuve the Devil, which make 
us pray to hnn, that he would tread down Satan under our 
feet, enable us to re(i(l his violent temptations, and quencfi 
his fiery darts, ff^hy then anfwered Fridajf quickly, if Cod, as 
you Jay, has much (Irong, much might ai ihe De^jil, tvhy God r.a 
kill Devil, make no more tempt, no more do ^wicked. 

You may be certaia 1 was ftrangely lurpriled at this quefiion 
of my man's i and though an old man, I was but, a young 
dodtcr, and contequendy very ill qualified for a cafuift or a 
refolver of intricate doubts in rehgion. And as it is requir- 
ed fome time for me to ftudy for an aii{wer, I pretended not 
to hear him, nor to afk hitn what he Aid : Bat too earneft 
was he for an anfwer, to forget his queftion, which he repeat- 
ed in the very fame broken words as above. When I had 
recovered myfelf a little, Friday ((aid I) God luill at lafi puni/b 
himfeuerely, being referred for judgment, and is to he caji into the 
bottomlefs pit to remain in fire e^verlafiing. But all this did not 
fatisty Friday, for returnin:< upon me, he repeated my words, 
refernje at lafi, me no underftand ; but "johy not kill De'vil nozvy 
not kill De'vil, great, g^eat ivhile age ? Friday, faid, you may as 
well afk me why God does not kill you and I, when by our 
wicked a6>ions, we fo much offend his divine majefty ? he 
gives us lime to repent of our fins, that thereby we my obtain 
pardon. At thefe words, obtain pardon, Friday muied a great 
while, and at laft, looking me (fedfaltly in the J3ce : IVell, otW/, 
faid he, that's 'very nvell ; Joyoii^ I, De-vily all ivicked ma/is, all 
f referee, repent, God pardon all. 

Indeed here I was run down to the laft extremity, when it 
became very evident to me, how mere natural notions will 
guide reafonable creatures to the knowledge of a deity, and 
to the homage due lo the fupreme being of God ; but hew- 
ever, nothing but divine revelation can form the knowledge of 
'Jejus Chrifty and a redemption purchafed for us, of a mediator 
Oi the new covenant, and of an interceflfor at the foolftool ot 
God's throne ; and therefore the Golpel of our Lord and Sa- 
viour 'Jefus Qhrift^ that is, the word sind fpirit of God, prcmif- 
ed for the guide and faniSlifier ot people, are tliemolt necelTa- 
ry inftruciors of the louls of men in the faving knov- ledi.^e* 
of the Almighty, and the means to attain eternal happincls. 

And now 1 found it necellary to put an end to thedifcourfe 
between my man and me, for which purpofe I rofe up hMiilly, 
; id n^ade as if I had fome occafion to go out, fending Friday 
for fomething that was a good way otf. I then fell on my 
knees, and befeeched God that he would infpire me fo far, as 
to guide this poor favage in the knowledge ot Chriji^ to anfwcr 

his 



93 

his queftions more clearly, that his confricncc might be con- 
vinced, his eyes opened and his loul faved. When he return- 
ed again, I entered in'o a very long difc mrie with hinn, upon 
the fubjeii of the world's redeiTiprian by the Saviour of the 
world, and the do6^rine of repentanre preached from l/eaven, 
together with art holy faith in our hleffed redeemer "jefui Chr'ifi • 
And then I proceeded to explain to him, according to my 
weak capaciiy, the reafon why our Saviour took not on him 
the nature of Angels, but' rather the feed of Abraham j and 
how upon that;HCCounf the fallen Angels had no benefit by the 
redemption ; and laffty, that he came only to the lo(t fheep of 
the houfe of Jfrael, and the like. God knows, I had more fin- 
rcrity than knowledge in all the ways I took for this poor 
Indian h\v,^m&J\on ; and I muft acknowledge, that I believe 
every body that a6ls upon the fame principle wil^find, that in 
laying heaveniy truths open before him, in many things, I in- 
formed and inftrudled myfelf, that either I did not know, or 
!)ad not perfe6liy confidered of before ? But as 1 fearched into 
fhem for the information of this poor favage, fo they natural- 
ly occurred to my mind j and my enquiry after many things 
was more affe(5lionate than ever I felt in my life : fo that how- 
ever this poor creature might be improved by ' my inffruc- 
tion, certain it is, that upon this account I had great reafon 
to blefs kind providence for fending him to me. His company 
allayed my grief, and made my habitation more comfortable ; 
And when I reflected that this folitary life, to" which I had 
been fo long confined, had not only moved me to look towards 
Heaven, but made me the inftrument, under providence to 
fave the life, and, for aught I knew, the foul of a poor favage, 
by bringmg him to the knowledge of J^us Chrilt j this caufed 
a fecret joy to fpread through every part of my foul, and I 
frequently rejoiced that ever I was brought to this place, 
which I once thought to be the raoft miferable part, of the 
world. 

All the remainder of my time did I continue in this thank- 
ful frame of mind, and for three years did my man and 1 live 
in the greateft enjoyment and happinefs, by cur converfatioi* 
one with another, as njuch as I could expe«^l or defire. And 
indeed I believe the favage was as good a chridian as I ; 
though 1 hope we were equally penitent ; and fuch penitents 
that were comforted and reftured by God's holy fpirrl : for 
now we had the word of the Lord to inftruit us in the right 
way, and we were no farther ofl' the alii (lance of the Holy 
Ghofl, than if we had been on the Engit/b fhore. 

By the conflant applications I made of the fcripture?, as I 
read them to my man Friday^ I earneflly endeavoured to make 
him underltand every part of it, as much as lay in my power. 
He alfo on the other hand, by his very ferious queftions and 

enquiriBS, 



94 

enquiries, made me a much better proficient in fcriptnre 
knowledge tliarj I flnould have been by my ov\'n private read- 
ing ar.d ftudy. I nmd not omit anoiher thing proceeding from 
the experience 1 had in my retirement ; it wa*., that irsfiniie 
and inexpreflible blefling, the knowledge of God through 
CbriJ} Je/usj which was fo plain and eafy to be underftood, as 
jmrnediately to dircft me to carry on the great work offincsre 
repentance tor my tins, and laying hold oi a Saviour for eternal 
life, to a pra^lical liated reformation, and obedience to aU 
God's inflitutions, without the afliftance of a reverend and or- 
Jhod'.'X divine j and efpecially by this fame inflru(5lion, (o to 
enlighten this favage creature, as to make him iuch a good 
•hriftian as very few could exceed him, and there was only 
this great thing wanting, that I had no authority to adminiftar 
the holy facrament, that heavenly participation of Chrift's body 
and blood ; yet however we refted onrfelves content that God 
would accept our defires, and, according to our faith, have 
mercy on us. , 

But what we wanted one way, was made up in another, and 
that was univerfal peace in our lirtie church. We had no 
difputesor wranglings about the nature of equality of the holy, 
blefTed, and undivided Trinity ; no niceties in do6lrine, or 
fchemes of church government ; no four and morofe dilTcnters 
fo impofe more fublimated notions upon us, nor pedantic 
lophiAers, to confound us with unintelligible myOerjes .• but 
in.leadof all this, we enjoyed the moft certain guide to. hea- 
ven ; that is, the Word of God, befides which we had the 
comfortable views of His Spirit leading us unto the truth, and 
making us both willing and obedient to the inftruflion ©f his 
vrord. And as the knowledge and practice of which are the 
principal means of falvation, I cannot fee wh^t it can avail any 
Chriftian church or man in the world, to amafe themfelves 
with every indifferent fpeculation and opinion, except thofe 
vho have a mi rid to difplay their particular vanity and affec- 
tation. 

Yoji may well fuppofc th^t, by thefc common difcourfes we 
had together, my maH and I became nioft intimately acquaint- 
ed, and thit there was but very little that I could fay, but 
/"r/^^ underrtood, fpeaking very fluently, though indeed it 
was but broken Englifb. And really I now took a particular 
plealure in relating all my adventures, efpecially thofe that 
cccured fi nee my being caff on^this ifland. I made him un- 
devdund the wonderful myftery, as he conceived of gunpow- 
der and bullet, and taught hini how to (hoot : I alfo prefented 
him R knife, which pleafed hirn exceedingly i making him a 
belt with a frog hanging thereto, like thofe in which we wear 
hangers in England ; and ioftead of a hanger to put in that 
f^og> i gave him a hatchet which was not only as good, but a 

more 



■ 95 

more excellent wtapo« upon any other occa/ion. In a word, 
my man thus accoutred, looked i;pon hinifelf as grear as 
Don ^lixote:, when that celebraied champion went to combat 
the wind mill. 

After all this, I gave him a very particular defcription of 
the territories of £'z/ro/(?, and in a particular manner of Old 
Englandy the plnce of my nativity. I laid before him the' nian- 
ner of our vvorfhipping God, our behaviour to one anotjier, 
and how we traded in (hips to every part of the univerfe. 1 
then told him my misfortunes in being fnipwrecked, fliowing 
him, as near as I could, the place where, the fhip lay, which 
had been gone long before. I brouc(u; him to the ruins of 
our boats, which, before, my whole ftrength could not move, 
but now was almofr rotten and fallen to pieces. I obferved 
my man Friday to view this boat with an uncommon curieiity, 
%thich when he had done, he Rood pondering a great while and 
faid nothing. At laft, faid I, Friday what n)akes you pon- 
der fo much ? he replyed, O Majler^ me fee like boat come to 
pl.ice at my nation. 

I was lome time indeed before I nnderflood what my man 
meant} bur examining r'anlier into it, I plainly found fuch 
another boat refembling th.at, had come to the country where 
he dwelt ; aS much as to fay, by his farther explanation, that 
the boat was driven theie through violent ftcrms and frrefs 
of weather. It prefently came into my mind> that fome Eu- 
ropean fhip having beea caft away, the poor diftrelied creatures 
were forced to have recourfe to the boat to fave their lives • 
and being all, as I thought, drowned, I r.ever concerred mytelf 
to a(k any thing about them, but my only enquiry was about 
the boar, and what defcription my nian could give of it. 

Indeed Friday anfwered my demands very Well, mak- 
ing every thing very plain to my underffanding ; but efpe- 
cially I was fati^^ed when he told n^e, with a great warmth 
and ardour, O Mafter, me fa^e luhite man f rem dro'vsn : Upon 
which I immediately aflced him, if there were any iLhite mans 
as he called them, in the boar ? yes yes^ faid he, the boat full 
'very fully luhite mans. Mow many, Friday? faid I. Here- 
upon he numbered his fingers atid counted feventeeti. And 
when I aflced him wh't became of ih^m all, and whether they 
lived or not i he rt\)Vu6.yesMaJlei, they all li've, tkey be iuue 
""mong my nation. 1 his ptaiiier information put new tlvouohts 
into my head, that thefe muli be thofe very men, which before 
I concluded had bt-en fwa"lov*ed up in the ocean after they had 
left their f!::;', ti.at had ffriick upon the rocks of my kingdom • 
and ar'ter elcapin^, the fury of the deep, landed upon the wild 
ihore, and ccmmitted themfelves to the fury of thofe devour- 
mg Indians % 

The 



9" " 

• The mapner of their cruelties to one another, which confe- 
qucntly, as I though^, murt be aded wiih greater barbarity to 
(trangers, created a great admiration within me, and made me 
ftill more curious fo a(k Friday concerning them : ' He told me, 
he was {ure they lived fliil there, having reiided among tliem 
above four years, and the favages gave them victuals to live 
upon. But pray, Fridayy faid I, whence proceeded all this 
good nature and generoiity ? How came it to pa{s that they 
did not kill and eat them to pleafe their devouring appetites, 
andoccafionfo fplendid an entertainment among them ? No no, 
faid Friday, they not kill 'em they make brother nv/th 'em ; by 
%vhich I Uiiderftood. there was a truce between them. And 
then I had a mere favourable opinion of the hidiansy upon 
Friday's uttering thefe words ; my nafion, t'other nation^ no eat 
mans, but ivhen mans make ivar fight ; as though he had faid, 
that neither thofe of his kingdom, nor any other natit.n that he 
knew of, ever eat their feilow creatures, but fuch whom their 
Jaw of arms allowed to be devoured ; and they were thofe 
miferable captives, whofe great misfortune it fhould be to be 
made prifoaers of war. 

Some confiderable time after, upon a very pleafant day, in 
moft ferene wcather,my man and I ftood upon the top of a hill, 
on the eafl fide of the ifland, whence I had once before beheld 
the continent of America. I could not tell immediately what 
was the matter, ior fuddenly Friday fell a jumping and danc- 
ing as if he had been mad ; and upon my demanding the rea- 
fon of his behaviour, Ojey .' faid he, O glad I Thers fee my 
country^ there my nation^ there linje ivhite maris ail gether. And 
indeed luch a rapturous fenlis of pieafure appeared in his 
countenance, that his eyes had an uncommon fparkling and 
brightnefs, and fuch a Urange eagernefs, as if he had a longing 
defire to be in his own country again ; and-this new obferva- 
tion which I had, made me not fo well fatisfied with my man 
Fr:d^y as before : for, by this appearance, 1 made no difpute, 
but that if he could get back thither again, he would not only 
be unmindful of what religion I had taught him, but likewifc 
of the great obligation that he ©wed me for his wonderful 
deliverance : nay that he would not only inform his country- 
men of me, hut accompany hundreds of them to my kingdom, 
and make me a miferable facrifice like thofe unhappy wretches 
taken in battle. 

Indeed 1 was very much to blame to have thefe cruel and 
unjuff fufpicions, and muff freely own I wronged the poor 
creature very much, who was quite of a contrary temper j and 
had he had that difcerning acutenefs which many Europeans have, 
he would have perceived my coldnefs and indifference, and al- 
io have been very much concerned upon this account : For as 
1 was nov^ more circumfpeft, I had much letfened wy kind- 

nefs 



97 

ncfs and famiiutrity with him : And while this jealoufy contin- 
ued, 1 ided thai arttul way (now too much u\ fa(hion to oc- 
caliun Itrife and dilll-nfion) or pumping him daily, thereby to 
diicover whether he was deceitful in his thought's and inchna- 
tions : But certainly lie had nothing in him but what wascon- 
Tjllcnt with the bcU principles, both as a religious chriltian and 
grateful friend j and indeed 1 found every thing he faid was lo 
ingenuous and innocent, that I had no room lerlufpicion, and, 
in fpiteof ail unealinefs, he not only made me entirely his owii 
agam, but aifo caafed me much to lament thai 1 ever conceiv- 
ed one ill thought of him. 

As we were walking up the fame hill another day, when the 
weatlier being fo hazy at (ea that i could not perceive the con- 
tinent, Ftidajf faid I, don't you wilh yourfelf to be in your own 
country, your own natioir, among your old friends and ac- 
quaiiHancc i Yes^ (aid lie, me much O glad to be at my o-jjti na^ 
tion. And what would you do there, Friday? Jaia I, would 
you turn wild again, eat man's fie(la, and be a favage as you 
was formerly ? jSo ne^ (anfwered he, full of concern, and fhak- 
ing his head) Friday noiu tell them to linje good, tell them to pray 
God, tell them to gat corn brcady cattle fitjh, milky no eat man a~ 
gain. But Uirely replied I, if you (hould cf!er to do all this, 
ihcy will kill you, and to manifeft their contempt of fuch in- 
ftruc^ion, may eat you up wlien they have done. He then puc 
on a grave, yet innocent and fmooth countenance, faying, no, 
they no kill aiey thty ^zvilling lonj^ learn ; that is, that they would 
be very willing to learn ; adding withal, that tbey had learn much 
of the bearded mans that come in the boat. Will you go back a- 
gain Friday ? laid 1. He Imiled at that, and tojd me that he 
could not (wim fo far. But, laid I, I will make z canoe for 
you. 7es Majler, laiit he, me go if you go ; me no go if you Jfay, 
1 go, Friday! laid I, why would )ou have them eat me u^^ 
and dtvour your kind matter ? No no, (aid he, me make they no 
eat majiery me make they much lonje you ; that is, he wou d tell 
iliem liow 1 had llain his enemies, and thereby faved his life, 
for which realon he would make tfiem love me : And thtn he 
related to me, as well as he was able, how exceeding kind thofc 
of his nation were to the white, or bearded men as he called 
them, who in their gr6at calamity, vvere driven into their coun- 
try. 

it was from this time, indeed, I had ftrong inclinations to 
venture over, and ufe my utmolt ffl'orts, if pofliUle, to joi« 
fhcic white bearded men, who uwdoiibtcdiy were Spaniards or 
Portuguefe : For (thought 1) it tnufl be certainly a better and 
liafer way to elcape when there is a good company, than for mc 
alone, from an ifland forty miles of^'the fiiore, and without a- 
ny afliHance. Some days after, Friday and I being at work as 
iifiial, at the liime tintc diverting ouifelve* with various diU 
l counes, 



courfcs, I rold him I had a fcoat which I would beftow itpoa 
him, whenever he pleafed to return to his otvn nation : And to 
convince him of the truth of what I faid, I took him with me 
to the other fide of the ifland where my frigate lay, and then 
taking it from under the wafer (tor I always kept it funk for 
fear of a difcovery) we both went into it, to fee how it would 
manage luch an expedition. 

Really never could any be more dexterous in rowing than 
TRy faithful fervant, making the boat go as faft .again as I 
could. Well now, Fridayy (laid I) fliall we go to your fo 
niuch admired nation ? But inftead of meeting with that cheer- 
fulnefs I expected, be looked very dull and melancholy at my 
iaying fo ; which indeed at firft furprized me, till he made me 
ienfibie that his concern was about the boat's being too fmall 
to go fo far a vovage. Upon which I let him underfiand I 
had a much bigger; and accordingly the next day, went to 
the place where the fitll boatliy which I had made, when all 
the (tiength I had, or art could u{e, failed me in my attempt 
to get into the v^ater ; biU now, it having lain in the fu'n two 
a^d twenty years, and no care being taken of it all that while, 
n became in a manner rotten. My man told me, that fuch a 
boat would do very well for the purpofe ; Sufficient to carry 
enough ^.'/V//*?, drink, breads for that was his manner of talking, 
in fhort, my mind being llrongly fixed upon my defign of go- 
ing over with him to the continent, I very plainly told him 
that we would both go, and make a boat full as big, and more 
proportionable than that, where he might fafely return to his 
own nation. 

Thefe words I obferved made Friday look fo very pen five, 
that I thought he would have fallen at my feer. It was feme- 
time before he would fpeak a word, which made me aflc him 
what was the matter with him ? He replied, in a very (oft and 
moving tone, ivbat has p09r Friday done? JFhy are you angry 
mad ivith poor fcfvant ? IVhat me done^ O ivhat me done F Fii~ 
day^ faid 1, jou never yet have offended me, what makes yovi 
think I am angry with you, when I am not angry at all ? You 
no angry^ no ayigry faid he feverai times, if you be no anory, nxihy 
den fend Friday c^'er great ivater to my oac« nation {* Why fure- 
ly, Fridayy anfwered I, did not you wifti to be there, when 
irom a rnountain you beheld the place where you wa^s born j 
and is it not to faiisfy your defires that I am willing to give 
you leave to return thither ? Yes ye.'^ faid Friday, me nufb be 
there fare 'nough, but me ckfi niifh mafltr there too j no 'xviflj Fri- 
day tberey 7<o majler there. In fliort, he could not endure the 
ihoLights of going theie without me, I go there, Friday! faid 
T, what (hall I do there f — He anfwered, very quickly, O maf- 
tery you do great deal much good, you teach all de loild mans to be 
g'iod tame mans, you learn them to be fjber, Hie good lifCi to know' 

G<icl, 



99 

God, and pray God. Alas ! poor Friday, faid J, what can I do 
agauiit their Prieits of Benamucice, or indeed, what good can I 
make your nation (eniible, of, when I myftlf am but a poor ijj- 
norant man ? No no, maihr, faid he, you be no ignoranty you 
teachce me good^ you leachte them good. You fiiail go without 
IPC Fr'idAy^ (aid I, for I don't care to accompany you thilhcr . 
T would rather hve in this folitude, than to venture aniouii 
fnch inhuman lavages. Go your way, (ince you delire it, ar.d 
leave me alone by myfelf, as I was before I faved your life. 

Never was any creature mote thunder (Iruck tl<an Friday 
was yt thcfe words, Go.me away, leai.>e rnajler aiiay ■ faid he, 
after a long liience. No no^ Friday die, Friday wx Ui'C mafier 
gone ■ 2iiy though he had faid, I neither can nor will live if t\y/ 
maftcr fends me from him. And here I cannot but take no- 
tice of the rtrong ties of friendfhip, which many times furpafs 
thofe of confanguinity : For often we find a great difagrecment 
among kindred ; and when there is any feeming rf'gard for 
each other, 'tis very feldom true, and fcarce ever lafting, if 
vowerful uitereft does not bear the fway ; and that alone is 
oltcn the occafion of the greateft hatred in the world; which 
is to dcfire tlie death of parents and relations, for the ^ake of 
enjoying their fortunes : But here was no fuch thing between 
my fervant and me ; inftead of which, tliere was nothing bur 
gratitude, and the fincereft love : He found nie not only hir, 
deliverer, but his preferver and comforter : Not a i'evere and 
cruel tyrant, Uit a kind, loving, and affable friend. He want- 
ed tor no manner of Aiftenance ; and when he was ill, ot out o£ 
order, I was his phyfician, not only for his body, but his foul ;- 
ar.d therefore it was no wonder that fuch an innocent creature, 
long lince ciivelted of his former natural cruelty, fhould have 
an uncommon concern at fo cruel a fepsration from n)e, which 
pierced him to the very foal, arid made him defire even :o die 
rather than live without me. 

After 1 had told Friday^ in a very carelefs manner, tha* he 
fhould be at his liberty as foon as the boat was made, the lan- 
}iuage of his eyes exprelfed ail imaginable confufion, when im- 
mediately running to one of his hate hets whicli he ufed to wear 
as a moll defenfive weapon, he gives it into tny hand, with .t 
hearl fo full that he could fcarce Ipeak. Fuday, faid I, what 
is ir you mean ? What muft I do with this f Only kill IVuby^ 
/aid he, Friday no rare li<ve long. But what mult 1 kill you for, 
replied 1 again. Ah! dear Majler, lobat make ym Friday y^j-iY- 
from eat a me up, fo keep long Friday, make Friday lo've (rod, 
and not lonje Benamuckce ; and noiv Friday fend aioay, ne'ver 
fee Friday morel As though the poor creature had laid, Alas » 
my deareff, kindeff Ma(ter, how comes it to pafs that after 
having ventured your precious life to fave me from the jaws of 
dcvcuring cannibals, like myfelfj after fuch a tendericgard 

to 



Jf0<5 

to provide for me fuah comfortable nourifhment, and confin<i- 
jng fo long a kind mailer, and moft fiocere friend ; and alter 
n.aking me forfake the falfe notion of an Indian deity, and 
'worfhip the true God, in fprit and in truth: after all this I 
lay, how cemes it now, that yoii are willing to (end rae away 
to my former courfe of living, by which means undoubtedly 
wc fhall be dead to each other; but greater muft be my mis- 
fortune, that I fhall never behold the beft friend I have in this 
world any more !* And this certainly, though he could not ex- 
prefs himfelf fo fully, mufl be his fentiments; for the tears 
r.xn down his cheeks in fuch a plentiful, manner, that I had 
»»irtch ado to refrain from weeping alfo, when I beheld the poor 
rrpature's afFeftion : So that 1 was forced to comfort him in 
the heft manner, which I did by felling him, if he was content 
to abide with me, I fliould be ever willing to keep him. 

After Friday's grief was fomethins: abated, more fully to 
convince me of his afFei^ion, he faid O mader^ me not care be in 
■m^ nation^ leanje yau here ; me defire my nation learn good, that all ; 
meaning that his deiire was for the converfion of that barbar- 
ous people. But as I had no apof!olic miflfijo, nor any coo- 
cam about their falvariop; fo I had neither the leaft inten- 
tion or defire of undertakmg it ; and the ftrength of my incli- 
nation, in order to efcape, proceeded chiefly from my late dif- 
courfe with Friday sbout thofe feventeen white bearded men, 
ihat had been driven upon the barbarian coaft, whom I defign- 
cd to join with, as a fiirer means to further our efcape. To 
which intent my man and I went to fearch for a proper tree to 
iell, whereof we m>giit make a large periagua, or canoe, to 
Aindertake the voyage : And indeed we needed not be long in 
linding one fit for our purpofe, there being wood enough in 
«iie ifland to have built a fleet of large veflTels; but the thing 
We principally wanted was, to get one fo near the water, that 
we might launch it after it was finifiied, and not commit fo 
>iorrid a mif]:ak* as 1 had done once, many years before. 

Well, after a great fearch for what was beft and mofl con- 
venient, Friday at !af>, whofe judgment in fuch afFdirs was 
much fuperior to mine, pitched upon a kind of wood the moll 
litting for it. To this day I cannot tell the name of the tree I 
cut it from, nordofcribe it any other way, than only by laving, 
that it is very like what we call fuftic, or betwixt that aud the 
Nicaragua wood, being much of the fame colotir afid f'Ti^lj^ 
jBut though my man exceeded me in the knowledge of The 
TOof^ proper tree, yet I fhowed him a much better and cleaner 
way to make a canoe than ever he knew before : For he was 
for burning the hollow or cavity of the tree, in order to make 
this boat ; but I then told him how we might do ir with tools, 
learning him at the fame time how to u(e them, which indeed 
he-^lid very dexteroufly ; fo that in a mor.lli's labour, we fin- 

ifljed 



301 

ifhel If. making it very handfome, by cutting the outfide into 
the true (hape of a boat. Atter this it took us full a fortnight 
before we could get her iisto the water, which we did as it 
were, inch by inch, upon great rollers : But when rtie was in, 
<he would have carried twenty men with ali the eafe imagin- 
able. 

As ! was very w«ll j.leafed, you may be fare, at the launch- 
r.'y of th'.s man of war of mine, I was no le(s amazed to behold 
ivirh what dexterity my man nou'd manage her, turn her, and 
paddle her along. Well, Friday faid 1, what do you think of 
It now? Do you iliink this will carry us over? Yes Majler, 
tl-aid he, me '-venture over ivell, though great blouo --njind. But 
ruvdefi^n was yet farther, which he wa? infenfible of, and that 
as Tolnake a maft and fail, and to provide her with an an- 
hor and cable. ■ As fur a mail, that was no difficult thing at 
a\[ to procure ; (o I fixed upon a ftrait young cedar tree, which 
1 found near the place, there abounding gieat plenty of it in 
•!)'■ 'dand ; and fetiing I'riday to cut it down, I gave hini par- 
• ciilar directions how tc) Thipe and order it; but as to the fail, 
.lie belonged to me only. I very well knew I had fome old 
rrs, or pieces of fa'.!s> enough, which had lain Hx and twenty 
ve^rs by me 5 but not being careful to preferve them, as think- 
ing I thould have no occalion to uie them any more j when T 
Ci/r.e to look over then), I found them almott all rotten, ex- 
cef>ttwo; and with thefe I went to work, and after a great 
deal of pains, and aukward tedious!! tchmg, for want of nee- 
dies, I tinii7ied at length a three corner'd ugly thing, like 
what vv call m England 'd Ihoulder of mutton fail, to go with 
-a boom at bottonw and a hltie dwall Iprit at the top, like thole 
v.hich our iong boats uie, arid which 1 very well knew how to 
manage ; efpecialiy (ince it was like tliat which 1 had in my 
patron's fiihing boat, when, wiih my boy Xuryf I made my 
irfcape from the Bar bury ihore. 

Ir was near two months, I think, before T completed thi?. 
work, tnat is, the rigging and fitting my matf and fails ; and 
indeed they were nicely don^, having made a Imall flay, and a 
fail or forefail to it, to adlif, it we fliould tui n to the we'twalB ; 
and, which was (fill more, 1 fixed a rudder to the flern of her, 
10 (leer with ; and thoDgh 1 was but a very inditVereni fhip- 
Wright, yet, as I was ienfibie of the great ufefulnels and ahi'o- 
i<:te necelfity of a thing like this, I applied myfcif to it witfj 
inch conlfant application, that at lart i accomplilhed my defign : 
Biit what with the many dull contrivances I had about it, ami 
the failure of m^ny fhirgs, it coft me as much pains in order- 
ing, as in making tlie boar. Behd*?, when all this was done, I 
had my man Friday to tesch v^lut belonged to its navigation ; 
For though he very well underffood how to paddle a canoe a-. 
A-"o» y^^ he was •^M utter (Iraneer to a fjiil and a rudder, and 
I 3 " was 



was amazed when he faw me work the boat to and again in 
the Tea by the fame, and how the fail gibbed and filled, this 
vay, or that way, as the courfe we failed changed. Atter 
foine time, and a little life, I made ail thel'e things very familiar 
to him, fo that he becawe an expert Tailor, except in relation to 
the conipafs ; and that I could make him underrtand but very 
little of. But as it happened there was leldom occai»on for ir, 
there being but little cloudy weather, and fcarce ever any fog 
in thofe parts ; the ftars were always vi.'ible in the night, and 
the fhore perfpicuous by day, except in the rainy feafon, which 
confined every one around them to their habitations. 

Thus entered in the leven and twentieth year of my reign, • 
or captivity, which you pleafe, (the laft three of which bletre4 
with the company of my man YruJajy ought not to be reckon- 
ed) I kept the anniverfary of my landing here, with the fame 
thankfulnefs to God, for his tender mercies, as I did before 5 
and certainly, as 1 had a great caufe for a thankful acknowl- 
edgement for my deliverance at firff, I liad mucn greater now, 
tor fuch fingular and additional te(f inionies of the care of Prov« 
idence over me, in all my diftreires, both of body and mind, 
and the great hopes I h.ad of being effectually and fpeedily de- 
livered J for I had a ftrong imprcdion upon my mind, that I 
ihould not be another y^ar in this ifland : But however, 1 ftill 
continued on with my hulbandryj diggmg, planting and fencft- 
ing as ufual : Gathering and curmg n\y grapes, and doing all 
other things that were ne.effary for me. 

And now the rainy fealon beginning to Come upon me, 0- 
bliged me to keep the iwnger within doors ; but before this I 
brought ray new veflel into the creek, where I had landed my 
rafts from the (hip, and hauling her up to the fhore, I ordered 
jmy man Friday to dig a dock fufficient to hold her in, and deej> 
enough to give her water, wherein fhe might float ; and then 
when the tide was out, we made a llrong dam acrofs the end 
of it, to keep up the water ; by which means *iie lay dry, as to 
the tide from the fea ; and to keep the rain from her, we 
thatched her over, as it were, with boughs of trees, like a 
houfe ; and fo waited for the months of Novemher and Decern' 
bfr^ in which I defigned to venture over the ocean. 

No fooner did the feafonable weather begin to draw near, but 
fo much was I elevated by this new defigned adventure, that I 
daily prepared for the voyage. The firff thing I thought of 
vyas, to lay by a certain quantity of provifions, as a fufficient 
ifore for fuch an expedition, intending in a week or fortnight's 
time to open the dock and launch out the boat for that pur- 
pofe. But one morning, as I was very bufy upon fomething 
neceffary for this occafion, I called Friday to me, and bid him 
go to the fea fhore, and fee if he could find a turt^ or tortoife^ 

A thing which we commonly bad once i wcek^ as much upou 

account 



.vcoiint cf tlieeges, as for fake of the the flefh. He had woe 
long been gone, but he came runnincr back, as though he 
was purdied for life, and, as it were, flew ever my outward 
wdii or fence, like one tiiat felt not the ground, or Iteps he Jet 
his feet on ; and belore I had time to enquire the reafon ot 
his precipitation, he cries out, O M^Jfer ! O dear Majler ! O 
forroiu^forroTv ! bad! O bad ! Wliy. what's the matter, Fr':. 
day? faidl. OyondeVy yindcr, faiv^ he, there be one, tuoo three 
canoes ! tiuo, three I lurely (thought 1) there muft be lix by mv 
man's way of reckoning ; but on a firidter enquiry, I found 
there was but three. Well, Friday^ faid T, don't be terrified, 
I warrant you v^ewill not only defend ourfelves againfi them, 
bur kill the moft of thofe cruel lavages. But though I com- 
forted him in rhebeft manner I could, the poor creaUire trem- 
bled fo, that I fcarce knew what to d® with him : Majler, 
lays hCyikey come look Friday, cat pieces Friday eat a me up. Why, 
/"r/W^z>, faid I, ihey will ear me up as well as you, and n)y 
danger is as great as yours : But finceit is fo, we muft refolve 
to fight for our lives : What fay you f can you fight, Friday ? 
Yes, faid he very faintly, mejhoot^ me kill ivhat I can^ but there 
came great many number. That's no matter, faid I again, our 
guns will territy thofe that we do not kill : I am very willing 
to Itand by you till the laff drop of my blood ; now tell me, if 
you will do the like by me, and obey my orders in whatkeverl 
command ? Friday then anfwered, O Mafler^ me lofe life for you, 
me die ix: hen you bid die. Thus concluding all queftions con- 
cerning his fidelity, inimcdiately I fetched a good dram of rum, 
{of which I had been a very good hufband) and gave it him 
to comfort his heart. After he had drank it, i ordered him 
to take the two fowliag pieces, which we always carried, and 
load them with large fwan fhot as big as fmall piflol bullets j 
then I took four muflcets, and loaded them with two flugs, and 
five fmall bullets each, charging my two piftols each with 
a brace. I hung my great fword, as tuffomary, naked to hiy 
fide, and gave Friday his hatchet, as a moft cenam neapon of 
defence. 

Thus prepared, I thought, as well as any Knight errant 
that ever handled a fvvord and fpear, I took my perfpeftive 
glafs, and went up the fide of the hill, to fee what I could dif- 
cover ; and I perceived very foon, by my glafs, that there was 
one and twenty favages, three prifoners, and three canoes j and 
that their chief concern feemed to be the triumphant ban- 
«]uetupon the three poor human bodies, a thing which by this 
lime I had obfervcd was very common with them. From 
lience I alfo remarked, that they drd nor land at that place 
from whence Friday made hisefcape, but nearer to the creek 
where the fhoie vvas low, and where a thick woo^ came very 
dofe to the fca. And tiien it was my foul was Elkd with indig- 

jia<io» 



104 

nation and ablnorretlcc of ftich Inluiman wretches, that put a 
period to all my forrMer thoii^lus in ti^eir vindication ; r.ei:her 
would I give mylelt time to conhder their right of coiiquelJ, as 
I had done before. But defceiuling from the nioiintain, [ 
came down to Friday, and told him, 1 was refolved to go fpee- 
dily to them and kiii ihem aii ; afkinj^ him agai:^, in the fitme 
breath, it he would fland by nie ? Wiieji by this time being 
recovered fronn his f.ight, ^nd his fpirits much cheered wi»h 
the dram I had given hiti), lie was v.-ry piealant, yet lenoufly 
telliRg me, as he did before, 'when i bid die, he would di».' 

And now it was, that having fixed my rel«lntu>n in fa ilrur.g 
a manner, that nothing could divelt my breall from its uncom - 
mon fury, I immediately divided the arms already charged be- 
iween us. To my man Friday I gave a pittol to frick in liis 
girdle, with three guns upon his fhoulder, a weight too great 
I confefs to bear ; but what mult a poor Icing do, who bad but 
one loldier in the world i But to Ihew I made him bear no 
more than u'hat I would lay on myfelf, I {tuck the oiher piltu^ 
in my girdle, and the three guns uptjf? v.\y Oioulders, nay ibnie- 
thing n)ore, but that was like JSfop's bv.rtljen, a fmall bottle of 
rum, which foun was lightened to our exceeding refrefhinent. 
Thus we marched out, under a ponJerous load of arn)onr, yet, 
iike two invincible champions, with a auautiry ot powder and 
bullets to iiand our battle, when ihe p'cces vere difrharged, 
And now my orders being to be obeyed, J charped Friday to 
keep dole behind me, and not to ilir, or fliocT, or attempt any 
thing till 1 commanded him, and, in the interim, not to jpesk 
fo much as one word. It was in thisorder I Icjched aconipais 
to my right hand, of near a mile, as v^eil to get over the creejc 
as to attain the wood ; and by this 1 thought t© come vvithm 
fhot of them before 1 could be difcerncd ; as 1 found by my 
glaf?, was no difficult thing to accomplii'h. 

But how fickle and wavering is the mind of man, even in our 
greated fury, and ffrongeft inclination; for while I v.'as taking 
this march, my refolutions began to abate, not ihrough fear of 
their numbers, wf\o were a pai^cel of naked unarmed wretch- 
es ; but thefie refleiffions occured to my thoughrs, as whr^t 
power was 1 comnnflioned with, or xvhat occafion or neceftity 
had I to go and imbrue my hands in human blood, "^nd- mur- 
der people who had neither done, nor intended to do me any 
wrong ? They were innocent in particjiar as to me ; and their 
barbarous cullom was not only their nusfortune, but a ^-i^^n 
that God had left them in the mofi immenfc flnpidity j but yet 
did not appoint me to be a judge of their a^^tions, much leU 
an executioner of his righteous judgments ; that on the con- 
trary, whenever lie thought fij, he would take vengeance ors 
themhimfelf, and punifh them in a national way, according to 
their national crimes i but this was iictking at all to me, who 

had 



^o.5 

bad no concerns with them. Indeed my man Frtrfay might 
jiirtify himfeU', becaufe they were his declared tnemics, of that 
very fame nation that went to facrifice him before; and in- 
deed it was lawful for him to atfack thetn, which 1 could not 
fay was fo in rcfpetl to me. So warmly did thefe thm^s prefs 
upon my thoughts all the way 1 went, that I only refolved «o 
place myfelf fo, as to behold their bloody entertainmeni, with- 
out falling upon them, except fomething, more than ordmary, 
by God's fpecial direftion, thould oblige me ihereto. 

Thus fixed in my refolution, I entered ntothe tiuck wood (my 
man Friday following me clofe behind) when, with ail poffible 
warincfsand filence, I marched till I c^me to the fkirt of it, 
on that fide which was the nearelf to them ; for only that one 
end of the wood interpofed between me and them. Upon 
which I called very foftly to Fridajy dnd fhewed him a great 
tree, that was juft at the corner of the wood, I ordered him to 
repair thither, and bring me word, if he could plainly perceive 
their ad^ions : Accordingly, he did as I commanded him, and 
canw; back with this melancholy ftory, that they were all about 
their fire, eating the fiefh of one of their prifoners ; and tha^t 
another lay bound upon the fand, a little diftant from thenn, 
which they defigned to be their next facrifice ; and this, he 
told me, was not one of their nation, but one of thole very 
bearded men, who was driven by a llQrm into their cotmtry, 
and whom he had fo often talked to me about. You nsay be 
iure, that -ipon hearing this, my foul was ready to fink within 
m»; when afcending up into a tree, I faw plainly by my 
glafs, a white nian, who lay upon the beach of the fea, with 
his hands and feet tied with flags, or things rerembling rtilhes, 
being covered with clothes, and feemed to be a European^ 
From the tree where I took this profpeit, I perceived another 
tree, and a thicket beyond it, about fifty yards nearer to ihenj, 
than where I was, which, by taking a fm^ll circle round, I 
might come at undifcovered, and then I flioiild be within half 
a fhot of thefe devourers. And this confideratiou alone, to be 
more perfectly revenged upon them made me withhold n y 
pafhon, though I was enraged to the higheft degree imagin.a- 
ble, when going back about twenty paces, I got behind fome 
builies, which held all the way till I came to the other tree ; 
and then I afcended a little rifing ground, nof above eighteen 
yards diftance from us, and there I had a full view of thefe 
creatures, and I could perceive all their adions. 

Such a fight did then appear, as obliged me not to lofe ^ 
moment's time. There were no lefs than nineteen of thefe 
dreadful wretches feated upon the ground, clofe huddled to- 
gether, exprefiingall the delight imaginable at fo barbaroivs an 
entertainment ; and they had jiifT fent the other two to 
murder this poor unhappy chriuian, ar.d bring him perhap.^ 

limb 



ja6 

Jirnt* by limb fo tlieir fire ; for they were juft then going to 
untie the b^ods from his feet, in order for death, as fetters ar^ 
knocked off from the fcer of malefactors before they go to 
t^e place of execution. Hereupon immediately turning to wiy 
rj'ian, now, Fnday^ laid I, mind what I fay, fail in nothing, but 
do exa<^tly 36 you fee me do. All which he pronnfing he 
would perform, I fet dowr. one of my mulTcets and the fowling 
piece upon the ground, and FriJay did ilie ianie by his ; and 
with the other n)uf:<et ! took my aim at the favages, bidding 
him d.>flie hke ; are you ready ? faid I, Yes, Milter, faid he. 
Why then fire at them, faid I j and that very moment I gave 
fire iikewile. 

For my part, I killed one and wounded two j but my mar» 
Friday taking his aim much better than I, killed two and 
wounded three more. You may be fure they were in a dread- 
ful condernation, at fiich an unexpected dilafter ; and thole. 
who yet had eicaped our penetrating Ihor, immedidtely jumped 
upon their feet, but were in fuch confufion, that they knew 
i>ot which way to run or look, no^knowing from whence their 
dtltruilicn came. We tlien threw down our pieces and took 
up others, giving a fecond dreadful volley ; but as they were 
loaded only with fwan fhor, or fmall piitol bullets, we perceiv- 
ed only two of them fall ; but fo many were woundsd, that 
they ran yelling and fcreanjing about like niadcrealures. Now, 
/"r;Vay, faid I, lay dovvn your piece, and take up the mulker, 
and loliaw me. He did lb wirh. great courage, whea (hewing 
ourfelves to the fava^'^c.?, we gave a great iTi^ut, and made di- 
itCWy to the poor viifHm, wlio would have beeii facrificed, 
had not our fir If fire obliged their butchers wirh three others, 
to jump icito a canoe. By my or-der, FriJav fired at them, at 
which fliot I thought he killed rhem all, by realon of ihcir 
falling to the bottou) of the boat ; however he killed two, and 
rnorrally woum^ed a third. lathe mean ti rue I cut the ffags 
that tied the handi and feet of tlic poor creafui «, and lifting 
him up alked him in the Portugueze tongue, IVhat he ivas ? He 
anfwered me, in Latln^ Chriji'ianus ; but fo very weak and fainf, 
that he could fcarce flaod or fpeak. Immediately I gave h m 
a dram and a piece of bread to ciierifh liim, and aikvd him 
what countryman he was ? He laid EJpaniola, and then uttf re»jl 
all the thankfulnefs imacriMnble for his deliverance. Seignior 
(faid I, with as much Sp.ini/b as I was malter o!) let »»s "taik 
afterwards, but fight now ; here, take this fword and piftol, 
and do what you can. And indeed he d:d fo with fuch cour- 
age and intrepidity, that he cut two of them to pieces in an 
inftant, (the favai;es not having the power to fly for their 
lives.) I ordered FriiLry lo run for thofe pieces we had lett at 
Che tree, which he brought to iwe with great (wiftnefs, and then 
1 gave Ijiin my nu;il;cr/ wijilc 1 loaded the relt. But now 

iherc 



107 

there ]i3pp<*iied a fierre encounter between the Spaniard and 
oMff of tlie fj»Vd;;ef, who hacl made at him with ofic of the.r 
wooden ("words ; and tlionph the former was as brave as 
fotjld be expected, haviii<4 twice wounded his enemy in the 
head ; yet being faint, the Indian had thrown him upon the 
ground, and was wrefting my (word out of his hand, which the 
.S-/»3wiarc/ very wifely (jiiiiting, drew out his pilioi, and (hot 
hmi throu<^h the bodv, Hetote I could come near hini, who 
was running to his alFnhnce. As to Fri.fa;, he purfiied the 
flying wretches with his hatchet, difpafching three, but tlie reft 
V ere too nimble for him. The Spaniard taking one the fowl- 
ing pieces, wounded two, who ruiming into the wood, Friday 
purhied and killed one; but the other, hotwithftanding his 
wounds, plunged himfelf into the (ea and fwani to thole two 
who were left in the cance, which with one wounded, were ail 
that cllaped out of one and twenty. The account is as 
follows : 

Killed (St the firjl jhot from 



the tree j ^ 

At the fecond Jhot a 

By Friday in the boat z 

Ditto, ofihojefirft ujounded a 

Ditto, in the ^cvood i 

Bj the ipaijiifd 3 



Killed, being fallen oj their "I 
nvounds. j 

EJcaped in the boat 
'whereof one nvounded^ 
if notjl.un 



■} 



Total 1 1 



The lavages m the canoe worked very hard to get out of 
our reach, avid Friday was as eager in purfiiing them ; and 
»ndeed i was no ids anxious about their elcape, led, after the 
news had been carried to their people, they (hould return in 
multitudes, and deittoy us. So being relolved t(» purfue them, 
-I jumped into one of their canoes, and bid Friday to follow 
me ; but no l(:>i)ner was I in, when to my furpnze, I found 
another poor cieature bound hand and foot for tiie Haughrer, 
^,\^^•!i%\\^^. Spaniard \\:\^ been, with very little life in bin). 
Immediately 1 unbound him, and would have helped him' tip, 
but he could neither Ifand nor Ipe^k, but groaned piteouflvt 
thinking he was only imbuiuul in order to be fliin. Hereupon- 
I bid F//'% lf)eak toHim, and tell him of liis deliverance; 
when puMiug out my bottle, I made Uie poor wretch drink ;i 
dram i which, with the joyful news he had received, 10 re- 
vived liis heart, that he (at up in the boat. As foon as iVi^ 
day began to hear him fpeak, and looked more fully in his 
trjce, it would have moved any one to tears to perceive his un- 
common tranfports of joy ; for he killed hin', embraced him, 
hugged him, cried, laughed, hilloocd, jumped about, danced, 
fiing, then cried again, wrung his hnnds, beat his face and 
head, then lung aiid jumped about sgain, like a difir?61ed 

treaturs ; 



creanire ; fo that it was a great whlle'before I could make him 
ineak. to me, or tell me what was tiie matter with him ; but 
when he came to the liberty of his Ipeech, at laft he told me, 
it was his father. 

Here indeed i was infinitely moved to fee the dutiful and 
tejjder r.ffection this poor favage b.ad to his aged parent. JHe 
would fit down by him in the boat, open his breaft, and hold 
his father's head dole to his bo(oni halt an hour together to 
nourish it ; then he took his arms and ankles, which were 
ftifl'and numbed with binding, and chafed and rubbed thcnn 
with his hands j by which means, perceiving what the cale 
was, I gave him fome rum, whkh proved of great benefit to 
hmi. 

While we wert bufy in this asSlion, the favages had gotten 
almod out of fight ; and happy it was we did not purfue them ; 
tor there arofe from the nortli welt, which continued all night 
long, inch a violent ftorm, that I could not fuppole oiherwife, 
but ihat they were ail drowned. After this i called Friday 
to me, and aficed him, if he had given his father any bread ? 
He fliook his head, and faid, Ncne^ not cne hit, me eat a up all ; 
fo I gave him a calcc of bread out of a little pouch I carried 
for this end. I likewife gave him a dram for himfclf, and two 
or three bunches of raiiins for iiis father. Both thefe he car-^ 
ried to him, for he would make him drink the dram to comfort, 
him. Away he then runs out of the boat as if he was bewitch- 
ed, with fuch an extraordinarary fwiftnefs, that he was out of 
fight as it were in an ini'tant ; but at his return I perceived 
him fiacken his pace, becaufehe had fomething in his hand : 
And this I found to be, as he approached nearer, an eariheri 
jug to bring his father Ibuie water in, with two more cakes of 
bread, which he delivered into my hands. Being very 
tiiirdy myfelf, I drank fome of tive water, of which when his 
fatlver had drank fufficicntly, it more revived his fpirits thaci 
a!) the rum I had given him. 

I then called friday to me, and ordered him to carry the 
Spaniard one of the cakes and fome water, who was repofing 
liimfelf upon a green place under the fliade of a tree, but fo 
weak that though he exerted himlelf, he could not (tind upon 
his feet. Upon whicli 1 ordered Friday to rub and bathe his 
ankles with rum, as'he did his father's. But every minute 
he wa5 employed in this, he would call a wifhful eye towards 
the b'-at , where he kft his father fitting; when fuddenly, 
«ot being to be feen, he flew like lightiiin^- tj him ; and find- 
ing he only laid luimfelf down to eafe \:r, umbs, he returned 
back to me prefently ; and then I Ipoke to the Spaniafd 
to let Friday help him, and lead him to the boat, in order to 
be conveyed to my dwelling, wh.ere I would take care of hinw 
C'^^»on wHiih Fndav niddp noihiiig to t«»kc him uf.on h's back ^ 

and 



and fo carried him fo the canoe, fcttinghim clofe by Msfalher; 
and prefeutly flepping out again, launched the boat off, and 
paddled it along the (liorc fafter t!ian I could walk, though 
the wind blew very hard too ; and having brought them fafe 
to the creek, away he runs to fetch the other canoe, which he 
brought to the creek aimoft as loon as I got to it by land ; 
when wafting me over, he took, our new guefts out of the boat: 
But fo weak were they, {hat I was forced to make a kind of 
hand barrow ; and when I came to my caltle, not being willing 
to make an entrance into my wail, we made them a handfome 
tent, covered with old fails and boughs of trees, making two 
good beds of rice draw, with blankets to lie upon and cover 
them. Thus, hke an abfolute king, over fubjeils who owed 
their lives unto me, I thought myfelf very remarkable, efpe- 
cially cor.fideringl had three rehj^ions in my kingdona, m>* 
man Friday being a Proteftant, his father a Pa«;an, and tUe 
Spaniard a. Papilt ; but I gave liberty of confcience to them all. 

To get provifions for my poor weak fubje»fls, I ordered Fri- 
day to k\\\ me a yearling goat, which when he had done, I 
cut of}' the hind quarters, and chopping it into fn)all piece?, 
boiled and ftewed it, putting barley and rice into the broth. 
This I carried into their tent, fet a table, dined with them 
myfelf, and encouraged them. Ftiday was my interpreter to 
his father, and indeed to the Spaniard too, who fpoke the lan- 
guage of the favages pretty well. After dinner f oidered Fri- 
day to fetch home all our arms from the field of battle, and the 
next day to bury the dead bodies, which he did accordingly. 

And now i made Friday enquire of his father, whether he 
thought thofe favages had efcaped the late ftorm in their ca- 
noe ; and if fo, whether they would not return with a power 
too great for us to refiff ? He anfwered, that lie thought it im- 
pofTible they fiiould outlive the (lorm, or if they were driven 
fouihwardly, they would come to a land where they would as 
certainly be devoured, as if they were drowned in the fea. 
And luppofe they had attained their own country, the ftrange- 
nefs cf their bloody and fatal attack, would make ih.em telV 
their people, that rhe red of them were killed by thunder a.id 
lightning, pot by the hand of man, but by two heavenly fpirits 
(meaning Friday and me) who w?re fenr from above to deflroy 
ihem : And this, he f;tid, he knew, becaufe he heard them fay 
the fiame to one another. And indeed he vvas in the right 
on't ; for I have heard fince, that thefe four men gave out, 
that whoever went to that inchaiited iliind, would be Uedroy- 
ed by fire from the gods. 

No cunocs appearing Ibme time after, as I cxpe6^cd, my ap* 

prehenfions ceafrd j inffead of which my former thoughts of a 

Yoy.tge took place, efpecialiy when Friday's father aiFurcd me I 

tJtouii have good nfage in his country,' As to ths Sparrard, 

K" tie 



he told me, that Txteen more of h\i countrymen and Porru^ 
gne/gf who had been fhipwrecked, made their eicape thither; 
that though they were in union with the favages, yet they were 
very miferable for want of proviiions and other neceifaries. 
When 1 afked him about the particulars of his voyati-? he an- 
Iwered, that their fhip was bound from Rio de la Plata to the 
Hanjannaj that when the fliip was ioft, only five men penfhed 
in the ocean j the reft, having faved themfelves in the boat, 
were now landed on the main continent. And what do they 
intend to do there ? faid I. He replied, they had concerted 
lueafures to efcape by building them a velTel, but they had 
neither tools nor provifions ; fo that all their deOgns cauie to 
nothing. Suppofing, 'aid I, I (hould make them a propol'al, 
and invite them here, would they not carrv me priloner to 
Nenjo Spain? He anfwered, no, for he knew *hem to be luch 
honeft men as would fcorn to acl; fuch inhuman bafenefs to 
their deliverer : That, if I plealed, he and the old favage 
would go over to them, talk with them about it, and bring me 
an anfwer; that they (hould all fwear fidelity to me as their 
leader, upon the holy facraments ; and that for his part he 
would not only do the fame, but ftand by me to the lad dr»p 
«f his blood, fliouM there be occafion. 

Thefe folemn aflurances made me refolve to grant them re- 
lief, and to fend thefe two over for that purpole : But when 
every thing was ready, the Spaniard raifed an objeflion which 
carried a great deal of weight in it. You knonjo. Sir, faid he, 
:hat h£ing fome time luiih jou, I cannot but befenjtble of your fiock 
of. rice and corn, fufficient, perhaps, for us at prefent, but not for 
thsm, fhould tbey come o^er prefentl^ ; much lefs to <vi^ual a ^vejjel 
for an intended <voyage . IVant might be as great an occafton for 
ihem to disagree and rebel, as the children 0/ Ifrael did againft G9d 
bimfelf ivhen tbey *wanted bread in the <wiidernefs : And there- 
fore my ad'vice is to 'wait another harnjejl, and, in the mean timet 
cultinjate and impro've fome more land, njohereby <v>e may ha<ve 
plenty of pro'vifoas, in order to execute our deftgn. 

This advice of the Spaniard i approved af extremely, and 
fo fatisfied was I of his fidelity, that I efleemed him ever after. 
And thus we all four went to work upon ibme more land, ar»d 
againft feed time we had got as much cured and trimmed up, 
as was futficient ?o fovv twenty two bufhels of barley on, and 
lixteen jars of rice, which was in fhort all the feed we had to 
fpare. As we were four m number, and by this lime all in 
good health, we feared not an hundred Indians, fhould they 
venture to attack us : And while the corn was growing, 1 
pitched upon fome tre«s fit to build us a large vetFel in cafe 
the Spaniards came over; which being niarked, I ordered fr/- 
day and his father to cut rhem down, appointing the Spaniard^ 
who was now my Privy Counfeilor, tooverfec and dired the 

werk. 



wflrk. I likewife Increafed my flocks of goats by flioannr 
the wild dams, and bringing horre their k-ds to nv enclofure ; 
Nor did I neglefl the grape fcafon, but cured ihem as ufua;. 
rhv^uoh I h:idVuch a quanrity now, as would h-»' e filled eighth 
barrels with raifns. And thus all of us bein<; employed, the,' 
in working, and J in providing for them, uW harvei> came, 
God Almighty bleffed the incrcaTe of it lo much, that from 
rwenty two barrels of barley, we threfhfd ov.t two hi-ndrcd 
and twenty, and the like quantity of rice, fufficient to virtu:il 
any fhip, to carry me and ali the SpamarJs to any part ot J- 
merica . 

Thus the principal objection being- ar^-vered bv a fufficient 
flock of proviiion,'! ientmy two ambaiTinv rs over to the inaii), 
with a regal authority, to admir.ifier the o.irhs of allegiance 
and fiieiity, and have an ir-ftrument figned under their Ir.ifids, 
though 1 never afked whether they had pen, 'nk, or paper ; 
when giving each of them a mulker, eight charg<"> o<" powder 
and b;il', and provjilon enough tor eight days, they ta;!c-a away 
with a fair g?le, on a dav when the moon was at fiill. 

Scarce a fortnight had rafffd over my head, but in»pihent 
for their return, I laid me down to deep one mornif)g, whea 
a (trai)ge accident happened, which wa? ufhered in bv i"^V 
tnm's coming running to me, and calling aloud, 3'Iaj!i;r, Mjj- 
teri they are come, rhey are come. Upon which, not di earning of 
any danger, out I jumps from ray bed, puts on my clothes, 
and hurries through my little grove, when looking towards thr 
iea, I perceived a boat about a league and a half diftant, land- 
ing in for the fhore, with the wind" fair. I beheld they did not 
confie from the fide where the land lay on, but from the fcuth- 
ermoft end of the idand : So thefe being none of the people 
we wanted, 1 ordered Friday to lie dill, till fuch time as I de. 
fcended from the mountain, which, with my ladder, I now af- 
cended, in order tc diicover more fully what they vere : And 
now, with the help of my perfpef^live glafs, I plainly perceiv- 
ed an EngUJh fhip, which I concluded it to be, by the fafhion of 
its long boat, and which filled me with fuch uncommon tranf- 
ports of joy, that I cannot tell how to defcribe ; and yet feme 
fecret doubts hung about me, proceeding from 1 know not 
ivhat caufe, as though I had reafoPi to be upon my guard. And 
indeed I would have no man contemn the fecret hints an^ in- 
timations of danger, whicfi very often are given, when he may 
imagine there is no polTibility of its being real : For had I not 
been warned by this lilent admonition, I had been in a worfe 
t^ation than before, and perhaps inevitably ruined. 

It was not long before I perceived the boat to approach tlie 
fhore, as though they looked for a place where they might 
conveniently land ; and at- lad they ran their boat on (hore 
upon the beach, about half a mile diftance, which proved fo 

much 



112 . 

<r!uch the happier for me ; flnce had they come into the creek, 
they had landed jiilJ at my door, and might not only have forc- 
ed rae out of my callie, but plundered me of all 1 had in rhc 
world. Novv I was fully convinced they were v\'\ Engli/hmen, 
three of whirb were unarmed and bound ; wiien immedi- 
afely the firft four or five leaped on fiiore, and teok thofc three 
cut of the beat as prifoners. One cf whom I could perceive 
afed the nicft ptllionare geflures of entreaty, affiiclion, and 
-defpair, while the others, in a lefier degree, fliewed abundance 
of concern. 

Not knovyig the :iie3nip£[ of thi.^, I was very much afton- ^ 
'.ihed, and 3 btrckoned to Friday, (who was below) to afcend the Jl 
7!!0untain, and like>*ir« view this fight. O Mafter, fays he to ik 
;Me,jou fee Englifh rnuns eat -prifoners^ as <well as fa'vage mans. 
And do you think they will eat theni, /"r/W^y/* faid i. Yts^ 
laid Friday^ they eat all up. No no, faid 1, Fridsyy I am much 
»«ore concerned Icaft they murder them j but as for eating 
ahem lip, that I am fure they never will. 

And now 1 net only lamented my misfortune in not having 
the Spaniard and lavage with me, but al fo that I could not 
•come within fbot of them unperceived, (they having no fire 
arms among them) and fave thefe three men, whom 1 thought 
they vpere going to kill with their fwords. But feme comfort 
it was to nie, that 1 perceived they were fet at liberty to go 
Ml here they pleafed, the rafcally feamen fcattering about as 
though they had a mind to fee the place: And fo long did 
ihey negligently ramble, that the tide had ebbed fo low, as to 
leave the boat agroimd. Nor were the two men that were in 
her more circumfpe^^t, for having drank a little too much li- 
quor, they fell faft afleep j but one of them waking before the 
other, and perceiving the boat too faft aground for his ftren^th 
fo remove it, he halloo 'd out to the reft, who made all poflible 
expedition to him : But, as Providence ordered it, all their 
.force was inefFe6)ual to launch her, when I could hear them 
■fpeak one to another. Why let her alone. Jack, can : ye^ /he' II float 
next tide] by which words I was fully confirmed that they 
•were my own countrymyi. AH this wtiile I lay very quier, 
as being fully fenfible, it could be no lefs than ten hours be- 
fore the boat would be afloat, and then it would be fo dark, 
as that they could aot ealily perceive me, by which means I 
ihculd be at more liberty to hear their talk, and obferve all 
^heir motions : Not but that I prepared for my defence be- 
fore ; yet as 1 had now another fort of enemies to combar 
■with, 1 a6^ed with more caution. I took two fuzees on my 
ihoulders, and gave Friday three mnfkets ; befides nay formi- 
dable goat fkin coat, and monftrous cap, made me look as^ 
iierce and terrible as Hercules of oldj efiiccially when two pi!- 

tols 



^^3 

tols wsrc fiuck in my belt, and my naked fword hanging by 
my fide. 

It was my defign at firft not to make any attenopt till it was 
dark; but it being now two o'clock, in the very heat of the 
ddv, the failors were all ftraggling into the woods, and un- 
doubtedly were lain down to ileep. The three poor diftreflfed 
creatures, too anxious to get any repofe, were however feated 
under the fhade of a great tree, about a quarter of a mile from 
me : Upon which, without any more ado, I approached to- 
ward: them, with my man following behind me, and before I 
was perceived, I called aloud to them in SpanlJ/j, Wbiit are ye 
Gentlemen ? 

At thele words they Oarted up in great confufion, and, be- 
holding the flran^e figure I made, they returned no anfwer, Uut 
feenied as if they would fly from me. Gentlemen^ (faid I, in. 
EngViJh) don't be afraid : Perhaps you have a friend nearer you 
than you expe^. He mult be from Heaven, /^/r/ one of them 
gra'-jely, and pulling off kis hat^ for we are pait all help in this 
world. All help is from Hea^jen^ fa id I ; but Sir, as I have 
percei<ved e'very a6lion betnjseen you and thofe brutes^ fince your 
landings only inform me hoix) to offifi you^ and I 'will do it t9 the 
uim^fi of my po'iver. 

Am I talking with God or man (faid he, in melting tears) 
Are you of human kind, or an Angel ! Sir, laid I, my poor habit 
may tell you I am a many and an Englifhman, iJiUling to afjiji 
ycu, halving but this fefvant only : Here are arms and ammuni^ 
tion : Tell freely your condition, can 'vce fer^ve you ? The ifory, 
faid he, is too long to i elate, fince our butchers are fo near. 
Bur, bir, 1 was maimer of that fhip, my men have mutinied, 
and it is a favour they have put my mare, this palTenger, and 
itje, on fhore, without murdering us, though we expe<^ noth- 
ing but to perifh here. Are your enemies gonje ? faid l. No, 
replied he, (pointing to a thicket) there they lie, while my 
heart trembles, left having feen and heard us, they fhould 
murder us all. Hanje they fire arms? faid I. They have but 
two pieces, faid he, one of which is left :n the boat : He told 
me there were two enormous villains among them, that we;^ 
ttie authors of this mutiny, who if they were killed or feized, 
nnght induce the reit to return to their obedience. Well, 
well, faid I, let us retire farther under the covering of the 
woods , and there it was I made thefe conditions with him : 

I. That while ihey flayed in the ifland, they fhouM not pre. 
lend to any authority ; but be entirely conformable to my 
orders, and return me the arms, which I ihould put into their 
hands. 

II. Tha» if the /hip was recovered, they n>iiiild afford Fvi- 
day and I cur palFage gratis to England. 

K a Wbra 



3-^4 

. When he had given me all the fatisfaftion I could defire, I 
gave each of them a gun, wiih powder and ball fufficient, ad- 
vifing them to fire upon them as they lay. The captain mod- 
cRiy faid, that he was forry to kill them, though on the other 
hand, to let thefis vilhans elcape, who were the authors of this 
mifery, might be the rum of us ail, fliould they bring the fhip's 
company upon us. Well, iaid I, do as you think, fit : And fo 
he accordingly fired, killing one of the Captain's chiefeft ene- 
mies, and wounding the other,who eagerly called for alliltance j 
but the captain, (who had referved his piece) coming v\^ to 
him, Sirrah, faid he, 'fh too lau to call for affifiance^ you Jhould 
rather cry to God to fardon your 'villany ; lo knocked him down 
with the ftock of his gun: Three others were alfo flighlly 
wounded, who, at my approach, cried out for mercy. This 
the captain granted, upon condition that they would fwear to 
be true to him in recovering the fhip, which they folemnly 
did ; however,! obliged the captain to keep them bound. Af- 
4er which I fent Friday and the captain's mate to fecure the 
toat, and brmg away the oars and fail ; when at their returtip 
4hree inen coming back, and feeing their late diii relied captain, 
liow their conqueror, fubmilted to be bound alio. And then 
it was, that having more liberty, I related the adventures of 
my whole life, which he heard with a ferious and wonderful 
attention. After this, I carried him and his two men into my 
little fortified cartle, fhewed them all my conveniences, and re- 
'' freflied them with fiich provifions as 1 could afford. When 
Jhis was over, we began toconfider about regaining the fhip. 
]Re faid, that there were 16 hands on board, who knowing 
Ihcir lives were forfeited by the law, for conspiracy and mu- 
tiny, would grow fo very hardened, that it would be danger* 
ous for our fmall company to attack them. This was a rea- 
fonable inference indeed ; but fomething we did refolve on, 
and immediately put in execution ; for we heaved the boat up- 
on the beach fo high, that Ihe could not fhoot off at high vva- 
ler mark, and broke a hole in her, not eafily to be flopped ; 
and fo all the fignals they gave for the boat to come on board 
wete in vain. This obliged them to fend another boat afhore, 
with ten men armed, ^|l4lofe faces the captain plainly defcribed, 
jhe boatfwain being the chief officer ; but he faid there were 
Ihr^e honeft lads among them, who were forced into the con- 
fpiracy. Hereupon I gave him frefh courage (for I had per- 
ceived he was in concern) in the mean while fecuring our pri- 
icners, part in my caflle, over whom Friday flood centinel ; 
kut two o'thers we took into our fervice, and then thought 
©urfelves ftrong enough to adventure a battle. V/hen the 
failors landed, and beheld their boat in that condition, they 
not only halloo'd, but fired for their companions to hear, yet 
^Uey leceiyed no anfwcx, This lUuck item with horrour and, 

an)a5'-meat^ 



^^5 

atiiazcmenr, rhinking their companions were murdered ; then 
they made as if ihey would return to the fhlp ; I could per- 
ceive the captain's countenance change at rhi^;, till of a i'adden 
three men were ordered to look after the boat, while the ojher 
leven leaped on Ihore, in order to fearch tor their companions : 
And indeed they came to the brow of the hill, near ir.y anciffnc 
caiile, from whence they could (ee a great way into the woods, 
and there fhoutingand hallooing till tired and weary, at length 
leated themfelves under a (preading tree. My opinion was, 
that nothing could be done till night, when 1 mighr ufc fome 
artifice to get them out ot the boi-.t : But of a fudden they all 
liarted up, and made to the fea fide : Hereupon I ordered fti- 
daf and the captain's mate to go over the cieek, and halloo as 
loud as they could, and fo, decoying ihem info the woods, 
come round to me again. And this indeed had its effect ; for 
they followed the noife, till coming weilward to the creek, they 
called for their boat to carry them over, taking one of the 
men out of her, and leaving two to look arter her, tiaving fart- 
ened her to the ftump of a Tittle tree on fiiore. Hereupon im- 
Tnediately the captain and our p^rty, palling the creek out of 
their fight, we furpnzed them both, by the captain's knock- 
ing down one, and ordering the other to furrender on pain of 
death, and who, being the mofl honelt of them all, fincerely 
joined with us. By tnis time it was pretty late, when return- 
ing to their boat, which they found aground in the creek, the 
tide out, and the Hien gone; they ran about, wringing their 
hands, crying it was an inchar.^ed Ifland, and that they fhould 
be ail murdered by fpirits or devils. My men would wiMing- 
ly have fallen upon them, but I would oot agree to hazard any 
of our party. But to be more certain, Friday and the captain 
crawled upon their hands and feet, as near as polTible ; and 
when the boatfwain approached in light, fo eager was the cap- 
tain, that he fired and killed him on the fpot ; Friday wounded 
the next man, and the third ran away. Hereupon, I advanc- 
ed with my whole army, and, it being dark, I ordered the 
man we had furprized with the boat, to call them by their 
names, and to parley with them. Accordingly he called out 
aloud, Tom Smith!. Tofh Stnitb! H#^»nfwered, Who's :bat? 
, Kokinfon ! The other aafwered, Far Cod's fake^ Tom, furren- 
der immediately ^ or you are all dead men. Who muff we hirren- 
der to i (ays Smith. To our captain and fifty men here, avho ha've 
tjken me prifone'r^ toounded Wdl Frye, and killed the boatfivain. 
Shall we have quarters then ? (aid he. Hereupon the captain 
calls out, 2o«, Smith, ro« knotjo my ifo'ice ; furrender immediate^ 
iy, andyo-u fhall all ha'vs your H<ves granted y except Will Atkins. 
Hereupon Atkins cried out, What ha-ue I done, captain^ more than 
ihe rejly njohi) hanje been as bad as me ? But lliat was a lie, for he 
yifds llie pcrfon thai laid hold of him, and bound him. How- 
ever, 



ii6 

ever, he was ordered to (ubmit to the Govefncur's mercy, for 
iuch was I called. And lb, laying down their arms, we bound 
them all, and feized on fheir boat. 

After this the captain exp<(iulated with them, telling them, 
that the Governour was an Efigl/Jhman, uho might execute them 
there ; but fie thought they would be fent to England^ except 
Will Atkins^ who was ordered to prepare for death next morn- 
ing. Hereupon Atkins implored the captain to intercede for 
his life, and the reft th?t they might not be (ent to England. 
Thus auAvered our projedl for fe'zmg the fhip. For lemling 
Atkins^ and two of the worfi-, fatt bound, to the cave, and the 
reft being commiUed to my bower, 1 fent the captain, to tam- 
per with them, in the Governour's name, offering them pardon, 
if they would afiifl him in recovering the fhip. Upon which 
they all promifed to (land by him till their la(t drop of blood ; 
and whoever a(51ed treacheroufly Hiould be hanged in chains 
upon the beach. They were all releafed on thefe afTinjEnces ; 
and then the captain repaired the other boat, making his paf- 
fenger captain, with four men well armed; while his mate, 
himfelf, and five men more went in the other. By midnig!;t 
they came within call of the fnip, when the captain ordered 
Robinfon to hail her, and tell them that, with great difficulty, 
they had found the men at laft. But while they wcredifcourl- 
ing, the captain, his mate, and the reft entered, and knocked 
down the fecond mate and carpenter, fecured thole that were 
upon detk, by putting them under hatches, while the other 
boat's ciew entered and fecured ♦he forecaftle ; then broke in- 
to the round houle, where the mate, after fome relKiance, fhot 
the pirate captam through the head ; upon which all the reft 
yielded themlelves prjfoners. And thus the fhip being recov- 
ered, the joyful fignal was fired, wh- h T eard with the great- 
eft joy imaginable: Nor was it 1' „ _.rcre he brought the 
fhip t® an anchor al the creek'' iiouth, when coming to me 
unawares, TherCy lays he, my deareji friend and dell'vercTy there is 
jourjhipf and njoe are your fernj ants ; a comfort lo unfpeakable, 
as maae me fwoon in his arms, while, with gratitude to heav- 
en, we were tenderly embracing each other. 

Noth:t7g now remainetl, bur to confult what we fhould da 
with the prifoners, two of which he thought not fafe to takeon 
beard. Hereupon, concerting with the captain, I dreffed my- 
felf in one of his luits, and fending for them, told them, that I 
was going to leave the ifland with all my people, if they would 
tarry there, their lives fliould be fpared ; if not, they fhould 
be hanged at the fit ft port we came to. They agreed to ftay. 
Hereupon 1 told them my whole ftory, charging them to be 
kind to the Spaniards that w^-- j-xpei^ted, gave them all mif 
arm?, and intoinnng thei.; c ^ \ 'hing necelTary for the'r 
fubfiltence, I and my luai. ' • t on board. But the 

neM 



m 

next mferuing two of the men came fwimming to t-he fhiu's 
fide, defiring the captain to take them on board, thouiih he 
jianged them afterwards, complaining mightily how harbar- 
oufly the orhrrs uled therrj. LJ;>on which I prevailed wiih the 
captain to take them in, and being feverely vvlii^ped and pic- 
kled, they proved more honefl for the future. And io I bade 
farewel to this ifland, carrying along with me my money, par- 
rot, umbrella, and goat fkin cap, fetting fail Dec. ir, i6S6, af- 
ter twenty ei^ht years, two months, and nineteen days refi- 
dence, that fame day and month tiiat I efcaped from Saliee, 
landing in England, June ii, 16S7, after thirty five years ab- 
fence trora luy own couatry, which rt^ndered me altogether an 
utter ftranger. 

Here I found my nrft captain's widow aiivc, who had hurl- 
ed a fecond hufband, but in very mean circumfiancc?, and 
wh.)m I made mi^'hty ea'X' upon my account. Soon alter i 
went down to Yorkfbhc^ where all my family were expired, ex- 
cept two lifters, and as many of one of my brother's children. 
I found no provifion had been made for me, they concluding 
I had been long fince dead ; fo that I was but in a very flen- 
der fituation. Indeed the captain did me a great kindnefs, by 
his report to the owners, how I had delivered their fhip en 
the defolate ifland, upon which they made me a prefent of 
^200 fterling. I next went to VJbon, taking my man Friday 
with me, and arriving there in April, I met xt,t J'ortuguefe cap- 
tain, who took me on board on the African coaft ; but being 
ancient, he had left ofFrhe fea, and refigned all his buiinefs to 
his Ton, who followed the Brafil trade. So altered iioth of us 
were, that we did not know each other at firft, till I difcovered 
myfelf more fully to him. After a few embraces, I began to 
enquire after my concerns, and then the old gentleman told me, 
that it was nine years hnce he had been at Brafily where ray 
partner was then living, but my trnftees were both dead ; that 
it was his belief, I fhould have a good account of tlje product 
of my plantation ; that the imagination of my being loft, had 
obliged my truft^es to give an eftimate of my Ihare to the Pro- 
curator Fifca), who, in cafe of my not returning, had given 
one third to the King, and the reft to the Monaftry of St. Au- 
gufi/ne ; but if I put in my claim, or any one for me, it would 
be returned, except the yearly produ6^, which was given to 
the poor 1 then defired him to tell me, what improvement 
he thought had been made of my plantation, and whether he 
imagined it was worth my while to look after it ? He anfwer- 
ed, he did not know how much it was improved, but this he 
was certain of, that my partner was grown vaitly rich uoon 
his half of it; and that he had been informed, that the King 
had 200 moidorcs per annum, for his third part. He added, 
that the lurvivors of my tniftces were pcrfons of an ingenuous 

character j 



chara6^er; that my partner could witnefs my title, my name 
being rt-giflered in the country, by which means indilputably I 
fhould recover confiderabie Runs of money. But, anfwered I, 
how could my truftees difpofe of my e ffe(!:ts, when I made you 
only my heir ? This, he faid, was true, but there being no af- 
fidavit made of my death, he could not aft as an executor. 
Bow ever, he had ordefcd his Ton, (fhen at Brafd) to zkX by 
procuration upon my account, and had taken p; irefTion of my 
fugar houfe, l^avinp accounted him(elf for eij^ht years with my 
partners and truflees for the profits, of which he would give 
nje a fjood account. 

And indeed this he performed very faithfully in a few days, 
making himielf indebted to me 470 moidorcs of gold, over 
and above whaf had been lull at Tea, after I had left the place. 
And then iie recounted to me what misfortunes he had gone 
throu^'h, which forced my money ol;t of his hiands, to buy part 
in a new fhip : But (fays \\^) you fiall n')t nxanty lake ibis, arid 
ivhen my fon rf turns, e-z'ery jarthi?-g JJjall he paid jcu- Upoi\ 
which he put into my hand a purle of 150 moidores in gold, as 
likewife the irdlrument containing the title to the (hip in which 
his fon was, and which he^ offered as Security for ttie remain- 
der. But really when I faw fo nuich goodnefs, {renerofity, 
tendernefs, and real honefty, I had not the heart to accept it, 
for fear he (hould ftraitcn himfelf on my account, ' JTis true, 
faid he, it may do fa ; but the money is yours, not mine, and you 
may banje the greateft occafion for it. However I returned filty 
ot them, promifing to give him the other hundred, when I 
got my effeiU in my hands, faving I defigned to go my (elf 
for that purpofe. Bui he told me, he could fave me that 
trouble; and fo cauft'd me to enter my name with a public 
notary, as likewife my affidavit, with a procuration fixed to 
it ; and this he advifed me to fend in a letter to one of his ac- 
quaintance, a merchant at J?/iz/?/ ; and indeed nothing could 
be more faithfully and honourably obferved; for in fevea 
months time I had a very faithful account ot all my effcffp, 
what fumsof money were raifed, what expended, and what 
remained for my ufe : In a word, I found myfelf worth 4000I. 
iicrling, and lool per annum. Nor was this all, for my part- 
ner congratulated me upon my bein^ alive, telling me how 
much my plantation was improved, what negroes were at 
work, and how many y^i'^ ATar/.'f he had faid to the Virgin 
Mary for my prefervation, de/iring me to accept kindly fome 
prefcnts he had lent ine, which I found fliewed the greateft 
geiAerofity. 

N') fooner did the Ojip arrive, but T rewarded my faithful 
captain, by returning him the hundred moidores ; ard not 
only forgiving him all he ovicd me, T allowed hira yearly a 
hundred more, and fifty to his fon, during their liveo. And 

now 



119 

now being refolvcd to go to Englandy I relumed letters ot 
thanks to the Prior of St. Augujtiney and in {-articular to my 
old partner, with very fiiitable prclencs. By jhe captain's ad- 
vice, I was perfuaded «o go by iand to Calais^ and there take 
palLize ^Kir England : When as it h»p|-ene(i, I got a young 
hnghjh gcnilecnan, a merch-int's Ton -st Lijbon^ to accompany 
nje, tfgeiher with :wo Engljh and two Portuguefe gentlemen, lb 
that vvjth a Portugueff fervant, an Engl'ijb Jailor, and my man 
I'riday^ there were nine in number. 

Thus armed and eq-tipt, we {^x out, and came to Madrid^ 
when the Aimmer deC'iying, we haHed to Naihirre^ where we 
*v ere informed that there was fcarcely any palTing, by reafon 
of tiic prodigious quantity of fnow ; fu that we were obliged 
to abide near twenty da\s at Pampeluna, and at lalt to take 
a guide to condutt us fafe lowardi Thoulouje. And now twelve 
other gentlemen joining with us, together with their fervants, 
we had a very jolly company. Away our guide led us by 
the frightful mountains, and through lb many intricate mlzes 
and windings, that we infenfibly palt rheni, which as we trav- 
elled along ufbered us to the profpedl of the fruitiul and 
charming provinces of Languedoc and Gafcony. 

But now came on two adventures, both tragical and comi- 
cal, id, Our guide was encountered by three wolves and a 
bear, who iet wpon him and his horfe, and wounded him im 
three places ; Upon which my man riding up to his adiilance, 
ihot one of tliem dead, on which the others ran into the 
woods. But the pleafatiteft adventure was, to fee my mar* 
attack the bear. This creature, if let alone, wi!l never med- 
dle with you : And this my ifian Friday very well knew, and 
fo begging leave of me in broken EngUjh, he t»ld us, He 
njuoutd make good laugh. Why, you hliy fool, !aid 1, he'll eat 
you up at a mouth tui. Eatee mc up ! replied ne, me catce bimy 
and make much good laugh . Upon which, pulling otF his boots, 
iie claps jn his pumps, and running after the moniirous bealt, 
calls our, that ha wanted to fpeak with him ; and then 
throwing ftorr:s on purpofe toincenfe him,thebeaft turns about 
in a fury, a.;(i, with prodigious flrides fliuffles after him. But 
though he c( uld not keep pace with Friday^ who made up to 
us as It were for iielp,'yet, being angry, 2^?« dog, faid I, imme- 
diately take horfe, and let us Jl.oot the cnature. But he cried. 
Dear Majier, nafrj-jot, me make you much laugh. And fo he turn- 
ed abour, making ;;gns to toliou', wliile the bear ran after him, 
till connng to a guiat oak, he afrended in a n\inutp, leavinr; 
his gun at ti.e bottom of it. Nor did tlie bear make any 
difficulty of it, tui', noJwithflanJing his bulk, alcended like a 
cat. You muft {:;i..k I was not a little amazed at the folly of 
my man, not p'jicciviug any thing to occalion our laughter, 
till we rode up nearer, and beheld the bcatt mounted on the 



1.20 

oak, on the be.;inninfr of the fame branch to which Friday ch\ng 
a^ the faflier end, where the bear dared not rome. Hereupon 
Friday cncd owXy JSioTJo, Majler me make much laugh, me maks 
de bear danee. Upon whicli he fell a fliaking the bough, which 
made the creature look behind him to lee how he could re» 
trear. Then, as if the bear had underftood his ftammer- 
jog EngUjljy IVhy ym not come farther y Mr. Bear ? ("aid he. 
Fray^ Mr. Bear ^ come farther : And then indeed we all burit 
into laughter, erpeciaily when we perceived Friday drop like a 
iquirrel upon the ground, leaving the beaft to make the belt of 
his way down the tree. And now thinking it the moll con- 
venient time to kill him, Friday cried out, O dear^ Mafier, no 
Jboot \ mi fhoot by and by 'y when taking up the gun, Mif ntit 
fooot yety f'lid he, me make once more much laugh. And accord- 
jngly he was as good as his wurd, tor the creature deli:ending 
backwards from the tree very leifurely, before he could lay 
one fool- on the ground, Friday fnot him through the ear (tone- 
dead, and looking to lee if we were pleafed, burft out into a 
heariy l?.ugh, faying, So nue kill bear in mf country \ not ivith 
gun, but much long arroio. Thus ended our diverfion, to our 
great laiisfadlion, efpecially in a place where the terrible 
bowlings (truck us with continual terror. But the fnow now 
growini^ vei y Acepy particularly on the mountains, the raven- 
ous creatures were obliged to feek for fuflenance in the villag- 
es, wliere coming by furpnfe on the country people, they 
killed feveral of -them, bcfides a great number of their fliecp 
and horfes. 

Our guide. told us, vve had yet one more dangerous place to 
pafs by ; and if there were any more vvolvesin thecountry, there 
we should find them. This was afmall plaiu, encompaHed with 
woods, to get through a long lane, to the village where we 
weie to lodge. When we entered the wood the kin wa^ with- 
in half an hour ot letting; and a little after it was fet, we 
came into the plain, which was not above two furlongs over, 
and then we faw five great wolves crofs the road, without tak- 
ing notice of vis, and fo fwift as though they were purluing 
after their prey. Hereupon our guide, believing there were 
more coming, defired us to be upon our guard. According- 
ly our eyes were very circumfpe<5t, till about a league farther 
we faw a dead horfc, and near a dozen of wolves devouring its 
carcnfs. My man Friday fain would have fired at them, but I 
would not permit him : Nor had we gone half over the plai.i> 
b«it we heard dreadful bowlings in a wood Oifrour left, when 
prelently we faw an hundred come up againfl us, as though 
they had been an experienced army. This obliged us to 
form ourfelvss in the belt manner : and then I ordered that 
every other man fhould tire, that thofe who did not might be 
jeady to give a lecord vulley, fliould they advance upon us ; 

and 



and then every man to make ufe of his piftol?. But there 
fvas !io necelTity for this ; for the enemy being terrified, 
flopped at the noife of the fire ; four of them were (hot dead, 
and leveral others being wuunded, went away, blseding, as wp 
could very plainly difcover by the fnow. And now remem- 
bering what had been often told me, that fuch was the n:aje{ty 
oiz man's voice,as to ftrike terror even in the fiercefl creatures, 
I ordered al) my co^npanions to holloo as loud as polBble : 
And in this notion I was not altogether miftaken ; for they 
immediately turned about upon the firft halloo, and began tu 
retire: Uuon which, ordering a fecond volley in their rear, 
they galloped into the woods with great precipitation. 

Thus wc had fome fmall time to load our pieces again, and 
then made all the hatte we could on our way : But we ha<4 
not rode far before we were obliged to put ourfelves in a pof- 
tiire of defence as before, being alarmed with a very dread- 
ful noife in the fame wood on our left hand, the fame way as 
we were to pafs, only that it was at fome diftancc from us. 
By this lime the d^rkfome clouds began to fpread over the 
elements, and the light t',rowing very dufky, made it fo much 
the more to our difitdvjjntage : But the noife Itill increa(in|j 
more, we were fully alTured, that it was the howling and yell- 
ing of thole ravenous creatures : when prefenily three troops 
of wolves, appeared to our fight on our froeit, as though all 
thefe companions had a defign to furround us, and devour us 
in fpiteof fate. But as they did not fall upon us immediate- 
ly, we proceeded on otir journey in the fwifteft manner that 
the roads would permit our horfes, which was only a large 
trot. Ir was in this manner we travelled, till fuch time a& 
we difcovered aootlier wood, and had the profpeft of its en- 
trance, through which we were to pafs at the fartheft fide o£ 
the plain. Biit (urely none can exprefs the terror ws were in, 
when approaching the lane, we perceived a confulird number 
of the ftercell wolves (bnding, and as ir were, guarding its en- 
trance. Nor were we long in tliis amnzement, before another 
occafion of horrour prefenled itfell : For fuddcnly v\e heard the 
repf)rt of a gun at another opening into the wood ; and looking 
that way, out ran a horfe, bridled and faddled,' flying with the 
greatcft fwittnefs, and no lefs than iixteen or fcventecn wolves 
put filing him, in order to devour the poor crearure : And un- 
■qucrtionably they did fo, after they had run lii»n down, not be- 
ing capable to hold out that fwiftnefs with which he at firrt cf- 
caped them. 

When we rode lip. to that entrance from wlience the horfc 
came forth, there lay the carcaires of two men and another 
horfe, mangle. i and torn by ihelir devouring wolves ; And un- 
doubtedly one of thefe men w.is the perlbn who fired the gun, 
which we had hef rd, for the piece lay by hjm ; bui.abs t niofl 
JL of 



cf the upper part of his body and his head was entombe<J U 
the bdwels of thefe ravenous creatures. 

What courfe to take, whether to proceed or retreat, wecsuld 
not tell; but it was not long berore the wolves themfelves 
niade us come to a refolution : For fuch numbers furroundcd 
i5S, every oije of whom expei^ted their prey, that were our bo- 
dies to be divided among them, there would not be half a 
jiiouthFul a piece. But happy, very happy, it was for us, that 
but a little way from the entrarice, there lay fome very large 
timber trees, which I fuppofed had been cut down and lay 
there for carriage, among which I drew my little troop, plac- 
ing ourfelves in a line behind one long tree, which ferved ug 
for a breaft work ; when, defirin^ them to alight, we flood in 
a triangle, or three fronts, enclofing cur horfes in the centre, 
the only place where we could preferve them. 
, Never certainly was a more furious charge than what the 

Ives made upon us in this place ; and the fight of the horfes, 
wnich was the principal prey they aimed at, provoked their 
hunger, and added to their natural fiercenefs. They came on 
us with a mofl dreadful noife, that made the woods ling again, 
and beginning to mount our pieces of timber, I ordered every 
other man to fire as before diretfed ; and indeed fo well did 
they take their aim, that they killed feveral of the wolves at 
the firft volley ; but ftill we were obliged to keep a continual 
filing, by reafon they came on like devils, pushing one another 
with the greateft fury. But our fecond volley fomething a- 
bated their courage; when flopping a little, we hoped they 
.would have made the hefl of their way, however it did not 
prove fo, for o'hers made a new attempt upon us : And though 
in four firings we killed leventeen or eighteen ot them, lam- 
ing twice as many ; yet they came on feveral times fuccetlively, 
as thoiiorJ) they valued not their lives for tl)e fake of their 
prey. 

Unwilling was I to fpend our lafl (hot too fuddenly : And 
therefore called my other fcrvant, and giving hmi a horn of 
powder, bid him lay a large train qnitealong the timber, which 
he did, while Friday was charging my fuEce and his own, with 
the grcatelt dexterity. By this time the wolves coming up the 
timber, 1 fet fire to the train, by (napping a dilchar^ed pitlol 
clole on the powder. This fo fcordied and terrified thew, 
that fome fell down, and others jumped in among us with the 
Ifrength and terror of the flame, but thefe ^e immediately dif- 
patched, when all the reft, fri^htctied with the light, which the 
darklome night caufcd to appear more dreadful, began at 
length to retire: Upon which, ordering our ^ali pillols to be 
f.ied at once, giving at the fame time a great (hour, the wolves 
were obliged to have recourfe to their fwiltnefs by turning 
t^il; and thea we fallied out upon twenty ianit wnes, cutting 

ibera 



12,3 

ihctn in pieces with our fvvords, which obliged them to howl 
lamentably, lo the terror of their fellow devourers, who re- 
fjgned to us the field, as victorious conquerors. And, indeed, 
] queftion whether Alexander^ King of Macedoii^ in any of his 
cor.quefis, had more occafion for triumph ih^a we had j for 
he was backed by numerous captains and foldiers of the gieat- 
eft courage, coiiflancy, and refohition ; whereas our Hitle ar- 
my was obliged to combat a lei;ion of dievils, as it were, wrrfe 
than cannibals, who, had they /lain us, would have facrificed. 
us the fame moment, to fatisly their voracious appetites. 

Thus ended our bloody battle with the beafis, having killed 
threefcore of them, and laved our lives from their fury. We 
flill had a leagi.e to go farther, whea, as we went, our ears 
were falutcd with their moft unwelcome bowlings, expcftinjj; 
every moment another attack. Bur, in an hoar's time, wp 
arrived fafe at the town where we were to lodge ; and here'we 
found the place ftrid'tly guarded, and all in terrible coniufion, 
as well they might, by reafor of the bears and wolves br«ak.j 
ing into the village, in order to prey upon their cattle an^ 
people. The next n)orning we were obliged to take a new 
guide, by reafon the other fell very bad of bis wounds whicl^ 
he had received, ais before mentioned. After we had reached 
Thculoufey we came into a vvarm, plealart, and fruitful country, 
pot infefied with wolves, nor any fort of ravenous creatures : 
And when we told our ftory there, they much blamed our 
guide, for conducing us through the foreft at the foot of the 
mountains, and in fuch a fevere feafon, when the fnow Ovbliged 
fheui to feek for. fiielter in the woods. When we informed 
fhem in what manner we placed ourfolves, and the horfes jii 
the centre, then th.ey exceedmgly reprehended U5, nnd told >is, 
Jt.was an hundred to one but we had all been deftrcyed ; for 
|hat it was tlje f^lit cf the hojfes, their fo much defired prey. 
h)ade the wolve^,more Jagingly furious than they weuld have 
been \ which was evident, by their being at other limes really 
afraid of a pun ; but tiien, being exceedmgly hungry and fu- 
rious upon that account, their eagernels to come at the horfes 
fnade fhem infniible tjf their danger ; and that if we had not 
by a continual fiie, and at lall, by the cunning [?r.jtar:em cf the 
train of powder, got ihe power over them, it had been giear. 
pdds if .their' npmber liad not overpowered us : Bclides, u was 
a great' mercy v\e alighted from cur Itorfes, and fout^lit them 
with that courage and condu(ri, which, had we failed to d{-> 
every man of us, with cur beafls, had been devoured. And 
indeed this was noiljiing but the truth ; for, never in my life 
was i fo fenfib'e of daH'-er, as When 300 devils came roaring 
upon us ; to fhun whofe- unvvelcome company, if I was fureto 
tneet a ftorm every week, I would ra'her go a thoufand leagues 
by ica. 



I think I have nothing uncommon in my pafTagc through 
Trance to take notice of, fince other travellers of greater learn- 
ing and tngenujiy, have given a more ample account, than my 
pen is able to fet forth. Frpm Tbouloufg I travelled ^o Paris, 
from thence to Calais, where I took fiiipping, and landed at 
Do^er the T4th ot January^ in a very cold feafon. 

Thus come to the centre of my travels, I foon difcovered 
my new found eflate, and all the bills of exchange I hnd 
l>roiioht were currently paid. The gcod ancient widow, my 
only Privy Counfeltor, thought no pains or care too great f<> 
procure my advantage ; nor had 1 ever occafion to b'ame her 
fidelity, which drew from me an anpple reward. I was for 
leaving my cffedls in her hands, intending to fet out for VJbon, 
«»nd fo to the Brajils ; but as in the defolate Ifland I had fonie 
doubts about the Romifh religion, fo I knew there was little 
encouragement to fettle there, without I would apoi!atize from 
the orfhodox faith, or live in continual fear of the inquifition. 
"Upon this account I refolvcd to fell my plantation, ar.d to this 
intent I wrote to my old friend at Lijhotty who returned me an 
anfvver, to my great fatisfa^^ion, which wa^, that he could 
jeadily fell it tlicre ; However, if 1 thought it convenient to 
^ive him liberty to offer it in my name to the two merchants, 
the furvivorsof my truflees, rcfi'ding ^'t the Brafih^ who confe- 
quently underflocd its intrinfic value, having lived jufl uport 
the fpot, and who I was fenfible were very rich, and therefore 
Unight be the more willing to purchafe it ; he did not in the 
ijeaft doiibf, but I (hould make 4 or 5000 pieces of eight more 
6f it, than 1 ihould do if I difpofed of it any other manner 
whAtfoever. 

You may be fure I could not but agree with this kind and 
ingenuous propofal ; and immediately I fent him an order to 
cffer it unto them, which he accordmgly dfd : So that about 
eight monihs after, the fhip being in that time returned, he 
fvve me a /ialisfactory account that they not only willingly ac- 
cepted the offer, but thnt they had alfo remitted thirty thr*6 
thoufand pieces of eight, to a correfpondent of their own at 
IJJbon^ in order to pay ior its purchafe. 

Hereupon, in return, I figned theinfirumcnt of fale, accord- 
jng to form, which they had lent from VJbon^ and returned it 
again to my old friend, he having fent me, for n>y eitate, bills 
ot three hundred twenty eight thouland pieces of eight, referv- 
ing the payment of One hundred moidores per annum y which t 
had allowed him during life, as alfo fifty to his fon during life, 
according to my faithful promife, which the plantation was to 
xiiake good as rent charge. 

And thus having led my reader to the knowledge of the firfl 
part of my life, fo remarkable for the many peculiar provi- 
dences that attended it, floating in an ocean of uncertainty amf 

difappoinlment. 



-iff 

t^ifappointment, ofaJverfity aim profperlty, beginning fooliUJ- 
ly, and yet ending' happily ; meihinkr, now 1 am coa:e to g- 
fafc and plcafant luiren, 'tis linie to cult owt my aachor, anr 
laying iij.) my velfel, bid (for a while) adieu to fcriegn advr 
tures. 1 luid nuw utlu r concerns to IodIc alter, the care 
my brother's two ions, which, with the good widow's per' 
fi.)na, obliged nie ta continue at home feyetK- years. Ci^ 
the/e children 1 bred irp a gentleman, and the other an e,\ 
rienccd faiior, remarkable for his courage and bravery. > 
Tides th.is I luariied a virtuous young gentlewoman, of a vt 
good family, by whom I had two fons and one daugliter. Bu 
my dear and render \^ife leaving this earthly Ita^e (hs yon wilt 
hear in the fecund part of my lite, whch lending my foul as it 
were afiinder) my native counny became as it were tirefome to 
me : And my nephew happening to come from fea, tempted me 
to venture another voyage to the Eaji IndieSy wh;ch I did in «he 
year 1664., at which time 1 vifiied my illind, and informed ray-, 
felf of every thing that happened' fince n:y -departure. 

One might reafonably imagine, that what I had fuffered, 
together with an advanced age, and tiie fear of Jofing not only 
what I had gotteR, but my life alfo, might have choaked up all 
the feeds of youthful ambition a'ifd ciiriolity, and put a lattjng 
Jieiiod to my wandering in(^^inatio^s. but,, as nothing 'but 
death caii fully aliay the active part of my li!e, no lefs remark- 
able for the many various contingencies ot ii : You will there 
jierceive how I villred my little kingdom, (aw my AiccefTurslho 
Spaniards^ had an account of the ufage tliey met with from the 
En^hjlmen^ agreeing and d'fagreeing, uniting and feparating, 
till at lall they were fubj?6^ed to the Spaniards^ who yet uled 
them very jionourablyj together with the wonderful and {^q^ 
cefsful battles over the IndianSy who invaded, and tiiCMiuht to 
bave conquered the Ifland, but were repelled by their invinci- 
ble courage and bravery, liaving taken eleven men and five 
Women prifoners ; by whch, at my rctilrn, I found aboUfc 
twenty young cliildren on my little kingGi(mi. Here J fhyed 
twenty days, le't thenv fupplies of all necefldry 'thuigs, as alfo 
a carpenter and fmitli, and (hared theifiand into p;irts, referv- 
iflg the whvile property to n^yfelf. Nor will you be infendble, 
tjfy the account of tivefe things, of lieveral new adventures I 
have been engaj^ed in, ihe battles I hive fought, the dehver-i 
ance<s I have njade thereon : And while, in tiie furpr^zing re- 
lation of furh retnarkabie occurrences, I (hall defcribe many 
of God's kindef^ provid'-nces to me in parti ular j no lefs cor>-' 
Jpicuous in the fame goodne.'s, power and majefly of our gT#« 
Oreat-jr, fliewR, one way or other, over the face of the eaith.^n 

1.2 THE 



T H E ' 

/ R T M E R A D V E N t U RES 

O F 



ROBINSON CRUSOE, 



Wherein are contained Je'verai Jlratige and furpr'ijing Account i of his 
Tranjel^y and mfijl remarkable Tranfaci ions i both by Sea and 
Land. 

, X 7HEN vveconfiderihefpuiirunt Torce of nature, and what 
V V mighty influence i.t has myny times over the ten>per of 
iht mind ; it will be no furh great wonder to think that my 
powerful reafon fhould be overcome by a much fironger in- 
ciitidtion. My late acquired kingdom ran cdntinualiy in my 
thoughts all the day, and J dreanit of it in the. night ; nay, £ 
made it the continual fubject of my talk, even to injpertinence, 
when I was awake. I had (uch vapours in my head, that I 
a6lually fuppofed myfelf at my caitle : That I not only per- 
ceived FndiQy's fathtr, the old Spaniard, and the wicked Tailors; 
buttliat I talked and difcouricd with rhem about thtir man- 
ner cf living : That I heard thofe th'Ugs related to me, which 
I found afterwards to be but too true ; and that 1 executed my 
judgments with the greateft feverity upon the offenders. And 
iniieed this anticipating all the pleafing joys of my litr, fcarce- 
ly afforded me one pleiifant hour ; my dear and tender wife 
fould fiot but take Rotice of it, which drew thefe affec- 
tionate fpeeches from her : My dear^ faid flie, I am really per- 
fiiaded that fome feci etimpulfc from bean}en occafions in you a de- 
termination to fee the ifiand again : Nor am I Icfs fenfible^ but your 
beittg engaged to me and tbefe dear children^ is the only hindrance 
'"nfyour departure. I kno^iy my dear^ if I 'was in the gra<ve, you 
mould not long continue at home : tre<vent not your bappinejs upon 
my account, 'whofe only comfort cen'res in you. All that I can ob- 
jed is, that fuch an hazardous undertaking is no ivay ,co7fffient 
*ivith a perfon of your years ; but if you are refoH'cd to go, (a<ided 
\he wtt}p\n^) only permit mc to bear you company^ and tta: is all 
that Idcfire, 

4 Such 



Ill 

SucIj endearing lendernefs, graced vlth the fnol innocent, 
and yet mofl powerful charms, broi:ght me infentibly Into my 
right iinderfUnding ; And when I cunfidered all tlie tranfac- 
tions of my lite, and j>?! ticulariy my new engageme.it ; t,hat f 
Iiad now one child born, and my wire big of another ; and that 
1 had no occaiion to (eek tor more ricl»es, 'who already' was 
blelFed with Cufiiciency ; with much firuggling, I alteied my 
relbliit'.ons at laff, refolving to apply myfeif to (ome buliners 
*)r other, which might put'a period to fiich wandering incli- 
natiuns. Hereupon I bought a Utile farm in the county ot 
Bedford, with a refolutiun to move thi'her : Upon this there 
was a pretty convenient houle, forrounded with land, very 
capable of improvement, which fuited my temper, as to plant- 
ing, managing and cultivating. Nor was I long before 1 en. 
t»red upon my new felfltmcnt, having bought ploughs, har- 
rows, cart, waggon, horii^s, cows, and fheep ; fo that I now led 
the life of a country gentleman, and was as happy in my retire- 
ment as the greateft monarch in the world. And what madd 
me think mv happinefs the greater was, that I .was in that mid- 
dle f^ate of life which my father had fo often recommended, 
much refemblmg the felicity of a rural retirement, which is 
eieganiiy delcribed bv the poet in thefe lines : 
free from all 'vices, free from carcy 
Age has no pain, and youth no fnare. 
Bat in the midlt of this my chiefefl happinefs, I was fudden- 
ly plunged in the greate/t furrow that I could poJlibly endure t 
For, when I lead expecled it, my dear and tender wile was 
forced to fubmit to the irrelift-ible power cf death, leaving 
this tranfitory life for a better. Iris impulTible for me to ex- 
prefs the beauties of her mind, or the loveimefs of her perlon j 
neither can I too much lament her lofs, which my laieft breath 
fhali record. Her influence was greater over me than the 
powers of my own reafon, the importunities of friends, the 
inftru^lions of a father, or tfie melting tears of a tender and 
^ifconfolate mother: Jn a word (he was the ftandard of all 
my atTuirs, the centre of my enterprizes, and the principal 
engine to dirett me in the courfe to happinefs. But now, 
fince the cruel hand of death had clofed my deareft's eyes, 
in my thoughts, I feemcd a flranger to the world; my Privy 
Counfelior being gone, I was I;ke a fhip without a pilot, and 
that i could only run before the wind. And when I looked 
around me in tlr.s bufy world, one part labouring for bread, 
and the other fquandermg; away their eflares ; this put roe in 
mind how I had lived in my little kingdom, where rejfon and 
religion dilated to me, that there was fomcthing that certain- 
ly was the reafon and end of life, v/hich v as far lupcri»r . to 
what could be hoped for on this fide the grave. My countiy 
delii>lus were now as infipid aud dull as mufic or fenfc to iho(e 

who 



who have neitlier taile or iBgeouity. In (aorf, refolving fo 
leave ofr houfe keeping, I left Hiy tarm, aTid ni d fevv niontns 
returned to Lo72^0;/. '^ 

But neither couid tJiat great city, fo famous for" i'tsVarietv 
of entiertiiiiiiiients, i^fF.>id nie any agreeable d^Hghr. A f^aMe 
of idieiiels 1 found to be tiie very Hregs of life, and tnofl hu*i t- 
liil to body and Ibiil. It svas no^v tiie beginning of the year 
1693, at whxh time my nephew (a ha i before cbferved had 
been broiij^ht up to the (ca, advaoced fo be captaiii of a >]il^') 
Vr'as returned fiom a fliort voyage to Billfoa, \ht iiill he h-ad 
made in th:;' (iatioii. He conjes to me one morning, telling 
me, that fome merchants of his acqua ntance had j>r>jpo(fd Id 
}uni to go a voyage for ti>em ru the Eaji Indies and China, in 
tlie mnnnee of private traders : AnJ nonxj, Uncle, faid l\e, if 
you'll accompany me thither, I'll engage to !arid j ott upon jour old 
' ijland; there to behold the jlate oj jour Utile kingdom. 

It was jufl befuie he came in, iny ihougliis vi-ere fixed to 
get a pafent for its poflTeilion, and then to fill it vvitii iniiabi- 
tants. ' After I Iiad paii/ed a little wh le, and looked (ledfalMy 
on tiim, \Vt)at devil, or ffvit, faid I, fent you here ■luiih thii U7i^ 
lucky errand? He ttartled .it tirfi-, bin recuveiing himlelt, whea 
he perceived I was not offended : Sir, leul.ed he, \\hat I have 
propofed cantiot, I hoj e, be /fyled unlucky, ^\r\QQ cerratn!y you 
mu({ be defiroiis to fee your little, territory, wjiere you reigned 
with more content than any of your brother kings in the uni- 
verfe. Nejohew, faid I, if you will leave me there, and call 
for me as you come back, f caie nut if i give my conlent : But 
he anlvvered, that the merchants would not allow their veflel, 
laden with an infinite value, to return there again, which was 
a month's fail out of tii"e way ; iJeiidcs, Sir, laid hb, fuppofe I 
fliould iwiicarry, was your requeft granted, why then you 
would b^in the fame rtate as before. This indeed carried a 
great deal of reafon in it, btit we found out a remedy, anci tiiat 
was, to carry a tramed Hoop on board, ready to be fet tip in '.he 
i/l;^nd,l)y theadiftancc of fome carpenters which v\e rt)ouldcar{y 
Willi ur., that would be firted in a few days to go to fea. 1 was 
'not long terming my retolution, whicli overfvvayed my good 
friend the widow's [)erfuanons, and the n.uural affet:tion I 
iTiould bear to my young children. I made my will, and fet- 
t cd my e(bte in uich a nianner, that I was perfectly eafy that 
tl)C poor ihfa'nts would have jultice done them. The good 
widow not only undertook to riiake provifion for my voyage, 
but alfo took tlie charge of nw daucftir affairs, and to provide 
for my chiWren's education ; and indeed no mother couM take 
more care, or irideirtood that office better, which I lived tore- 
ward, and to return her my hearty tlianks tor. 

The beginning of January \(n)i,'$, vw'j ffephew being rea. 
(iy to fa:!"/ I and Friday went t)n board in^he Dsii^ns on the 

8th^ 



129 

Sth'; having, befidcs that (loop already mentioned, a very cori- 
fiderable cargo for my new colony. F'rjlt I had fonrie fervants, 
tvhom I propofed to leave there as inhibitants, or ro work 
while I flayed there, as they fhoiild apd^jr witling : There 
were two carpenters, a (inith, and a very iflgenions fellow who 
was jack of all trades ; for he was not only a cooper by trade, 
but vas alfo dexterous at making \^ heels and hand mills to 
grind corn, likewife a good turner and a good pot fnaker. I 
alfo carried a taylor, who confented to flay in my plant<.lIon, 
and pr'c.ved a mofl neceirary fellow in the ifljnd. As to mv 
carg;o, it condfled of a fufficitnt quantity of linen, and Englijh 
ftiifFs, for clothing the Spaniards that I cxpecled fo find iheie ; 
as likewife glows, hats, flioes, flockings ; fogeiher with beds, 
bedding, and houfliold fluff', el^eciaily kitchen ufenfils, with 
pots, kettles, pewter, braf;^, &cc. alfo nails, tools of all forts, 
l*ap!es, hooks, hinges, ai>d all other things neceiTary ; all Ahich, 
I think, cofl me about /■300. Nor was this all, for I carried 
an hundred fpare arms, mufkets, and luzecs, bendes fome pif- 
tol-s a confiderable quantity of feveral fort? of fh'Ji', two brafs' 
cannon, btfides fwords, cutfaffss, and the iron part fur fome 
pikes and halbertsj and 1 made my nephew take with us two 
fmall quarter deck guns more than he had occafion for in his 
fhip, to leave behind, if there was a neceffity : So that Wfc' 
might build a fott there, and man it againft all oppofcrs what- 
foever. 

Well, we put out to Tea ; and thougli I can't fay this yoyage 
was fo unprofperous as my others l^ad been, yet contrary winds 
drove us fo far northward, that we were obliged to put in at 
Calncay in Ireland^ where we lay wind bound two and twenty 
days. Here indeed our provifions were very cheap, and w(j 
added to our (hip's ftores, by taking in feveral live hog?, two 
Cot's and calves, which I then refolved to pijt on (hore in my 
iflar.^^ \l our neceflities did not call for theni. On the 5th of 
Febru. ry we failed from Ireland^ with a very fair gaie, which 
lafled lor fome days ; and, 1 think it wa^ about the aoth of the 
fame n.onth, late in the evening, whenihe mate informed us, 
that be (aw a flafh ol fire, and heard a gun fired ; and while 
he was (peaking, a boy came in, and told us the boatfwaini 
heard another. Jpon which, we all ran to the quarter deck, 
from whence, in a few minutes we perceived a teirible fire at a 
diflancc. We hi-l immediate recnurfe to our reckonings, in 
which wevvere ali of opinion that ihera could be no land that 
Way, it appearing to be at M iV. W. Hereupon we concludtd 
that fome fliip hau taken fire at fea, and ihat it could not he 
far off, by the report of «lie guns which we hid .heard. We 
made up direflly to it, and in half an hour's time, wind being 
lair, we could plainly pcrce've a grea; fli'p on fire in the mid- 
dle gf the iea. Touched with this unhappy d.fuflery and con- 
fide rir-;: 



13© 

fidering my former rircuf)aft<incps, when the foYtu^ueft capfa-iri 
took me up, I uniTiediate'y ordered five guns to be fired, that 
the poor creatures (nor feeing us, it being dark, as we could 
perceive their flarr.e) mght he fenlible there was a deliverance 
at hand, and confeijiif nrly might endeavour to fave ihemfelvcji 
in ilieir boa?. Nor was it long before f}»e n->ip blew up in the 
air, and the fire extingiiifhed in the ocean. 6ut fuppyfing them 
all to be in their boats, we hung out all our lanrhqrns, aid 
kept firing till eight oVock in the n)orning ; wlien, with our 
^lerfpcdiive glal^e^, we bclieli two boars, tuil of people, mak- 
ing towards us, though the tide was againft them, Then 
fpreading out our ancieni, and lianging tjut a waft as a figral 
for them to come ®n board, in half an hour's' time we came 
up to ihem, and took them all in, there being no lefs than 64 
men, women and childien. It was a Fr^«^A merclrdoi fliip of 
300 tons, homeward bound from S^uebeck \n the river of Cana- 
da. The matter informed me, how by the negligence of the 
llcerfman, the fieerage was let on fi.e ; t!iat at his outcry for 
help, the fire wa?, a<= they thought, totally extinguifh6d ; but 
that Tome fparks getting betwe^'nihe timber and between the 
ceiling, it proceeded into the hold, where there was no refilt- 
ing it , that then they g-jt into their boats, as creatures in the 
lad extremity, with what previffon they had, togeiiier with, 
oars, fails, and a compafs, irite .dmg to go back to Ne^Ji'founJ- 
land, the wind blowing at S. E. and by E. thougTi there, were 
feveral chancer againd then), as t{ornv> to u.verfet and founder 
(hem, rains and cold to benuVr.b and perifh their hmbs, and 
COJitrary wit.ds to keep them out and Ibrve them : But, laid 
he, in tiiis our great difiiefs, vve heard the welcome report of 
your guns, when, with umpeakahie joy, taking down our mafis 
and r^. lis, we were refolved to lie by till morning ; but per- 
ceiving your light, we fct our oars at work to keep) our boat 
a head, the fooner to. attain your Ihip, the happy infirum.^'^t of 
our deliverance. ' ■ 

Indeed i>o oi.e can exprefs the y^y of thefe poor creatures on 
tliis cccaliun : Fear an'l grief are eafily fct forth ; b'ighs andj 
tears, wjih a few motions of the har.ds ard head, make up tlie 
firm o^ its variety : Cut an excefs or firrprife of joy carries in 
it a ihoufar)d extravagances; efpecialiy, 1 th'nk, amongft the 
French, wliofe lemner is allowed to be mo.re voiitile, pallioin- 
ate, fprightly and fluid, ilian in other kit^gdums. Some weie 
citlier weeping, tearing themfelves in tlie gieateff agonies oi 
forrow, arid running Hark raving nud about the Oii}) ;, while 
flie reft were ftamping with their feet, wrini;ing t|>eir handi, 
iioging, laughing, fwooning away, yornlring, fainting ; and 
a few returning hearty thinks to the Ahnighty, and croJJin^j 
fhcmfelves. 1 tfunk, if I am not miltaken, our furgeon vCa^ 
oblii;ied to let thirty of ihem blood. But »mun|j; t]ic paifengers 



Ill 

ti.ere were two priefis, the one an old, ancJ the other a young 
man; but what amazed rnc mere, the oldelt was the worft : 
For, no (boner did Uc peiceive himleU freed from danger, but 
he droyiij^d do^n as it were without life, and to every one's 
appearance, quite dead ; but the furgeon, chafing and rubbing 
his arm, he opened a vein, wliich at firit dropped, and then 
fl^jwmg more fieely, the old man bepan lo open his eyes, and 
in a quarter of an hour was well again But (oon revolving 
his happy change, the joy of wiiicii whirled his fpirits about 
fafttr than the veirtls could convey them, his blood became fo 
frvcrlrti, as made him more fit for bedlam tiion any other 
place ; but tiie furgeon giv ng him a fleepy dole, he was per- 
i'eclly compofcd next morning. 

Remarkable indeed was the behaviour of the young prieff. 
At his entrance on board the fhip, he fell on his face in ihe 
moft humble proftration to the Alm-j^hty. I thought indeed 
Ke had fallen into a fwooo, and lo ran to help him up ; but he 
modeHly told me, he was reujrniHg his thanks to the Almigh- 
ty, dellring me to leave him a few moments, and that, next 
to his Creator, he would return me thanks alfo. And indeed 
he did (b about three ininutes after, with g-eat ferioufnefs 
and affeflicn, though ihe tears ftood in his ever-, which con- 
firmed the gratitude of his .'oul. Nurdid he lefs (hew his piety 
and wildom, in applying hiinfelf to his country people, and 
labouring to conspole them by fhe molt powerful reaions, ar- 
guments, and periuaficns. And when indeetl thefe people 
had taken (heir niijht's repofe, in fuch convenient lodgings as 
our fhip would allow, wc ti)uiid noihmg but the belt of man- 
ners, and Ihe m;>ift civil acknowledgments, for which the 
fren<h are eminently remarkable. The next day the captaiti 
and one of the pneds delire-d to fpeak ^vith ti,e and my nephew 
the commander. They told us they h.id faved iome money 
and valuable things out of the n ined vt-ir-I, vvliich was at our 
fervice, only ihit they defired tn be fet on fhore fome where ia 
our viy. At the firll, my nephew w ;s h-r accepting the 
money ; but i, (wkoknew how hard my cafecould have been, 
had the Pormgucje captsm Served me fo) perfuaded h;m to the 
contrary ; and'tnerelore told then), fha' as we had done noth- 
ing but what v\e were c^bl ged to do by reafon and humanity, 
ar.d what weourfclves n)'ght ex5>eCt fiom < thers in fuch calain- 
ity ; ('J wc tork them up to five their, not tc {>lunder them or 
leave them naked upon the land, to pfnfli tor wane of lUb- 
fiftcnce, and therefore wouid not :ccci:t tlieir money : But as 
to landing fltem, tha* wasagre^t d thtuhy ; for being bound 
to \he Enji. Indies, it was imp( (lible wiiful'y to change our 
voyage upon this particular account, nor my nephew (who 
was und.!r charter party to purfue it by way of Brefil) aniwer 
it to the treighicrs. All that vfc could do waa, to pur our- 

Iclves 



felves in the way of meetmg fome fhips homeward bound from 
the JFejh Indies y that if pofllbie ihey might get a paflTige to France 
or England. Indeed they were stry thanktiil for our firlt 
kirioiiiefi ; but were under great concern, efpecially rhcir paf« 
fengers, at their being carried to the Eaji Indies. #!)ey beg- 
ged therefore I would keep on the banks of Neivfoundland, 
where probably they might meet with lome fhip or floop to 
carry them to Canada^ whence they came. As this was 
but a rcafonable requeft, I was incHned to grint it, fince it 
was no breach of charter party ; and that the laws of God 
and nature obhged us to do what good we could to our felJovv 
creatures ; and befides, the danger we ourfelves ftould be in 
for want of provifions : So we confented to carry them to 
i\>aiyo2/«^/f7«(/, if wind and weather would permit; if not, 
that we Jhould cany them to Martinico in the li''efl Indies. Bur, 
as it happened, in a week's time, we made the banks of iVifiy- 
foundlandy where the French people hired a bark to carry ihem 
to France. But the young priefl being defirous to g'd to the 
Eaft Indies, I readily agreed to it, becaufe 1 liked h's conver- 
faiion ; and two or three of the French failors alfo entered 
tnemftlvcs on board our fiiip. 

Now dire^Ving our courfe for the Wejl Indies^ fleering S, and 
S. by E about twenty days with litile wind, another adven- 
ture happened to exercife our humanity. In the latitude 
of 27 degrees 5 m. north, the 19th oi March 1694-5, we per- 
ceived a (ail, (ourcouife S. E. and by S.) whch boic up to 
lis, and then Ihe appeared to be a large velFel, having lofl her 
main topm:j(il, fore nialt, and bow fprir, when firing a gun, as 
a fignal of c i Iref?, wind /^. N. IF. we loon came to fpeak with 
her. She was a fhipot ^r//Zo/, bound home from Barbadees, 
out of which road fhe bad been forced by a hurricane jto the 
weltward, in which they lod thrir mails : They told us, their 
expectations were to Uc the Bahama Iflands, but were driven 
away by a ftrong wind at A^. N. IF. and having no fails, to 
wojic the /hip with, but the main courfe and a kind of fqnare 
fail upon a jury fore mafl, becaule they could come near the 
land, were endeavouring to ftand for flie Canaries, Nay, 
whaf was worfe, befides all their fatigue, th*y were almoft 
ftarved for want of provifion, having ate nothing for elevea 
days ;all that they had a board tvas fugar, a cafK of frefh wa- 
ter, and fevenca/ksof rum. In this ftiip were .three pafTen- 
jjers ; a youth, his mother, and a maid fervant, who were in a 
nio(t deplorable condiiion for want of food, if I had not gone 
on board their fhip, this knowledge of their mifery had been 
concraled from )ne, aird they would have inevitably periflied, 
though indeed their fecond mate (who was captain, by reafoii 
the true captain was not on board when the hurricane happen- 
ed) had befpre iftfornied n?e^:t^hal th^rc were fucb perfons oa 

boaidj 



*3a 

hoard, whom hefuppofcd to be dead, being afraid to enquire 
after them, becaiife he had nothing to give them for relief^ 
Hereupon we refolved to let them have what we could fpare, 
ordering the mate to bring fome of his men on board us, 
which he accordingly did,yet both he and they looked like (kele» 
tons ; and when meat was fet before them, I ordered them 
to eat fparingly. But, however, they Toon fell fick, which 
obliged the furgeon to mix fomething in their broth, that was 
to be to them Doth food and phyhc. When they were fed» 
we ordered our mate to carry them a fack of brea^, and four 
or five pieces of beef to boil ; bui the furgejn charged them 
to fee it boiled, and to keep a guard in tlie cook room, to pre* 
vent the men eating it raw, and confcquently kill themfelves 
with what was deligned for their relief. But paiticularly I 
^efired the mate to fee what condition the poor paffengers were 
in, and the lurgeon gave him a pitcher of the fame broth 
which he had prepared for the men : And being curious to fee 
this fcene of mifery myfelf, I took the captain, (as we called 
the mate of the fhip) in our own boat, and laiied after them. 

Here was a fad fight indeed ! Scarce was the victuals half 
boiled in the pot, but they were ready to break open the cook 
room door. To ftay their ftomachs, the ma'e pave ihem bif- 
cuits, which were dipt in, and ftsfreued with the liquor of the 
meat, wh ch they call Breivis; telling tiiem it was fir the^rown 
fafety, that he was obliged to give them but a little at a time; 
and fu feeding them gradually, their bellies were comfortably 
filled, and tl^c men did very well again. But when they came 
to file poor gentlewoman in the cabin, who for feveral days 
continued without food, giving what /he had to her fon, they 
found her as it were in the arms of death. She was fitting 
upon the floor of ihe deck, with her back up againft the fides, 
between two chairs, which were lafhed iafl, and her head 
fhrunk between her fhoulders, like a Tenfelefs corps, Nothmg 
was warning in my mate to revive and encourage her, opening 
her lips, /hd putting fome broth into her mouth with a (puon. 
But no' having ftrength to fpeak, (he lifted up her head with 
niuch difficulty, intimating that it was now too late ; at ihe 
fame time pointing toihe youth, her fon, as tliough fhe delired 
him to do what he could to fave him ; and, in a little lime af- 
ter, fhe died, 

'1 hf* y«'U'h indeed was not h far ^onc ; yet lay flretchcd 
out in H rabin bed like oiic that had icarce asiy life: In hia 
inou'ii wd a 'ece of an old" glove, the rell of which he had 
ate <ip. A fi rt he vomiied up what the mate had given him ; 
bu a' length btgan fcniibly to revive, though in the grea e»l 
conrtrn fjr tij deatfi tjf nis tender mother. 

A^ to tiic pour tna d fhe lay by her miflrefs like one in the 
lateft pangs of death : Hsr limbs were difloried, one of her 
M hands 



<34 • 

hands were dafped round the frame of a chair, which fhc grafp- 
cd Jo hard, that it was with fome difficulty we feparated her 
from it ; her other arm lay over her bead, and her feet lay 
both together, fet faft againft the frame of the cabin table ; not 
only being ftarved with hunger, but overcome with grief for 
the lofs ot her miftrefs, whom ihe loved molt tenderly. It 
•was a great while before the furgeon could bring her to life, 
and a much longer time before fhe can»e to her fenfes. 

After vvehad failed Aith them iome days, we fent them five 
barrels of beef, one of pork, two hogfheads of bifcuit, with 
peafe, flour, and other things, taking three caflcs ef fugar, 
jome rum, and (bme pieces of eight for fatisfaftion, we left. 
them, but took the youth and maid with us, with all their 
goods. The lad was about 17 years old, very handfome, 
xnodeft, fenfible, and well bred, but mightily concerned for the 
lofs of his honoured mother, having loft his father at Barbadoes 
but a few months before. He befeeched the furgeon to in- 
tercede with me to take him out of the fhip ; for that the lail- 
ors, not fparinga fmall fuftenance, had murdered his mother. 
But hunger has no bounds, no right, and confequently is in- 
capable of any compaflfion. When the furgeon told him that 
our voyage might put him in bad circumltances, and farther 
from his friends, he anfwered, he did not care fo he was but 
delivered from that terrible crew ; That as the captain (mean- 
ing me) had faved him from death, fo he was fare that he 
would do him no harm ; and as for the maid, when fhe was 
rcftored to her fenfes, (he would be no lels thankful, let us 
carry them where we would. And indeed the furgeon fo re- 
pr^iented their cafe to me, that I confented, and took them on 
board, with all their goods, except 1 1 hogfheads of fugar ; but 
the youth having a bill of lading, I made the commandw fign 
^ writing, to oblige him to deliver a letter and the direaied 
widow's- goods to Mr. Rogers, a merchant at Br'ijhl: But I be- 
lieve the fliip was loft at iea, for we could never hear what be- 
came of her afterwards. We were now in the latitude of 19 
dtg, 31 min. having as yet a tolerable good voyage. But, 
palling by feveral little incidents relative to wind and weather, 
I fhall relate what is more remarkable concerning my little 
kingdom, to which I was then drawing near. I had great diffi- 
culty in attaining it ; for as I came to, and went from it be- 
fore, on the fouth and eaft of the ifland, as coming from th« 
Brq/ils ; fo now approaching between the main and the ifland, 
jnot having any chart of the coaft, nor land mark, it obliged ua 
to go on ihore on feveral iflands, on the mouth ®f the great 
yiver Oroonoko^ but to no purpolie. Then I perceived, that 
what I thought was a continent before, was no fuch thing, but 
a long ifland, or rather a ridge of (and. On one i)f thefe if- 
lands, I found fome Spaniards^ but they belonged to the ifland 

of 



of Trinldadj who came hither in a floop to make fait, and find 
fonie pearl mufcles, if they could. But at length I came fair 
on the fouth lide of my ifhnd, and then I prefcNfly knew the 
countenance of my h'tf le kingdom ; fo we brought the fhip fafe 
to an anchor, with her broadfiJe ro the little creek, where 
flood my ancient and venerable caf^le. 

No Tooner did I fee the place, but call'ng for Fridayf I a(k- 
ed him where he was ? But when he looked a little, he clap- 
ped his hands, crying, O joy^ O fhere, yes, O there ! pointing 
to our old abode, and then fell a dancing and capering as if he 
was mad ; and I had much ad>> to keep him from jumping in- 
to the tea, to fwim aihore. Friday^ faid I, what do you think, 
(hall we fee vour father ? At the "uientiuning his father's name, 
the poor afFe61:ionate creature fell a weeping': No no, (favs he) 
me fee bim no Morey 7ie<ver fee po^r father more ! be long £fgo die^ 
die long ago ; he mucb old man. You don'^t know that, Friday^ 
faid I, but (hall we Tee any body elfe? He looks about, and- 
pointing to the hill above my houfe, he cries out. We feel -tvr 
fee! there much meiiy and there I which thougli I could not per-.. 
ceive them with my perfpeclive glafs, was true, by'what the 
men themTelves told me the next day. 

When the EnglijZ ancient was fpread, and three guns fired 
as a flgnal of Jj^lirifhip, we perceived a fmoke rife from the 
creek ; upon^j^lcti I ordered the boat out, taking Friday witbi 
me, and, hangiqg^ut a white flag of truce, i went on fhorc, ac- 
companied alfo by the yourg Friar, to whom I had related the 
biftory of the firft part of my life. Befides, we had fixtcca 
men well armed, in cafe we had met with any oppofition. 

After we had rowed dire«Stly into the creek, the firfi man I 
fixed my eyes upon was the Spa^tiardy whc>re life I had faved, 
and whofe face I perfeiily well knew. I ordered them all to 
ftay in the boat for a while ; but Friday, perceiving his father 
at a diflance, would have jumped into the fea had they not let 
him go. No fooner was he on fhore, but he flew like a fwjft 
arrow out of a bow, to embrace his ancient father. Certainly 
it would melt a man of the firmeft refolutlon, into »he fofteft 
tears, to fee with what uncommon tranfports of joy he faluted 
him. He tirf^ kifTed him, then flroked his face, took him ux 
his arms, laid him linder a fhady tree, fat down hy hitrj, then 
looked as earncftly at him as one would do at a pic'^lure, for a 
quarter of an hour together. After this he would lie upon tke 
giound, flroke his legs, and kifs them, then get up and ffare 
at him as though he was bewitched ; But the next day one 
could not forbear laughter, to fee his behaviour ; for he 
would walk feveral hours with his father along the fhore, lead- 
ing him by the hand as though he was a lady, while every now 
and then he vvould run to tiie bo3t to get fomething for himj 
as a lump of "lugar, dram, bifcu'it, of ioraething or other that 

was 



23b 

was good. His frelkks ran w a'notlier channel In (he after- 
noon ; for, when he fet old Friday on the ground, he would 
dance round hint, making comical poflurcs and geftures ; and 
all this while would be telling him one ftory or other of his 
travels and adventures. 

It was on the lofh of Jpril^ Anno 1695, that I fet my foot 
upon the ifland a fecond time. When my faithful Sfaniardt 
accompanied by ore more, approached the boat. He little 
knew who 1 was, till I difcovered mylelf to him : Slgn'ior, faid 
I, in Portuguefcy don't you know me i He fpoke never a word ; 
but, giving his muflcet to his attendant, extended his arms, and 
faying fonriething in Spanijb that I did «ot then underftand, he 
came forward and embraced me ; faying, he was inexcufable, 
jiot to know his deliverer, who, like an angel fent from heav- 
en, had favcd his life. He then beckoned to the man to call 
cut his companions : aflcing me if I would walk to my own 
habitation, and take pofleflion, where I (hould find fome mean 
improvements ; but indeed they were extraordinary ones ; for 
they had planted fo many trees, fo clofe together, that the place 
was like a labyrinth, which none could find out except them- 
ielves, who knew its intricaie windings. 1 alkedhim the mean- 
ing of all thefe fortifications ; he told me, he would give me a 
large account of what had pafi fince my departure to this time, 
4nd how he had (ubdued fome Englijh who thought to be their 
murderers, hoping I would not be difpleafed, fince necedity 
compelled them to it. As I knew they \vere wicked villains, 
1 told him, that I was not only fair from finding fault with it, 
but was rather heartily glad they had fubdued them. But 
while we were talking, the man whom he had fent returned, 
acconnpanied by eleven more j but in fuch habits, that it was 
jmpoifible to tell what nations they were of. He firft turned 
to me, pointing to them : Thefe, Sir, faid he, are fome of the 
gentlemen who ov^e their lives to your goodnefs ; and then 
turning to them, and pointing to me, he made them fenfible 
tjvho I was : And then indeed they faluted me one by one, «ot 
as ordinary men, but as though they had been ambafladors of 
noblemen, and I a triumphant conquerer : For their beha- 
viour not only agreed with a manlike, majeftic gravity, but, at 
the fame time, was fo obliging and courteous, as made them 
admirable to the lafr degree. 

Before I relate the hiflory of the tranfaftions of my king- 
dons, as I had it from the Spamard^s own mouth, I nrmft here 
infert what I omitted in my tormer relation. The matter is 
this : Juft before we weighed anchor to fet fail, there happen- 
ed a quarrel on board the (hip, which had like to have occa- 
fioned a fecond mutiny, till fuch time as the courageous cap., 
tain, taking two of the raoft refractory prifoners, he laid them 
in irons, threatening them, as they were c^ncerm^'' in the form* 



>37 

er Qiforders, to have them hanged in England for running away 
with the fhip. This frightened fome of the reft, as thinking 
the captain would ferve them in the fame manner, though h« 
feemed to give them good words for the prelent. But the 
mate, having intelligence of this, made me acquainted with 
their fears ; (o that to make them more eafy, and ourfeives 
more U^t from their conlpiracies, I was obliged to go down, 
and pafs my Honour ^ ward for it, that, upon their good beha- 
viour, all that was paft (houid be pardonsd j in teltimony of 
whicM I ordered the two men's irons to be taken off, and 
themfelves forgiven. But as this had brought us to an anchor 
that night, in which there was a calm, the two men that had 
been in irons, ftole each of ^them a mulket, and fome other 
weapons, and taking the (hip's pinnace, not yet hawled up, ran 
away to their brother rogues. The next morning we fent the 
Jong boat, with men to purfue them, but all in vain. The 
mate, in revenge, would have demolifhed my little ca(iie,.burnt 
its furniture, and detlroyed their plantations ; but having na 
orders for it, he did not put it in execution. A«d thus there 
were five Engltjhmen \v\ \ht ifland,. which can fed great differ- 
ences, as my faithful Spaniard gc^we me a perfect account of in 
the foUowisg ujanner ; 

You cannot, Sir, but remember the embalTy you fent me ar- 
bour, and what a difappointment we met with, by your ab- 
fence,. at our return* There is but little variety in the rela- 
tion of OMr voyage, being bleft with calm weather and ft 
fmooth fea. Great indeed was the joy of my countrymen, ont 
feeing me alive, having a6fed as the principal man on board^, 
the captain of the fhipwrecked vefTel dying before ; nor was 
their iurpnfe lefs, who knowing I was taken prifoner by the 
ravage's of another nation, thought me long fince entombed ia 
their monftrous bowels. But, when 1 fliewed Uiem the arms* 
ammunition, and provifion I had brought for them, they look- 
ed upot^ me as a fecond Jofeph advanced in P h araoh\ covirX^ 
aiid immediately prepared to come along with me. Indeed, 
they were obiigeci to treipafs upon their friendly favages, by 
borr^jwing two of their canoes, under a pretext for fifhing ; 
and they came away .the next morning, but without any pro- 
viiions of their own, except a tew roots, which ferved them in- 
flead of bread. After three week's abfence, we arrived at our 
habitation. Here we met with three Engl'ijh faiiors, who, I 
con ft (5, gave us provisions, and that letter of directions yoii 
hid lett for us, which informed us, how to bring up tame 
goats, plant corn,, cure grapes, make pots ; and, in fhorr, ev- 
ery riling that was neceflary tor our ule j as I in particulars 
knew your method beit, T took Friday's father to alfilt mr^ 
andfb we managed all the aftairs. ]>iov vicreihcr^d of the Spani^ 
wri^wauting in.their kind cffices, Urcdiny food for the Englijb^ 



merit who did nothmg but ramble and divert thcmfeives m the 
woods, either fhooting parrots, or catching tortoifes. But we 
had not been long a(Tiore, betore we were informed of two 
more Engltjhmeny unnaturally turned out.of their common place 
ef re(idcf)ce, by the three others above mentioned : This made 
my Spaniards and me (whom they looked upon as tlicir ©ov- 
crnour, in your abfcnre) endeavour to perfuade them to take 
ihem in, that we mit^ht be as one family; but all our entrea- 
ties were in vain ; fo that the poor .fellows, finding nothing to 
be done without jnduUry, pitched their tents on the north fid^ 
of theiflan<i, a little inclining to the weft, for fear of lavages. 
>lere they built two huts, one to lodge» and the other to lay 
their ftores in j for my good natured Spaniards giving them 
fome feed, they dug and planted as [ had done, and began to 
live prettily. But while they wer« going on thus comfortably, 
the three unnatural brutes, their countrymen, in a mere bul- 
lying humour, infu'ted them, by faying the Governuur (mean- 
ing you) had given them pofleflion of the ifland, and, damn 
them, they fhould build no houles upon their ground, without 
paying rent. The two honefi men (for fo let me now dirtin- 
guifh them) thought their three countrymen only jcHed, and 
one of them invited them in, to fee their fine habitations ; while 
the other facetioufly told thein, that fince they built tenements, 
with great improvements, they fliauid, according tothecuftom 
of landlords, give them a longer leafe ; at the fame time de- 
firing them to fetch a fcrivener to draw the writings. One of 
the wretches, fwearing he (hould pay for the jefl, fnatches up 
a fire brand, and clapping it to t)ie outfide of their hut, very 
fairly fet it on fire, which foon would have been conlumed, 
had not the honeft man thruft him away, and trod it out with 
his feet. Hereupon the fellow returns with a pole, with which 
he would have ended his days, had not the poor man avoided 
the blow ; when fetching his mufket, he knocked the villain, 
down that began the quarrel. The other two, coming to alfift 
their fellow, obliged the other honeft man to take his mufket 
alfo, and both, prefenting their pieces, Md the villains ftand 
ofl^'; and if they did not lay down their arms, death (hould de- 
cide the difpute one way or other. This brought ihem to a 
parley, in which they agreed to take their wounded man, and 
be gone ; but they were in the wreng that they did not dif- 
^rm them when they had the power, and then make their com- 
filaint to me and my Spaniards for ju^ice, which might have 
prevented their farther defigns againft them. And indeed fo 
many trefpaffes did they commit after, by treading down theii: 
corn, Ihooting thfir young kids and goafs, and plaguing them 
night and day, that they refolved to come to my caflle, chal- 
lenge all the three, and decide their rights by one plain battle^ 
whSc the Spaniard's flood by to fee foir play» One day it hap^ 

peoedj 



J|39 

pcned, that two of my Spaniards (one of whom underftood 
Engli/b) being in the woods, were mei by one of the huneft 
men, who complained how barbarous iheir countrymen had 
been, in deftroying their corn, kilhng their milch gou and 
three kids, which deprived them of their fiibfjllence ; that if 
we did not grant them relief, they mud be inevitably ihrved j 
and fo they parted : But when my Spaniards came home at 
night, and fupper being on the table, one of them began to 
reprehend the Engli/hmeriy but in a very mannerly way ; which 
they relenting, replied, What bufineis had their countrymea 
there without leave ? and that it was none of their ground. 
"Why, (aid my Spayi'iard calmly, Inglefe they muft not ftarve : 
But they replied, Let them (tarve and be damned, they [hould 
neither plant nor buiid ; and damn them, they <hould be their 
fervants, and work for them; for the iildnd was theirs, and 
they would burn all the huts they (hould find on the land": By 
this, rule (faid my Spaniard fmilin;:). we fhall be your fervants 
too \ Aye, by God, md lo you fhali, replied the impudent raf- 
cal Upon which, Will. Atkins (tartmg up, cries, come, jack^ 
lets have t'other bru(h with them ; who dare build in our do- 
minions ? Thus, leaving us fomething heated with a juft paf- 
fion, away they troopeii, every man having a gun, piftol, and 
(word, muttering fome threatewing words, that we could thea 
but imperfectly underd ind That night they defigned ta 
murder their two companions, and flept till midnight in the 
bower, thinking to taU upon ther^^ m their fteep : Nor were 
the honeli men lefs thoughtful concerning them; for at this 
juncture they were coming to ftnd them out, but in a much 
fairer way. As /oon as the villains, came to the huts, and 
found nobody there, they concluded, that i and my Spaniards 
had given ihfm notice, and therefore fwore to be revenged on 
us. Then they demolin»ed the poor men's habitation, not by 
fire, as they attempted before, but pulled down their houfea 
iimb from limb, not leaving a flick nor flone on the ground 
where they ftood \ broke their houfliold fluff in pieces, tore up 
their trees, fpoi ed their enclofure ; and, in fhort, quite ruined 
them of every thing they had. Had thcfe people met together, 
no doubt hut there would have been a bloody battle; but Pro- 
vidence ordered it for the better ; For ju(t as the three were 
got fhjther, the two were at our cartle ; and when they left us, 
the three came back again, fcoffingly telhng us what they had 
done ; when one, taking hold of the Spaniard's hat, twirls it 
round, faying. And youy Seignior ]^ck S|/aniard, /ball have the 
}am€ fauce^ if you don't mend jour manners. My Spaniard, a 
grave, but a courageous man, knocked him down with one 
blow of his firt; at which, another villain fired his piftol, anU 
narrowly miflTed his body, but wounded him a little in the ear. 
The Spaniardf ctiraged hereat^ takes v{) the fellow's mufitec 

whom 



140 

whcm he had knoeked down, and would have (hot him, if I 
anci the reft had not come our, and taken their arras from every 
one of them. 

Thefe £«^/{/i57«f«, perceiving they had made all ot us their 
enemies, be^an to cool : but notwithftanding their better 
words, the Spaniards would not return them their arms 
again ; telling them they would dc no manner of harm, if they 
would live peaceably; but if they offered any injury to the 
plantation or caltle, they would (hoot them as they would do 
ravenous beafls This made them fo mad, that they went 
away raging like the luries of heli. They were no foonergone, 
but in came the two honcll men, fired with the jufteft rjge, if 
fuch can be, having been ruined as atorefaid ; and indeed it 
was very hard, that nineteen of us fhould be bullied by three 
villains, contmually offending with impunity. 

It was a great while. Sir, before we cowld perfuade the two 
Engl'ijbmen from purfuing, and undoubtedly killing them with 
theu fire arms ; but we promifed them juftice fhould be done 
them, and in the mean time they fhould refide with us in our 
own habitation. In about five days after, thefe three vagrants, 
almoti fhrved with hunger, drew near our grove j and per- 
ceiving me, the Governour, and two others, walking by the 
fide of the creek, they very fubmiffively defired to be received 
into the family again. We told them of their great incivility 
to US: and of their unnatural barbarity to their countrymen ; 
but yet we would fee what the reft agreed to, and would bring 
them word in half an hour. After fome debate, we called 
them in, where their two countrymen laid a heavy charge, 
againit them, for not only ruining, but dedgning to murder 
them, which they could not deny. But here I was forced to 
interpofe as a mediator ; by obliging the two Engl'ijbmen not 
to hurt them, being naked and unarmed ; and that the other 
three fhould make them reftitution , by building their twos 
huts, and fencing their ground in the fame manner as it was- 
before. Well, being in a milerable condition, they fubmit- 
ted to this at prefent, and lived fome time regvilarly enough, 
except to the working part, which they did not care for ; but 
the Spaniards would havedifpenfed wit^i that, had they con- 
tinued eafy and quiet. Their arms being given to them againj 
they fcarce had them a week, till they became as trouble/oma 
as ever ; but an accident happening loon after, obliged us tu 
lay afide private relentments, and look to our common pre- 
fervation. ' 

One night. Sir, I went to bed perfe(Stly well in health, and 
yet by no means could I compote myfelf to fleep : Upon whicfi, 
being very uneafy, i got up^ and looked out, but it being 
dark, could perceive nothing but the trees around our caff le -. 
X went to bed again, but it was all one, I could not fleep.; w4.e<i 

one. 



i4-* 

«ne of my Spaniards hearing rae walk aboiif, afked me, who is 
that up ?' I anfwered, '(is I ; when I told him the occaiion ; 
Sir, faid he, (uch things are not to be flighted ; for certainly 
there is fome milchiff plotting; near us. Where are the Eng- 
lijhmen? faid I He anfwered, in therr huts: for f hey lay 
feparate from us, Sir, fince the laft mutiny. Well, faid I, 
fome kind fpirit gives this informarion for our advantage. 
Come let us look abroad, and fomething mav offer to juftify 
our pains. Upon which I and lome of my Spaniards went up 
to the mountain, not by the ladder, but through ihe grove ; 
and then we were flruck into a panic fear by feemg a light, as 
though it were a nre, at a very little cliftance, and hearing the 
voices of feveral men. Hereupon we retreated immediately, 
and raifing the xt?t of our forces, made them fenfible of the im- 
pending danger : But, with all my aufhoriiy, I could not 
make them ftay where they were, fo earneft were they to fee 
how things went ; though indeed the darknefs of the night 
gave them opportunity enough to view them (by the light 
©f the fire) undifcovered. As they were different parties, and 
ftraggling over the fhow, we were much afraid that they 
fhould find out our habitation, and deftroy our flocks of goats t 
To prevent which, we fent «ne Enfli/hman and two Spaniards 
to drive the goats into the valley where the cave lay ; or, it 
there was occafion, into the cave itfelf. As to our own parts^ 
refuming our native courage and prudent conduct, had they 
not been divided, we durft venture to attack an hundred of 
them. But before it was yet light, we refolved to fend out 
i^ri^^'s father asa fpy ; who, imn>ediatel> ftripping himfelf 
naked, gets among them undifcovered, and in two hburs time, 
brings word, that they were two parties, of two different na- 
tions, who, having lately a bloody battlo with one another, 
happened to land by mere chance on the fame ifland, to de- 
vour their miferable prifoners ; that they were entirely igno- 
rant of any perfon's inhabiting here ; but rather, being filled 
with rage and fury againft one another, he believed that as 
foon as daylight appeared, there would be a terrible engage- 
ment. Old Friday had fcarce ended his relation, but we heard 
an wncommon noife, and perceived that there was an horrid 
engagement between the two armies. 

Such wasfhe curiofity of our paity, efpecially the Englz/b- 
mcKf that they would not lie clofe, though Old Friday told 
ttem their fafety depended upon it ; and that if we had pa- 
lience,vve fhould behold the favages kill one another. How- 
ever they ufed fome caution, by going farther into the woods» 
and placing ihemfelves in a convenient place to behold the 
battle. 

Never could be a more bloody engagement, nor men of 
ra©rc invincible fpirits and prudent conduit, according to 

their 



J4« 

theyr way and manner of fighting. It laded near two hours, 
trll that party which was neareft our caftle began to decline, 
and at laft to fly from their conquerors. We were undoubt- 
edly, Sir, put into a great coniternation on this account, left 
they fhould run into our grove, and, confequentl}, bring u$ 
into the like danger. Hereupon we rerdved ro kill tlte fiifl 
that came, to prevent difcovery ; and that too with our Iwords 
»nd the but end of our mufkets, for fear the report of our^gun£ 
Thould be heard. 

And fo indeed it happened as we thought ; for three of the 
vanquifhed army crolTing the creek, ran dire»31y to the place; 
as to a thick wood for Ihc iter ; nor was it long before our fcout 
gave us notice of it ; as a fo thai the vidors did not think it 
fit topurfue them. Upon this, I would not fufFer them to be 
flain, but had them furpnfed and taken by our party ; and 
afterwaids they proved very good fervants to us, being ftout 
young creatures, and able to do a great deal of work. The 
remainder of the conquered /avay;es fled to their canoes, and 
put out into the ocean ; while the conqiierors, joining togeth- 
er, fhouted by way of triumph j and about three in the after- 
noon, they alfo embnrked for their own nation. Thus we 
were freed at once, from the favages and our fears, not per- 
ceiving any of thefe creatures for fome confiderable lime 
after* We found two and thirty men dead in the field of 
battle ; fome were lla-n with long arrows, which we found 
flicking in their bodies ; and the reft were killed with 
I'arge unwieldy wooden fwords, which denoted their vaft 
(irength ; and of which we found feventeen, bciides bows and 
arrows : But we could not find one wounded creature among 
them alive ; for they either kill their enemies quite, or carry 
tbofe wounded away with them. 

This terrible fight tamed the EngU/hmen for fome lime; 
confidering how unfortunate they might have been, had they 
fallen into their hands, who would not only kill them as ene- 
mies, but alfo for food, as we do cattle: And, indeed, fo 
much did this naufe^^te their ftomachs, that it not only made 
them very Tick, but more f.'-actable to the common neceHUry 
bufinefs of the whole fociery, planting, lowing, and reaping, 
with the greatefi fjgns of amity and friendfnip : So that now, 
being ail good friends, we began to confider of circunu'tances 
in general ; and the firft thmg we thought of was, Whethrr, 
as we perceived the favages haunted that fide of the ifland, and 
there being more retired parts of it, and yet as well fuited to 
our .manner of living, at)d equally to our advantage, we ought 
not much rather to move our place of refidence, and plant it 
in a much fttfer place, both for the (ecurlty of our ci*rn andl 
cattle ? 

After 



I 



M3 

AHer a long debate on this head, it was refolved, or rather 
voted, nf/fti;7<fi"0/7/r<2iJ'/tvn/r, not to remove our ancient ca(ile ; 
and that tor this very good realon, that fome time or other 
we expelled to hear trom our iiipreme Governor (meaning 
you, Sir) whofe melTengers, not finding t^is there, miuht think 
the place demolilhed, and all his lubjeds deftroyed by the 
iavages. 

As to the next concern relating to our corn and cattle, we 
confentedto have them removed to the valley wr.ere the cave 
uas, the land there being propereft, and fiifficient for both. 
But yet when we confidered further, we alteted one part of 
our resolution, which was to remove part of our cattle thither, 
and there plant only part of cur corn ; (o that in cafe one 
part was i3 eft roved, the other might be preferved. We took 
another refolution, which really had a great deal of prudence 
in it, and that was, in not trurting the three favages which we 
had taken prifoners, with any knowledge of the plantation we 
had made in that valley, or of what number of cattle, much 
lefs the cave, wherein we conveyed fever^^l arms, mtd two bar- 
rels of powder you left for us, at your departure from this 
illand. But though we could not change our habitation, we 
refolved to make it more fortified and more fecret. To this 
end, Sir, as you had planted trees at lome dilfance before the 
entrance of your palace, fo we, imitating ycur example, plant- 
ed and .filled up the whole fpace of ground, even to the banks 
of the creek, nay, into the very ou7,e where the tide flowed, 
not leaving a place for landing : And among thofe "you had 
|>lanted, we aUo intermingled fo many fhort ones, all of 
which growing wonderfully fafl and thick, fcarce a little dog 
cculd find the way through tiiem. Nor was thii> fufficient, 
AS we thought, for we did the fame to all the giound to the 
right ard left of us, even to the top of the hill, wiihout fo 
fhiuch as a palFage tor ourfelves, except by the ladder ; which 
being taken down, ncthmg but what had *ving<;,or witchcraft, 
could pretend to ccme near us. And indeed this was excel- 
lently well contrived, elpecially to ferve that occaiion, for 
which we afterwards found it necetfary. 

' Thus we lived two years if»a happy retirement, not having 
enc vifjt from the favages all that time. Indeed one morn- 
ing we had an alarm, which put us into fome amazement ; for 
a few of my Spaniards being out very early, perceived no lefs 
than twenty cances as it were, coming on Ihore ; upon which, 
returning home with great precipitation, t! ey gave us the alarm, 
which obliged us to keep at home all that day, and the next, 
going out only in the night time to make our obfervations : 
But, as good luck would have it, they were upon another de- 
fign, and did not laud that time upon theifland. 

But 



*4'4 

But ndw thfre happened another quarrel between ihe three 
wicked EngU/hmeUy and fome of my Spaniards. The occafion 
ivas this : One of them being enraged at one of the favages, 
'^vhom we had taken prifoner, for not being able to compre- 
hend fomething which he was (hewing him, he fnatches up 
a hatchet in a great fury, not to corretl, but to kill him ; but 
miffing his head, he gave him fuch aJgarbarous cut in his 
fhoulder, that had hke to have ftruck on his arm ; at which 
one of my good natured Spaniards^ interpofing between the 
Evghjhman and the poor lavage, befeeched the forn^er not 
to murder the poor creature : But this kindnefs had like to 
kave coff the Spaniard's hfe ; for xhe Englijbman (truck at him in 
the fame manner, which he nimbly and Suddenly avoiding, 
returned fuddenly upon him with his fhove', (being all at 
workabout their corn land) and very fairly knocked the 
brutifh creature down. Hereupon another Engl'i/hmanyConnvig 
to his fellow's adiRance, laid the good Spaniard on the earth ; 
when immediately two others, coming to his relief, were at- 
tacked by the third Eijglijhmany armed with an old cutlafs> 
who wounded them both. But this uproar foon reached our 
€ars, who rufhing out upon then), took the three EnglJJbmen 
prifoners t And then, our next queftion was, what (houtd 
be done to fuch mutinous and impudent fellows, fo furious, 
defperate and idle, that they were mifchievous to the highe(t 
degree, and confequently not fafe for the fociety to let them 
Jive among them. 

Now, bir, as I was Governour in your abfence, fo \ alfo 
took the authority of a Judge, and having them brought bffore 
m.', I told them, That i( they had been of my country, I 
would hang every mother's fon of them ; but (ince it was an 
Enghjbfnan (meaning you, kind Sir,) to whom we were indebt- 
ed It>r our prefervation and deliverance, I would, in gratiiude^ 
ufe rhe?n with all polfibie m.ildnefs ; but, at the fanie tin^e, 
leave them to the judgment of the two otlver Engli/Jjmen, who, 
I hoped, forgetting their refentments, would Oeai impartially 
by fhenu 

Hereupon one of their countrymen (to'd up : Sift faid hc^ 
lea've it not to us, for you may hefenfible ive h I've reafon to fen- 
tence them to the galloitss : Befides, Sir^ this felloio. Will Aikms, 
and the fwootherSyPropofed to us. that 'we tnight murder ou all 
inyour/l.'ep, -Tivhicb 'we ivould not confent to \ but knoioing their 
inahiltty, and your 'Vigilance^ nve did not think Jit to dfcot'er it 
before. 

Huw, Seignior, faid I, do you hear wliat is alleged againft 
you ? VVhnr can you fay to juftify f • homd an aCtion as to 
murder us in cold blood ? So far, Sir, was the wre-ch trum 
denying it, that he (wore, Damn him but he W(.uld Jo it fti.l, 
Cut what hate wc done to you, bci^jnior Atkins, (aid 1, oc 

i^hat 



Ho 

what will you gain by killing us ? What (hall we do to pre- 
vent you ? Miiftwe kill you, or you kill us? Why will you 
Seignior Atkins (faid I, /miling) put us to fuch an unhappy di^ 
iemmay (uch a fatal necellity ? But fo great a rage did my fcof- 
fing, and yet levere je(t put him into, that he was going to fiy 
at me, and undoubtedly had attempted to kill me, if poflefFed 
of weapons, and had not been prevented by three Spaniards. 
This unparalleled and villainous carriage made us Terioully 
confider what was to be done. The two Englijhmcn and the 
Spaniard, who had faved the poor Indian's lite, mightily pe- 
titioned me to hang one of them, for an example to the others, 
which (hould be him that had twice attempted to conniuit murder 
with his hatchet, it being at that timfe thought intipoHible the poor 
flave fliould recover. But they could never gain my conTent 
to pvit him to death, for the reafons abovementioned, fince it mvh 
an Englijbman (even yourielf) was my deliverer : And, a& 
mercitul counfels are mofl prevailing, when earneftiy preflfed, 
io 1 got them to be of the farwe opinion, as to clemency. But 
to prevent them doing us any future milchief, we all ag>-ee<l 
that they fhould have no weap'>>ns, as fiords, guns, powder 
or fhof, but be expelled from the focieiy, to live how tliey 
pleafed by themfelvcs : That neither the two EngiiJhmeTtf not 
the reft of the Spaniards, fhculc have convcrfation with them 
upon any account whatloever : Tlvat they ihould be kept from 
coming within certain limits of our cafhe; and it they dar^d 
to offer us any violence, either by fjjoiling, burning, killing or 
deftroying any of the corn, pUmaios, buildings, fences, or cat- 
tle, belonging to the fociety, we would flioot them aS freely as 
we would do bealls of prey, iii whatloever places we (hould 
perceive them. 

This fentence feemed very jnfl to all but thsmfelves; when, 
Jike a merciful Judge, I called out to the two honeft EngUlh" 
men, faying, you murt conOder they ought not to be (tarved 
neither; and /ince it will be fome time before they can raile 
corn or cattle of their own, ler us give them Tome curn to lift 
rhem eight months, and for feed to (ow, by wliich time they 
will raile fome for themfelves. Let us aifobefiow upon iheni 
fix milch goats, four he ones, and fix kids, as well for their 
prcfent fupport, as a farther in creafe : together with tools ne-. 
cclFary for their work ; as hatchets, an axe, faw, and other 
things convenient to build them huts : All which were agreed 
to; but before they took tlietn in pofTeffion, I obliged them (ol- 
emnly to fwear, never to attempt any thing agalnff us or their 
countrymen for the future. Thus dirmiUmg them from' our 
fociety, they went away, fuUen and refradtory, as though neith- 
er willing to go nor Hay : However, feeing no remedy, they 
took what provifion was given them, pretending to chufe a 
coavcnient place, where they might live by ihcmfelvcs. 

N About 



14^ 

About five days after, they came to thofe limits appeinfei^ 
in order for more victuals, and lent me word by one of my 
Spaniardsj whom they called to, where they had pitched their 
tents, and marked «hem(elves out an habitation and planta- 
tion, at the N. E. and mod remote part of the ifland. And in« 
deed there they built themfe/ves two very handfome cottages, 
refembling our little caflle, being under the fide of a moun- 
tain, with fome trees already growing on three fides of it ; (o 
that planting a few more, it would have been obfcured from 
light,, unlefs particularly fought for. When thele huts were 
iinifhed, we gave them fome dry goats' fkins for bedding and 
covering j and, on their giving us fuller fureties of their good 
behaviour for the future, we gave them fome peas, barley, and 
rice for fowing, and whatever tools we could fpare. 

Six months did they live in this feparate condition, in which 
they got their firfl harvert in, the quantity of which was but 
fmall, becaufe they had planted but little land : For indeed, 
all their plantations being to form, mad« it the more difficult, 
cfpecially it being a thing out of their element. And when 
they were obliged to make their boards and pots, &c. they 
could make little or nothing of it. But the rainy feafon com- 
ing OB, put them into a greater perplexity, for want of a cave 
to keep their corn dry, and prevent it from fpoiling : And fo 
much did this humble them, that they begged of my Spaniards 
to help them, to which the good natured men readily confenl- 
cd, and in four days fpace worked a great hole in the fide of 
the hill for them, large enough for their purpofe, to fecurc 
their corn and other things from the rain, though not com- 
parable to our's, which had fevcral additional apartments. 

But a new whim polfeffed thefe rogues about three quarters 
of a year afterwards, which had like to have ruined us, and 
themfelves too : For it feems, being tired and weary of this 
fort of living, which made them work themfelves, without 
hopes of changing their condition, nothing would ferve them, 
but they would make a voyage to the continent, and try if 
they could not fei<ze upon fome of the favsges, and bring them 
over, as jflaves to do their drudgery, while they lived at eafc 
and pleafure. 

Indeed the project was not fo prepofierous, if they had not 
gone farther ; but they neither did, or propofed any thing, but 
■what had milchief in the defign, or the event. One morning 
thefe three fellows came down to the limited fiation, and hum- 
bly defired to be admitted to talk with us, which we readily 
granted. They told us, in fhort, that being tired of their 
manner of living, the labour of their hands, in fuch empley- 
menis, not being fufficient to procure the necefTaries of life, 
they only defired one of the canoes we came over in, with 
fome arms and ammunition; for their defence, and they would 

feck 



M7 

feek their fortunes abroad, and never trouble us any more. 
To be Tare, we were glad enough to get rid of fuch wretched 
plagues ; but yet honefty nnade us ingeniioully reprefent to 
them, by whit we ourfeiveshad fiiftered, the certain de(truc- 
^ion they were running into, either of being (Carved to death 
or murdered by the favages. To this they very audacionl]/ 
replied, that they neither could or would work ; and confe- 
qiiently, that they might as well be ftarved abroad as at home; 
A«)d as to their falling into the hands of the favages ; why, if 
they were murdered, that was nothing to us, there was an end 
of them; they had neither wives nor children to cry after 
them ; Nay, fo intent were they upon their voyage, that if the 
Spaniards would not give tliem arms, fo tiiey had but I he ca- 
noe, they would go without. 

But though we could not well fpare cur nie arms, rather 
than thay fhould go like naked men, we let them havtf t.vo 
mu/kets, a pifbl, a cutlafs, and three hatchets, which were 
thought very fufficient : We gave them alfo goats' Rcfnf a 
great bafket full of dried grapes, a pot of fre/h butler, a young 
live kid, and a large canoe fufficient to carry twenty men. 
And thus, with a mafl made of a long pole, and a fail of fix 
large goat (kins dried, having a fair breeze, and a flood tide 
with them, they failed merrily away, the Spaniards calling al- 
ter them, Bon Veyaoja, no man ever expecting to fee them a- 
gain. 

When they were gone, the Spaniards and EngUjlmen wowld 
often fay one to another, O honjs peaceably do ive nonv livejince 
thofe turbulent felloivs ba've left us J Nothing could be farther 
from their thoughts than to behold their faces any more ; and 
yet fcarce two and twenty days had pafled over their heads, but 
one of the Englijlme?7t being abroad a planting, perceived at a 
diflance, three men well armed, approaching towards hira. 
Away he flies with fpeed to our caflle, and tells me and the 
reft, that we were all undone, for that ftrangers were landed 
on the ifland, and who they were he could not tell, but added, | 
that they were not favage?, but men habited, bearing arms. 
Why then, faid I, we have the lefs occafjon to be concerned,! 
fince, if they are not Indiansy thejr mufl be friends ; and I ar>* 
fure there is no Chriftian people lipon earth, but what will do 
us good rather than harm. But while we were confidering of- 
the event, up came the three Englifbmen^ whofe voices we 
quickly knew, and fo all our admiration of that nature ceafcd 
at once. And our wonder was fucceeded by another fort ot 
enquiry, which was. What could be the occafion of their re- 
turning fo quickly to the ifland, when we little exped^ed, and 
much lefs defired their company ? But, as this was belter tc» 
be related by themfelves, I ordered them to be brought in, 
and they gave me the following relation of their voyage. 

After 



148 

After twQ days fatl, or fometbing lefs, they reached land, 
where they found the people coming to give them another fort 
of reception, than what they expected or defired ; for being 
armed wi(h bows and arrows, they durfl not venture on fhore, 
hut fleered northward fix or (even hours, till they attained to 
an opening, by which they plainly perceived, that the land that 
appeared from this place, was not the main, but an ifland ; 
that at their entrance into the opening of the fea, they difcover- 
ed another ifiand, on the right hand north, and feveral more 
lying to the weftward ; but being refolved to go on fhore fome- 
where or other, they put over to one of the ^eftern iflands. 
Here they found the natives very courteous to them, giving 
Jhem feveral roots and dried fifh i n^y, even the women too, 
were as willing to fuppiy them with what they could procure 
them to eat, bringing it a great way to them upon their heads. 
Among thofe hofpitable Indians they cot^tinued fomedays, cn- 
ijuiring, by figns and tokens, what nations lay around them ; 
and were informed, that there were feveral fierce and terrible 
people lived every way, accuftomed to eat mankind j but, for 
themfelves, rhey never ufed fuch diet, except thofe who were 
jraken in battle, and of them they made a folemn feaft. 

The En^JiJhmen enquired, how long jt was fince they had ai 
feafl of lli^t kind ; they apfwered about two moons ago, point- 
ing to the moon, and then to two fingers ; tliat at this time their 
king had two hundred prifoners, which were fattening up for 
the fiaughter. Mighty defirouswere the Englijbmen for feeing 
the prifoners, which the others midaking, thought that they 
wanted fome of them for their own food : Upon vyhich they 
beckoned to them, pointing to the rifing, and then to the fet- 
ting of the fun ; that when it appeared in tlie eaft the next 
iTJorning, they would bring them fome : And indeed they were 
as good as their words, for by that time they brought elevca 
men and five women, ju(l as fo many cows and oxen are 
brought to fea port towns, to visual a ihip. But as brutifhas 
tiicfe Zngl'ijhmen were, their flomachs turned at the fight. What 
to do in this cafe they could not tell : To refnfe the prifoners, 
v/ould have been the higheft affront offered to the farage gen- 
fry } and to dilpofe of them, thfy knew not in what manner. 
iiowever, they lefolved to accept them; and fo gave them in 
Tsturp, one of the r hatchets, an old key, a knife, and fix or 
leven of their biilkts j things which though wholly ignorant 
of, they, feemed entirely contented with; and dragging the 
poor wretches into the boat, with their hands bound behind 
;h?m, dehvercd them to the Engiijlmin, -But this obliged 
fhetii to put ogr as foon as they had thefe prefents, left the do- 
nor.^ might have expeded two or three of them to be killed, 
.F»d to be invited to dinner the next day : and fo taking leave, 
^Aith all pofTible refpect and thanks, though neither of theifi 

under ftood 



H9 

undcrftood what they could fay, they failed away back to the 
firft iflanrl, and there fet eight of (he men prifoners at hberty. 
In their voyage, they endeavoured to comfort, and have fome 
comunication with ihe poor captives ; but it was iinpoffible to 
make v^^em (cnlible or any thing ; and nothing they could lay, 
or j?ive, or d^- for them, could make them otherwife per(uad- 
cd, but that they wc-e unbound only to be devoured. If they 
gave them any food, they thought it was only to fatten theni 
for the flauohter ; or looked at any one more particularly, the 
poor creature thought itfelf to be the firft Jacrifice : And cvea 
when they broughi them to our ifland, and began to ufe them 
with the greateft humanity and kindnels ; yet they expected 
every day their new maftcrs would devour them. 

And thus, Sir, did thefe three (Irange wanderers conclude 
the unaccountable relation of their voyage, which was both a- 
mazing atid entertaining. Hereupon I afked them where their 
new family was > They told me, they had put them into one 
of their huts, and they came to beg feme vi6luals for them. 
This, indeed, made us long to fee them ; and /o, raking fr/- 
(faj/'s father with us, leaving only two at our caftle, we came 
down to behold thefe poor creatures. 

When we arrived at the hut (being bound again by the 
Enplijlmen, for fear of efcaping) there they all fat, ftark naked, 
expecting their fatal tragedy : There were three lufty comely 
men, well ihaped, with flrait and fair limbs, between thirty 
and five and thirty years old ; and five women, two of whom 
might be from thirty to forty, two more not above four and 
twenty ; and the laft, a comely tall maiden of about leventeen. 
iideed all the women were very agreeable, both in their pro- 
portion and features, except being tawny, which their modeft 
behaviour and other graces made amends for> when they af- 
terwards came to be clothed. 

Their naked appearance, together with their miferable cir- 
eumlhnces, was no very comfortable fight to my Spaniards, 
who, for their parts, I may venture. Sir, without flattery, to 
fay, are men of the befl behaviour, calmed tempers, and fweef- 
efl natures, that can polFibly be : For they immediately or- 
dercd Friday's father to fee if he knew any of them, or if he 
underdood what they could (ay. No fooner did the old hdian 
appear, but he looked at them with great ferioulhefs ; yet, not 
being of his nation, they were utter Grangers to him, and none 
could underftand hiS ipeech, or (igns, but one woman. This 
was enough to anfwer the de(ign, which was, to afTure them 
they would not be killed being fallen into the hands of Chrif- 
tians, who abhorred fiich barbarity. When they were hilly 
fatisfied of this, they exprelTed their joy by hich llrange gef- 
tures, and uncommon tones, as are not poffible for me to de- 
*^f>b€, But {he woman, their interpreter, was ordered next to 
N i enquire, 



enquire, whether they were content to be fervantg, and would 
\york for the men who had brought them thither to hvc their 
Jives ? Hereupon (being by this time unbound) they fell a ca- 
pering and dancing, one taking this thing upon her fhoulders, 
and t'othei; that, intrmating that they were willing to do any 
thing for tljem' But now, Sir, having women among us, and 
<^reading that it might occafion- forae ftrife, if not blood, 1 afked 
the three men what they would dp, and how they intended to 
ufc thefe creatures, whether as fervants or women ? One of 
them very pertly and readily aniwered, they would ufe them, 
2^ both. Gentlemen, faid 1, as you are your own makers, I 
am not going to reftrain you from that ; but methinks, for a- 
"ifoiding difienlions among you, I would only defire you to en- 
gage, That none of you will take more than one for a woman 
or a wife ; and that having taken this one, none elfe fhould 
prefume to touch her; for ihouf^h we have not a prieitly au- 
thority to marry you, yet it is but reafonable, that whoever 
thus takes;a wonFi^n, (hould be obliged to mantain her; finee 
siyobody. elfe h^s any thing to do with her : And this indeed 
appeared (o >uft to ail preient, that it was unanimoufly agreed 
.to. Then the EngljJhTmn afeed my SpaniurdSy whether they 
defigned to take any ot them ? But they all aufwered no, for.e^ 
declaring, they had already wives \n Spain j and others, that 
♦hey cared not to ;oin with infidels. On the reverfe, the En^ 
glijhmen.^odk. each of them a temporary wife, and fet up a new 
method of living. IKs to Friday' s father, the Spaniards ^ wd 
the three favage fervants we had taken in the late battle, they 
all lived v^ith me in our ancient caftle ; and indeed we (uppli- 
ed the m^in part of the ifland with food, as neceflfity required. 
J&ut the iTioli remarkable part of the ftpry is, how thefe Eng- 
lijbfxen^ who had been fo much at variance, fhould agree about 
the choice of thefe women ; yet they took a good way enough 
iQ prevent qiiarrcUiog among themfelves. They (et the five 
women in one of ibeir huts, and going themfelves to the oth- 
er, drew lots wivich fhpuld have the firft choice. Now he that 
had the fir ft went to the hut, and fetched out her he chofe ; 
and it is remarkable, that he th^t chofe firll, took her that was 
accounted the nioft homelv, and eldelf of the riumber, which 
:ni>ade the relt ot the EngUJkmen exceeding merry, and the 5"/^- 
3B;flrd'/ themfelves could not but fmile at it : But, as it happen- 
ed, the fellow had the beft thought, in chufipg one fit for ap- 
plication and bufmcfs j atid indeed fbe proved the befl wife of. 
all the parcel. 

But, when the poor creatures perceived themfelves placed in 
a row, and feparated one by, one, they wp.re again feized with 
ao unfpeakableterror, as thinking they were now going to he 
flain in earned : And when the /^w^/z/Jwaw came to take the 
..ffi, the rtft fel wp a lamentable cry, clapt, their arms aroiind 

ivcr 



^5^ 

her neck, and hanging about her, took their lafl farewel, as 
they thoijohr, ir> luch trembling agonies, and affediionate em- 
braces, as would have tbftened the hardeft heart in the worlds 
and made the dried eyes melt into watery tears : Nor could 
they be periu^ded, but that they were going to die, till fuch 
time as Friday's father made them fenfible, that the Engli/bmeri. 
had chofen them for their wives ; and fo ended all their ter- 
ror and concern upon thisoccafion. 

Well, after this, 'he Englijhmen went to work, and, being 
aflirted by ray good natured lavages, in a few hours they e- 
redled every one ©f them a new hut or tent, for their feparats 
lodging, (ince thofe they had already were filled with tools, 
houfeholdftufFand provifion. They all continued on the north 
Ihore of the ifland, but fepamte as before; the three-wicked 
ones pitched farther off, and the two honeft men nearer hand 
to our caflle : So that the ifland feemed to be peonled in three 
places, three towns beginning to be built tor that purpofe. 
And here I cannot but remark, what is very comiTion, that 
the two honeft men had the worft wives (I mean as to induflry, 
cleanlinefs and ingenuity) while the three reprobates enjoyed 
women of the contrary perfetiljons. 

But another obfervation I made is in favour of the fvvo hon« 
efi men, to fliew what difparity there is between a diligent ap- 
plication to bufinefs, on the one hand, and a (Tothful, negligent, 
and idle tem(;)er, on the other. Both of them had an equal 
parcel of ground laid out, and corn to fow fufficient forthern 5 
but both did not make the fame improvements, either in their 
cultivation or in their planting. The two honeJf men. had a 
multitude of young trees planted about their habitations, lb 
that when you approached near them, nothing appeared but a 
wood, very pleafing and delightfuj. Every thing they did 
profpered and flour.fhed ; their grapes, planted in order, feem- 
ed a&thout;h managed in a vineyard, and were infinitely pre- 
ferable to any of the others. Nor were they wanting to find- 
out a, place of retreat ; but dug a cave in the mo(f retired part 
oi" » thick, wood to fecure their wives and children, with their 
provifiun and chiefeft goods, furroandcd with innumerable 
i{akes, and had the mofl fubtle entrance, in cafe any mifchief 
fUould happen, either by their fellow countrymen, or the de- 
vouring favages. 

As to the reprobates (though I muH own they were much 
raore civilised than before) inftcad of a delightfr.l wood fur- 
rjLiunding their dwellings, we found the words of King Solomon 
too truly verified : / nx>ent by the n>infyard of the JJotb/ul, and it 
n^di o^ot^rgronjon ijcitb thorns. In many places their crop was 
a,bfeured by vyeeds ; the hedges, having fcveral gaps in them, 
l|ie wild goats had got in and eaten up the corn; and here and, 
there was a dead buih, to flop in thole gaps for the prefent, 

which 



which was no more than (hutting the ftable door after the ftced 
was ftolen away. But for their wives, they (as I obferved be- 
fore} were more diligent, and cleanly enough, e/pecialiy in 
their vidluals, being inflriiCled by one of the honefl men, who 
was a cook's mate on board a fhip : And very well it was (o,^ 
for, cooking himfelf, his companion and their families lived as 
well as the idle hufband^, who did nothing but loiter about, 
fetch turtles eggs, catch fifh and birds, and any thing but wbrk, 
and they lived accordingly; while the daligent lived very hand- 
fomely and plentifully, in the moft comfortable manner. 

And now, Sir, I am come to lay before your eyes a fcene, 
quite different from any thing that ever happened to us be- 
fore ; and, perhaps, ever befel you in all the time of your 
refjdence on this ifland : I Ihall inform you of its original in 
the following manner. 

One morning, feir, very early, there came five or fix canoes 
of Indians on rtiore, iudilputably upon their old cuftom of de- 
vouring their prifoners. All that we could do upon fuch ai^ 
occafion, was to lie concealed ; and they not having any no- 
tice of the inhabitants, would depart quietly, after perform- 
ing their bloody execution. Whoever difcOvered thefe fava- 
ges firft was to give notice to all the three plantations, to keep 
within doors ; and then proper icout was to be placed, to 
give us intelligence of their departure. But notwithftanding 
thefe wife meafures, an unhappy difafter expofed us to the knowl- 
edge of tke favages, which had like to have caufed the defola- 
tion of the whole ifland : For after the favages were gone off 
in their canoes, fome of my Spaniards and' I, looking abroad, 
and enflamed with a curiofity to fee what they had been doing 
here, to our great amazement, we beheld three favages faft 
afleep on the grGund| who either being gorged, could not 
awake when the others went ; or, having wandered too far in- 
to the woods, did not cq|pe back in time. 

What to do with them at firft we could not tell: As for 
(laves we had enough of them already ; and as to killing them, 
neither chrirtianity, nor humanity, would fufFer us to fhed in- 
nocent blood, who never did us wrong, and therefore had 
no jull quarrel againft them, to jufiify our taking their lives 
away. We perceived they hud no boat left them to tranf- 
port them to their own nation; and that, by letting them 
wander about, they might difcover us, and inform the firft fav- 
ages that Ihould happen to land on this bloody occafion y 
which information might entirely ruin us ; and therefore I 
counfelled my 3'^fl«iar^J to fetuie them, and let them abouc 
fome work or other till we could better difpofe of them. 

Hereupon we all went back, and making them awake, took 
them priibners. It is impoffible to exprefs the horrour they 
were in, efpccially when bounti, as thinking they were going 



i53 

to bf murdered and eafen ; bnt we foon eafcd them of their 
fear as to that point. Wa firfl took them to the bower, where 
was the chief of our country work ; as keeping goats, plant- 
ing corn, &(. and then carried them to the two Enpjijbmen's 
h^itation, to help them in their bufmefs : Bat happy it was 
for us all, we did trot carry them to our caftie, as will appear 
by the fequel. The Engli/bmen indeed found them work to 
do ; but, whether they did not guard them ftric^ly, ©r that 
they thought they could not better themfelves, I cannot tell ; 
but certainly one of them ran away into the woods, and they 
could not hear of him for a leng time after. 

Undoubtedly there was reafon enough to fwppoTche got honre 
in fome of the canoes, the favages returning in about four 
week's time, and going off in the (pace of two days. Vou 
rpay be certain. Sir, this thought could not biit terrify ns ex- 
ceedingly J and made us juflly cop.ciudc, thit this favaga 
would inform his countrymen of our abode in the ifland, ho'Ar 
few and weak we were in comparifon to their numbers ; ^j^P 
pecking it would not be long before the Enqlijhmen would'' Be 
attacked in their habitations ; but the lavages had not feeu 
their places of fafety in the wood, nor our caftle, which it was 
a great happinefs they did not know. 

Nor were we miftaken in our thoughts upon this occafion : 
for ^bout eight months after this, fix canoes of favages, with 
about ten men in each canoe, game failing by the north fide 
of the iflai^d, which they were never accurtomed to do before, 
and landed about an hour after fun rife, near a mile from 
the dwelling of the two Englijbmen^ who, it feems, had the 
good fortune to difcover them about a league ofF; fo it was 
about an hour before they could attain the ftiore, and it re- 
quired fome longer time before they coj^iA conie at them. 
And being now confirmed in this opinio^^that they were cer- 
tainly betrayed, they immediately boufjd the two flaves whicfi 
were left, caufing two of the three men, whom they had 
brought with the women, and who proved very faithful, to 
lead them with their wives, and other conveniencies, into their 
retired cave in the wood, and there to bind the two fellows 
hand and foot till they had further orders. Then thev opened 
their fences where they kept their milch goats, and drove 
them all out, giving the goats liberty to wander in the woods, 
to amufe the favages that they were wild ones ; but the Have 
ha<l given a truer information, which made them come to their 
very inclofures. The tvvo frighted men lent the other flave of 
the three, who had been with them by accident, to alarm the 
Spaniardsy and defire their aiTiflance ; in the mean time they 
rook their arms and ammunition, and made to the c ive v;herc 
they had fcnt their wives, and feciinng their (laves, feat-d 
themfelves in a private place, from whence they might beh.old 

all 



^54 

all the a6iions of thefavages. Nor had they gone far, and 
afcending a rifing ground, but they couJd fee a lirtle a^rmy of 
/W/i2«/ approach to their beautiful dwelling ; and, in a few 
moments more, perceived the fame, and their furniture, to 
their unfpeakabJe grief, burning in a confuming flame : Anfi 
when this was done, they fpread here and there, fearching 
every bufh and place for the people, of whom it was evident 
they had inforinatioii. Upon which the two Engl'ijhmen not 
thinking themfelves fecure where they ftood, retreated about 
half a mile farther into the country, rightly concluding that 
the farther the favages (trolled, there would be the lefs num- 
ber together : Upon which they took their next ftand wliere 
X^{\t trunk of an old tree ftood, very hollow and large, where 
they refolved to fee what would offer. But they had not 
Hood long there, before two favages came running directly 
towards them, as though having knowledge of their being 
there, they refolved to attack them. A little farther were 
three more, and five more behind them again, all running 
the fame way. It cannot be imagined what perplexity the 
poor men were in at this fight, tkinking that, if alTiftance did 
not fpeedily come, their cave would be discovered in the 
wood, and confequenfly all therein loft. So they refolved to 
refift them there j and, when overpowered, would afcend to 
the top of the trees, where they would defend themfelves as 
long as their ammunition lafted, and fell their lives as dear ag 
podible to thofe devouring (avages. Thus fixed upon their 
re/olufion, they next confidered whether they fhould fire at 
the firft two, or w?it for the three, and fo take tlie middje par- 
ty, by which the two firft and the five laft would he feparated. 
In this regulation the two favages alfo confirmed them, by 
turning a little to the other part of the wood ; but the three, 
and the five after theift, came direiUy towards the tree. Here- 
upon they refolved to take them in a dire6l line as they ap- 
proached nearer, becaitfethe firft ftiot might perhaps' hit them 
all three ; and upon this cccafion, the man who was to fire 
charged his piece with three or four bullets. And thu«:, 
while they were waiting, the favages came on: one of them 
was the nm-away, who had caufed all their mifchief, (o they 
refolved he fliould not cfcape, if they both fired at once. But 
however, though they did not fire together, they were ready 
charged ; when the firft that let fly was too good a markfman 
to mifs his aim ; for he killed the foremoft outright ; the fec- 
ond, who was the run away Indian fell on the ground, being 
/hot through the body, but not dead ; and the third was a 
Httle wounded on the fhoulder, who fitting down on the 
ground, fell a fcreaming in a moft fearful manner. The 
noife of the guns, which not only made the moft refounding 
echoes, from one fide to another, but raifed the birds of alJ 

lort$ 



^55 

forts, fluttering with the mod confiifed noife, fo much terrified 
the five ravages behind, that they ttood itili at firlt hke lb nia« 
ny inaniHiate images. But when every thing was in its firit pro- 
found filence, they canne to tl.e place where their companions 
III' in a miferable ccnditisn : And here, not being fenfible that 
they were hable to the (ame fate, they Itood over the wounded 
man, undoubtedly enquiring the caufe of his fad calamity; 
and, as'tisreafonable to fuppofe, he told them that it came 
by lightning and thunder from the gods, having never feea 
o'rheatdof a gun before, in tiie whole courle of their lives. 
By this time tie Euglijbmen having loaded their pieces, fired 
both together a feccnd time, when, feeing them all fall im- 
roediately upon the ground, they thought they had killed eve- 
ry creature of tl>em. This made them come up boldly before 
they had charged their guns, which indeed was a wrong flep ; 
for, when they came to the place, they found four alive, two of 
them a very little wounded and one, not at all, which obliged 
them to fall' upon them with their mufkets : They firft knock- 
ed the rur\ away favage on the head, and another that was but 
a little wounded in the arm, and then put the other languiHi- 
ing wretches out of their pain ; while he that was not hurt, 
with bended knees, and lift up hands, made piteous moans and 
figns to them to fpare his life : Nor were they indeed unmer- 
ciful to the poor wretch, but pointed to him lo fit down at 
the root of a tree hard by, and then one of the£^^///^;nf^, with 
a piece of rope twine he had in his pocket by Biere chance, 
lying his two feet fail together, and his two hands behind him, 
there they left him, making all the hafte they could after the 
other two, fearing they fliouldfind cut their cave ; but though 
they could not overtake diem, yet they had the fatisfadtion to 
perceive them, at a difiance crofs over a valley towards the 
fea, a quite contrary way to their retreat : Upon which they 
very contentedly returned to the tree, to look after their 
prifoner ; but when they came there he was gone, leaving the 
pieces of rope-yarn wherewith he was bound, behind him. 

Well, now they were as much concerned as ever, not know- 
ing how near their enemies might be, or in what numbers : 
Immediately they repaired to their cave, to fee if all were well 
there, and found every thing fafe, except the women who were 
frighted upon their hufbands' account, whom they now loved 
ci^irely. They had not been long here, before feven of mjr 
Spaniards came to alTirt them ; while the other ten, their ferv- 
ants, and Friday's father, were gone to defend their bower, 
corn and cattle, in cafe the favages fhould have rambled (o 
far. There accompanied the feven Spaniards one of the 
three favages, tbat had formerly been taken prifoner ; and, 
with them alfo, that very Indian whom the EngU/hmeu had a 
little before, left under the tree ; fur it leems ihey pafled by 

that 



*5^ 

that way where tlie flaugliter was made, fo carried along with 
them that poor wretch tl.ar was left bound. But lb many 
prjfoners now becoming a burthen to us, and fearing the 
dreadful conlequence ot their efcaping, moft of the Spaniards 
and Engli^j ui^ed theabfolute neceffity there was for killjgg 
then), torour comnion prefervation : But, Sir, theautliorit^l 
bore as Governour overfwayed that piece of ciuelry ; and tlien 
] ordered them to be fent prifoners to the old cave in the val- 
ley, bound hands and feet, with two Spaniards to guard them. 

So much encouraged were the £K'_§'///Z'Wf«, at the approach 
of the Sparuarchy and fo great was their fury againft the ravag- 
es, for Gettroying their habitations, that they had not patience 
to iiay any longer ; but taking five Spaniards along with them, 
armed with four muflcets, a piflol, and a quarter fiaff, away 
they went in purfuit of their enemies. As they palFed by the 
place where the lavages were (lain, it was very eafy to be per- 
ceived that more of them had been there, having attempted 
to carry off their dead bodies, but found it impra61icable, 
From a riling ground our party had the mortification to fee 
the Itneke that proceeded from the ruins ; when, coming far- 
ther in light of the fliore, they plainly perceived that the fav- 
0ges had embarked in their canoes, and were putting out to 
fea. This they weie very forry for, tliere being no coming 
at them, to give them a parting laiutation ; But, however, 
they were glad enough to get rid of iuch unwelcome guefts. 

Thus the two. honelt, but unfortunate Englijljtnen^ being 
ruined a lecond tinie, and their iniprovements quite deltroyed, 
iiioff of my good natured Spaniards helped ihem to re-build, 
and we all helped thenri with needful fupplies : Nay, what is 
more remarkable, their three mifcbievous countrymen, when 
they heard it (which was after all fhefe difafters were over, 
they living remote eaftward) fympathized with them in a very 
iriendly manner, and worked for them feveral days ; fo that 
in a little time their habitation was rebuilt, their necefTities 
fupplied, and themfelves reftored to their fdrmer tran- 
quillity 

The favages had noticing to boad of in this adventure, 
feveral canoes being driven afnore, followed by two drowned 
creatures, having undoubtedly met with a ftorm at fea, th'^t 
very night they departed. Norcan it be fuppofed otherwife, 
but tholie, whole better fortune it was to attain their native 
fhore, would enftame their nation to another ruinous attempt, 
with a greater force to carry all before thent. And nideed fo 
it happened ; for about feven months after, our ifland was 
invaded vvith a moft formidable navy ; no lefs than eight and 
twenty canoes full of favages, armed with wocden fwordf, 
monftrous clubs, bows and arrows, and foch like inftrivments 
*f waf, landed that evening at the faftmoft fide of theifland. 

You 



Yon may \v^\\ imagine, Sir, what conflernation our meji 
were in upon this account, and how (peedy they were to exe- 
cute their refoliition, having only that night's time attowed 
tkem. They knew that fince tliey could not wjthlbnd their 
e^mie«, conceainnent was the only way to procure their fafe- 
ty : And therefore they took do'.vn rhe huts that were built 
for the two Engli/Jimen^ and drove their flock of goats together 
with their own at the bower, to the old cave in the valley; 
they left as little appearance oi inhabitants as poflible, and then 
ported rhemfeives with all their force, at the plantation ct the 
two men. As tney expecJrted, fo it happened ; for early the 
rext morning the Indians^ leavng their canoes at the ealt end 
of the ifland, came running along the fhore, about two hun- 
dred and fifty in nunnber, as near as can be gi^effed. Our 
army was but little indeed ; and, what was our greater mif- 
fortune, we bad not arms fufficient for them : The account, 
as to the men, Sir, is as follows : 

17 Spaniards. ") "^ f n Mujltets. 



5 Englilhmen. 
I OldYxxA.s, 
3 ^[be three fan} a^eSy tak 



5 P:liois. 

3 Foioling Pieces. 

2 S'V'ords. 



en ivith the immen^ y%^'{ 3 ^'^ Halberts. 



loho prQ<ved fa'ithfuL 
fewants. 
Oiher Jlanjes linjing 
'Viith the Spaniard S.J ^^ 



5 MujkeiSy or fonul'ing fiec-^ 
es, taken fn^m the fill- 
orSf nobom you reduc- 
ed. 



As to our flaves, we gave three of them halberts, and the 
other tliree long (taves, with great iron fpikes at the end of 
them, with hatchets by ilieir fides : We ^lib had hatcheis too, 
Iticking in our girdles, befides the fire arms ; Nay, two of the 
women, infpircd with Amazonian fortitude, could not be dif- 
Aiadt'd from fighting along with their deared: luifbaids, and if 
they died, to die with them. Seeing their relblution, we gave 
tUem hatchets likewife ; but what pleafed them beff, were the-'* 
bows and arrows (rth'ch they dexteroufly knew the uleofj^'* 
that (lie Indians had left behind them, alter their memorable 
!> :Hie, one againrt another. "^ 

This was my little army, but of great intrepidity, Wer 
which I was chief general and commander ; and knowing 
Wiil Atkins^ thougii exceedinglv wicked, yet a man of invinci- 
ble courage, f gave him the power of commanding under me : 
lie and (ix men, wjih iheir mufkeis loaded with Hx or feveri 
bullets a piece, were planted jutl bel)ind a Imall thicket of 
bufhes, as an advanced guard, having orders to let the firft 
paiW by ; and then, when we fired into the middle of them, 
Kuke a nimble retreat round part of the wood, and fo come' 
O ia 



in the rear of the Spaniards-, who were Hi^ded by a thickef of 
trees. Though the lavages came on with the fiercenefs of li- 
ons, yet they wanted the fubtiity ot foXes, being out of aU man- 
rer of order, and flraggiing in heaps every wav : And wlien 
Will. Atkins J after fifty of the favages had patfed by, had orde^| 
cd three of his men to give fire, fo great was their confterna- 
tion, to fee fo many nien killed and wounded, and hear fuch a 
dreadful noife, aud yet not know whence it came, thrit they 
were trigiitened to the highefi degree; and when the fecond 
volley was given, they conciuded no lefs but their companions 
were flain by thunder and lightning from heaven. And in thrs 
notion they would hare continued, had W.iL Atkins and his 
men retired as foon as they fired, according to order, or had 
the re(t been near then), to pour in their fliot contmually, there 
might have been a complete victory obtained ; but (laying to 
load their pieces again, difcovered the whwle matter. They 
were perceived by fome of the fcatfering favages at a diffante, 
whalet tty their arrows among them, wounded Atkins himfelf, 
and killed his fellow Engiifhmany and one of the Indians taken 
with the women. Nor did our party fail to anfwer them while 
they retreated, killing above twenty favages ; And here I can- 
not but take notice of our poor dying ilave ; though (^opt 
from his retreat by a fatal arrow, yet with his ffafFand hatch- 
et, he defperately and gallantly aiTailed the purfuers, and kill- 
ed five of rJ,e favaj^es, before his life fubmitred to a mulfiplici- 
ty of wounds. Nor is the cruelty or malice of the Indians ro 
be lefs remarked, in breaking the arms, legs, and heads, o^ the 
tv^o dead bodies, with their clubs and wooden fwords, after a 
moft wretched manner. Hereupon our party was obliged to 
interpofe between the favages and Atkins, who had retreated 
to a rifing ground in the wood ; but atrer three vollies we were 
obliged to retreat alfo ; for they were fo very numerous and 
desperate, that they came to the very teeth ot us, fhot their ar. 
rows like a cioud, and their wounded men, enraged vvith cru- 
el pain, fought like madmen. They did not think fit to foU 
Jow us, but drawing themfeives up in a circle, they gave two 
triumphant fnouts, in token of victory ; though they had the 
grief to fee feveral of their wounded bleed lo deaih before 
I hem..' 

After I had, Sir, drawri up our little army together upon a 
rifmg ground, Atkins^ wounded as he was, would have had us 
attack the whole body of the favages at once ; But, well pleaf- 
fd with the gallantry of the man, we replied. You pertei'ved^ 
Seignior Atkins, hoio their ivounded men fought ; let them alone 
till morning, tohen, being faint y fiiff and fore, nve fball ha've the 
fe^oer to combat ^vitb. To which Will. Atkins, (milingly repli- 
ed, That's 'very true. Seigniors, and fo fhfil\ltoo\ and that's t}>e 
tcafan I ivould fgbt ibcm no-w I am 'warm. We ail anfwered, 

Seignior 



J 59 

Selgntor Aikinj, for your parf, you have heFiaved vourfelf very 
gnllautly ; and \f you are not able to approach the enemy in 
the mcriiin^, we will fight for you j till then we think it con- 
venient to wait. 

By the brigHlnrfs of the moon that night, we perceived th^ 
vages in great dilorder, about their dead and wounded men. 
This nude us change our rerolution, by falling upon them Jii 
the night, if vvc couid give tiiem one voUey undifcovered. And 
this we had a fdir opportunity to do, by on.e of ihe iwo Er:g- 
ii/lmen's leading us round between the woods and die fea nue 
weltward, and turning Hiort fouth, came privately to a plare 
where the thickefi ot them were, unheard, and unperceivt-d. 
Eight of us fired among them, and d;d dreadful execution ; 
Mnd, in lialf a minute after, eight more of us let fly, killing 
and wounduig abundance of them i and then, dividing our- 
lelves into tiiree bodies, eight perlons in each body, we march- 
ed from among the trees to the very teerh ot the enemy, fend- 
ino fortli the greateft thoiits and acclamations. The lavages, 
hearing a ditferent noifc from three quarters at once, (lood iii 
the utrnolt coiifuGon ; but cowiing in lij^ht ot us, let fly a voU 
ley of arrows, which woiuided poor old i'ridayy yet happUy it 
did not prove mortal. But rufhing in fudderdy among tliem, 
we fired three ieveral ways, and then fell to work with our 
fvvords, (bves, hatchets, and the but end of cur mufkeB, with 
fuch fury as couid not be refifted ; fo that fetting forth the 
niort difmal fcreaming and howling, they had recourle ro their 
feet, to fave their lives by a fpeedy flight. Nor mull we for- 
get the Valour of the two women, for they expofed therrdelves 
to the greateft dangers^ killed many with their ariows, and 
valiantly deiiroyed leveial more with their hatche<s. 

Indeed we were fo much tired in fighting thelc two battles, 
that we did not then trouble ourfelves to purfuethem to their 
canoes, in which we thought they would prefently put to the 
ocean : But there happened a drcadfui ftorm at fea, which 
continued ail thit night, and not only prevented their voyage, 
but fialhed fcveial of iheir boats to pieces againfi the beach ^ :i*t»i 
<^to^t the reft fo high upon the Ihore, as requ'red infinite pairib 
to get them ctfagaui. After our men had taken fome lefreOi - 
nienr, and a litHe re|>bre, tiicy refolved to go inwards tiic place 
of their landing early in the morning, and !':c whetker they 
were gone off, or in what pofture they remained. This nc- 
celfariiy led thein»t'j the place of battle, where leveral of the 
lavages were expiring ; a fight no way pleafing to generous, 
riunds, to delight in their mii'cry, though obliged to conquer 
them by the law of arms. But our own //z.-y/awllaves put theoi 
out of their pain, by difpafching them with their harchets.; 
At length, coming in view o( the remainder of their army, wc 
fbund ll.cfl(f leaning upon their knees, which wcxe bended to- 
wards 



i6o 

wards ihe\r months, and the head betwren the two handj. 
Hereupon, coming within rmifKet (hot of them, I ordered two 
pieces to be fired without ball, in order to alarm (hem, that 
VfC iTiight plainly know whethf;r they had the courage to fiiiht 
anoti}er battle, or were utterly difpirifed from fuch an attera«|| 
that we might minage them accordiRg^y. And indeed the prm 
J€tt toolc very well ; for no fooner did the favages hear the 
rirti gun, nd perceive the flafti of the fecond, but they fud- 
denly ftai „d upon their feet, in thegreateft confternation ; and 
when we approached towards them, they ran howling and 
jfcreanTiing away up the hill into the country. 

"We could rather, at firft, have wifhed that the weather had 
permitted them to have gone off to the Tea ; but, when we 
confjdered that their efcape might occafion the approach of 
multitudes to our utter ruin and defolation, we were very well 
pleafed the contrary happeRed : And lyUL ^tkinSfWho, though 
wounded, would not part from us all this while, advifed us 
not to let flip this advantage, but clapping between them and 
their boats, deprive them of the capacity of ever returning to 
jlague the ifland. / kno<iu, faid he, there h but one obje^ion juu 
can make ; 'which is, thai ihefe creatures^ living like beafts in the 
njcoody may make excurJionSf rtfie the plantations^ and dejiroy the 
tame gcats : But then confider^ ive had better hai'e to do ivitb an 
hundred men^ nvhom toe can kill, er mc.kejla'ves of at leifure, than 
ivith a hundred nations, mfhom it is impojjible toe Jhoutd fwue our" 
felfuesfrom, much lefsfubdue. This advice, and thefe arguments 
being approved of, we fet fire to their boats ; and, though rhey 
»^'ere (o wet that they would not burn entirely, yet we marie 
th.em incapable of fwimming in the leas. As foon as the In- 
dians perceived what we were doing, many of them ran out of 
the woods in fight of us, and kneeling down, piteoufly cried 
out Oa, Oa, fTaratnakoa, intimating, I fuppofe, that if we would 
but fpare their canoes, they wtuld never trouble us again. 

But all their complaints, and fubmillions, and entreaties 
were in vain ; for, felf prefervation obliging us to the contra, 
yy, we deflroyed every one of them that had efcaped the fury 
of theecean. When the Indians perceived this, they raifed a 
)an)entable cry, and ran into tlie woods, and from thence rang- 
ed about the whole ifland. Here we lliould have confidered 
indeed, that maV. ig thefe creatures thus defperate,. we ought, 
ar the fame time, to have fet a fufficient guard upon the plan- 
tafions. The favaaes had before found out the bower, de- 
ftroyed the fences, trod the corn down under foot, and torn up 
the vines and grapes. But though we were able, upon all oc« 
cahons, to fight thefe creatures ; yet they were too fwift for us, 
nor dnrft we go out finglc, for fear of their numbers : But our 
only comfort wa*:, they had no weapons, nor anyjfc|lerials to 



make thcni ; and their extremity appeared in a little lime 
after. 

As to our own parts, the only refuge we had left, was oup 
ftock of cattle in the valley by the cave, wiih fome little cora 

*5rew there, and ihe plantation of jnU. Atkins and his com- 
ns, one of whem being killed by an arrow, they were now 
ed to two. And it is remarkable, that this was the fel- 
low that cut the poor Indian with his hatchet, and had a defigrk 
to murder mc and my countryn^en, the Spaniards. Such was 
our mean condition, that we concluded to drive the favages up 
to the farther part of the ifland, fouth well, at prcfent, where 
no Indians .tended, killing as many of them as we could, till we 
had reduced tlieir number, and then give the remainder fome 
corn to plant, teaching them how to live by their daily labour. 
Acccrdit;oly we purfued them with our guns, at the hearing 
of vvhlch, they were lO terrified, that they would fall upon the 
ground. Every day we killed and wounded fome of them, and 
many we fuuiui (iarved to deaths fo that our hearts beg;m to 
ident at the light of fuch miferable objeds. At iafr, with 
great difTiculiy, taking one of them alive, and ixCmg him witli 
kindnefi and 'tendernefs, we brought him to old Friday ^ who 
lalked to him, and told him how good we would be to them 
allj giving them corn and land to plant and live in, and pre- 
fvjnt nouiiihment, provided they would keep within luch 
bounds as Paould be allured them, and not do preJ4jdice to oth- 
cr$ ; And thereforCy faid lie, go jour ivaj^ and inform your coun' 
irymen of it ; ivhiib if dry ivill not agree to, e-vcry one of ibcm 
J bail bejluin. 

J he poor creatures, tlioroughly humbled, and being reduced 
.:Doul thirty ieven, joyfully accepted the otter, and earnelfl/ 
i.fg^ed for fonie food : Hereupon we feat twelve Spaniards^. 
and two Engllftimeny well armed, together witii old truiay, and 
inree Indian llaves, who marched to the place where they wete; 
thelljvcs were loaded with a large quantity of bread, and nee 
cakes, leading three live goats. Being ordered to fit down oi» 
Ihe \,^U of the hill, the poor Indians ate the victuals very titank- 
lulSy, and have proved fait-iful to the iafl, never trefpaflTin^ 
beyond tiieir bounds: w!iere at this day they quietly and hap» 
pily remain, and where we now and then viht them. Tley 
are conflned to a r.eck of land, about a mile and a half broads 
^.nd three or four in length, on the foiuii ea(t cornc/ of the 
.iland, the lea being before, and ]<:»try asojutairs- behind them, 
tja'.te from tlie apj,earince oi' canucs, and whofe countrymea 
titfvcr make cnquny after them. We gave iheai twelve hatch- 
ets, and three or tour knives ; hav&ijnght fiirm botii to bmJJ 
fheir huts, make vvooJe.i fpades, plant corn, make bread* 
breed tamejtoacs and milk them, as iiKewKe ti>.:;tnake wicker 
W)v\:^\i\ d^P i ir.uft ingcnvoutly c^L/itfefs rh»'y iufi.iitely uu8 



I tnat 



102 

did us, making ihemfelves feveral pretty neceiTdries and fan-^ 
cies, as barkers, ficves, bird cages, and cupboards, as alfo 
ftools, bed'5, and couches, no lefs afeful than delighttul : And 
now they live the moll innocent and inoffenfive creafwres that 
ever were fubdued in the world, wanting nothing but wiv( 
mrke them a nation. 

Thus, kind Sir, have I given you, according to my abil 
an impartial account of the various tranfadtions that have hap« 
pened in ihe ifland fince your departure to this day ; which, 
bleffmg us with your prefente, feems as if it would make u» 
torf;et our lafe lufFerings, though our lotFes are not fully re- 
trieved ; and yet we have no reafon to complaii* agamft the 
pJnd Providence of Heaven. When you infpeit your little 
kingdom, you Vvill find it lomething improved in general, your 
Bocks increafed, and your fubjedis augmented : So that from 
Ti defolate ifiand, as this was before your wonderful deliver- 
ance upon It, here 15 a vJObie profpe^V of its becoming a po- 
pulous, and well governed little kingdom, to your immortal 
fame and glory . 

The End of the Spaailh Ge'vemour" s Relation, 



The CoTjt'inuamn of the Life of RobinfoM Crufoe, both of thofe 
Pajfages thai happened during the Time of his Continuance on the 
IJland^ and after bis Departure, till he ar rived again in his 
Nat I've Country. 

THERE is no doubt to fuppofe, but that the preceding re- 
Ution of my faithful Spaniard was very agreeable, and no lefs 
f'.irprifing to me, the young priet^, and to all that heard it : 
Nor were thefe people lefs plealed with thole abfolutely ne- 
cclFary utenfils that 1 brought them, as kinives, fciflars, fpades^ 
ihovels, and pick axes, with which they made a mighty im- 
j»rovement to their habitations. So much were they affe61ed 
to wicker work, prompted by the ingenuity ot the Indians who 
aflifted them, that when I viswcd the Englijlimefs' colonies, 
they feemed at a diftance, as thougli they had lived like bees 
in a hive : For lyill. Atkins, who was now become a very in- 
duftrious and fober man, had made himfelf a tent of bafket 
work round the outfide ; the walls were worked in dole as a 
bafket, in pannels, or ftrong fquares of 32 in tiumber, ftand- 
ing about 7 feet high; in the middle -was another, rot above 
22 paces round, but much, ftronger built, being in form eighl 
fquare, and in the eight corners flood eight fhong pofis, roiind 
the top of which he laid ftrong pieces, pinned wittawooden pir.'^ 
iiom which he raifcd a pyramid from the rcofj ^^Kt^y P"^^') . 
^ 'Wlaaure 



3 03 

I aiTore yon, and joined very well together with iron (pikes 
which he made hirr.leU ; for he had made him a torge with a 
pair of wooden bellows, and charcoal for his work, forming an 
anvil out of one of the iron crows ro work upon ; and in this 
j^nner would he make hisnlelt hooks, flapies, fpikes, bolts^ 
JHa hingcb. After he had covered the roof of the innertr,o;t 
^Wnt, he made it fo firm between tiie ratters and the biilket 
work, thatching that over again with rice ftraw, and over that 
a large leaf of a tree, that his honle was as dry as if it had been 
ttied or fluted. The outer circuit was covered, as a leanto, 
quite round this inner apartment, laying long rafters from the 
32 angles, to the top polls of the inner houfe, about 20 feet 
didant, fo ibat there was a (pace like a walk within the outer 
wicker w?.il, and without the inner, near 20 feet in breadth. 
The inner place he pariitioncd oif with the fame wicker work, 
dividipj:; it into (ix fair apartments, every one of which had a 
door, fi:lt into tlie entry of the main tent, and another into the 
tpace and walk that was round it, not only convenient for re- 
treat, but for family neceiiaries. Thofe fix fpaces were not 
taken up in the circumference. What other apartments the 
outward circle had, were thus ordered : When you were in at 
the door of the outer circle, there was a paffctge dire^ly to the 
door ot the inner houfe ; on either fide was a wicker partition 
and a door, by which you went firft into a large room 22 feet 
wide, and about 30 long, and through that into another of a 
fmaller length ; lo tl.at in the outward circle were ten hand- 
lome rooms, fix of which were only to be come at through the 
apai:tn-;enrs of »he inner tenf, ferving as retiring rooms, to the 
refpe^tive chambers of the inner circle, and four large ware- 
houfes which went in through Wie another, two on either hand, 
of the paflage that led through the outward door to the inner 
tent, in Ihort, nothing could be built more ingenioufly, kept 
more neat, or have better conveniences : And here lived three 
families, ff^ill. Atkins., his companion, their wives and children, 
and the widow ot the deceafed. As to religion, the men fei- 
dom taught their wives the knowledge of God, any more than 
the failors' cuftom of fwearing by his name. The greatefl im- 
provement their wives had, was, they taught them to fpeak. 
Enghlh fo as to be underllood. None of their children were 
then above lix years old. They were all fruitful enough.; and, 
I think, the cook's mate's wife was big of her fixth child. 

So much as to tlie Engli/hmen. When 1 enquired of the 
Spaniardsy about their cirtumftances among the favages, they 
told me, that they were a poor miferable handful of people, 
that, having no means put into tl^eir hands, wtre abandoned 
to deipair, and thought of nothing but flarving. One of them 
contelfed, that they were iil the wrong to think fo, and for re- 
iuiiiig the affiftance that reafon ofieiVd for iheir fupport, as 

well 



104 

welias future deliverance: thaf grief was a moft intigr^ffcant* 
palTiun, regarding things pad reniady, and having no hopes olr 
the good things to come, whkh was aa addition to alSicbon ; 
Ail which verified this noted proverb, 

In trouble iq be troubled. |^^ 

h to haue trouble doubled, 'j^B' 

Nor did his remark end here j tor, making obfervations upSr 
my improvements, and of n^y condition at firft, inrtnitery 
wor/ie than their's ; he told me that Englijhmcn tiad, iu ihe.r 
diftrefs, greater preience of mind, than thoie ot any other 
country that he l>ad met with ; and that they, and the Portu- 
£uejey were the word men in the world to llruggle uivder mis- 
tortune. When they landed among the fdVjgcs, they found 
but little provifion, unlefs they would turn cannibals j there 
being but a few roots and herbs with little fubftance in them, 
and of which the natives gave liiem but very fparingly. Ma- 
ny were the ways they cook to civilize and teach the fav- 
ages, bur in vain ; nor would iliey own them to be their in- 
(iru(!:tors, whofe lives were owir>g to their bounty. Their 
extremities were very great, being many days entirely without 
food ; the favages there being more indolent, and lefs devour- 
ing, than thofe w iio had better lupplies. Whenever war hap- 
pened, they affiled the/e people, being compelled thereto, and 
by which, my faithful Spaniard being taken, had like to have 
been devoured. They had lo(l their ammunition, wliich rCii- 
dered their rire arms ufelefs ; nor could they vJe the bows and 
arrows that were given them j fo that while the armits were at 
adidance they had no chance, but would combat their enemies 
when clofed with halbeits, and sharpened flicks put into the 
muzzles of their mufkeis. They made themfelves targets of 
wood, covered with the Ikins of wild beads; and when one 
happened to be knocked dojvn, the red of the company fought 
over hira till he recovered ; and then (landing clofe in a lu.c, 
they would make their way through a thouiand favages. At 
the return of ilieir friend, who they thought had beeneaiomb- 
ed in the bovv^U of their enemies, their joy was inconctiv- 
able. Nor were they lefs furprifed at the light of the loaves 
of bread 1 had fcnt them, things that they had not fee.i fur 
ieveral years, at tlie fan^e time eroding and bleding it, as though 
It was manna fent from heaven : But when they kv-QW the 
errand, and perceived the boat,, which was to carry iheiu to 
the pet (on and place from vvhence fuch re ief came,, iliis druck 
them with a forpriiecf joy, that made , Ipme of them laij.t 
away, and otlKib buidinto tears. . , . .. • : 

'I his was the fummary account that I had from iJiem jr ftt 
that it nov/ becomes necellary 1 in for ni the reader what I di4 
for tiiCm, and in what a condition I left them. As we nt,^-^ 
all agreed Uiat the favages would karcc troublHtiiem ai;y 

'mere 



more, (o wre had no apprehrnnons about if, I told fhem 1 was 
come purely to eftabliJh them, arsd rot remove them; and 
upon that occafion, had ncronlv brousht them necetraries t;;r 
convenience and defence, biitalfo artificers, and other perfons, 
■Hi for their ncceffary employments, and- to add to tlieir 
mlmber. They were a!l together when I thus talked to them ^ 
and, before I dehvered to them the ftores I had brought, I afked 
them one by one, if they had entirely forgot their old animofi- 
ties, would engage in the ftritleft friendfnip, and fliake hands 
with one another ? To this, /^7//. Atkins, with abundance of 
pood humeiir, faid they had afflidlions enough to nuke them 
aii fober, and enemies enough to make them all friends : As 
for himfelf, he would live and die among them : owning that 
what the Spaniards had done to him, his own mad humour 
had made neceHury for them to do. Nor hal the Spaniards 
occaHorj to juihfy this proceeding to me ; but they told me> 
that fince If^u'I. Atkins had behaved himfclf fo valiantly in fight, 
and at other times ftiewed fuch a regard to the common iiitereft 
of them ail, they had not only forgot all that was pafi, but 
thought he ought to be as much trufled with arms and necei- 
faries as any of them, which they teflified by making him com- 
mand next to the Govcrnour j and they moft heartily embrac- 
ed the opportunity of giving me this folemn adu ranee, that they 
would never feparate their interefl: again as long as they lived,. 
Well, upon thefe kind declarations of friendship, we ap- 
pointed all of us to dine together the next day, on which I 
caufed the iTiip's cook, and his mate, to come or. fhore for 
that purpofe, and the cook's mate on land a(Ufted them in 
drelTing our dinner. We brought from the fliip fix pieces of 
beef, and four of pork, together with our punch bowl, and 
materials to fill it j and, in particular, I gave them icn bottles 
of French claret, and fen of Englijh beer, which was very ac- 
ceptable to them. The Spaniards added to our feaft five whole 
kids ; which being roalted, three of them were fent as frelli 
fiieat to the failors on board, and the other two we ate our- 
felves. After our merry and innocent feaft was over, J began 
to dif^ribute my cargo among them ; at firit I gave them lin- 
en liifficient to make every one of them four fh-rts, and, at the 
Spaniard^ requeff, made them up fix. The thin EnglijJj ftuffa 

1 allotted to make every one a light coat, like a frock, agree- 
able to the climate ; and left them fuch a quantity, as to make 
more upon their decay ; ag alfo pumps, Ihoes, hats, and 
ituckings. I cannot exprefs the pleafing lafisfaction which ial 
upon the countenances of thele poor nien, when they perceiv- 
ed what care I took of them, as if I had been a comuion father 
to th.enj ail ; and thpy all engaj'/d never to leave the iiland» 
till I gave my con fun t for their departure. Then 1 prelented 
^ thena the people I brought \ as the laylor, fmith, and tlw 

^ two 



*66 

twocarpen.'crs j buf erpccially my Jack of all Trades, vias a rf- 
irarkabie man among tliein. My Taylor fell imrnedlarely to 
work, and made every man of tlieni a fhirt j af^cr which he 
learned the wonier) to few and ftiich, thereby to bcccn^e nioie 
helpful to tl-eir liiifbaitds. Neither were tiie carjjeaters ■jb 
iifeful, taking in pieces fbetr clunify things, infiead of wfflPj 
they made convenient and handloine tabjes, (lools, bedftead^ 
cupboards, lockers and fheUes. But vihen I earned them to 
fee H^ill. Atkins's bafket lioufe, they owned they never faw fuch 
Hi piece ot natural ingenuity before. I'm fure^ faid one of fhe 
carpenters, the man that huilt this ha: 7io need of us \ jou ncefff 
Sir^ do nothing but gi've him tools. 

1 divided the tooU among them in this manner : To every 
Tiian 1 gave a digging fpade, a (hovel and a rake, as having no 
harrows or ploughs ; and to every feparatc place a pick axe, a 
rrow, ■. broad axe, and a (aw, with a ftote for a general fup- 
Dly, Should any be broken or worn out. i left ihem alio nails, 
iiaples, hinges, haminers, chidels. knivev, fcilLrs, and all forts 
of tools and iron work ; and for the uie of th.e fmiih three 
tons ot unwrought iron for a fupply : And rs to aru^s and 
ammuniiion, 1 (bred ihem even to profufion, or at Jeaft 
fufficient to equip a little army againft all oppufers whatfo- 
cver. 

The young man (whole mother was unfortunately ftarved 
to death) together with the maid, a pious and well educated 
young woman, leeing thirgs io well ordered on (bore (for I 
made them accompany me) asalfo confidering they had no oc- 
cafion to go fo long a voyage as to t]ie Eajl Indies j they 
botJidefired of me, that I would leave them there, and enter 
them among my fobjei'h. This 1 readily agreed to, ordering 
them a plat of ground, on which were three little houfes 
created, environed with ba/ket work, pallifadued like Jtkins'sy 
and adjoining to his plantation. So contrived were their tenis 
that each of them had a room apart to lodge in ; while the 
middle tent was not only their (tore houfe, bur their place for 
eating and drinking. At this time the two Engly^men remov- 
ed their hibitarions to tliC'r h)rmer place ; (o that now tlje 
ifl ind was divided into three colonics : Firji^ thefe I have ju(t 
now mentioned : Secondly, thett ot H^a'l. Jilins, where there 
were four iamiliesol Engl!jl.>men,'^\ih their wives and (hildren, 
the widow and her children j fhe yonn^j man and the maid, 
who (by the way) we made a wife of before our departure j 
three fava-^es, who were flaves ; the taylor, fmith, (wlio ferve 
only as gunfr.tith) and my other celebrated perion, called 
Jack of ail Trades. Thirdly^ my chiefefl colony confilkd of 
Spaniards, with old Friday, at nsy old fiabitation, which was 
niy capital city : Ana furely never was tiiere fuch a metropolis 
before, hid in fo oblcuie a grove, that a ihouland men mi^ht 

have 



167 

have ranged the iflanvi a month, and looking pi>r}?ofely for ii, 
1 believe, could not have found it ; anct they had enlarged its 
boundaries, both without and within, m a iecrei and moft fur- 
pi^rig manner. 

iPkit now I rhii.k it h-gh time ro fpeak of the young Trench 
prielt, ot the order of St. Benedic^l, vvhofe judicious and pious 
dilcourfcs upon Ivjndry occalions, merit an extraordinary cb- 
lervation : Nor can his being a French Fafijl PrirJ}, I prefume, 
gived offence to any of my readers, wher. they hsve this af- 
fu ranee from me, rhat he was a per ion of the niofi: courteous 
difpolition, extenfive charity, arid exalted piety. His argu- 
ments were always agreeable to region, arid his converfation 
the moil acceptabie ot any perfon that I had tver yet uict with 
in my life. 

Sir (faid he to me one day) fince under God (at the fame 
time croffing hisbreaH) you have not only laved my lite, but, 
by penniiting me to go this voyage, have granted me the hap- 
pinefs of free converfation, 1 think it my duty, as my profef- 
fion oblige, me to lave what fouls I can, by bringing them to 
the knowledtte of fome Catholic dotftnne, neceifHry to I'llva- 
tion ; but fmce ihey are under your immediate government, 
ia gratitude, juflice, and decency, for what you have done for 
me, I lliall offer no farther pomts in religion, than what fhall 
merit your approbation. Plea', d with the modeliy ot his car-^ 
riage, I told him he (liould not be the worfe uled for being of 
aditVeient perfualion, if, upon that very account, we did not 
luffer in points of faith, not becoming in a country, where the 
poor /'7vy/V7.'r/ ought to be intruded in the knowledge of the 
true God, and his Son Jefus Chnlf. To this he replied, That 
convprfation might ealily be feparated from difpotes ; that 
he would difcourfc with me rather as a gentleman th^n a reli- 
gious ; but, if we did enter upon relioious arguments, upon 
my defiring thr f^me, that I would give him liberty to defend 
his own princ ' '* ■:. He further added, that he would do all 
that become hnn in his otiice, as a prielf, as vvell as a chrntiar» 
to procure the happinels of all that were in the ibip ; that 
though he could not pray with, he would pray for us, on all 
occalions ; And then he told me feveral extraordinary events 
of his life, within a few \enii paif, but particularly in this lalf, 
which was the nioff rentarkabit- : That ni this voyage he bad 
the misfortune tcbe five times Ih-pped and unlhipped. His 
firll defign was to have gone (o Mart'iitlco, \or wjiich he took 
a fliipat St. Malo, but was forced into Lijbon by bn.d weather, 
the veflel nmniug aground in the mouth of the Tagm : That 
frem thence he went on board a Portuguefe fhip bound to the 
Madeiras^ whole maffer being but an mdiffcrent mariner, and 
out of his reckoning, they were drove to Z"/^/, where felling 
their commodity, which was ccrn, they rcfoived to take in 

their 



i(i8 

their loading at the Ifle of May^ and to fail to Ne^ufourtdland ; 
at the banks of which they met a French (hip, bound to ^ebeck^ 
in the river ot Canada, and from thence to Martlnico .\ In this 
fhip he embarked, the mailer of which dying at ^eh'eck, iImc 
voyage was fufpended ; And iaiHy, fnippint^ himfeit tor Framtk 
that fhip was dedroyed by the fury of the flame?, as before hiS 
been related : And (o our difcourfe ended for'that time. 

Another morning he comes to me, jufl: as I was going to 
viHt the Englljhmeris' colony, and tells me, that as he knew the 
profperity of the ifland was my principal defire, fo he had 
iomethingto commimicate agreeable to my defign, and perhaps 
might pur it, more tlian he yet thought it was, in the way of 
the benediction of heaven. How, Sir 1 faid I in a furprife, 
are we nor yet in Khz way of God's bieding, afrer all ihefe 
(l^ral providences and deliverances, of which you have had 
inch an ample relation ? He replied, I hope, Sir, you are in 
the way, and that your good delign will profper ; but ftill 
there are feme among you that are. not equally right m theif 
acc-cns : And remember, I befeeclv you. Sir, that Achan^ by 
Iv.scrirTie, removed God's blefling.from the camp of the Chil- 
dren of i/r<2W ; that, though (ix and thirty were entirely in- 
nocentj yet they became the objects of divine vengeance, and 
boie the weight of the punifliment accordmgly. 

^•ofemToly w?s I touched with this difcourfe, and fo fatisfied 
with that ardent piety that enflamed his (uul, that I defired 
him to accompany me to the EnglifJjmens' plantations, which 
he was very glad of, by reafon they were the (ubjeds of what 
he defigned lodifcourle with me about. So we walked on to- 
gether, and then he bea;an m the following manner : 

Sir, faid he, 1 mu(t contefs it is a great unhappinefs that we 
disagree in feveral do6fnnal articles of religion ; but yet this 
wc acknowledge, that there is a GOD, who, having given us 
fome (tafed rules ioi our our fervice and obedience, we ought 
not willingly and knowingly to offend, ei'her^"/ negieoting 
what he has commanded, or doing what he has forbidden : 
aad this too is owned by cv^ty Chriftian, that whenever anv 
people prefumptuouny fin againll God's command, the Al- 
mighty withdraws lus blefllng from them ; and therefore eve-', 
rv good man ought to prevent fuch negle6t of, or fin againfl 
God and his commands; fo long as any perfons are tuider his 
care. Hereupon I thi/sked him for exnreiring fo great a con- 
cern for us, and defired him to explain the particulars of what 
he had cblervtd ; that according to the parable ot Achani I 
might remove that curfed thing from us Why then, Sir, laid 
he, in the firlt place, you have (our Engli/hmcn, who, having 
taken favage women to their wives, by whom they have had 
ieveral children, and yet not legally married, as the laws of 
CrQd^ and man require ; they, Hay, Sir, are no iefs than adul- 
terers, 



169 

f-erers, and, living in adultery, are liable to the curl'e of God- 
1 know, Sir, you may objedt tl^e want of a prieft or clergymen 
ot any kind ; as alio pen, ink and paper, to write down a con- 
tract ot niarnage, and hsve it iigned between them. But nei- 
fu* this nor Arhat the i'^*?;?//^ Governour has told you, of their 
ufing by ccnfent^can oe reckoned a marriage, nor any n)oie 
than an agreement to keep them from quarrelling among them- 
felves : For, Sir, the eiTsnce or facrament of matrimony (fo he 
called it) not only confifls in mutual confent, but in the legal 
obligation which coaipeis them to own and acknowledge 
one another, to ablt^in trom other perfons, the men to pro- 
vide for their wives and children, and the women to the 
fame, or like conditions, mutatis mutandisy on (heir (ide : 
whereas theie men, Sir, upon their own pleafure, on any oc- 
cafion, forfake thcfe women to marry others, and by difown- 
ing their children, (ufter them utterly t(^ne;-i(h. And now, 
bir, added lie, can God be honoured inJpM|^nIawtul liber- 
ty as ttiis ? How can a bieifing fucceed^HHJ^ndeavours, if 
men are allowed to live in open adultery ? Inoeed I was ftruck 
with the thing i'felf, and they were much to blame that no fx)r- 
mai contract had been made, though it had been breaking a fiick 
between them, to engage thetn to live as man and wife, nev- 
er to leparate, but love, cherii'li, and comUrt one another all 
their lives. But, Sir, iaid ], when they took tltele xvotnen, \ 
was not here ; a.id it it is adultery, 'tis paft my remedy, and I 
cannot help it. * Tis true, Sir, anfwered the young Prielt, you 
frtiinot be charged with that jiart of the crime which was done 
in your ablence : But, I beieech you, don't flatter yourfeU 
that you are under no obligation, now, to put a period to it ; 
which it you neglei!^ ro do, the guUt v,:ll he entirely on you, 
alone ; fmce it is certainly m no body's power but your's to 
alter their condition. I mutt confefs I was fo dull, that I 
tliought he mea.'it li ihouid pirt them, vvhich, knowing it would 
put the whole dland \\\ confoHon, I told him I could not con- 
lent to upon any account whatfoever. Sir, faid he, in a great 
luri.'rife, I do nut mean that \ou fhouid feparate, but marry 
the II : I meafi injcur way by a writ ei cootraft, figned by both 
rnan and womaf||;ind by ah the witiM.-iTes prefcnt, vvhich all 
the European Id '^s, decree to be of lufficient etficacy. Amazed 
with fuch true piety and fincerity, and c^sfidcring the validity 
of a writien contract, I acknowledge^ at! that he faid to be 
very ju ft and k-ind, and that I would difconrfe with the men 
about u : Neither could I iec what reafon they could have 
not to let him marry them, whcfe authority in that affair is 
owned to be as authentic as if they were married by any of our 
clergymen in England. 
J- The next compUint he had to mike me was this. That thefe 
"{Bngllfl fubjetls of mine, having lived with tlicie women feven 
P years. 



170 

years, who being of good underftanding, and capable of iti- 
''firuftion, having le?rnt them not only to fpeak, but to read 
Engi'fo ; all this while they had never taught them any ihin^; 
of the Chriftian religion, or the knowledge of God ; much lejV 
in what manner he ought to be ierved. And is not thisfll 
unaccountable negle6t ? laid he, warmly. Depend upon it, 
God Almighty will call them to account for luch coRicmpt. 
And though I am not of your religion, yet I fhould be glad to 
fee thefe people reieafed from the devil's power, and be laved 
by the principles of the Chriiiian religion, the knowledge of 
God, of a Redeemer, the reiurrecfico, and of a future ftatc. 
But, as it is not yet too late, \\ you pleafe to give ms leave to 
mftruil them, 1 doubt not but 1 lliail lupply this great defect, 
by bringing them into the great circle of chirftianity, even 
While you continue in the ifland. 

I could hold nd^iaer, but, embracing him, told him, with 
a thouland tharij^HJ^uld grant what he requeued ; and de- 
iired him t q. fi^flBPm the third article, which he did in the 
following manner : * 

Sir, faid he, it fhould be a maxim among aM Chriflians, 
That chriflian knowledge ou^ht to be propagated by all 
pofTible means, and on ail occafions. Upon this account, our 
chuiich fends mifliortaries into Perfia^ Ind!a,2Lr)d. Ch'wa, men who 
are willing to die for the fake of Gvdy and e Chriilian faith, 
in order to fcfc-ing poor infidels into the way . . (alvation. Now, 
Sir, here is an opportunity to convert it\t\\ and thirty potr 
favages, that I wonder how you can pafs by fuch an occafion 
of doing good, which is really worth the expence of a man's 
whole life. 

I muft confefs I was fo confounded at his difcourfe, that I 
could not tell how to anfwer him : Sir, faid he, feeing me in 
diforder, I fhall be very forry if I have given you offence : No, 
Sir, faid I, I'm rather confounded ; and you know mycirctim- 
flances, that being bound to the Eajl Indks^ in a merchant Ihip, 
I cannot wrong the owners fo much, as to detain the fhip here, 
the men lying at viituals and wages on their account. If i 
flay above twelve days, I muff pay 3/. Jl^rlin^^er dientf de- 
murrage, nor ituft the fhip ftay above eighC j|PL. more, fo that 
1 am unable to engage in this work, unlefs I would leave th© 
fliip, and io be reduced to my former condition. The prieif, 
though he owned this was hard upon me,-v.^t laid it to my con- 
fcience, whether the blelling of iaving fes^n and thirty fouls, 
was noc vvorth venturing all that I had in'^the world ? Sir, laid 
I, "'tis very true ; bu% as you are an ecclefiaft'C, it naturally 
falls into your profellion : why therefore don't you rather 
offer to undertake it yourlelf, than prefs me to it ? Upon this 
he turned about, making a very low bow. I moff humbly 
thank God and you, Sir, faid he, ft.r fo bleflVd a call, and 

inofl 



•men wilHnyly undertake fo glorious an office, wiiich will fuf- 
ficienHy compsnfate all the difficulties and hazards I ^ave 
gone rhroijgh, in a long and uncomfortable voyage. 

t While he was tluis fpeaking, I could difcover a rapture in 
l^acc, bv his colour roming awd going ; at the fame time his 
es fiKiricled like fire ; with all thf figns of the moft zealous 
Iraflf^iorts. And when 1 afked whether he was in earneft, Sir, 
faid he, it was to preach to the Indians I confented to come 
along with you ; the(e infidels, even in this little ifiand, are 
infinitely of more wortli than my poor life ; and, To I am, the 
happy inftrument of faving thefe poor creatures' fouls, 1 care 
not if I never fee my native country again. The only thing I 
beg of you more is, that you would leave Friday with me, to 
be my interpreter, without whofe allirtance neither of us will 
underhand each other. 

This requeff very fenfihly troubled me, firfl, upon Friday's 
being bred a Proteflan'r, and fecondly tor the affection T bore 
to him for his fidelity : Buf immediately the remembrance of 
frA/a^'s father coming into Tiy !iead, I recommended him to 
him, as having learned SparAfv^ which the Prieft alfo underllood, 
and fo was thorouglily fatisfi.-d with him. 

When we came to the EngO/bmcn, after I had told them 
what necetTary things I had done for tiiem, f talked fo them 
of the fcandalous life they led ; told them what notice theCler- 
gyman had taken of it, and afked them if they were married 
men, or batcUelors ? They anfwered two of them were widow- 
er?, and the other three Jingle men. But, faid I, with what 
confcience can you call thele your wives, by wiiom you have 
fo many children, and yet are not lawfully married ? They 
all faid, that they took them before the Governour as fuch, 
having nobody e'/e to marry them, which they thought as le- 
gal as if :hey had had a parfon. No dowbt, faid I, but in the 
light of God you are fo ; Bur, unlefs I am aflTured of your 
honeff intent, never to defert thefe poor creatures, I can do 
rotUmg more for you, neuher can you expect God's blefliog 
while you live in fuch ai open courfe of ad;iltery. Hereupon 
ii^iU. Atkins, who fpoke for the reft, told me, that they believed 
their wives tiie mod innocent and virtuous creatures in ihc 
world ; that they woUld never forfuke them while ihey ijjd 
breath ; and that if tiiere was a Clergyman in the fhip, they 
would be married to them with al! the:r hearrs. I told you 
before, faid T, tjiat 1 have a minifler with me, wiio fiiall mirry 
you to-motrov morning, if you are willing ; fo I would have 
you confulc to-night with the rell about it. I told him flic 
Clergyman was a Firnchman, and knew not awoid o^ Engliji^ 
but that I would act as a clerk between thein. .\nd indeed 
this bufinefs met with fuch fpeedy fuccels, that in a few rai- 
nutcj after they all told me, they were ready to be formal- 
ly 



ly married as Toon as I plcafctf, wiili which informing ih*. 
Prieft, he was exceedingly rejoiced. 

Nothing now leiHained, but that the woinen were to be 
mad« fenHble of the meaning of the thing, with which beiflg 
wfjl-fatisfied, fhey and their hufbands attended at my ap^lP 
37ient the next morning ; There was my prieft, habited in a 
black veft, fomething like a cafrock, with a fafh round it, much 
refembling a MiniHer, and 1 was his interpreter. But the fe- 
rioufnefs of his behaviour, and the fciuples he made of mar- 
rying the women ivho were not baptized, gave them an ex- 
ceeding reverence for his perfcn : Nor indeed would he marry 
ibcm at all, till heobtained my liberty to difcourfe both with 
the men and women j and then he told them, Thar, in the 
fjght of all indifferent men, and in the fenfe of the laws of fo- 
ciety, they had lived in open adultery, which nothing now, but 
their confcnt to many, or final reparation could put an end to ; 
and even here was a difficulty, with relpedt to the laws of 
Chrifiian matrimony, in marrying a profclTed Chrifiian to an 
l^eathen idolater, junbaptized but yet there was time enough 
TO make them profefs the nameof Chrift, without which noth- 
ing could be done ; that befides, he believed themfelves very 
indifferent Chiifiians, and con/equently hsd not difi:ourfed with 
iheir wives on that fubject ; and that unlefs they promifed 
him to do fo, he could not marry then), as being exprefsly for- 
bidden by the iaws of God. 

All this they heard attentively, and owned readily : But, 
Lord, Sir, faid ^///. J/kins to me, how (hould we te-ch them 
religion, who know nothing of it ourfelves ? And fhould we 
talk to our wives of God, Jefus Chrift, Heaven and Hell, they 
would only laugh at us, who never yet have pra^^ifed religion, 
but on the contrary all manner of wickednefs. ff^iJ/. Atkins,, faid 
I, can't ytu tell your wife fhe's in the wrong j and that her 
Gods are idols, which can neiiherhear, fj^eak or underftand ; 
but that our GO'S, who has made, can dellroy all things ; that 
he rewards the gocd, and puniihes the wicked } and at laft 
"Will bring us to judgment : Can't y«"n tell her thele things? 
That's true, faid Atkins, but then flie'll tell me 'tis utterly falfe, 
f)nce I am not punilhed and lent to the devil, who have been 
ivich a wicked creature. Thefc words I interpreted to the 
pried : O 1 faid he, tell him his repentance will make him a 
very good minifter to his fpoufe, qualifying him to preach on 
the mercy and long fuffering of a merciful Being, who dcfires 
not the death of a finner ; that he even defers damnation to 
the laft judgment, which will lead to the do^frine of it, 
and will make him an excellent pre?cher to his wife. — 
This I repeated to Atkins, who being more than ordinarily affect- 
ed with it, replied, 1 know all this, Sir, and a great deal more ; 
but how can I have the impudence to talk Thus to my wife, 

when 



when my confcience witnefTes againft ms ? Ale? ! (I'aid lie, witJi 
tenrs in liis eyes; and civing a great figh) as for repenting thai 
is for ever paft me. PafI you ! AtkinSj faid I, what do you 
mean f I know well enough, faid he, what I mean, I mean 'tis 
jLp late. 

^^hen I told the prieft what he faid, \.ht poor ?ffec>ionate maa 
could not refrain from weeping : But recovering hinifeU, pray^ 
fir, faid he, all: him, if he is contented that it is too late ; or is 
lie concerned, and wiflies it were not fo ? This queRion I put 
fairly to Atkinsy v.'ho repled in a paflion, how can I be eafy in a 
flate of damnation, which I know muft terminate in my ruin : 
For I really believe fome time or other, I fhall cut my throat, to 
put a period both to my life and to the terrors of my confcience. 

At this the clergyman fhook his head : Sir, faid he, pray 
tell bim it is not too late ! Chrift will ;^ive him repentance, 
if he has recourfe to the merit of his Paflion. Does he think; 
lie is beyond the power of Divine mercy ? There may indeed be 
a time when provoked mercy will no longer ftrive, but never 
too late for men to repent in this world. I told Atkins every 
word the Priefi had faid, who then parted from us, to talk to 
his v/ife ; while we difcourfed with the refl : But thofe were 
very fiupid in religious matters, yet all of them promifed to 
do their endeavours to make their wives turn Chriftians ; and, 
upon thefe prcmifes, the Prieft married the three couple. But, 
as Aikins was the only fmcere convert, and of more fenfe than 
the ref?, my Clergyman was earneflly enquiring after him : 
Sir, faid he, let's walk out of this labyrinth, and I dare fay we 
fhall find this poor man preaching to his wife already. And 
indeed we found it true ; for, coming to the edge of the wood, 
we perceived Atkins, ^n^ his favage wife, fitting under the fhade 
of a bufh in very earnefl di fcou rfe : He pointed to the fun, 
to the quarters of the earth, to himfelf, to her, the wood, and 
the trees. Immediately we could perceive him fiart upon his 
fett, fall down upon his knees, and lift up both his hands ; ?t 
which the tears ran down rny Clergyman's cheeks ; but our 
great misfortune was, that we could not hear one word that 
pafTed between them. Another time lie would embrace her, 
wiping the tears from her eyes, kiffing her with the greatclt 
tranfports, and then both kneeled down for fome minutes lo- 
gether. Such raptures of joy did this occafion in my young 
Pneft, that he could fcarcely contain himfelf: And a little 
after this, we obf'erved by her motion, as frequently lifting 
up her hand? und laying them on her hreaff, that fhe was 
mightily afFe(5lL'd with his doctrine j and fo they withdrevv from 
our light. 

VVhen we came back, we found them both waiting to be 
called in 3 upon which we agreed to exam'ne h m aUne. JnJ 
P» fo 



fo I began thus to difcourfe him. Prithee, Will. Atk'msy faid J, 
what education had you ? What was your fatlier ? 

IF. A. A better man than ever I fliall be : He was, Sir, 
a Cler'ryman, who gave me good infliuttion, or correaioiw 
which I defpiled, like a brute as I was, and murdered my podp 
father. - ^ 

Prlejl. Ha ! a murderer.* 

R. C. What, did you kill him with your hands ? 

W A, No, Sir, I did not cut his throat, but broke his 
heart ; by the moft unnatural return of difobedience to the 
tendereftand beft of fathers. 

R. C. Well, I pray God grant you repentance j I did not 
afe you to extort a confeliion ; but I afked you, becaufe I fee 
you have more knowledge of what is good than your compan- 
ions. 

/T, J. O, Sir, whenever I look back upon my paft life, my 
confcience upbraids me with my father ; the fins againft our 
parents make the deepeft wounds, and their weight lies the hav- 
iefl on the mind. 

R. C. You talk. Will, too feelingly and fenftbly for me : I 
am not able to bear it. 

W. A. You bear, it. Sir 1 you know nothing of it. 

R. C. But yes, Aikins, I do ; a^^d every fhore, valley, and 
tree in this ifland, vvitnefs theanguifn of my foul for my uf»- 
dutifulneis to my kind faiher, wiiom I have murciered like- 
wife ; yet my repentance falls infinitely f^ort of yours. But 
^/7/. how comes the fen fe of this matter to touch you juft 
now ? 

W. A. Sir, the work you have fet me about has occafioned 
it ; for, talking to my wife about God and religion, (he has 
preached me fuch a fermon, that I ftiall retain it in lafting re- 
membrance. 

R. C. No, no, 'tis your own moving pious arguments to 
her, has made confcience fling them back upon you. But, 
pray, Atkins, inform us what pafTcd between you and your 
wife, and in what manner did you begin ? 

W. A. I talked to her of the laws of marriage, the reafon 
of fuch compass, whereby ordtr and juffice is maintained ; 
without which, men would run from their wives and children, 
to the difTolution of families and inheritances. 

R. C. Well, and what did (he fay fo all this ? 

W. A, Sir,, we began our dircourfe in the foUowing man- 
ner ; which I fhall repeat exactly, according to my mean ca- 
pacity, if you think it worth your while to honour it with your 
-«kttentioa. 

The 

♦ Here t^e Priejljiarted and hQkdpcikf as thinking hg bad rcr, 
ully kiikd his father. 



^75 

The 'DIM.OGVE bet^joeen Will. Atkins, i7«^ his m/e/m the 
mod. 






YOU tell me marriage God appoint : have you 
God in your country ? 

jy. A. Yes, child, God is in ev-rry nation. 

fyife. No, great old Benamuckee God is nvy country, not 
youis. 

fV. A. My dear, God is in heaven, which he made, ths 
earth, the fea, and all therein. 

JVife. Why you not tell me much long ago ? 

W. A. My dear, I've been a v.icked v/retch, having a 
lonjj time lived without the knowledge of God in the world. 

Ifife. What, not know great God in own nation i No do 
■goo'l ting ? No fay O to him ? That's firange ' 

U^. A. But, my dear, many live as if there was no God ia 
heaven for all that. 

J^ife. Why God fuffer this ? Why makee not live well ? 

^ A. It is our own faults, child. 

in/e. But if he much great, can makee kill, why no makee 
kill when no ferve him ? No be good mans, no cry O to 
him ? 

ir. A. That is true, my dearths may ftrike us dead, but 
bis abundant mercy ftvireth us. 

ffy?. Did not you tell God tankee for that ? 

IV. A. No, I have neither thanked him for his mercy, nor 
feared him for his power. 

IVi/e. Then me nut believe you God be good, not makee 
kill, when you makee him angry. 

ff^. A. Alas I muft my wicked life hinder you from be- 
lieving in him- 

jnfe. How can mejink your God live there } (pointing to 
heaven) Sure he no tetl what you do there. 

jr. A. Yes, yes, my dea^, he hears us fpeak, fees what wc 
do, and knows what we even thmk. 

U^ife. Where then makee power ftrong^when he hears you 
curf-", fwearde great down ? 

/r. A. My dear, this (hews he is indeed a God, and not a 
man, who has not fuch tender mercy. 

iVife. Mercy I what you call mercy ? 

IK A. He pities and fpares us ; as he is our great Greater, 
fo alfo is he our tender faiher. 

Wife. So God never angry, never kill wicked, then he no 
good, n ) great mighty. 

^r. A. O, my dear don't fay fo, he is both ; and many 
limes he .-..-ws terrible examples cf his judgement and vea^ 
geance. 



Wife. Then you makee cie bargain wuh him ; ytu do bad 
tin<T, he no hurt you, he hurt other mans. 

W. A. No indeed, my fins arc all prefumptions upon hi-s 
goodnels. 

Wije. Well, and yet not nr.akse you dead? and you gi^l 
him no thankee neitlier ? 

W. A. 'Tis true, 1 am an ungrateful, unthankful dog, that 
I am. 

Wife^ Why you fay, he makee you, why makee you no 
much better then ? 

W. A. 'Tis I alone that have deformed myfelf, and abufed 
his goodnefs. 

Wife. Pray makee God know n*, me no makee him angry, 
no do bad thing. 

W. A. You mean, my dear, that you defire I would teach you 
to know Gcd : Aias ! poor dear creature ! hemuft teach thee, 
and not I. But Til pray earncflly to him to dire>^l thee, and 
to forgive m,c, a miferable finner. Hereupon I went a little 
diflance, and, kneeling down, prayed carnedly to God to en- 
lighten her mind and to pardon her fins : When this was 
done, we continued our diicourfe thus. 

Wife. What you put down knee for ? For what hold up 
hand ? Who you fpeak to ? " 

W. A. My dear, I bowed in token of fubmifHon to him 
that made me, and prayed that he would open your eyes and 
underfianding. 

Wife. And can he do that too ? And will he hear what 
you fay ? 

W. A, Yes, my dear, lie bids us pray, and has given his 
promife that he will hear us. 

Wife. When did he bid us pray ? What, do you hear him 
fpeak ? 

W. A. No, my dear, but God has fpoken formerly to 
good men from heaven ; and by divine revelation, they have 
written all his laws down in a book. 

Wife. O, where dat good book ? 

W A. I have it not now by me ; but, one lime or other, T 
(hall get it for you to read. Then he embraced her with 
great afFedion. 

Wfe. Pray tell-ame how God teachee them write that 
book ? 

W A. By that we know him to be God. 

Wife. What way, what rule you know him ? 

W. A. Becaufe he teaches wjiat i? good, juft, and holy ; 
and forbids all wicked and abominable anions that mcur his 
difpleafure. ' 

Wife. O me fain underftand that, and if he do all things 
ycu lay he do, furely he jiear me fay O to him j he makee me 

goud, 



177 

£foo^, if I wifti to be good ; he no kill me if I love him ; nic 
ti:)k, believe him great God ; me fay O to him along with you, 
my dear. 

Here the poor man fell upon his knees, and made her kneel 
clown by hihi, praying irj the gieateft fervency, that God 
would inltrudt her by his holy fpirit ; and tjiat fome time God, 
by his providence, would (end them a bible for both their in- 
ftruc^ion. And fuch vvas the early piety o( his new convert, 
»hat fhe made him promife never to forfake God any more ; 
left, being made dead, as /he called ir, fhe fhould not only want 
her inftruilor, but himfelf be miferable in a long eterniry. 

Such a furprifing account as this vvas, proved very afi^fting 
to us both, but particularly to the young Cleoyman, who was 
mightily concerned he could not talk to her himfelf: Sir, laid 
he, there is fomething more to he done to this woman than to 
marry her : I mean that fhe ought to be baptized. To this 
I prefcntly agreed : P'ray, faid he again, afk her hufband^. 
whether he has ever talked to her of Jefus Chriit, the falvation 
of finners, the nature of faith and redemption in and by him, 
of the holy fpirit, the refurrec'tion ; laft judgment, and a fu- 
ture ftate ; but the poor fellow melted into tears at this quef- 
tion, faying, that he had faid fome'hing to her of thefe thmgs, 
but liis own confcience terrifying him with the molt dreadful 
apprehenfions, he was afraid left her knowledge of it fhould 
make her rather contemn religion, than embrace it ; but if i 
wciild dlfcourfe with her, it was probable my labour would 
not be in vain. Accordingly I called her in, and placing my* 
felf as interpreter between the religious prielt and the woman, 
I entreated him to go on : But furely never was fuch a fermon 
preached by any clergyman in thefe latter days of the world, 
which had fo much "zeai, knowledge and !:ncerity r In (hort 
he brought the woman to embrace the knowledge of Ciirih, 
and of redemption by him, with fo furprifing a degree of un- 
derftanding, that (lie made it her own requeil to be baptized. 

And now he performed his office in the facrauicnt of Bap- 
tifm, firfi: by faying fome words over to nimfelf in Latirtf and 
then, aflcing me to give her a name, as being her godfather, 
he pouied a whole diftiful of water upon the woman's head., 
faying, mary, I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and 
of the Son, and of the Holy Gholt, To that none could know 
what religion he was of j and after, he pronounced the bene- 
diction in Latin. Thus, tiie woman being made a Chriflian, 
he married her to IFj/L Atkins, which being fiuilhed, he affec- 
tionately exhorted him to lead a holy life for the future ; that» 
fince the Almighty, by the convidlions of his confcience, had 
honoured him to be the inllrumcnt of his wife's converfion, he 
. (hould not difhonour the grace of God, left, while the favage 
v/as converted, the inftruiueut fhoUld bq uft away,, And thus 

ended 



ended {he rercmcny, wh'urh madeittheraoft plcafan! and >» 
greeable day I ever palTed in my life. 

The affairs of the ifland being fettled, I was preparing to go 
on board, when the young man, whofe mother was ftarved, 
came to me, •aying, That, as he underdood I had a clergyman 
with me, who had married the Englijhtnen w'th lavages, he had 
a matcli to make between two Ctlri(li-^ns, which he defired 
might be finiflied before I departed. Bat th-nking ir was 
liimfelf that had courted Ills mother's maid, I perluaded him 
not to do any thing rafhly upon the account of his roiitary 
circumftanccs \ that the maid was an unequal match for him, 
both in refped to fubflance and years; and (hat it was very 
probable he would live to return to his own country, where he 
might have a far better choice. At thefe words, he fmilingly 
interrupted me, thanking me for ray good advice ; that, as he 
had nothing to beg of me, but a fmall fettlement, with a ^tr^ 
van: or two, or fome few necelTaries ; fo he hoped I would not 
be unmindful of him when I returned to England, but give 
his letters to iiis friends ; and that when he was redeemed, the 
filantation, and all its improvements, however valuable, fhould 
be returned Xo me again : But, as for the marriage he propof- 
ed, why truly il was iaetween my Jack of all Trades, and the 
maid Sufan. 

Indeed I was agreeably furprized at the mentioning this 
match, which feemed very fuitable ; the one being a very in- 
genious fellow, and the other an excellent, dexterous, and fcn- 
llble houfewife, fit to be governefs of the whole ifland ; So we 
married them the fame day ; and as I t^as her father, and gave 
her away, fo 1 gave her a handfome portion, and appointed 
her and her hufbond a large convenient fpace of ground for 
their plantation. The fharing out of the land to them, I left 
to U^ill. AtkinSf who really very jafily divided it to every |:)€r- 
fon's fatisfaftion : They only defired one general writing, un- 
der my hand, for the whole, wiiich I caufed to be drawn up, 
fjgneii, and fealed to them, letting out their bounds, and giv- 
ing them a right to the wjioie pcffefijon of their refpe^Jve 
plantations, with their improven:ents, to them and Jheir heirs, 
refervjing all the re(i of the ifland as my ovvn property, ai-.d a 
certain rent forevcry particular plantation, after ii years. As 
to their laws and governmenr, I exhorted them to love one 
another : And as to the Indians, who lived on a neck by fhem- 
felves, 1 allotted three or four of them plantations, and the reft 
willingly chofe to become fervant^ to all the other families, by 
which means rhey were employed in ufeful l3bo\ir, and fared 
much better than they did before. Thus the lavages, being 
mixed wiih th.e ChrHiians, the work of the ronverfion of the 
Indians might be fef on foot by the latter, in the clergyman's 
ablence, to our c:^ual fatiSfa(^iion. But how, faid the voun<^ 

Pricft, 



J 79 

Prieft, fhali I know that tfic Chriftians \viii do their parts to 
mltnict them ; I told him we would call them all together, 
that we Hiould fpeak. to live Span'tar.^Sy who were Papifts, and I 
fo the Engl'^/bt who were Proteftants, and make them proniife 
that they would never make any dinir;6tion in religion, birt 
teach the general titie knowledge of God, and his Son Jefua 
Chrii'l, in order to convert th.e poor (avages : And this indeed 
they all promiied us accordingly. 

When I came to H^ill. Atkins's houfe, I found his baptized 
wife, and the young woman newly m:irried to my jack of all 
Trades, were become gi'^at intimates, and difcourling of re- 
ligion together : O Sir, laid iVill. Aik'inSy when God has fin- 
ners to reconcile to himfelf, he never wants an inllru(Slor : I 
knew I was unworthy of fo good a work, a-d tiierefore this 
young woman has been tent hither, as it uere from heaven, 
who is fufticsent to convert a whole ifland of favage^. The 
young woman bluflied, and was going to rife, but 1 de/ired her 
to fit (fill, and hoped that God" would blefs her in fo good a 
work: And then, pulling out a Bible, wh'ch I brought oa 
purpofe in my pocket for him ; here Atkins^ id.\^ J, here is an 
a'lifiant that perhaps you had not before. So confounded was 
the poor man, that it was fome time before he could fpeak ; at 
laft, turning to his wife, my dear, faid he, did 1 not tell you 
that God could hear what we faid i Here is the book I prayed 
for v^hcn you and I kneeled under the buih : God tlien' heard 
us, and now has fent it. The woman was furprifed, and 
thought God had really fent that individual book from heav- 
en ; but 1 turned to the young woman, and defiled her to ex- 
plam to the new convert, that God may properly be faid to an- 
fwer our petitions, when, in the courle of his Providence, fuch 
particular things as we petitioned fur, do come to pafs. Thi^ 
the yoiuig woman did effe<l:tudlly ; but furely Will. Atkins^ 
joy cannot be exprelFed ; no man in the world being more 
fhankiul for any thing, than he was for this bible, nor dcfirc 
it from a better principle. 

After feveral religious difcourfes, I defired t'iie young wo- 
man to give me an account of rlie inguifh fhe felt wiien flie 
was (tarvlng to dzdth for hu'iger; to which Ihe readily con- 
lented, and began in ihe following manner : 

** Sir, faid (he, all our victuals being gone, after I had faft- 
cd cne day, my itomach was very (ickifh, and, at the approach 
of night, I was wiclined to yawning and flceping. When I 
/flept upon the couch three hours : Thiee hours after, my fto- 
rnach being more and njore fickifl-!, 1 laid down again, but 
could not flcep, being very taint and ill. Thus I palRd the 
lecond day in a ftrangc varieiy, firft liungry, then fick again, 
vfilh reachings to vom t That night I dreamt (liat 1 was at 
BuriadofSf buying plenty ef provifions, and dining heartily. 

But 



j8o 

But vihen I awaked, my fpirits were exceedingly funk- ro finij 
ir.yielf in the extremity of famine. There was but one glafs 
of wine, i^-hich being mixed wi'h fugar, I drank up, but, for 
want of fubftarce to digef^ upon, the lim'.es of it got into my 
head, and made riie fenlelefs for feme time. The third day, [ 
was lo ravenous and furious, tiiat I could have ate a httle cTiild 
had it come in my way ; during which time I was as ntiad as 
anv creature m Bedlam. In one of thcfe fits I fell down, and 
(Uuck nny face againft the corner of a pallet bed, where my 
n-:i(lrefs lay : The biood guHicd out .ot my nofe, but by my 
excefTive bleeding, boih the violence of the fever, and the rav- 
enous part of the hunger abated. Aftt^r, I grew Hck again, 
(trove to vomir, but could not ; then bleeding a fecond time, 
X 'vvooned away as dead ; coming to myfeif again, I had a 
dreadful gnavMng pain ai my ffomach, which went off towards 
n'ght with a longing defire lor food. 1 took a draught of wa- 
ter and fugrir, but it came up again ; tlien I drank water with- 
out fu?ar, and that ftayed with mc. 1 laid me down on the 
bed, praying God he would take me away ; after I had (lum- 
bered, I thought myfelf a dying, therefore recommending my 
foul to Gijd^ wu'hed Ibmcbody would throw me into the fea. 
All this while my departing miftrefs lay by me. The laff bit 
ofljread iTie had, ffie gave to her dear child, my young mafter. 
TtiC morning after, I fell into a violent paf^lon of crying, and 
after iliat into hunger. I e'pied tlie b!ood that came from my 
nofe in a bafon, \^ tiich I immediately fwallowed up. At night 
I had tiie ufual variations, as pain in the flomach, lick, lleepy, 
and r?ivenous ; and I had no tfioughfs but that 1 Ciould die be- 
fore morning. Now came on a terrible griping in my bow- 
els '. Then 1 heard my yowng maker's terrible lamciitations, 
that his mother was dead ! And, foon after the Tailors cried, a 
fail, a fail, hallooing as if they were dinra<5fed, for joy of that 
rel'ief, which wc affcrwards received from your han.ds." 

Surely this is fuch a diltintt account of ffarving to death, 
llrat I believe few evrr met with the like ; But to reuirn to the 
dilpoiition of things among my people. I did not take any 
notice to them of the Hoop that I had framed, neither would ( 
leave ihem the two pieces of brafs cannon, or the two quarter 
deck gurs that I had on board ; leff, upon any difgulf, they 
(hould have feparated, or turned pirates, and fo made the ifland 
a den of thieves, inftead of a plantation of (ober pious people. 
Bu% without thefe things, leaving ihem in a flourifhing con- 
dition, with a promife to fend them further relief from Brofil 'y 
as fheep, hogs, and cows (being obliged to kill the latter at fea, 
|\avirg no hay to feed them) I went on board the fhip again the 
firff of Mc^y, 1605, having been twenty days among them ; and 
the nrxt morning giving them a falute ot five guns at parting, 
•re (et fail for (he Brajih ; but the third day, towards evening,. 

there 



there happening a calm, and yet being by a Cirong current 
drove to the N. N. E. towards the land fide, we perceived the 
lea covered as it were with fomethiiig very black, ncit eafily to 
be di (covered at firfi ; Upon wiiich our chief irjate afccnding 
the fliroads a little way, and taking a viewvvith a perfpcCtivt: 
glars, he cries out, it is an army. An army, you fool I faid I, 
What do you mean ? Nay, Sir, laid he, don't be angry ; I af- 
filre you 'tis not only an army, but a fleer too ; I believe there 
are a thoufand canoes paddling along, and. n^^king halte tow- 
ards us too. 

Indeed every one of us were furprifed at this relation ; and 
my nephew, the captain, could not tell what to think of ic, but 
imagined we ftouid all be devoured. Nor was I free frpm 
concern, when I confidered how much wc were becalmed, and 
what a fhrong current fet towards tlie (hore : However, I en- 
couraged him not to be afraid, but bring the (hip to an anchor^ 
as foon as we were certain that we muft engage them. We ac- 
cordingly did (ot and furled all our fails : A^ to the fav?ges» 
we feared nothing but their fctting the fhip on fire ; to prevent 
which, I ordered them to get their boats out, and faflen them, 
one clofe by the head and the other by tlje flern, well manned, 
mth fhtets and buckets to extinguifh the flaipes, frould it fo 
happen. But when the favages came up, they we;-c a horrid 
fi^ht indeed, but there wsre not fo many as the mate had faid ; 
for, inltead of a thoufand paaoes, they were about one hun- 
dred and twenty, though indeed they were too many, fevcraJ 
of theie canoes containing above (ij^teen or feventeen men. 

As they approached near us, they feemed to lie in the great- 
eft amazement, and not knowing what to make of us, they 
rowed round the Ihip, whitli occafioned us to call to the men 
in the boats, not to fuffer them to come near thcin. i?ereup. 
on they beckoned to the favages to keep back, whicii they ac- 
c^jrdingiy did ; but, at their retreat, they let fly about 50 ar- 
rows among us, and very much wounded one of cur men in 
the long boat. I called to them not to fire upo.T any account, 
but handing ihemdown fomedeal boards, the carpenters made 
them a kiixi of fesce to (hield tliem from the arrows. In hdlf 
an hour after, they came fo near a ftern of us that we had a 
pertedt fight of them ; then they rowed a liule farther out, till 
they came directly broad fide with us, and then approached fo 
near us they could hear us fpeak. This made me order all our 
men to keep clofe, and get their guns ready ; iii the mean t.ime 
1 ordered Friday to go out upon deck, and afk them in his 
language what they meant. Nu fooner did he do fo, but (ix. 
of the favages, who were in the foremoli canoe, Itooping down. 
Clewed ui the»r naked backfides, as much as to lay in EugH/h^ 

kiCs «ur ; but Friday quickly knew what this meautVby 

immftdiitely crying out tUcy were going to flioot; uoforfuna,te- 

Q_ ' iy 



l82 

ly for him poor creature! who fell under a cloud of three 
hundred arrows, no lels than (even piercing through his body, 
kiUing one of the bed of fervants, and faithfulleft of compa- 
jiions in all my folitudes and afRirtions. 

So enraged was I at the death of poor Friday^ that I ordered 
fhe guns, v\;hich vyere charged before only with powder to 
frighten them, to be loaded with fmall (hot ; nor did the gun- 
ners fail in their aim, but, at this broadfide, fplit and overfet 
Jthifteen or tourteen of their canoes, no doubt killed feveral of 
them, and (et the reft a fwimming : The others, frightened 
out of their wits, little regarding their fellows a drowning, 
jcoured away as faft as they could ; but our men took up one 
poor wretch, fwimming for his life, an hour after. He was fo 
J'ullen at firft, that he would neither eat nor fpeak ; but I took 
a way to cure him, by ordering them to throw him into the 
fea, which they did, and then he came fwimming to theni like 
a cork ; calling, in his tongue, I fupppofe, to iave him. So 
we took him on board, but it was a long time before we could 
make him fpeak or underftand Englijb ; yer, when we taught 
him, he told us, they were going with thar kings to fight a 
great battle : And when we afl<ed him what made them come 
lup to us ? He faid, To makee de great 'wonder look. By which it 
is to be noted, that thefe natives, and thofe oi^Africay always 
add two E's at the end of EngUjb words, as makee takee^ and the 
like, which it is a very difficult th,ing to break them of. 

And now being under fail, I cannot but take my laft farewel 
of poor honell Friday! And indeed we interred him with all 
poflTibie decency and folemnity, by patting him into a coffin, 
and committing him to the deep, at the fame time caufing e- 
leven guns to be fired for him : And thus ended the life of 
one of the mofl grateful, faithful, honeft, and afFe<5tionate fer- 
vants, that ever any man was blelf with in the world. 

Having now a fair wind for Rrajily in about twelve days time, 
vre made land in the latitude of five degrees foutU of the line. 
Four days we kept on S. by E. in fis^ht of the (hove, when we 
made Cape St. Augufiine, and, in three days, we came to an 
anchor off the bay of All Saints. But it was with gr^at diffi- 
culty I obtained leave to hold correfpondence here on dioie ; 
for i^either the figure of my partner, my two merchant truftees, 
jiorthe fame of my wonderful preiervation in the ifland, could 
procure me that favour, till fuchtinieas the Prior of the Monal- 
flcry of the Augujiines (to whom I had given 500 moidores) ob- 
tained leave from the Governourforme perfonally,with the cap- 
tain, and one more, together with eight failors, to come on fliore, 
and, upon thrs condition, that we (hould not latid atiy goods 
<jUt of the (hip, or carry any perfon away without licence ? 
But, however, with difficulty, I got on fhore three bales of 
'Engli/h goods; as fine broad cloth, (luffs, and fome linen, 

which 



v^hkli I brought as a prefent for my partner ; who had fent me 
on board a prefent of trefh provifions, wir.e, and Aveet meats, 
worth above thirty moidores, including fonie tobacco, and three 
or four fine gold medals. 

And now I dehvered my partner, in goods, to the va>ue of 
£,\Cio fierllngy and obhged him to let up ti:;e Hoop I brought for 
the ule ol my iflaiid, in order to fend ihem retrefhments : Nor 
did he fail in this, but had the veficl fiiiifhed in a few days, to 
the maftcr of which I gave particular inftruciions to find the 
place. I foon loaded hmi with a fmail cargo, and one of my 
Tailors offered to fettle there, upon my letter to the Spamjb 
Governour, if I would allot him tools and a plantation. I'his I 
willingly granted, and gave Uim the favage we had taken pri- 
foner to be his (lave. AH things being ready for the voyage, 
my old partner told me, there was an acquaintance of his, a 
Brafil planter, who having fallen under the difpleaftire of the 
church, and in the fear of the inquifition, which obhged him 
to be concealed, would be glad of Uicli an opportunity to make 
his efcape, with his wife and two daughters ; and it I would 
allot them a plantation in my ifland, he would give them a 
fmall (lock to begin with, fcr that the officers had already feiz- 
ed hiseffettbandellare, and left him nothing but a little honfe- 
hold fluff and two fiaves. Th'S requeft I prcfently granted, 
concealing him and his family on board (y\\v fliip, till fuch time. 
as the floop (where all the effeif s were) was-gpt cut of the bay, 
and then we put them on board, who carried ti^em Tome ma- 
terials and plants for planting fugar canes along with them. 
By this floop, among other things, I fent ray fubjeffs three 
iwilch cows, and five calves, about 22 hogs, three fows big 
\\\xh pig, two mares and a ftaUion. 1 alfo engaged three Por^ 
tuguefe women to go for the fake of the Spaniards, which, with 
the perfecuted man's two daughters, were fuffic^ient, flnce tlie 
reft had wives of their own, tJibugh in another country : AH 
which cargo arrived fafe, no doubt, to their exceeding com- 
fort j who, with tliis addition, v/ere about fixty or feventy peo- 
ple, befides children. 

Here it was that my truly hcned and pious clergyman left 
me ; for a fhip being ready to fet laii for Lijlon, he aikcd me 
leave to go tinther ; biit i aflure you it was with the greatelh 
reluctance I parted from fuch a perion, v/hofe virtue and piety 
merited the greatefl efteem. 

Wiien we failed from the Brains^ wr made directly overtime 
Atlantic ocean to the Cape of Good I/opr, havuig a tolerable 
good voyage, fleering for the mult part S. E. We wert on a 
trading voyage, and had a fupercargo on board, wjiu^ was to 
direct all the fhip's motions after fhe arrived at the Cape ; on- 
ly being limitei to a certain number of days for ftay, by chart- 
er party, »i the fcvcral pons fl.e was to go 10 ; bur all this be- 
longed 



longed to my nephew tlie captain, and the fupercargo, and wm 
none of my bufinefs. At the Cape we only took in frefh wa- 
ter, and then failed for the coafl of Coromandei, being informed 
that a French man of war of fifty guns, and two large merchant 
/hips were failed for the Indies^ but we heard no more of 
tbem. 

The firft place we touched at was the IHand of Madagafcar ; 
"where, though the inhabitants are naturally fierce and treach- 
erous, formidably armed with bows and lances ; yet, for 
fome time they treated us civilly enough ; and, in exchange of 
Icnives, iciflars, and other trifles, they brought us eleven good 
fat bullocks, which we took partly tor prefent fTeft viCinals, 
and the remainder to fait for the fhip's ufe. 

So curious was I to view every corner of the world where I 
came to, that I went on fhore as often as I could ; when one 
•evening, numbers of the people flood gazing at us at a'dif- 
tance, yet we thought ourfelves in no danger, becan fc they 
had ufed us kindly. However, we cut three boughs out of a 
tTtty flicking them at a diftance from us, which, it feems, in 
Ih^t country, is not only a token of truce and amity, but, when 
jpol^ or boughs are fe't up on the other fide, it is a fign the 
xruce is accepted : Yet there is one thing to be regarded, that 
iicither party muft come beyond one another's three poles or 
boughs ; fo that the middle fpace is not only fecure, but is al- 
fo allowed like a market for traffick and commerce. They 
jfticfc up their latvces and javelins at the firft poles, and come 
on unarmed ; but, if any violence is offered, away tliey run to 
«h^ir poles, take up their weapons, and then the truce is at an 
€n-d. One evening it happened, when we went on Ihoie, a 
greater number of people than tifual, both men and women, 
honeftly traded among us for fuch toys as we had, with fuch 
jrcat civility, that we made us a little tent of large boug;hs of 
ifrees, fome of the men refolving to lie on fnore all night. But, 
for my part, I and fome others took our lodging in the boat, 
Vf'wh boughs of trees fpread over it, having a lail fpread at the 
bottom to He upon ; when, about two o'clock in the morning, 
■we heard the firifig cf five mufkets, as alfo our men crying out 
ifor help, or elfe they fiiould a!! be murdered : Nor /carce had 
we time to get the boat aSlinre, but that our men came and 
T)ik»nged Clicmfelves into the water, having above four hundred 
3neii at their heels : We took up leven of the men, three of 
them very much wounded^ anfl one left behind killed, wliile 
ihe enemy poured thfir arrows To thick among us, th»t we were 
Vorcfd to maV'ea barricad*", with board« lyin^ at the fide of ihc 
t)o&% to fiiield us from danger : And having got ready our 
fire arms, wr rerarntd thfm a volley, which no doubt wound- 
ed ^fvoral of tlicm, m we could hear by their cries. In this 
corditum we lay nil break of dav, and then, making fignalsof 

diltrels 



J>«5 

diliref- to the fl.ip, uhich my nephew, the captain, heard and 
undcrftood, ha: weiglied ancb.or, and ftood as near the fnore as 
pofiible, and ihen (ent another boat with ten hands in her to 
aflill us; but we called to tliem not to come near, informing 
theoi ot our unhappy condition ; However they ventured^ 
when one of the men taking the end of a tow-line in his hand, 
and keeping our boat between him. and our adverfaries, fwam 
on buard us, and made fait the hne to our boat ; upon thi^i 
flipping our cabies, they towed us out of the reach of their ar- 
rows, and quickly attcr a broadlide was given them from the 
fhip, wliich made a inofl dreadful fiavoc among them. Bui: 
when we had got on board, and examined into the occafion or 
this fray, the men who fled iniormed us, that an old womian^ 
who fold niiik within tlie poles, Ixid brought a young woman 
with her, who carried roots or herbs ; the fight of whom To 
much tempted our tiien, that they offered rudeuels to the niaid» 
at which the old woman fet up a great cry ; nor would the 
failors part from tlieir prize, but carried her among the trecs^ 
while the old woman went and brought a wjiole army down 
upon them. At the begii-ming of the attack one of our men 
was killed with a lance, and the fellow who began the mif- 
chief, paid dear enough for hi?, mifirefs, though as yet we did 
not know what became of ifun, but the reft got free. The 
third night after the action, being curious to underftand liow 
affairs flood, 1 took the kipercargo, and twenty flout fellows 
with m.e, and landed about two hours before midnight, ul the 
Ume place where thofe Indians /fund the night before; ard 
there we divided our men into two bodies, the boatfwain com- 
raanding one, and I the other. It was fo dark, that we could 
fee nobody; neither did we hear any voice near us ; but by 
and by the boatfv\ain falling over a dead body, we confcnted 
lo halt till the moon began to rife, which we ki.ew would be 
in an .hour after ; and then we perceived two and fhiity bodies 
upon t!ie ground, v.liereof two were not quite dead. Satisfied 
with this difcovery, I v/as going on board again ; but the boat- 
fwaln, and the relf, told me they would make a vif t to the In- 
ilian town where thofe dogs, fo the called them, refined, afk- 
ing me at the l^me time to go along wiili tliem : that fhey di^f 
rot doubt, betides getting a good booty, but they fh«»» la find 
I'om Jtffery Theje, for that was the unhappy nian we miffed. 
But 1 utterly refufed tu go, and commanded them back, as 
being unvMliing to hazard their lives, the fatety of the (hip 
wliolly depending upon them. Upon which, in fhort, they all 
left me but one, and the lupercargo : So we returned to the 
boat where a boy was left, telhng ihern we would fiay for thole 
that returned, though we fuppcied that molt of them would 
run the fame late of Tom Jeftt)-. To this they replied, Come 
* Qys.^ come ulongy ivf'il 'warrant lutUl CQm( '>ff f^^Je enough , and 
^* fo 



fo away (hey went, notwitlifianding all my admonitions, either 
concerning their own fafety, or tlie preiervation of tlie fhi;*. 
Indeed they were gallantly armed, every man having a muC- 
ket, bayonet, and a piftol, befides cuttafFes, hangers, poleaxes, 
aod hand granades. They came to a fa*/ Indian hoiifes at 
fiift ; but, not being the town they expe(5ted, they went farth- 
er, and finding a cow tied to a tree, they conchtded that would 
be a fufficient guide to them, and io it proved ; for after they 
untied her, fhe led thdm direi^ly to the town, which confifled 
ot above two hundred houfes, feveral families living in fome 
of the huts together. Mere, being all in a profound Hcep, the 
bailors confulfed to divide ihemfeives into three bodies, and 
<'et three parrs of the town on fire at once ; to kill thofe that 
were efcaping, and plunder the reft of tlie houfes. Thus def- 
perately refolved, they went to work ; but the firft party had 
not gone far, before they called out to the rcfi:, that they had 
found Tom Jeffery -y whereupon they all ran up to tlie place, 
and four>d the poor fellow indeed, hanging up naked by one 
arm, and his throat almofli cut from ear to ear ; In a houfe 
that was hard by the tree, they found j6 or 17 Indians who 
had been concerned in the fray, two or three of them being 
wounded, who were not gone to fleep ; this houfe they fet en 
lire firft, and quickly, five or fix places more in the town ap- 
peared in flames, which they occafioned by wild fire, as the 
fitteft to burn their thatchts, confiding of flags or rufhes : and 
xio fooner did the affrighted creatures run out to lave their 
lives, but they were either driven back into the flames by the 
iailors, or killed without mercy. After the boatlwain had 
ilain two with his pole-axe, he threw a hand-granade into the 
houfe, which, foon burfling, made a terrible havock, kilting 
and wounding moft cf them ; and neither their king, nor any 
of his train, who were in that houfe, cfcaped their fury, but 
they were every creature TrnQthered and burnt together. All 
this while they never fired a gun, left the people (hould wakea 
fafter than they could overpower them. But they awaked fafl 
enough, which obliged our fellows to keep together in bodies. 
And by this time the.whole town was in a flame, yet their fury 
jather increafed, calling out to one another to remember Tom 
Jrffery. The terrible light of this Conflagration made me ve- 
ry uneafy, and roufed my nephew the captain, and the reft of 
his men,' not knowing any thing of the matter. But when he 
perceived thfc dreadful fmoke afcending in the clouds, and 
heard the guns go off, which nvade him conclude his men in 
danger, he' takes another boat, and comes on fhore himfelf 
\i\\\\ 13 men well armed : Nor was lie lefs furprized to fee me 
and two men only in the boat ; but though I argued with him, 
as I did vvith his men, about the danger of the voyage, the in* 
x^it^ ot Ihe mershiMUs and owners, and the f*fety of the (hip j 



187 

yctmy nephew was Tike the reft, declaring, that he would rath- 
er lo(e the Ihip, his voyage, his life aaJ all, than his men fliould 
be io!^ for want of help ; and fo away he went. For my part, 
feeing hun refolved to go, I had not power to (tay behind him : 
He ordered the pinnace back again for twelve men more ; and 
then we marched diredly as the flafne guided us. But lureiy 
fiever was fuch a fcene of horrour beheld, nor more diimal 
cries heard before, except at the time of that vile traitor and 
ufurpcr Oliuer Cmnuj ell's taking Drogbeda in Irelandy wtiere 
lie neither (pared man, woman or child. 

The firft object, I think, we met with, was the ruins of one 
of their habitations, before which lay four men and three 
wom.en killed, and two burnt to fieath among the fire, which 
was now decaying. Nothing could appear more barbarous 
than this revenge j none more cruel than the auti^ors of it. 
As we went on, the fire increafed, and the cry proceeded in pro- 
portion : Nor had we gone much farther, but we beheld three 
naked women, followed by flxteen or feventeen men, flying 
with the greated fwiftnefs from our men, who fhot oiie of 
them in our light : When they perceived us, whom they fup- 
poled would be their murderers, they fet up a molt dreadful 
ihriek, and two fwooned away in the fright. Here was fuch 
a fight, as might furely foften the hardelt heart ; and, in pity, 
we rook means to let them know we would not hurt themj 
while the poor creatures, with bended knees and lift up hands, 
made piteous lamentations to us to fave their lives. 1 ordered 
oar men not to hurt any of the poor creatures whatfoever ;, 
but, being willing to underltand the occalion of all this, t 
went among thele unhappy wretches, who neither underflood 
me, nor I believe the meaning themfelves. Hereupon, being 
relolved to go into the middle of the town through the fire, 
in order to put an end to this barbarity, I ordered the men to 
follow me ; but I had fcarce fpoke the woid, before the boat- 
fwain came up, with four of ovir men at his heels, covered 
with blood and dull, feeking more people to mal&cre ; upon 
which, calling out to them, we made them underftand who wc 
were, and they came up to us, fetting up a halloo of triumph, 
in token that more help was come. Noble captain, faid he to 
my nephew, I'm glad you'r come ; we have not half done 
with thefe villanous hell hound dogs, we'll root out the very 
nation of them from the earth, and kill more than poor Tom 
)ias hairs upon hi» head : And thus he went on till I interrupt- 
ed him. Blood thirfty dog r faid I, will your cruelry never 
end i I charge you touch not one creature more ; flop your 
hands and fland ftill, or you'r adead man this moment. Why, 
Sir, faid he, you neither know who you are protecting, or what 
they have done ; but pray come hither,, and behold an objedt 
of companion; if fuch merit your clemency, j and with that 

he 



r38 

lie Hnewed me the poor feliaiv, with his throat cuf, hanging up- 
en the tree. •■ 

Indeed here was enough tofill theirbreafh with rage, which, 
however, I thought had gone too far, agreeable to the/e words 
ct Jacob to his Ions, Simeon and /,^t'i ; Curfed be their anger 
for it ii:as fierce y and their 'wrath, for it iifas cruel. But this 
fi<;ht made my nephew ami the relt :as bad us they ; nay, my 
licphew declared, his concern was only for his men ; as for 
th.e people, not a {"oil of tiiem ought to Uve. Hereupon away 
ran the btatfyvain and eight more; to finilh the tragedy ; which 
being out of my power to prevent, I penfively returned back, 
both fiorn the difniai fight, and the piteous cries of tijofe un- 
fortunaie creatures, who. were* made victims to their fury. 
Nor vvas it a lefs piece ot folly in me to return to the boat with 
a few others, having narrowly efcaped forty armed Indians, 
who had been alarmed by the confiigration ; but, having mif- 
fed the place where they flood, I got to the boat, accompanied 
with the fupercargo, and fo went on board, fending tiie pin- 
nace back again, to ailiftthe men in what might happen. Wiien 
I had got to the boat, the fire was aim 'ft extmguiffjed, and the 
noife abated ; but I had fcarce been half an iiour on board the 
fhip, when I heard another volley given by our failors, and 
a great fmoke, which, as I afterwards found, was our men 
falling upon tliofe houfes and perfons that flood between them 
and the fea ; but here they Ipared the wives and children, and 
killed about fix.een or feventeen men. And fo they came 
ftroUing down to the pinnace, which, at that time was gotten 
on fhore to receive them. Nota^ianof them had received 
the lealt hvirt, except two, one of .whom firamed his foot, and 
the other burnt Ids hand a little, having met with no refift- 
ance, the poor Indians being unprepared, amazed and con- 
ioimded. 

Indeed I was extremely angry with every one of them, but 
particularly the Captain ; who, inftead of cooling the rage of 
the men, had prompted them on to farther milchief : Nor 
could he make any other excufe, but that, as he was a man, he 
could not mafter his pafTions, at the fight of one of his men fo 
cruelly murdeied. As for the reft, knowing tliey were not 
under my command, they took no notice of my ar.ger, but 
rather boaffed of their revenge j and, according to all ifieir ac- 
counts, they killed or deftroyed about 150, men women' and 
children, befides burning the town to afhes. Tiiey took their 
accompanion Tom Jeffery from the tree, covered him with fotue 
of the ruins, and fo left him. But, however jufiifiable this 
tion of our men might feem to themfislvss, yet I always ov>en- 
ly condemned it, with the ajn ellation of the maffdcre of Mad" 
agafcar : For though they had Ih^in this Jcfny, yet he was cer- 
tain the firft aggrellur, by attempting to violate Ihe ghaftity oi 

a young 



189 

aysung innocent woman, who ventured down (a them on the 
fk\th of the [Hiblic capitulation, which was fo trcacheroufly 
broken. 

We were now under fail, when the boatfwain would defend 
this bloody action, by faying, That the Indians had broke the 
friicc, the night before, by fhooting one of our men without 
juft provocation : And what if the poor fellow had taken a 
little liberty with the wench, he ought not to have been mur- 
dered in fo villanous a manner j and that they had acled 
nothing but what the divine laws commiHloned to be done to 
fuch hofTiicideS. However, \ was in the fame mind as before, 
telling them that they were murderers, and bid him depend 
upon it, that God wouldblad their voyage for fo unparalleled 
a piece of barbarity. 

When we came 'into the gulph of Perjici^ five of cur men whd 
veniured on fhore, were either killed, or made flaves by the 
Arabians^ the reft of tfaem having fcarce time toefcape to iheir 
boat. This made me upbraid them afrefh with the juft re- 
tribution of heaven for fuch a6tions : Upon which the boat- 
fwain very warmly afkcd me, whether thofe men on whom 
the tower of Siloam fell, were greater finners than the reft of 
the Galileans ? And befides, Sir, faid he, none of thefe five 
poor men that are loft, were with us at the malTacreof Mada- 
ga/carj as you call ir, and therefore your rcprehenfion is very 
unjuft, and your application improperly applied. Befides, 
added he, you are continually ufing the men very ill upon this 
account, and being but a paffenger yourfelf, we are not oblig- 
ed to bear it ; nor can we tell what ill defigns you may have 
to bring us to judgment for it in England; and therefoie \i 
you don't leave this difcourfe, and not concern yourfelf with 
any of our affairs, I wiil leave the fhip, and not fail in fuel* 
dangerous company. 

All this I keard very patiently, till at length I told hinj 
what concern 1 had on board was none of his bufinefs ; that, 
however, I was aconfiderable owner of the fhip, and therefore 
had a right to (peak in common, and that 1 was no way ac- 
countable to him, nor to any body elfe. Well, this part on, and 
] thought all had been over. At this time we were in the road 
of Bengal ; where, going on fhore with tlie fonercargo one day 
towards evening, as I was preparing to go on board, one of the 
men came to me, and told me, I need not trouble myfell to 
come to the boat, for that the cockfwain and others had order- 
ed him not to carry me on board any more. This infolent 
nicffage much fiirprifed me, yet I gave him no anTwer to it, 
but went diredly, and acquainted the (upercargo, entreatini; 
liim to go on board, ^nd, by acquainting the captain with it, 
to prevent the mutiny which I perceived would happen. Bur, 
before I had fpoke this, the matter was effe^ed on board r For^^ 

no 



li)0 

no Iboncr was I gone off in the boat, but the boatfwain, gun- 
ner, carpenter, and all the inferior officers, came to the quar- 
ter deck, defiring to ipeak with the captain ; and there it was 
the boatfwaiH made a long harangue, exclaiming againft nic 
as befote mentioned j that if I had not gone peaceably for my 
own diverfion, >hey would have compelled me by violeuiic 
for their fatisfaction j that, as they had (hipped with the 
captain, fo they would faithfully fcrve him ; but, if I did not 
quit the fhip, or ihe captain oblige me to it, they would le4,ve 
the fhip immediately : Hereupon, turning his face about by 
way of fignal, they all cried out. One and All, one and All. 

You may be fure, tliat thoug^i my nephew was a man of 
great courage, yet he could not but be furprifed at their Aidden 
and unexpected behaviour : And, though lie talked ffoutly to 
them, and afterv«/aids expm'lulated with (hen) that, in com- 
mon juffice to me, who was a confiderable owner in the fliip, 
^liey could not turn me out, as it were out of my own houfe, 
which might brmg their lives in danger fhould they ever be 
taken in England : Nay, though he invited the boalfwain on 
fhore to acconimcdatc matters with me, yet all this, I lay, fig- 
Dified nothing : They would have nothing to do with me : 
And they were refolved to go on fhore if I came on board. 
V/ell, faid my nephew, if you are fo rcfolved, permit me to 
talk with him, and then I have done : And fo he came to me, 
giving me an account of their refoiution, how one and all de- 
figned fo forfake the (hip if I came on board, for which he was 
mightily concerned. I am very glad to fee you, nephew, faid 
I, and rejoice it is no wcrfe, fince they have not rebelled againft 
you : I only dtfire you to fend my neccffary things on fhore, 
with a fufficient fum of money, and I will find my way to Eng- 
iund as well as I can. Though this grieved my nephew to the 
heart, yet tlvere was no remedy but compliance, and, in fhort, 
going on board, all my necedaries were lent me, and fo this 
matter was over in a few hours. 

i think I was now near a tiioufand leagues farther off Eng' 
land by fea, than at my little kingdom, except this difference, 
that I might travel by land over the Great Mogul's country to 
Suratf from thence up to Bafora by (ea up the Ferjtan gulph, 
tiien take tlie way of the_caravans over the Arabian delert lo 
Akppo and Sc^ndarooriy there take (flipping to Italy, and fo trav- 
el by land iutq France, and from thence crofs the fea to Eng- 
land. 

My nephew left me two per Tons to attend me, one of them 
vas his Rrvant, and the other clerk to the purler, who en- 
gaged lo Le mine. I took lodgink'S in an EngiJJj woman's 
houfe, where feveral French, one Enghjhy and two Italian mer- 
chants rcfided. Tht- handlome eiuertainnient I met with 
here, occafioned me to flay nine months, conlidering what 

coui Ic 



conrfe I fhould fake. I had fome Englijh goods, with me, of 
great va!ne, belkies a looo pjccesot eigiii, and a letter of credit 
tor more, if there were occalion. The goods I- Joon difpofed 
of to advantage, and bought here leveral good diamonds, 
which I could eafily carry about me. One morning the Eng-- 
hjh merchant came to me, and, being very intimate together, 
countryman^ laid he, I hsve a projett to con)municare to you, 
which I hope will luit to both our advantage: To be ftiorr, 
Sir, we are both in a remote part of the world from our couii- 
try ; but yet in a place wlierc men of buHnefs may get a great 
deal of money. Now if you will put a thoufand pounds to 
my thoufand pounds we will hire a fhip to our fatisfattion ; 
you fiiall be captain, I'll be merchant, and we'll go a trading 
voyage to China ; for why fhould we lie ftill like drones, when 
all the world is in continual njotion ? 

This propofal ioon got my confent, being very agreeable ta 
my rambling genius ; and the more fo, becaufe I looked upori 
my countryman to be a very fincere perfon : It required fomc 
time before we could get a velTel to our minds, and Tailors to 
man it accordingly : At length, we got an Engl'ijh mate, boat- 
iwain and gunner, a Dutch carpenter, and three Fortu^ucfe 
foremafl men, and, for want of others, made fhift with Indian 
leamen. From hence we firft failed to Jthin, in the ifland of 
Sumatra^ and then to Siam, where we bartered our wares for 
fome arraek and opium, the lafl of which bore a great price 
among the Chinefe : In a word, we went up to Sujkam, 
makinjj a very great voyage; awd after eight months time, 
i returned to Bengal, very well fatisfied with this adventure, 
having not only gotten a fufficient fum of money, but an infight 
of getting a great deal more. 

The next voyage my friend propofed to me, was ♦j go a- 
mong the fpice iflands, and bring home a load of cloves from 
the Manillas, or thereabouts ; iflands belonging partly to 
Spain^ but yet places where the Duich trade very much. We 
were not long preparing for 'his voyage, which we made no 
l^efs fuccefsful than the laft, touching at BorneOy and feveral oth- 
er places which I do not perfeflly remember, returning home 
in about five months time. We foon lold our ("pices, which 
were chiefly clcves, and fome nutmegs, to a Ferfian merchant, 
who carried them away for the gulf; and in /hort, making 
five to one advantage, we were loaded with money. 

Not long after my friend and I had made up our accounts, 
to our entire fatisfattion, there came in a Dutch coafier, from 
^JWvw, of above two hundred ton. All the men pretended 
themfcives fo ill, that there were not hands Sufficient to under- 
take a voyage, and the captain being, foifooth, willing to go to 
Europe^ public notice was given that the (hip was to be {old. 
No iooner did this come to our cars, but we bought the (hi^, 

paid 



pa''d fhe mauer, and ^ooJC pofTeffion. We would alfo very wil- 
lingly have eiirerfained (ome of the meci ; but they, having re- 
ceived fheir fliare of the booty, were not to be found ; being 
fled all together, to Agra^ the city of the great Mogul' ^ re(i* 
aence ; and from thence were to travel to Surat^ and fo by 
{ea to the Pe^yfan gulph. And indeed tltey had rcalbn to fly 
in this manner ; for the truth of it was, the pretended captaiki, 
was the gunner only, and not the coniimander; that, havinf;^ 
been a trading voyage, they were attacked on fhore by the 
MaUayans^ who kiiled three men and the captain j after whole 
oeath, the other eleven men, runninp away with the (hip to 
the bay of Bengal, left the mate and five nien more on fhore, 
ot whom you will hear in the fequel. 

Let them come by the (hip how they will, we thought we 
bought it honeilly; neither did we fufpe^l any thing of the 
matter, when the man fhewed us a bill of fale for the (hip (un- 
doubtedly forged) to one Emanuel Clojler/bo'ven, which name 
he went by. And {o, without any more to do, we picked up 
fome Dutch and EngU/b feamen, refolving for another voyage 
for cloves among the Fhilippine ^nd Mo/u£ca iflands 5 and, in 
fhort, we continued thus five or fix years, trading from port 
to port with extraordinary fuccefs ; and was now, in the fev- 
cnth and laf^ year, going in the ftiip with my pirtner to Chtna, 
deiigning to touch at Siam, and buy fome rice by the way. 
13 ut in thii voyage, contrary winds beat us up and down for a 
confuierable time among the iflands in the ftraights ol Molucca ; 
and no fooner were we clear of ihefe rugged leas, but we per- 
ceived our fliip had fprung a leak, which obliged us to put into 
the river Cambodia, which lies northward of the gulph, and 
goes up to Siam. 

Oo " day as I was on fhore refrefhing myfelf, there comes an 
Englijlman fo me, who was a gunner's mate on board aa 
Englijb Eaft- India Ihip, riding up the river, near the city of 
Cambodia. Sir, iaid he, you may wonder atmy bufincfn, hav- 
ing never feen me in youj: life ; but though I am a flranger, I 
have (omething to tell you that very nearly concerns you ; and 
indeed, it is the imminent danger yon are in has moved me to 
t^ive you this timely notice. Danger 1 ia^d I, what danger ? I 
know of none, except my fliip being leaky, for which I defign 
to have her run aground to-morrow morning. Sir, faid he, I 
hope you'll be ibeiter employed, when you fhall hear wha.t I 
ha've to fay to you. You know the town of Cambodia is about 
15 leagues up this river ; and about three leagues on this (ide, 
there he two -i)w/fA, and three Englijb fhips j arvd would ypn 
venture here, without coDfidering wjuit ftiengfh you. had to 
engage theoi ? I knew not what he meant by this difcourfe ; 
and, turnittg fhort upon him, Sir, faid f, I know no reafon 1 
have to. be Ifraid eiticr.of any BngHJb m IXuteb fhlps ; I am no 

interloper, 



i93 

interloper, and what bufinefs have they then witli mc I Wel)> 
Sir, faid the man, if you do thuik yoiirfelf fecure, all 1 can fay 
is, you mufl take your chance : However, I ann very forry 
you are (o deaf to good advice j but I affiire you, if you don't 
put to lea immediately, you will be attacked by five long-boats 
full of men, hanged yourfeU for a. pirate, if you are taken, and 
the particulars examined afterwards. I thought, Sir, addect 
he, I might have met with a better reception for fueh a frngu* 
lar piece of fervice. Sir, faicj 1, I never was ungratetul to any 
man; but pray explain yourfeif and I'll go on board this mi- 
nuie, whether the leak be ftcpped or no. Why, Sir, faid he* 
to be fhort, becaufe time is precious, the matter is this : You 
know well enough that you were with the (liip at Sumatra^ 
where your captain was murdered by the Malayansy witli 
three of his fi«Iors, and that either you, or fome who were or?, 
board you, ran away with the (hip, and are fince turned pirates 
at fea. Now, Sir, this is the fum of what I had to fay ; and I 
can pofilively alTure ycu, that if you be taken, you will be 
executed without much ceremony ; for, undoubtedly, youi, 
cannot but be (enfible what little law merchant (hips fhew to 
pirates, whenever they fall into iheir unmerciful hands. Sir. 
feid I, I thank you for your kind informanon, and though I 
am fure no man could come more honeftly by the fliip than i 
have done J yet, fatisfied with your honeft inteiition, and 
knowing their defigns, I'll be upon my defence. Prithee, Sir, 
laid the man, don't talk of being upon your defence; the bell 
that you can make, is to be out of danger ; and iherefore, if 
you have any regard for your life, and tlie livtrs of your men, 
take the advantage, without fail, of puttmg out to fea at high 
water ; by which means, as you have a whole ti ie before vou, 
you will be gone too far out of their reach betoie they can 
come down ; and fo, by the tide (not reckonuig the length) 
you will get two hours of them ; and as they are only boats, 
confequently they will not venture (trfpecially if the wind 
blows) to follow you far out to fea. 

I au» mighty well fatisfied, faid i, in this particular, and o{ 
youf kindnefs, which merits my greaiefl eiteeni : Pi ay, Sir, 
what, amends ftiall 1 make you ? He replied, 1 know not what 
amends you are willing to make, becaufe you may have fomc 
doubts of its certainty ; but, to convince you of the truth of 
what I fay, I have one offer to make unto you. On board 
one of the Eriglijl fhips, 1 have nineteen months pay due to 
mc ; and this Dutchman that is with me, has feven months pay 
due to him, which, if you will make good to us, v%e will go a- 
long with you. And (hould you find nothing more in it, why 
then we will defire no njore ; but when you aie convinced that 
we have laved the fhip, your life, a'.i tl;e lives of the men, we 
will leave the refi to your generofity. 

R So 



194 

So reafonable did this every way appear, as to obtain my 
in":mediaie confenr, and fo we went on board immediately. As 
foon as we came on board, my partner calls joyfully out, 
that they had ftopped the leak ! Wei!, thank God, faid I, but 
pray let us wesgh anchor immediately. Weigh ! faid he, what 
is the meaning of diis hurry I Pray, faid I, afk no queftions, 
but all hands to work without lofing a moment's time : Upon 
which, the captain was called in great hade, who ordered the 
anchor to be got up immediately j and, though the tide was 
not quite down, yet being afiifted with a little land breeze, we 
ilood out to fea ; And then it was, that calling my partner in- 
to the cabin, I related the ftory at large, which was confirmed, 
and more amplified by the two men 1 had brought on board. 
But fcaree had we finiflied our dilcourfe upon this head, hut a 
ikilor came to the cabm door, with a melTa^e from the captain, 
that we were chafed by five floops full of armed men. Very 
w^U, laid 1, it is plain now there is (omething in it. And fo, 
going upon deck, 1 tojd the men there was a defign for feizing 
the (hip, and comequently executing us for pirates j and afked 
them, wheriierfhey would faithfully ffand by us, and one a- 
riother ? To which ihey unanmioully replied, that they would 
fight for us to the lair drop of their blood. And when I afked 
the captain which way he thought beft for us to manage the 
battle ; Sir, laid he, the only method is to keep them of^ with 
our great (hot as long we are able, and then have recourfe to 
our Imalt arms ; and when both thefe fail us, then to retire to 
clole qu-irtf-rs, wbtn perhaps the enemy, wanting materials, 
can neither break open our bulk-heads, or get in upon us. In 
the mean time, the gunner was ordered to briris,' two gtins to 
bear fore and aft out of the fteera^e, and to load them with 
xnufket bullets snd fmall pieces of old iron ; and thus, the 
deck being cleared, we were prepared for the engagement, ftill 
Iteeping out to fea. But yet the boats followed us with all the 
fail they could make j and we could perceive the two toremoft 
were EngUjhy which outfailed the reft by two leagues, and 
which we found would come up with us : Hereupon we fired 
a gun without ball, intimating that tbey Ihould bring too, and 
we put out a fijg of truce, as a fignal for parley ? but, finding 
them crowding after us, till they came within a fljot, we took 
in our white, and hanging out the red flag, immediatttly fired 
at them with ball ; and then we called to them with a fpeak- 
ing trumpet, bidding them to keep oft' at their peril. 

But aJl this fignified frothing to them, who, depending upon 
the (trength that followed them, were reiolutely bent for mif- 
chief; Hereupon I ordered them to bring the niip too, by 
which means, they fying upon our broadlide, we let fly at 
them at once, one of whom carried away the flerr. of the 
hindermoft boat, and obliged them nor only to take down 

their 



JL95 

their fail, but mad« them ail run ro the head of the boat ti» 
keep her from finking : and lo Jhe lay by, having enough of 
it ; and, in the mean time, we prepared to nieet ihe foremoft 
boat in the fame inannrr. But, while we were doing this, one 
of the three hindennoft boafs made up to the relief of that 
which was difabled, and took the men out of her. Hereupon 
we called again to parley witii them, but, inllead of an anfwer, 
one of the tDoats came clofe under our ficrn ; whereupon our 
gunner let fly his two chafe ^Mins, but mifiing, ihe rner* in the 
boat fliouted, and waving rheir caps, came on with fury ; but, 
to repair his (eeming difgrace, fooa ^ot ready ; ani. tiring the 
(econd time, this ihot, we ciaiid perceive, did a great deal gf 
execution among the men ; but, taking no notice ot it, we 
wore fhip agam, bringing one quarter to bear upon theni^ 
when, firing three guns more, we found the boat a finking, and 
feveral men already in the fea. Hereupon, immediately man- 
ning our pinnace, I gave orders to fave Jome of the men from 
drowning, and mliantly come on board, becaufe the refl of their 
boats were approachuig. They accordingly did fo, and took 
up three of them, one of whom was almofl aafi recovery ; and 
then, crowding all the fail we could, after cor men carne on 
board, we llood out fartl'ier to fea, fo that the other three boats 
gave over their chafe, when they came up to the firft twpo 
And thus, delivered from imminent danger, we changed our 
courfe to the eailward, quite out of the courfc of ail European 
ihips. 

Being now at fea, and enquiring more particularly of the 
two feameo the meaning of all this ; th? Dutchman led us into 
the fecret of it at once. He told us, That the tellow wlio fold 
us the fhip was an errant thief, who had run away with her % 
that the captsin was treacheroiifly murdered on the coafl of 
Malacca, by the natives there, with three oi his meti ; that he, 
the Dutchman^ and four more, being obliged to have recourfc 
to the woods for their fafety, at length efcaped by means of a 
Dutch fhip in the way to China, which had fent their boat oji 
Ihore for trefh water : Thar, after this, he went to Batfi-z'/ap 
^vhere two of the feamen belonging to the Oiip (who had de- 
fcrted the reft in their travels) arrived, and there gave aw ac 
count, that the fellow, who ran away with the fhip, had fold 
her at Bengal to a fet of pirates, vvho went a cruiling, and had 
already taken an Er^gli/i and two Dutch ihips richly laden. 

Now, though this was abfolutely falfe, yet, concerning us 
dire<it!y, my partner truly faid, that our deliverance was to be 
efteemed fo much the more, by reafwn had we fallen into their 
hands, we could have expelled nothing from them but imme- 
diate death, confidering t .^r acculers would have been our 
fudges : And therefore his opinion was, to return direttl^ to 
S^n^alf where, being known, we could prove how honeilly we 

V cainc 



r igS 



came by the fhip, of whom we bought her, and the like ; and 
where we were fure of fome juflice, not to be hanged firft, and 
judged afterwards. And indeed I was at firft of my partner's 
©pinion ; but when I had more ferioufly conHdered of the mat- 
ter, I toid him, we ran a great hazard in attempting to return 
thither, being on the wroni^ fide of the ftraits o^ Malacca ; and 
if, upon alarm fjiven, we fhould be taken by the Dutch oi Ba- 
iaruia^ or Englijh elfewhere, our running away would be a fuf^. 
ificient evidence to condemn ourfelves. This danger indeed 
llartled not only my partner, but all t^ fhip's company j and 
fo we changed our jornner refolution to go to the coaft of Ton- 
qulny and fo to that of China ; where purfuing our firft defign 
as to trade, we might difpofe of the fhip fome way or other, 
and return in one of the country velTels. This being general- 
ly agreed to, we fleered away N. N. E. above 50 leagues off 
the ufual courfe to the eaft, which put us to fome inconveni* 
cnces, as the winds blowing more fteadily againft us, made us 
more tedious in our voyage, and confequently caufed a more 
fpecdy decay of our provif'on ; and, what was fiill worfe, we 
apprehended thofe fhips, from whofe boats we had efcaped, 
feeing bound for, and got to China before us, might have given 
frefh information, which might create another vigorous pur- 
fuit. And laftly, when I confidered I had never wronged or 
defrauded any perfon in my life, to be now purftied like a com- 
mon thief, and, if taken, to be executed as fuch, according to 
what they (hould allege ; this thing grieved me to the highefi* 
degree (as it mufl all innocent men) and confequently made 
me more defirous oi cfcaping from its infamous fhame, than 
from death itfelf. It was very eafy to read a fad deie6tion in 
my countenance upon this occafion : My mind was oppreft 
Jike thofe unhappy innocent perfons, who, being overpowered 
by blafphemous and perjured evidences, wickedly refolved to 
take away their lives, or ruin their reputation, have no other 
recourfe, in this world, to eale their unfpeakable fcrrow, but 
iighs, and prayers, and tears. My partner feeing me fo con- 
cerned, encouraged me as well as he could ; and^ after defcrib- 
ing to me the feveral p©rts of that coafl, told me he would 
either put in on the coafl of Cochinchina, or elfe in the bay of 
Tongum, and from thence go to Macao, a town once polTefTed 
by the Portuguefe, and where there itill refided many European 
families. 

Well, to this place wc fleered our courfe, and early the next 
morning we came in fight of the coaft. But, confidering on 
part circumftances, we refolved to put into a (mat! river, 
whereby we could know, either over the land, or by the /hip's 
pinnace, what velTcIs were in any norls thereabouts ? And in- 
deed this happy fiep was our cf 'tain deliverance ; the next 
morning there came to the bay of Tonquin two Duteh /hips, and 

a third 



^97 

a third wJthovit any colours fpread ; and, in the evening, two 
Engiijh fhips iteered ihe iatiie courfe. The river yvhere we 
were, was but fmall, within a few leagues of its liinits north- 
ward : The country was wild and barbarous, and the people 
all thieves, having no conclpondcnce with any other nation, 
dealing only infifh, oil, and tuch grois coniirjodities. One bar- 
barous cultom they have, that when any velTel is unhappily 
ihipwrecked upon their coaft, they make the men iheir pnfon- 
ers or (laves; fo that when we eoafted northeaft, to the point 
of land winch opens to the great bay of Tonquin, we found 
ourfelves fnrrounded by enen.ies both by fea and land. 

As the (hip had been' leaky before, we took the opportunity 
to cleanje her in this place, and to (top up the places which 
let in the water. And when we had lightened her, and 
brought our guns, and other moveable tilings, to one hde, we 
ciTayed to bring her down, that we might come at her bottom s 
But, upon (econd conlideration, we cared not to let her lie on 
ury ground ; neither indeed could we find a convenient place 
tor it. The inlsabitsnts, not ufed to (uch a (ight, as to (ee a 
ih\p lie down en one fide, and heel in towards (hore, neither 
perceiving her men who 'Aere at work on her bgttom, with 
ftages and with boats on the off lide, they prelently imaginec}. 
the Ihip had been caft away, and (b lay on the ground. Agree* 
able to this (uppoOtion, they furrounded us wuh ten cr twelve 
large boa/s, with a reiblution, undoubtedly, to plunder the 
(hip, and to carry away thofe they found aliye, tor flaves tQ 
their king. But when they perceived our men hard at worlc 
upon the (hip's bottom and ftde, wafhing, graving, and (top- 
ping ir, ii filled ihem with fuch furprize, "that »hey ftond gaz* 
ing as though they were contoundei. Neither could we im« 
ajiine what their delign was ; however, lor fear of danger, we 
iidnded down arms and ammunition to thofe at work, in order 
to defend themfelves j and uideed this precaufion was -HbloUue- 
3y neceff'ary ; for, in a quatti^r or an Ijour after, the native? 
•concluding it was really a (hpwieck, and that we we e (avirig 
our lives and goods, which tliey thought belonged ty them, 
came down to our men, as thoui^h it had been in a hne o^ bat- 
tle. Indeed we lay but in a very nntit podtire to fight j and^ 
before the liages could begot down, or the men in the boat 
come on board as they were oniered, the Cdcbinefes were uoorx 
them, a:id tvvo of their boats baarding our luu^ b <ar, they be- 
gan to lay hold of our men as priloners. The fi .ft fhey (eize^ 
was a (fout Engl.Jb (jil r, who never fired hs tuufke-, like^a 
fool, as I iiwa^nifj, but laid if d/i-vn in tlie b ut ; bur fie knevy 
waat he ^•'3 5 doing, for, by ma-n force, lie dra;:geti the Pj;<an 
out of the boat into ours by the ia-o e rs, and 1< nocked ins 
brains cut agai' (f the boat's gunnel : A Ihiuhman th:it was 
iicxt hirn, fi»dich»'s up the fnufk»:», and knocked down five inorc 
K 7. : >s'ah 



198 

with the but end ©fit : However, 4his was domg very little to 
their number ; but a firange, unexpected accident, which 
ralher merits laughter, than any thing elfe, gave our men a 
comj)iete viilory over them. 

It feems the carpenter, who was preparing to grave theout- 
fide of the Ihip, as weii as to pay r)ie feams where he caulked 
her, to Hop the leaks, had gotten two kettles jnft let dowa in 
the boat, one filled with boiling pitch, and the other with 
Tofin, tallow and ol, and fuch Huff as the ftiipwrjghts ufe ; 
The carpenter's man bad a great iron ladle, with which he 
iifed tofupply the workmen with hot ftuff j and, ns two of the 
enemies entered the boat where the fellow (food, he faluted 
them with a ladleful of the hot boiling liquor, that, being halt 
naked, made them roar again, and jump into the Tea. Well 
<ione Jackf fays the carpenter, give them t'other dole ; and To, 
leaping forward himfelf, fakes a mop, and dipping it into thie 
pitch- pot, he and his man flung it fo plentifully among them, 
3S none efcaped being fcalded : Upon which they all made the 
befl of their way, crying and howling in fuch a frightful man- 
lier, that in all my adventures I never heard the like before. 
And, indeed, never was 1 better pleafed with any conquefl 
than I was with this, by reafon there was fo little blood fhed, 
having an avsxfion to killing fuch favage wretches (more than 
*vas neceflary) knowing they came en errands which their laws 
and cufVoms made them think were }uii and equitable. By 
this time, all things being in order, and the fhip fwimming, 
they found their millake, fo they durft not venture a fecond 
attack. Thus ended cur merry fight ; and having got fome 
rice, bread, roots, and fixtecn good hogs on board the day be- 
fore, we fet fail, not daiing to go into the bay of Tonquirtf but 
Peered N. E. towards the ifleof Formofa, as though we would 
^0 to the Mamllas, or the Fbilrppine iflands, for fear of meet- 
ing with any European {hip§. When we anchored at the iflc 
of Formofay the inhabitants not only fupplied us with provifions 
and frelh water, but dealt very fairly and honeftly with us in 
their bargains and agreements. From this place we fleered 
north, keeping ftill cff the coaft of China, til) we were beyond 
alt the ports where Europe&n vefTels ufually come ; and at 
length, being come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we re- 
fblved to put into the firft trading port we Ihould come at ; 
and ffanding for the fh re, a boat came off two leagues to us, 
with an old Portuguefe pilot on board, who offering his (ervice, 
fve very gladly accepted him, and fent the boat back again. 
And now, hav'ng the old man on board, I talked to hiiTi of 
going to Nanquin, the inoft northward part of the coafl of China, 
What will you do there ? faid he, Imiling ; I told him we 
would fell our cargo, and purchafe callicoes, raw and wrought 
filk, tea, &c. and fo return the lame way back. O, laid he^ 

you 



yon had better put in at Macao, s^htrt you rray buy ch na 
^ares as cheap as at Nanquin, and fell your opium at a greater 
advance. Biu, faid I, we are gentlemen as well as mercl.ants, 
and defign to fee the great city of Peking and the magnificent 
court of the monarch of China. Why then, faid he, you 
fhould go to NingpOf where there is a navigable river tha"^ goes 
through the heart of that va(t empire, tvro hundred and feveri' 
ty leagues from the fea, which croflesall the rivers, partes con- 
fiderable hills by the help oi fluices and gate , and goes evea 
up to the city of Pekin, and you may go ta Nanquin, if you 
pleafc, and travel to Pekin ; there is a Dutch fhip juft before 
bound that way. At the name of a Dutch or Englijb (hip I 
was Itruck with confufion, they being as great a terror to me 
in this velTel, as an Algerim man of war is to them in the Me" 
diterranean. The old man finding me troubled, Sir, faid he, 
I hope tlie Dutch are not now at war with your nation : No, 
faid I, but God knows what liberty they may lake when out cf 
the reach of the law. Why, fays \\£, what occafion is there for 
peaceable merchants to tear ? For, believe rue, they never 
meddle with any but PIRATES. 

■ At the mentioning the word Pirates, my countenance turn* 
cd to fcarlet, nor was itpolTible for me to conceal it from the 
old pilot, who taking notice of it, Siry faid he, take luhat courfe 
■you pleafej I'll c/ti ysti all the fefvlce I can. Signior, faid I, \ 
am a little concerned at your mentioning Pirates, I hope there 
are none in thefe feas, becaufe you fee in what a weak condi- 
tion we are fo defend ourfelves. O Sir, faid he, if that's all^ 
don't be ccncerred j 1 don t remember^ one in thefe parts thefe fifteen, 
years, except about a month agOy onemoasfeen in the bay o/fSiam ; 
butjheis gone to the fouth ; nor ivas Jhe built for a privateer but 
ivas run a-xvay ivithy by a pirate captain, andfome of bis men^ the 
right captain bailing been murdered i^y the Mallayans. 

What, fad I, (as though ignorant of what had happened) 
did ihey kill the captain ? No, faid he, 'tis though: the Ma* 
layans, murdered him, but perhaps they might procure thenv 
them to do it, and therefore deferved hanging. They were 
lately difcovered in the bay of Sum, in the river of Cambodia^ 
by fome Dutchmen who belonged to the fhip, and had much ado 
to cfcape five boats that purfued them : But they have all given 
fuch an exadt defcription of the fliip, that wherever they find 
her, they will be fure ro know her ; and they 'wAve- (olNgmnly 
fworn to give them no quarter, but to hang them every one at 
the yard arm, wuhout formally bringing them to a court of 
jurtice. 

Being fenfible that, hav'ng the old man on board, he could 
ro' do me any mifchief. Well, Signior faid I, 'lis { r this very 
reafon I would have v<'U carry us up to N^n^uin, where neirl^.- 
cr Engli/b or Dutch fli'i)S come ) And I rault tell you thetr cap-^ 



■ 100 • 

tains are a parcel of rafh, proud, infolent rafcaU, (hat neither 
know what belongs to juftice, nor how to behave themrelvcs as 
the laws of God and nature dirett ; Fellows that wouid prove 
murderers to punifU robbers ; and fake upon them to adjudge 
innocent men to death, without any plain proof to confirm their 
guilt ; but perhaps 1 may live to call thenx to account in 4 
place where they rnay learn how juilice (hould be e;:ecuted. 
And (o I told him the Itury of buying the Hup ; and how we 
were faved by the means of two men : That the murder of the 
captain by the Malayans, as alio the running away with t)ie 
fhipj I believe to be true ; but that we who bought it were 
turned pirates, was a mere fiftion, to cover their cowardice 
and fooHfh behaviour when they attacked us ; and the blood of 
thofe raen we killed in our own j^ft defence lay at their dour 
who fent them to attack us by furprize. 

Str^ faid the old man amazrd, jy^w hanfe taken the tight courfe 
10 fleer tn the north ; andy if I might advife veu, / nuould ba<ve 
youfellyourjhipin China, and buy anoiher in that country^ and I'll 
procure pesple to buy one and jell the other. , Well, but Signior, 
faid 1, it 1 iell the ihip in. thii manner, 1 may bring fome inno- 
cent perfons into the (a^ne dan^^er as I have ^one through, per- 
haps worfe, even death itfeli, whereby I fhould be as guilty 
of their murder as their vlilanous perftcutors. That need 
not trouble joa, (aid »he old man, I' 11 find a luay to pre'vent that .* 
For tboje commanders you talk (f, I knoiu <very --yceUy and Iivill in- 
form them rightly of the matter , as you hwve related ; and I am per- 
funded they iio'ill not only beli'.'vs mCy but atl more cautioujly for the 
future. And will you dehver one meflTage from me to them ? 
YeSy faid he, tj you -■wdlgi've it und^r your handj that I may proif 
'it is rM my B^wnin-ventiOH. Heirupon I wrote a large account of 
their attackini;^ me m their long boats, the pretended reafon 
and unjufl delign of it j that they had done what they ought to 
beafhamed of, and could not aniwer, at any tribunal in Eng- 
land. But tJ)is letter was written in vain, providence orderuig 
things another way. We failed directly tor Nanquint and ia 
about J3 days lail came to an anchor at the fouth weft poiat 
of the threat gui for that place, where we learned, that tw© 
Dut<:h ihips were ^one the length before us, and that we Ihouii 
■certain iy tall into their hands.. We were at a great lofs ia 
this cxifi^ency, and wou'd very gladly have been on Ibore al» 
moft any vyhere : But our old pilot told :ne, that if 1 would 
fail to the fouthwafd about 42 leagues, there was a little port 
c^'\^(\ Quinchangy vvht;re no European fhips ever came, and 
where ^'■e miglu copfider what was further to be done. Ac- 
cordlngiy we weic;thed anchor the next day, calling only twice 
on (h ore by the way to g.ei trelh water. The country people 
very -courteoufly (old us roots, tea, rice, fowl?, and other pro- 
vili&s. A tier five days fail, wc came to the port> and landed 

Willi 



nor 

with itnfpeakub'e joy. We rcrdved to diCpok oif ourfelves 
and effeiils any way poflible, rather than go oa board that ill 
fated veflel again. For no (hte can be more milcrable than a 
continual fear, which is a hfe of death, and a confounder of 
our underftandings, that fets the imagination at work to form 
a ihoufand frightful things that may never happen. And in- 
deed both my partner and I fcarce flept a night without dream« 
ing of halters, yard-arms, &c. of fighting and being taken, 
killing and being killed, nay, fo violent were our apprehen- 
fions, that we would bruife our hands and heads againft the 
cabin, as though actually engaged. The flory of the Dutc^ 
cruelty at Amboyna often came into our waking thoughts ; and, 
for my part I ufed to think my condition very bad, that after 
fo many difficulties, and fignal deliverances, I fhould be hang- 
ed in my old age, and innocent too; but tilen religion w^ouid 
feem to reprehend me, as though the voice of it had faid, 
Confider, O man I the fins you have been formerly guilty, 
which now thou art called to account for, fo expiate with thy 
blood I And as to thy innocfnce, what art thou more than thy 
bleffed Redeemer, who fufTt^ed for thy offences, and to whole 
providence you ought to fubmif, let what wi!) happen ! After 
this my natural courage would infpire me to refift tothelaft, and 
rather to die than be taken by boorift rafrally Dutchmen, who 
had arts to torment beyond the cruelty of death. 

But now, thanks to kind Heaven, being afliore, our old pilot 
procured a lodging and a warehoufe : It was a little hut, with 
a large warehoufe adjoining, all built with canes, and pa'lifa- 
doed round with large ones, to keep out the pilfering thieves, 
which are very numerous in that Country : But the magiftrates 
allowed us a little guard, befides we employed a fentry with a 
kind of halbert, for three pence a day. The fair or mart had 
been over fome time ; however there remained in the river 
four junks and two Japan fhips, the merchants of the latter 
being afhore. In the firft place, our old pilot brought us ac- 
quanted with three Romi/b mifTionaries, who were converting 
iht Chirefe \o Chriftianity ; two of them were referved, rigid 
and auftere, applying themTelves to the work they came about 
wifh great earneftncfs ; but the third, a Frenchman, called 
F?itlier Simon, was of a freer converfation, yet not a worfe 
Chriftian than the other two, one wf whom was a Portugucfe, 
and the other a Gen9ffe : Bur Father Simon, it feems, was ap- 
pointed to go to Pekin^ the relidence of the Emperor of Cbinaii 
and only waited for another pried, who was ordered from Ma^ 
coa to accompany him. We fcarce met, but he was prompting 
me to go with him : Sir, faid he, 1 will Ihew you the glorious 
thing? of this mighty empire, and a city, the city of Pekin, far 
exceeding London or Paris^ put them both together. One 
day particularly, being at dionw v^ith him, I (hewed fome in- 

cUnatiou 



C.02 

clination to go, which made him prefs me the more, and my 
partner alTo, to gjiin our confent : But father, faid my partner, 
what fafisfa^fion can ytni have in our company, when you 
cfteem us heretics, confequently objc(5>s not worth your re- 
gard ? Oh, faid he, you may be as good Catholics in lime, 
as thofe I hope to convert. And fo, {"aid he, we fhall have you 
preacJiin^ to us all the way, inftead of pleaftng us with defcrip- 
tion of the country. Sir, faid he, iiowever our religion m^y 
be vilified, 'tis very certain ir neither diveds us of good man- 
ners cr -Jhriftian charity ; and as we are gentlemen, as luch 
we may converfe, without m^kiug one another uneafy. 

But, to leave him awhile, let us con/ider our rtjip and 
mercharrdize, that we had to diipufe of. There was but lit- 
tle bufine/i; in the place where we were j and once I was re- 
fob'ed to fail to the river Kt'a7Ky and fo to the city of Nanqu'in\ 
but i-*rovid€nce ordered it otherwife, by our old pilot's bring- 
ing a Jew merchant to us, to fee what goods we had. He 
immediately bougiit our opium, for v.hich he gave us a very 
gc>c>d -^ricein gold by weight, lome wedges of which weighed 
abcvpioor ii ounces. It came into my iiead, that he m.ight 
buy the 0>^p ^oo ; and T ordered his interpreter to propofe it 
to h'm. He faid nothing then, but ftirunk up bis fhoulders; 
yet in a few days after he came, accompanied by a milTionary 
jfvrieft, who was his interpreter, with this propofal, that as he 
Jiad bought a great quantity of our goods, he had not money 
enough to purchafe our (hip ; but, if 1 pledifed, he would litre 
her, with all my men, to go to Japariy and fend them witii an- 
other 'loading to the PZ)/7/;>/»zV iflands, the freight of which he 
would willingly pay ;o us before ; and at their return to Jap- 
an, would buy the fhip. Upon tliisweafked the captain and 
i-.is men, if shey were willing to go to Japan ; to which they 
iinanimouny agreed. While t!)is was in agitation, the young 
man whom my rrCphew left to attend me, told me, that as I 
did not care to acce|st this profpeft of advantage, he would 
manage it for me as I pJeafed, and render me a faithful ac- 
count of liis fucc'els, which fhould be vvliolly mine. Indeed 
I was very unwilling to part with him ; but as it might turn 
to his advantage, I difcourfed my partner about it, who, of 
Jiis own accord, gave him his fhare of the veflel, fo that 1 could 
not do otherwife than give him mine; bui, however, we let 
him have but the property of half of it, and preferved a pow- 
er, that when we met ip Eirgland, if he had obtained fuccefs, 
he fhould account to lis for one half of the profits of the (hip's 
freight, and the other (hould be his own. Thus havuig tak- 
en a writing under his hand, a'vay he failed to Japan^ where 
the merchant deait honett/y bv him, got him a licence (o tjo oa 
fnore, fe-u him loaded to the Phiiippim s wuh their fupercargo, 
came.bAck a^ain with Europion goods, cloves, and other fpicea } 

and, 



I 



C.03 

and, in fhorf, he got a great deal of money ; nor wouM he fell 
his fliip, but traded on his own account, went back to thiC 
Mani/iasy where getting acquaintance he made his Ihip free, 
was then hired by the goveuioiir to go to jicapulco in America, 
on the AlexicaH coiil} J with a Jicence to travel to that great 
city ; and this gamed hnn immenle treaCure, and finding lueans 
to get to yamakUf he. iciurned nine years after exceedingly 
rich to England, 

In parting with the (hip it conges in coiirfe to confider cf 
thofe men who laved our lives :n the nvcr oi Cambodia : and 
though, by the way, they were a couple ot rogues, wJio ihought 
to turn pirates tlieniieives : yef we paid tJieni what they at 
firf! demanded, ai'd gave each a imali iu\n of mo;<y, making 
the EigliJbman2L gunner, and the Dutchman a boatfwain, wah 
which they v^ere very well contented. 

We were now above looo leagues farther frotn home, than 
when at Bengal. All the comtoi t we could expect was, that 
there being another fair in a month's tiuxe, we n)ii;ht not only 
purchafe ail iorts of the country manufacUires, but very poffi- 
bly tind {ome Cbincfe junks or veil'els from Tonqui/jj to be fold, 
which would carry us and our goods wherever we pieafed. 
Upon thefe hopes, we refolved to continue ; and to divert 
ourlelves, took ieveral little journies into the country. Ten 
days we travelled to fee the city of Nanquin, about lat. 30. N, 
which is regularly buiit, the Greets cxattly ftrait, crolung each 
other in direct lines, wjuch makes it (hew to great advantage. 
At our return, we fourKi the pried was come from Macao that 
was to go with Father Simon xo Pekin. That Father earneffly 
Iblicited me to accompany him, and I referred him to my part- 
ner. In (hort we both agreed to it, and prepared accordingly. 
Nor did we tail meeting with great advantage, as to finding 
the way, having the liberty to travel among the retinue of a 
Mandarin, who li a principal magiftrate, and mucli reverenced 
by t!ie people. 

We were asd^ys travelling through this miferable country, 
infinitely populous, but as uidifTereniiy cultivated; hut tlieir 
pride is infinitely greater ihan their poverty, infomuch that 
even their prefts deride them. As we pafTed the houfe of one 
cf their country gentlemen, two leagues ofi' Nanouin, we had 
the honour to ride with the Cbinefe '(quire about two miles, 
h'ever was Don ^'ixote fo exactly imitaied, never (uch a com- 
pound of pomp and poverty li:;en before. 

His habit, made of callico, was dirty, greafy, and very prop- 
er fof a Merrj AndrcTxt, with all its tawdry trappings, as 
l)an^it>g flceves, talleis, &c. but torn in every part ; His vefl 
luiderneath If was no Cleaner, but more greafy. His horfe 
(worfe ihan Kodnunte or the famous deed of the doughty 
Hudibraji) was si pcvr, flurvcd, decrcjiid.thin^', that would nut 

ieU 



?.o4 

fell for thirty Shillings in England : And yet after this piece oF 
beggarly pomp attended tea or twelve flaves, guarding him to 
kii coiititry feat. We ftopt at a little village for lefrefhment ; 
and when we came by the country fear of tliis great man, we 
found him lifting under a tree before his door, eating a mcls 
of boiled rice, with a great piece of garlick in it, and a bag 
filled with green pepper by him, and another plant like ginger, 
with a bit of lean mutton, all tlus put together was his wor- 
Ihip's repalt : But prayobferve the floih and Oate of the fool ! 
Two women flaves brou.^ht his food j which being laid before 
him, two others appeared to perform their refpe^tive offices ; 
one fed him w^th a (poon, while the other fcraped off what 
fell ujion his beard and veft, and gave it to a particular favour- 
ite to eat. And thus we left the wretch, pleafed with the 
conceit of our admiring his magnificence, which rather raifed 
our Icorn and deteftation. 

At lalt we arrived at the g:reat city of Pekin^ accompanied 
by two fervants, and the old Portuguefe pilot, whofe charges we 
bore, and who was our interpreter. We had fcarce been a 
week at Pekin, but he comes laughing to us. Ah, Signior In- 
gii/e, faid he, me fometing teil you make your heart glad, but 
make me iorry, for you bring me Here, 25 days journey, and 
now you leave me, go back alone j and wiiich (hall I make my 
port after, widout the ^hip, widout de horfe, v^idout pecune, 
fr> he called money in his broken language. Bur, in fhort, that 
there was a great caravan of Mufc^'vite and Poit/h u erchants 
in the city, who were prepa^;ng to fetout for Mufcomy by land 
witliin fix weeks; and that he was certain we wou'd take this 
opportunity, and confequently that he muft go home by hi.nn- 
lelf. Indeed this news pleafed us much ; Are you certain ot 
this, faid I ? Yes, Sir, faid he, me furerrue. Then he told 
SEje, that havmg met an old acquaintance, an Jirmeniany who 
was amono them, and came lad from Afiracariy wuh a delign 
to go to TotiquiHy whcrre he formerly knew him ; but having 
altered his reloiution, v\as refolved t.> go with the caravan to 
MofcQ'Wt and fo down the river Wolga to Ajiracan. Weil, 
Signior, (aid I, don't be difconten'ed about ycur jerurn n^ a- 
loae } for, if by this means I can find a paliage to Englund^ it 
will be your own fault if you return to Macao <\\ all. And io, 
caniultit»g ^uh my partner what was beit to he done, he re- 
ferred it to me as I pleafed, our nfFairs being (u well lettled at 
Bengaly thai if we could vend the China filks we had purcha'ed, 
he would confent to go to Engkind^ and (o return to Bengal u\ 
one of the Company's (hips. And thus' we refolved, tiMi it our 
pilot would go w itfi us, we would bear his chart;es to Mojcoio or 
Englavdy and give him Ci^o (lerling. Hereupon we ca ied 
him, and told him the cauie of his complaint (hould be re- 
moved, if he wcuid accompany ue with the caravan, and 

tliereture 



I 



205 

tliercfore defired to know his mind. At this he fhook hi« 
head, great long journey^ faid he, me no fecunej carry me M<>I'- 
covr, keep me dere. But we foon difpelied Ins corrcern, by relU 
iDg him what we would j^^ive him here to lay out to the belt 
advantage; and, ss lor his charges, we would pay them to 
Mofconv or to Englandy which he pleafed, except the carriage of 
his goods. At ihis propofal he was quite tranlported, faying 
he woijld go with ns all the world over. We then prepared 
for our journey : Kut, I think it was near four months before 
all the merchants were ready. 

In the mean time, my partner and the pilot went exprefs to 
ihe port where we firft put in, to fell wl. it goods were lefc 
there, while I acconnpanied a Chlnefe merchant to Nanquin, and 
tffere bought 29 pieces of damalk, with about 300 more oi 
(Other fine filks ; and by the time my partner retm-ned to P^^ 
kin^ I had them all carried thither j fo that our cargo amounf- 
cd in goods only to about ^^4500 fterling, which, fogerher with 
tea, fine calicoes, nutmegs and cloves, loaded i3 camels for 
our fhare, belides what we rode upon, with two or three fpare 
horfes, and two more loaded with provifion. And indeed the 
company in general was very great, msking about 400 horfe, 
and above 120 men, well armed and provided- We were of 
feveral nations, among the reft were five Scofch mtrchdinx% liv« 
ing at Mofcoiu, well experienced in bufinefs. 

We !ett Pekin the beginning of February, O. S. and in two 
days we pafFed through the gate of the great China wall, which 
was built as a fortification againit the Tartars 1800 years ago, 
being 2500 miles long. We then entered a country not near 
fo poimlous, chrefly under the power of plundering Tiztl'tfrf, 
feveral companies of whom we perceived, on poor f-tarved 
horfes, contemptible as themfelves, without order or dilci- 
pline. One time our leader, for tlve day, permitted us to 
hunt. But what do you think we hunted ? only a parrel of 
Hieef), which indeed exceeded any in the world for wildncfs 
and fwiftnefs ; biit while we were purfuing this game, we met 
above forty Tartars^ who no fooner perceived us, but one of 
them blew a horn, at which there immediately appeared above 
forty or fifty more, at about a mile difta-.it. Hereupon one of 
the i'<rc/f^ merchants (who knew their cur fed ways) ordered us 
to advance towards them, and attack them immediately. As 
we adranced, they let flv a volley of arrows, which happily 
fell a little fhort of us : This made us halt a little, to return 
the compliment with bullets. And then if was, led up by jhe 
bold Scoty that we fired our pifrols in their fares, and drew our 
fwords ; but there was no occaiion.for they flew like timorous 
fhcep, and only three of them remaineri, beckonisg the reft to 
come up to them. But our brave lead&r galloped up to thenij 

S fliOt 



j>o6 

frtct one dead, knocked another ofF his horfe, whiU the third 
ran away : Ahd thus ended ourbattie with the Tartars. 

We Itill travelled a month more throiigluthe Emperor of 
China's dominions; ai>d at length coming to one ot their town* 
(about a day and a half's journey from the city of Naum) I 
wanted to buy a camel : And the perion I Ipoke to would have 
brought me one, but like a fool I muft go along with him, 
vhich was about two miles from the village. My old pilot 
and i walked on toot, for(o»th, for fome variety j when com- 
ing to the place, where the camels were kept as in a paik 
(guarded by C/6iwy^ fold iers) we there agreed and bought one, 
^hich the Chineje man that came with me led along tiie ruad. 
But AC had not gone far before we were attacked by five Tur. 
rars, mounted on horleback ; two ®f whom feized the man, 
rook the camel from him, and rode away ; but the other three 
approached us, the firrt of which fuddenly feizing me as I wi*!^ 
drawing my fword, the lecond knocked me down, and ftunned 
me; but my old trufty Portuguefe^ taking a piftol out of hiS 
pocket, which I knew nothing of, and coming up to the fellow 
that (truck me, laid hold of him with one hand, pulling, him 
off his horfe, and then fhot him dead upon the fpot ; Then 
faking his fcymetar, he (truck at the man that fiopt uf, but 
miffing him, cut off one ®f his horfe's ears, the pain of whch 
inade him throw his rider to the ground, v^/ith himlelf upon 
him. The poor Chinefey who had led the came), feeing the 
Tartar down, runs to him, and feizingi^ upon his poleaxe, 
wrenched it from his hands, and knocked out his brains. But 
£here was another Tartar to deal with, who Teeming neither to 
fight nor fly. n>y old man began to charge his piiiol ; the ve- 
ry fight ot which ffruck fuch a terror in the wretch, that he 
fcowered away, leaving my old pilot, rather my champion and 
defender, an abfolute viftory. 

It was by this time, being awakened from my fleep, a« I 
thought, I began to open my eyes, wondering where I was, 
quite forgetting all that was paft : But when my fenfes return- 
ed, feeling a great pain in my head, while the blood was run- 
ning over my clothes, I inflantly jumped upon my feet, grafp- 
xng my fword in my hand, with a relolution to take revenge ; 
•yet no enemies appeared, except the dead Tartar ^ wiih ,hjis 
horfe flanding by him-; but the old man feeing me recover- 
ed, whom he thought flain, ran towards me, and embraced me 
Tvith the greatelt tendernefs, at the fame time examining info 
my wound ; but being far f^om every body, we returned to the 
village, when the man demanded payment for his camel, which 
I refufing, we brought the caufe before a Lhinefe judge, who 
a6led with great impartiality. Having heard Doth fides, he 
alked the Chincfe man that went with me, whofe fcrvant he 
wa» ? Sir, faid he, I am nobody '5, b\il neiu with the ftranger, 

at 



i.07 

ar his requef]- : Why ll.e^, fciid the JLidge, you were t}:e Grang- 
er's icrvant fcr the time, and (he ca'iiel being delivered to his' 
fervatit is the fame as bein^ delivered to himlelf, and accord- 
ingly he mi:rt pay for ir. Indeed the cafe was To fairly Oated^ 
that 1 had nothing ro ohjett to it, io, having paid for *.vhat I 
was robbed of, i fent tor another, bur did not go mvUMf to 
fetch if, for I had enough of that fport before. 

The city o\ Naum is a frontier of (he Chlncfe empire, fo tbr- 
fified, as fome rcli you, that niiUions of Tartars cjnnot bat'.f?' 
down the walls ; by which certainly one might think onf^ cf 
cui" cannons wonW do more execution than all their legion*. 

Dnt the Governoiir of that city, as we vvere within a day"'- 
march of it. having fenr melFengers lo every part of t* c road. 
to irfbrrn the trsvellers and caravans to iult till he had fent a 
guard To pioted them from' the numerous bodies of iaiiars 
that lately ap,.ieared about this city ; iliis n«ws put us into 
jrreat conOernatidn, but, obeyinp the orders, within two days 
there came 200 foldiers from a Cbirufc- garrilbn, and 300 more 
from Naum : Thus, being guarded both in the front and rear,* 
with our own men on tl;e fides, we advanced bdidly, thinking 
we were able to combat 10,000 Mogul Tartars^ if they had ap- 
peared, but were forced to tell another ftory next day. 

For early next morning, marching from a little well fituatcd 
town called Changu, after having pailed a river, and entered 
upon a deferr of above fifteen or fixfeen miles over^ we fooa 
beheld, by a cloud of duft that was ralfed, that the enemy was 
approaching towards us. This tight much difpirited the Chi- 
nefe^ which appeared fo plainly, (hat my old pilot took notice 
of it, and called out, Signior Ingfeje, Ihefe fellows rau(t be en- 
couraged, or they will ruin us all ; and I'm afraid, if the Tar^ 
tars attack us, they will all run away. Why, Signior, (aid J, 
what fhall be done in this cafe ? Done, fays iie, why let fifty of 
our men advance, and tlien flanking on each wing, encourage 
»hem, for I know they will fight well enough in company. 
Accordingly we took his advice, marching fifty to the right 
wing, and the fame number to the left, and the reft made aline 
of referve, leaving the lad 200 men to guard the camels, or to 
afljfl us as occaOon required. 

Thus prepared, a party of them came forward, viewing our 
poflure, and traverfmg the ground on the front of our line ? 
Hereupon we ordered the two wings to fire, and each of the«rr 
to give a falvo with their (hot, which accordingly was done. 
And rhis indeed put a (lop to their proceeding ; lor foon afiec 
wheeling off to their left, and undoubtedly giving an account 
to their companions what rccepiion they might expert, they 
gave over tjieir enterprife. 

When we came to the city of Nauniy we returned the Gov- 
•rnour hearty thanks, and gave 100 ciowns among the foldiera 

that 



208 

that guarded us. We refted there but one day, and then pro- 
ceeded on our travels, pading feveral great rivers and deferr.s 
till, on the 13th of Af>rily we came to the frontiers oi Mufco'vy, 
the firft town of svhich was called Argun, 

This happy event, as I thought it, of coming into a Chrif- 
tian country, made me congratulate the Scotch iMcrchant upon 
it : He fmiled at that, telling me, not to rejoice too foon ; for, 
faid he, except the RuJJian foldiers in garrifon, and a few in- 
habitants of the cities upon the road, all the reft of this coun- 
try for above a thoufand miks, is inhabited by the moft igno- 
rant and barbarous Pagans. 

We advanced from the river Argun by moderate journeys j 
and found convenient garrifons in the land filled with Chrif- 
lian foldiers, for the fecurity of commerce, and for the conve- 
jnient lodging of travellers ; but the inhabicants of the country 
:*ere mere Pagans, worfiiipping the fun, moon, and ftars. And 
ibis idolatry we met near Arguriy at a city of the Tartars and 
J^ujjians joined together, called Her'ijinkey : For being curious, 
to lee their way of living, while the caravan continued to reft 
ihenifelves in that city, I went to one of their villages, whea 
there was to be one of their folemn facrifices. There behold 
upon the fturap of an old tree, was placed an idol of wood, 
ir.ore ugly than the reprefeniation of the devil himfelf; its 
head was fuch a$ refembled no living creature ; its ears were 
xjs big and high as goats' fcorns, a crooked nofe, four-corner- 
ed roauth, and horrible teeth : It was clothed in (heeps' (kins, 
had a great Tartar bonnet, with two horns growing through 
it, and was eight Utl high ; without feet, legs, or proportion. 
Before this idol, there lay 16 or 17 people, who brought their 
offerings, and were making their prayers ; while at a diftance 
flood three men and one bullock, as victims to their ugly 
monfter. 

Such ftupendous facrilege as this, in robbing the true Gcd 
of his honour, filled me with the greatei^ aftonifliment and re- 
flexion ; which loon turning to rage and fury, I rode up to 
the image, and cut in pieces the bonnet that was upon his head 
With my fword, (o that ;t hung down by one of the horns ;. 
while one of my men that was with roe, pulled at it by its 
fheep-fkin garment : But immediaTcIy an hideous howling and 
Outcry ran through the village, and two or three hundred peo- 
ple coming about our ears, vv'c were obliged to fly for it. 

But I had not done with the monfler ; for the caravan be- 
ing to reft three nights in the town, I told the Scotch merchant 
what I had feen, and I was refolved to take four or five men 
well armed with me, in order to deftroy the idol, and fhew the 
peo|>le how Itttie reafon they had to truft to it, who could not 
iave itfelf. At firft he laughed at me, reprefcnting the danger 
of it J and when U wasdeftroyed, what time had wc to preach 



to them better things, whofe zeal and ignorance were in the 
highert degree, and both unparalelled ; that it 1 (hould be tak- 
en by them, 1 IhutjUl be I'ei ved like a poor Rv.Jfian^ who con- 
temned their worfhip ; that is, be Itripped naked, antl tied to 
tlie top of the idol, (here Ihot nt with arrows till my body was 
full ot them, and tlien burnt as a (acrihce to ttie monfter : Bur» 
i^ir, laid he, fince your zeal cat ries you lo far, rather than yoa 
fnoiild be aioiie, i will accompany you, and bring a ftout tel- 
low, equal lu yoiirleil, if he will alTilt us in this defign : And 
sccordingiy he brought one called Captain Rkhardfony who 
hearing ihe ftory, readily con/ented ; but my partner teclined 
it, being altogether out ot his way ; And (o we ttiree, and my 
man iervanr, refolved to execute this exploit, about midnight; 
but upon lecond thoughts we deterred it to ihe next night, 
by realon the caravan being lo go from thence next morn- 
ing, we (hould be out of the Goverour's power. Weil, 
I procured a Tar/^r's fheep-fictn robe, a bonnet, with bows 
and arrows, and every one ot us got the like habits. The 
fir ft night we ipent in mixing combufiible matter with aqua- 
viiae, gtinpowder, &c. having a good quantity of tar in a little 
pot. And the lalt night cominj^ to tj>c idol about eleven 
o'clock, the moon being up, we found none guarding ; but wc 
perceived a light in the houfe, where we faw the priells be- 
•.pre. One mon was for firing the !iut, another for killing th^ 
people, and a third for making them prifoneis, while the idol 
Was deltroyed. And, in (hort, to the latter we agreed ; fo that 
knocking at the door, we feized the firlt that opened it, then 
'.topping his mouth, and tying hi* feet together, left him with 
the idol. In this manner did we lerve two others, but xha 
valiant Scac& m.crchant being dilcovered at length, rulhed itt 
upon them, being backed by us, and let fiie to tiie compofi-* 
(ion, whicJi frightened them fo much, that we brought theta 
all away, as priloners to their wooden god. Then we fell to 
work with him, daubing him ail over with tar, mixed with 
tallow and brimdonc, (topping his eyes, ears and mouth full of 
gunpowder, with a great pi«ce of wildfire in his bonnet, and 
e:jvironed it with dry forage. All this bemg done, we un- 
Joofcned and ungag.^ed ihe prifonerr., and let the idol on fire^ 
which the gunpowder blowing up, the Ihape of it was deform- 
ed, rent and I'ptir, whirh the fjrage utterly confumed ; for wt; 
(laytd to fee its dellrui^tion, left the ignorant idolatrous people 
Ihould have thrown themfelves into the flime. And thus we 
canie away undifcovered, appearing To b'.\iy in the morning a- 
mongour fellow-travellers, that nobody could have fuipected* 
but that we had been in our beds all night. 

Bur after we were fet out, and had got iome fmall diflanre; 
from the city, there cams a great multitude of the country 
p^ojlc to the gates, demanding f.»tisfaition cf ihe Rujfian Gov- 
S 4 ernvur. 



210 

ernoiir, for infulilnp tlieir priefls, and burning their great 
Cham Chi TbjungUy ^ ho dwelt in the Sun, and that no mortal 
woiiid violate his image, but feme Chriftian mifcreants ; And 
therefore, being already 30,000 (Iroug, they denounced war 
againil hitn and ait his Chriftians. 

The Governoiir afiTured them he was ignorant of the matter, 
and that none of iiis garnfon had been ciut ; that indeed there 
was a caravan that went away that morning, that he wonid fend 
after them to inquire into it, and whoever were the offenders, 
ibould be delivered into their hands. This Tatisned tbem for 
the prefent 5 but the Governour fent to inform us, that if any 
of us had done it, we fhould make our efcape ; or if not, make 
ail the hafle away poffible, while he kept them in play as long 
as he could. Hereupon we marched two days and two nights, 
tiopping but very little, till at lafl we refied at a village called 
FlotbuSf and halted to jaranjuenay another of the Czar's colo- 
nies. But on the fecond day's march from the former, hav- 
ing ^tered the defert, and palTed the lake Shah-Oferj we be- 
held a numerous body of horfe on the other fide of it to the 
jjorth, who fuppofed we had pafTed that fide of the lake : And 
in three days alter, having found their miftake, or being in- 
formed which way we went, they came upon us towand the 
43ufk of the evening, jull as we had pitched our camp between 
two little but very thick woods, with a little river running be- 
fore our front, and we cut down lome trees to place in our 
jear, but before we had finifbed our fituation, the enemy were 
at hand. But not falling on us immediAtely, they lent three 
meflengers, who demanded the men who had infulted their 
priclts, and burnt their god Cham Chi Tbaungu, that they might 
be bisrnt, and then they would peaceably depart ; but 
if not, they would deftroy them all. Hereupon our men 
rftarcd at one another, but nobody was the word, as in- 
cleed nobody knew it bi^t thofe who did it. Upon which the 
leader of the caravan anfwered, that they were peaceable 
merchants, who meddled with none of their prielh or gods ; 
and therefore defired them not to diftnrb us, and put us to the 
necelTiry of defending ourfelres. But fo far was this from 
fatisfying them, that the next morning, coming to our right, 
Jbey let fly a volley of arrows at us, but hurt not any, becaufe 
■we fliehered ourfelves under the baggage ; But as we expected 
'to come to an engagement, a cunning father, a Cojfacky obtain- 
ang leave of the leader to go to thefe people, mounts his horfe, 
and rides directly from our rear ; when taking a circuit, he 
comes back as though he had been fent exprefs ; tells them a 
formal flory, that the villains who burnt the Cham Chi Toaungu^ 
were gone to Sibieljkat with a relolntion to burn the god ShaU 
JfaTf belonging to the Tonguefej. Upon which, believing thi& 
cunning Tartar^ who was fervant to our Mufco^ltesj away they 

drovs 



2U 

drove to Slblelfkat and in lefs than tliree hours were out of 
fijht, nor did we ever hear of them more. 

When we came to the city of Jaraivenay we reeled there five 
days, aud then enfered into a fright tu! defert, which held liS 
twenty three days march, intefted with feveral fmall compa- 
nies of robbers or Llogul Tartaric who never had the courage 
to attack us. But after we had palFed over this place, we 
found feveral Tartars: In particular the goMcvnawr oi Adivjkoy 
offered us a guard of fifty men, to the next flarion ;. if we ap- 
prehended any danger. Ail this way the natives retained tlie 
l.nje Paganifm and barbarity,oniy not lb dangerous, being con- 
quered by the Mufctyvhes. The clothing, both of men and 
v.omen, are the fkins of beafts, living under ground in vaulfs 
and caves, which run into one another. They have idols in 
almoft every family ; befides, they adore the /iin and liars, 
water and fnow ; and the leaft uncommon thing that happens 
in the elements, alarms them as much as thunder and lichtning 
does the unbelieving 'je'Wi. ^JP 

Through all the country nothing more remarkable occurred 5 
When we had got through this great deiert I before mention- 
ed, after two days farther travel, we came to Janez.a., a Mufco-» 
n)iie ciiy, on the great river fo called, which we are told, parts 
Europe from Afta. Neither here are the Pagans much better^ 
though intermixed with the Mufco'vites i but the wonder will 
ceale, when I inform my reader of what was obferved to me, 
iliat the Czar converts the Tartars with foldiers, not clergymen, 
and is more afliduous to make them faithful fubjeds than good 
Chriftians. 

From this city to the river Oby^ we travelled over apleafant,. 
fruitful, but very uncultivated country, for want of good man- 
agement and people, and thofe few are moftly Pagans. This, 
is the place where the MuJi:Q<vi:e criminals are banifhed to, if 
they are not put to death. The next city we came to, was the 
capital city of Siberloy called Toboljki, when having been almoft 
feven months on our journey, and winter drawing on apace^ 
ny partner and I conlulted about our particular affairs, in what 
manner we fhould difpofe of curfelycs. We had been told of 
iledges and rein deer, to carry us over the fnow in the winter 
jeafon, the (now being frozen very hard, m?.king an entire 
covering to the ground, fo that the fledges can run upon the 
fnrfare witiiout any regard to what is beneath. But I, being 
bound to England^ muff cither go witl) the caravan to 'Jerejlaia^ 
Ihence weli to Nar-va^ and the gulf of Finland^ and fo by la.-id 
or lea to Denmark ; or elfe I muft leave the caravan at a little 
town on the D-wina, and fo go to Arcbangely wjiere I was fine 
©f fhipping either to to Englandy Holland or Hamburgh. Or.e 
jiight i fell in company with an illudrious, but banifhed prince,, 
vhofe company and virtues v^erc fuch as made me propole 

a^ method 



a mediod to him to obtain his liberty. My dear friend, faid 
he, as 1 am treed frpm ray luHerabie gieatneis, vrilh ail its ar- 
tendants of pride, anibitior, avance and lujtiiry j it i (houlj 
cfcape from rhis place, rhofe pernicious feeds may revive again, 
to niy laiting difquietude : Therefore let me ftay in a trtcfrcd 
cofifinement. For i am but f^cfh, a niere man, with pafHons 
and ;.ffeCticns hs fuch : O bs not my friend and tempter too \ 
■Struck dumb with furprde, 1 (food lilent awhile ; nor was he 
in lels dilordcr, by which perceiving he Wc^nted to give vent 
to his mind, I deiired him toconiider of it, and to withdrew. 
But about iwo hours aher he came to my apartm.ent, De,r 
tnend, faid he, though 1 cannot conlent to accompany you, I 
fball have this fatistaction in parting, that you leave me an 
hone({ man ilM ; but as a teltimcny of my aftedtiou to you, be 
jolealed to accept this prefent of fables. 

1 (cnt my (ervant the next morning to his Lordfhip, with 
a Imall prelent of tea, two pieces of China damafic, and four 
little Hedges of gold : But he only accepted the tea, one piece 
of dai^lc, and a wedge of gold, for the curiofity of the Japan 
Itamp upoii it. Not long atter he fent for rae, and told me, 
that what he had reijifed himfelf, he hoped, upon his account, 
1 would grant to another whom he Ihould name : in fhorr, it 
was his only Ion, wlio was above 200 miles dittant from hin» 
on the other tide of the Oky, whom he could lend for, if I gave 
my confeiit. ThiS'I loon complied with, upon which he fent 
his fervanis the next day for his ion, who rerurned in twenty- 
days tune, bringing feven horfcs loaded vvith valuable furs. 
At night the young Lcrd was conducted incognito to our 
apartment, where his father prefenied him to me. We then 
confulted the belt way for travelling, and, after buying acon- 
fideiabie quantity of fables, black iox_ fkins, fine erinines, &c. 
(which I told at Ai'cbangel at a good price) we fet out from this 
city the beginning of Juney making a (mail caravan, being 
about 31 horfes and camels, of which I reprefented the head, 
IvJy yuung Lord had with him a very faithhil Siberian (ervanr, 
well acquainted with the roads; We fhunned the principal 
towns and cit.es, as Tumen, Sal- Kamajkoy^ and feveral others, 
by realon ot their (trictnels m examining travellers, left any ot* 
the banilhed pericns ot ddtin6fion fhould efcape. Having paf- 
fed the nver Kama^ we came to a city on the European fide 
called Soloj Kcunojkoy.^ where we found the people mofJiy Pa- 
gans as before. Wc then, palled a defert about 200 miles- 
f)ver> but in other places it is ntar 700 : In palftng this wild, 
place, we vierebelet by a troop of men on horfeback, about 
forty -fivf, armed with bows and arrows. At firit they looked 
earnelily un us, and then placed tliemfelves in uur way. We 
V ere about fixtetn men, and drew up in a little line before our 
caoiiels. My young J^urd Tent out his iervanl 10 know who 

th"y 



213 

they were J but when. !»e approackcd them, he neither knew 
a word rbey faid, nor would they admit him to come near 
them at his peril, but prepared to fhoot him. At his return 
he told us, he belUved them to be Calmuck Tartars, and that 
he thought there were more of them upon the defert. This 
was but a fmail comfort for us, yet fi^eing a little grove at 
about a quarter of a mile diflance, we moved to it by the old 
Portuguefe pilot's advice, without meeting any oppofHion. In 
this place we found a fpringy piece of ground, a great fprin^ 
running born 3 little brook on one fide, joined with another 
like it a little farther, which in (hort was the head of the river 
Wrli/ka, We went to work, immediately cutting down great 
aruii of trees, and laid them hanging (not quite cut off) from 
one tree to another. And thus we waited the motions o{ the 
enemy, without perceiving any advance they made towards us : 
Bur about t<vo hours before night, being joined by fome ofh- 
ers, they made about 80 horfe, among whom we fancied were 
fome women, and coming to us with great fury, we fire^^'ith- 
out ball, calling to them in the Ruffian tongue to kndwF'their 
bufinefs ; but they not underftanding us, or pretending fo^ 
came direftly to the wood fide, not confidering that we were 
(o fortified, that they could not break in. Our old pilot prov- 
ed both our captain and engineer, and defired us not to fire 
till they came within piftol (hot, and he gave the word of com- 
mand ; then to take the fureft aim : But he did not bid us 
fire, till they were within two pikes of us j and then we killed 
15 of them, wounded feveral, as alfo their horfes, having eve- 
ry one charged with two or three balls at leaft. So much 
were they furprized at our undauntednefs, that they fell back 
about one hundred rods from us. In the mean time we loaded 
again, and all fallying out, fiecured four or five of their horfes, 
whnfe riders we found were killed, and perceived them to be 
Tariars. About an hour after they made another attempt to 
break in, but finding us ready to receive them, they letired. 

All that night we worked hard in flrengthening cur fitua- 
tion, ai«d barricadoing ths entrances into the woods ; but 
when day light came, we made a very unwelcon^.e difcovery ; 
for the enemy being encouraged by their afiiflance, hid fet u^ 
eleven or twelve tents, in the form of a camp, about t^ee 
quarters of a mile from us. I muff ctmfefs, I was never more 
concerned in my life, giving myfelf, and all that I had, over 
for loft : As for my partner, as the lofs of his goods would be 
his ruin, before they fhould be taken from him, he would 
fight to the laft drop of his blood. But to efcape their num- 
bers, I had recourfe to a flratagem, by kindling a large fi ime 
to burn all nigiit ; and no fooner was it dark, but we purlued 
our journey towards the pole, or the north liar, and fo travel- 
ling; all night, by fix o'clbck in the morning we came to a Ruf- 

f.an 



Jian villaf/, railed Kfrfrfunx'tT-Jiw^ wli^f« we palled a lirtle riv- 
er called Kerziay and ficni iheiice came to a large town nam- 
ed OzQuoySy wlj^re we heard that feveral tr*. ops o\ Calmitck Tar- 
;tf>;jrhad been abroad upon the defert, hue that we vyeie paft 
all danger. Within five day* after, we cs;«W: ro VcvJWtna^ up- 
on the river W^tzedga : From thence we came to Luiurenfkojy 
en the 3d of Jitlyj wheie providing oiir/"eIves with two luggage 
boats and a convenient bark, we embarked the 7th, and. ar- 
rived ar Archangel the i8rh, afier a year, five months, an4' 
three days joi;riiey, including the eigh' mop.ihs and odd days 
wse [pent at Toboijki. We canie from A^thangeL li'e 20th of 
Augufi in the fame year, and arrived 4' tiie Elbe the 30th of 
September. And here indeed my partner and I made a very 
good fa!e of our goods, both thoTe oi China and Siberia, when 
dividing; our effe^s, my fhate came to ;(r3475. 17/ 3J. after aU 
the loiFes wc had fufiained, nnd cliaiges vkc had been at. At 
Hamburgh my young Lord parted from nie, in order To* go ty 
the court of Vietwat not only to /eck protettion, but to cor- 
refpoljL.with his father's friends : And, after w6 had ftaid 
four months at Hamburgh, I came from thence over hnd to the 
Hagutj where en barkmg in the parkef, I arrived in London 
ihe 10th of 'January, 1705, afUr ten y?ars ar\d mne^ J^aonihs. 
abiCBCc frcra England, ' ' ' . ,'..'*"'-.■' 



ROBINSON 



ROBINSON CRUSOE'S VISION 



O F T II E 



ANGELIC WORLD, 



CHAPTER I. 

Of Solitude, 



HOV/RVER folifude is looked upon as a reftraint Jg 
ple.ifurcs of the world, in company and cc)nvMB|< 
yet it is a havtpy ftate of «^xemption from a {t^ of troOTie, 



ion; 
jet it is a happy ftate of «^xemption from a {t^ of troTWTe, aa 
inundation of vanity, vexation and difappointmenr. While 
we enjoy ourlelves, neither the joy nor Ibrrow of other men 
affe<^ us : We are then at )ibertv» with the voice of our foul, 
to (peak to God. By this we fhun fuch frequent trivial dif- 
courfe, as ever hecotnes an obflruftion to virtue : And hovy 
often do we find we had reafon to wi(h we had not been id 
company, or (aid nothiop^ when we were there : Fur either we 
offend God by the impiety of our difcourfe, or lay onrfeivf"? 
open to the violence of defigning people by unguarded ex- 
preffions : And confequently perceive the coldnefs and treach- 
ery of pretended friends, wjien once involved in trouble and 
affliction: And fuch unfaithful intimates (E fhould fay ene- 
mies) who rather by falfe inunendoes would sccumiilate mif- 
eries upon \.\^y than honeitly adifl us when filtering under the 
'rnofl artful and defignip* men. But in a ftate of folirude, 
when our tongues cannot be hearai except by the Great Maj- 
\*f?y of Heaven, ho»v happy are we, in the bleffed enjoyment 
of converfe with ouf Maker I 'Tis then we make him our 
friend, which makes us above the envy and contempt of wick- 
ed men. And wjien a man converfes with himfelt, he is furc 
that he does not converfe with an enemy : At leaft, we (hould 
retreat to good company, and good books : I mean not by 
folitude that a man fhould retire info a cell, a defert, or a 
monaflerr, which would be altogether an ufelefs and unpro- 
fitable reffraint : For as men are formed for fociety, and have 
an abfolute neceflity and dependence one upon another; fo 
there is a retirement of the foul, in wh'ch it converfes with 
heaven, even in the midft of men -., And indeed no man is 

more 



21b 



more fit to Tpeak freely, than he, who can without any violence 
to hinifcif, refrain his tongue, or keep filent altogether. As 
to religion, it is by this the loul gets acquainted with the hid- 
den myHeries of the holy writing* : Here (he finds thofe floods 
of tears, in which good men wafh tliemlelves day and night j 
and only make a viht to G'd, and his holy angels. In this 
converlation, the trueft peace and nnoft folid jjy are to b- 
found ; it is a conviniial feaft of contentment on earth, and the 
nieans of attaining everlatiing happineis ia heaven. 



CHAP. II. 

Of Horufiy. 

T TQNESTY is a virtue beloved by good men, and pretend- 
X~X ed to by all perfons : In this there are (everal degrees : 
To pay every man his own, is the common law of honefty ; but 
to ddjjBOod to all mankind, is the Chancery law of honelty ; 
and nw chancery court is in every man's brcaft, where his 
Confcience\^ Lord Chancellor. Hence it is that a.rr.ifer, though 
lie pays every one their own, cannot be an lioneft man, when 
he does not difcharge the good offices that are incumbent on 
a friendly, kind, generous perfon : For the prophet I/aiab Tahb^ 
cli. XXX vii. 7, S. The injirumenis of a churl are evil : He de^ 
nnfeth n»icked dei'iees ia dtjlroy the poor iv'iib lying ivordSj en}en 
ijchen the needy fpeaketh right. But the liberal de'vijeth liberal 
tbingSf and by liberal things Jhall he fiand. ' Pis certainly honef- 
ty,to do every thing the law requires : but fhould we throw 
every poor debtor in prifon till he has paid the utmoft farthing, 
hang every malefaftor without mercy, exadt the penalty of 
every bond, and the forfeiture of every indenture : why this 
would be downright cruelty, and not honefty ; and is contrary 
to that general rule, to do to anothery that nvhichyou nvould ba've 
done unte you. Sometimes necellif; makes an honeft man a 
knove, when a rich man is an honeft man, but no thanks to him 
for it. The, trial of honelly is this : Did you ever want bread, 
and had your neighbour's loaf in keeping, and would Uarve, 
rather than eat it ? Were you ever arreted, having in your 
cuftody another man's cafh, and would rather go to gaol than 
break it ? Iffo, then indeed this may be reckoned honefty. 
Ycr Hing Solomon \t\H v\%, that a good name is better than life, 
and is a precious ointment^ and ivbicb ^wben a man has once loji be 
ias nothing left ivortb keeping. 



CHAP. 



C H A P. Ill, 

Of Sujferlng jjfflia'iorts. 

AFFLICTIONS are very common to all manklncf, anil 
whether ihey proceed frorh lolFes and difappoinrments, 
or rhe malice of men, they often bring their advantages along 
with them : For this Ihews men the vanity and dcceitfulnefs 
of this I:fe, an^dis an occa(ion of red^ifying our meafures, and 
briiiging us to a more uiodcft opinion of ourfelves : It tells ns 
how necelFaiy the ailifiance of Divine Grace is to us, when life 
itfclf becomes a burthen, and death even detirable. But when 
the greatelt oppreffion comes upon u?, we mufl have recourfe 
to Patience, begging of God to give us tliat virtue. And the 
more conipofed v\e are in any truubie, the more commenda- 
ble is our wifdom ; and I he larger will be our recompencc- 
And let the provocation be what it will, whether from a good 
ratured andconfcientioAis, ora wicked, prever'e, and vexatious 
fiian, all this we Ihould take as from the over ruling J||hd of 
God, as a punifliment for our fins. M^ny times injurea inno- 
cence may be abufed by talfe oaths, or the power of wicked, 
jealous, cr malicious men ; but v^e often find it, like the 
palnn, rife the higher, the more it is depreffed, while the ju(- 
lice of God is eminently npmarkable in puni/iiing thofe, one 
uay or other, wlio defire or end'^avour to procure the dewnfal 
of an innocent man : Nor does God fail comforting an afflift- 
f d perfon.,who with tears and prayers Alices the throne o\ heav- 
en for deliverance and protection. Dwvid faySf Tbat bis foul 
nj^as full of trouble, and bis life dre'Jv near unto ibegrat'e. Hu t cer- 
tainly David's affliCiions made hun eminently remarkable, par« 
ticularly when purfued by King Saul^ and hunted as a par» 
tridge over the motmtalns. But one thing which ffands by- 
innocence, is the love of God : For were we to kiffer difgrace, 
nay, an ignominiows death itfelf, what confolation does inno- 
cence procure at our lateft conflict, our lull moments i 



C H A P. IV. 

Of Irttmorality of Cotrverfatitnty and the ^vulgar Errors of Be» 
havio^r, 

AS convcrfation v« a great part of human happlnefs, fo it is 
a plealant fight ro behold a fweet tempered man, who is 
always fit for it ; to fee an air of humour and pleafantnes fit 
upon every brow, and evtn fomething angelic upon every 
countenance : Whereas Tf we obferve a defigning man, wt 
fhali bud a mark ^^involuntary fadneis b«caks in •n his joy, 
T and 



and a certain infurre^lion in tlie foul againft the "tyranny of 
profligate principles. 

They err very much, who think religion, era drift moral- 
ity difcompofes the mind, and renders it unfit for cpnveria* 
lion J for it is rather that which infpires us to innocent mirth, 
indeed, without a counterfeit joy, as vicious men appear with : 
And indeed wit is as confident with religion, as religion is with 
good tnanners ; nor is there any thing in the limitation <tf 
virtue and religion, that fliould abate the pleafure of it, but 
on the contrary increafe it. 

But on the other hand, many men by their own vict and 
intemperance, difqualify themfelves for converfation, in being 
of cynical, furly and rude tempers, though tl.ey boaft them- 
felves otherwife. Converfation is immoral, where difcourfe 
13 indecent, immodeft, fcandalous, flanderous or abufive. 
How great is their folly, and how much it is expofed, by af- 
fronting their beft friend, even God himfelf, before men, 
vhofe notions are uncertain, and yet who laugh at the fool 
*wben '$lf$fear cometh ! 

The great fcar.dal athciftical and immoral difcourfe gives 
♦o virtue, ought, methinks, to be punifhed by the judges : 
Make a man once ceafe to believe a God, and he has nothing 
left to limit his foul but mere philofophy. And how incon- 
grous is this to government, that a man fhould be punifhed for 
drunkennefs or fwearing, and yet have liberty to affront and 
trtn deny the Majefty of Heaven ? If a man gives the lie to 
a gentleman in company, or perhaps (peaks a word without 
any offenfive meaning, he flies into a paffion, quarrels, f^^-hts, 
and perhaps murders him ; or afterwards profecutes him at 
law with the utmoft villany and oppredion. 

The next thing to be refrained from is obfcene difcourfe, 
which is the language onlyof the proficients in debauchery, who 
never repent but in a paol or an hofpital ; and whofe carcafTes 
flittit«as bad as their difcourfe, till the body becomes too nafty 
for the foul to ftayany longer in it. 

Nor is falfe talking lefs to be avoided: For lying is the 
iheep's clothing hung upon the wolf's back ; 'tis the Pbari/ef's 
prayer, the whore's blufh, the hypocrite's paint, the murderer's 
fmile, the thief's cloak, 'tis Joab's embrace, and jucfas's kifs ; 
in a word, 'tis mankinds' darling fin, and the devil's diftin- 
guiflMng charatSter. Some add lies to lies, till it not only comes 
to DC improbable, but even inipoiTible too : Others lie for 
gain, to deceive, delude, and betray : And a third fort lie for 
^port, or for fun. There are other liars, who are perfonal and 
malicious j who foment differences, and carry tales from one 
hfiufe to another, in order to gratify their own envious temp*" 
crs, without any regard or reverence for truth. 

' ^ CHAP. 



C H A P. V. 

Ofthe^refent State of Religion in the War Id. 

I DOUBT, iodeqd, tfiere is much more devotion rhan' reU-. 
gion.in.rhe world, more adoration than lupplicaiion, ^nd 
more hypocrify, than fincericy ; And it is very melancholy ty 
conftder,vv hat numbers of people there are, furnifted with 
th,e powers of reafon and the gifts ot itatur'e^ and yet abau-r 
doned to the groljefijgnqra.-icf and depravity. But it vvouid 
be uncha/:itable,for us tg imagine, (as ioint Papjrts abojndiMj^ 
w:iih -too much xli-nature, Uie only icanual to religion^ do) that 
they will certainly be in the ftate ot dawnaiion aTicr thid lile i 
for/juw can we shink it conu.fent with, the mercy and goodnef* 
pf(^ in.^nite ip(?ing, to da:n;^ thofe cr^ature:s, when he has. no? 
furnidteU them with the light of his golpel ? Or hqw caw 
lucb proudb GQj>c^i:edr and cruel bigo^ji pfefcriiai^ rules to, the 

juuic«,an4 P^?'!-)::^'"^'^^^ - ; ■•■ • 

^ y^e, gi,re.tMUi b.y Tor.ie people, that the great image wjuchK-in;; 
lfekiifhciJnez;:ui^ {tx;K\\\ ta be adored by his people, held the re- 
preientatiou of the fun in his right hand, as the principal object 
of adoration. But to wave ihisdi/qcurle of Heatt)ens,how many 
ielf contradufling principles ^re held aixiong Chriftians ? And 
how da we doom oJie another to the devil, while all prgfcls Ip 
worHiip tbe ian)e Deity, and to expect the fame falvatiun ? 

When I was ^t Portugal tbere was held at that time the 
^ourt of juftice of the, inquintion. J\\\ the criminals were 
carried in proceffion to the great churcl^ ; where eight of them 
vere habited in gowns and cap5 of caixvas, .whereon the tor- 
ments of hell were dtfplayed, and they_, were condemi^d and 
bornt for frimes.a^ainit :li€ Cat hoi ;<; tail h. and, Blefled Virgin., 

I am iorry to make any reflexions upon Chriftians;, but 
indeed in Jfaly ihe Rwnifh religion ieem5 lite mort cruel ^nd 
mercenary upon earth : And a very judicious perfon, why 
travelled tlKough Italy friym Turkejy tells 11&, " That there i^ 
gniy the face, a:id outward pomp of religion there; that the 
church protet:ts murderers and afTalTlns, and tlien delivers th(? 
civii magiftrates over to Satan lor doing jultice ; in?erdii5ts 
wliolc kingdoms, and 0)uts up the churches lor want of payin^^ 
a lew ecclcfiallic dues, and fo puts a Hop to religion for wane 
of their money : That the C>url of Inquihtion burnt two mea 
for fj^aking dilhonourably of the BlelTed Virgin, and the mif- 
fionaries of China tolerated the worfhipping the devil bj^thelr 
new converts : That Italy, was the theatre, where religion wa3 
the grand opera i and that the Popilh clergy .were no other 
tlian the ftage players." 

Ab to religion in Poland, they deny Chriflto be the Meinah, 
or that the MefTiah was come in the flelh. And as to their 
Pruullants, thty are the followers uf LeHus SosinuSi who de« 

nicd 



22© 

nied our Saviour's divinity ; and have no coneern about t^c 
divine infpiration ot the Holy Ghoft. 

In Mufco*vy their churches are built of wood, and indeed 
ihey have but wooden priefts, though ot the Greek church r 
Irhey pray as much to St. Nicholas^ as Papifts di> to the Virgin 
Mary^ for proteilion in all tjieir difficulties or affli6>!ons. 

As to LmheranSy they only differ from the Romans in brliev- 
jng Confubliaiuation, inflead of Tranfubilantation ; but, like 
them, ihey are much pleafed with the external gallantry and 
|)onip, mwre than the true and reil prailice of religion; 

In France I found a world of priefis, the fireets every where 
crowded with them, and the chuches lull of women ; but 
furely never was a nation fo full of blind guides, fo ignorant 
iif religion, and even as void of morals, as thole people who 
confefis their'finsio them. • 

Now it fecms flrange-, that while all, men own *he Divine 
Being, there fhould be fo many different fentiments about pay- 
ing him obedience in the Chriltian church : 1 'know not whaj 
Tcafon'tt) afijgn for this, except it be their' different capici^ie* 
■ind faculties. ' . ' ■ ' '.'"!.■;• ^ 

"^ And indeed upon this account, wfeh^ave petceiyed^iti aU 
"Cbriftian countries what mortal feuds have beeh about TeligC 
ion : what wars and b'foodfhed have hiolefted Eurofe^ till the 
general pacification of the German troubles at the treaty of 
Wefiphalia ; and fince, between the Lutheran churches? And 
ihould J tatte a profpeif at home, what unhappy divifions arc 
between Chrirtians in this kingdom about Epifcopacy, Prefby. 
?er}j,tiieChur(:hcf £"«^/tf;i^ men and the Diflenters ; and 
Vhere they withfland one another like S<. ?aul and St. Peter, 
«ven to the face ; as mtich as to fay, carry on the difpute to 
tht utmoff extremity. 

•"^ It might be a queftion, why there are fuch differences itt 
tcligious points, and why thefe breaches fhould be To hot and 
irreconcileable r All the anfwer I can give to this, is, that wc 
tnquiie more cbncerning the truth of religion, than any other 
nation in the world j and the anxious concern we have about 
5r, makes t)S jealous of every opinion; and tenacious of our 
own : And this is nor becaule we are more furious and rafli 
than other people ; but the truth is, we are more concerned 
about them, and being fenfible that the fcripture is the great 
rule of faith, the Ifandard for life and do<^trinc, wc have re- 
courfc to it ourfelves, without fubmitting to the pretended in- 
fallible judge upon earth. 

There is another quef?ion pertinent to the former, what 
^ remedy can we apply to this malady ? And to this I mutt neg- 
atively anfwer, not to have us be lefs' religious, that we 
-might differ lefs about it : And this is flriking ^x the \tr'^ root 
of all religious differences; for certainly, w^re they to be 

carried 



22r 

carried on with a peaceable fpirif, willing to be informed, onr 
variety of opinions would not have the n^me of differences ; 
nor (hould we feparatein communioriof charity^fthougli we did 
not agree in feveral articles oT religion. 

Nor is there a lefs ufcful queftion to ftarf, namely, where 
will our unhappy religious differences end ? To which f hope I 
may an Twer, In Hewven : There all unchriftian and unbroth- 
erly ditterences will find a period ; there we fliall embrace 
many a fuiner that here we think it a difhonour to converfe 
with } and perceive many a heart we have broken here with 
cenfures, reproaches and revilings, made whole again by the 
balm of the Redeemer's blood. Here we fhall perceive thee 
have been other flocks than thofe of our fold ; that thofe we 
have excommunicated have been taken into that fuperiour 
communion ; and, in a word, that thofe confradi^ing notions 
and principles, which vve thought inconfiltent with true relig- 
ion, we fhall find reconcileable to themfelves, to one another, 
and to the fountain of truth. If any man afk me, why our 
differencci cannot be ended on earth ? I anfwer, were we all 
ihoroughly convinced, that then they would be reconciled, 
vve would put an end to them before ; but this is impolTible 
to be done : for as men's certain convi<5tions of truth are not 
equal to one another, or to the weight and fi^nificancy of (uch 
veracity ; fo neither can a general effe6^ of this affair be ex- 
pedited on this fide of time, this fide of the grave. 

Before I conclude this chapter, i fhall'beg leave todifcourfe 
a liitle of the wonderful excellency of negative religion ami 
regative virtue. The latter fets oat like the Pharifee with God, 
i ihanktkte j 'tis a piece of religious pageantry, the hypocrite's 
)iope ; and m a word, 'tis a pofitive vice : For it is either a 
majk to deceive others, or a miji to deceive ourfelves. A mam 
•bus clothed with negatives, thus argues : I am not fuch a 
drunkard as my landlord, fuch a thief as my tenant, fuch a 
fwearer as my neithbour ; neither am I a chea, an atheut, « 
rakifii tcllow, or a highwayman : No! I live a f-^ber, regular, 
retired life : 1 am a good man, I go fo church, God I thank 
ibee N^jw though a man boalts of his virtue in contradiflion 
to the vices mentioned, yet a perfon had better be tl^eni all to- 
gether than the mafrhimfelfy for he is lo full of himielf, fo per- 
fuaded that he is good and religious enough already, th«l l»c ha« 
ro thoughts of any thing, except ir be to pull off his hat to 
God Almitjhty now and tlien, and thank him, that he has no 
occafion for hiai ; and has the vanity to think ihal his neigh- 
bouri. muft imagine well of lum too. 

Now the negative man, though !)e is nj drunkard, yet is in- 
loxiCrtted w,th the pri'le of his o\^n worth: A r^ooU neighibottv 
And peacemakci- in other fanr.iiies, but a tyrant in his own : ap- 
pcafa in church for aJj^ew. but ficver fulls upoo \\\i kn^«5,iP 



b» clofet ; dees a\l his alms before men to be feen by them ; 
eager in the duties of thttfccond table, but regardiels of the 
f.rlt ; appears religious to be taken notice ol by men, but with- 
out intercourfe or communication between God and his own 
foul. Piay what is this raan ? Or what comtort is there of 
the life he iues ? He is lenfibie of faith, repentance, and a 
chriftian mortified life : In a word, lie is pertedly a ftranger 
to the effential part of religion. 

Let us, lor a while, enter into the private and retired part 
of his converfation : What notions has he of his inifpent 
hours, and the natural reflux of all our minutes on to the great 
centre and gulph of life, Eiernity ? Does he k^now how to put 
a right value on time, or efteem tbe life blood of his fouly as it 
really is, and act in all the moments oMt, as one that muft ac- 
count for them ? If then you cannot form an equality between 
what he can do, and what he fhall receive ; lefs can it be • 
founded upon his negative virtue, or what he forbore to do ; 
and if neither his negative or j>ofitive piety can be equal to the 
reward, and to the eternity that reward is to laft for, what th«n 
istobecoine of the Pi7ar///rf, when he is to be judged by the 
fii^ceriry of his repentance, and rewarded, according to the in- 
inijtite grace of God, with a ftate oi bieircdnefs to an endlefs. 
eternity ? J 

When the negative man converfeswlih the invifiblc world, ^ 
he is filled with as much horrour and dread, as Fael'ix when St. 
Ptf«/ reafoned to him of temperance, rtghteoufnefs, and of 
judgment to come : For FaellXf though a great phiiofopher of 
great power and reverence, was a negative man ; and he was 
made fenOble, by the apoflle, that as a life of virtue and tem- 
perance was its own reward, by giving a healthy body, a 
clear head, and a campofed life; fo eternal happinefs m\x\i 
proceed from another fpring j namely, the infinite unbounded 
grace of a provoked God, who having erected a righteous tri- 
bunal, Jeius Chrifl would feparate fuch a;, by faith and repent- 
ance he had brought home and united to hmifelf by the gnce 
of adoption ; and on the foot of his having laid down hi« life as 
a raiifom for them, had appointed them to falvation, when 
all tilt philofophy, temperarKC, and righfeoufnefs in the world 
befides, was inefl^ctual j and this, 1 fay, it was, that made Fcelixf 
fhis negative m^^n, tremble. 

CHAP. VI. 

OfL'tJienlng to tbe Volet of Providence, 

THE magn ficent and wife King Solomon bids us cry after 
knovjledge, and lift up our voice for underjlanding ; which 
is explAined to us as a reUgloHS knowledge by the tillowing 

wgrds : 



words : Then Jhalt thou underjiand the fear of the Lord^ and find 
the knonijledge of God. By which undoubtedly he meant to m- 
quire after every thing he has permitted us to know, and not 
to fearch into thofe ways that are unlearchable, and are iffec- 
tually locked up from our knowledge. Now, or I'tjlening to the 
woks of Providence is my prefent iubjeft, I am vcjy willing in 
the firlt place, to luppofe that I am writing to thofe who own, 
-J, That there is a God, a firlt great moving caufeof all things, 
an eternal power, prior, and confequently fuperior, to all 
power and being. 2. That this eternal power, which is God, 
is the fovereign creator and governour of heaven and earth. 

To avoid all necdiefs diftinftions what perfons in the God- 
head cxercife the crealing, and what the governing power, I 
ctfer that glorious text, Pfalm xxxiii. 6. Where the whole 
Trinity is entitled to the whole creating work j and therefore in 
the next place, 1 fhall lay down thefe two propofrions : 

I. Thai the Eternal God guides by bis Pro*vidence the ijubole uni- 
^•^erfe^ tehicb loas created by his fouoer, 

I I . That this Providence manifejis a particular care tfver^ and 
concern in the governing and direSiing ma/if the moji noble creaturt 
upon earth. 

Now It is plain, that natural religion proves the firft, by in- 
timating the ncceflity of a Providence guiding and governing 
the world, froiVi the conlequence of the wildom, juftice, pre- 
fcience, and goodnels of the Almighty Creatoi : For other* 
wife it wuuld be abfurd to think that God (hould create a 
world, without any care or providence over it, in guiding th,e 
operations of nature, lo as to preferve the order of his crea- 
tion. 

Revealed religion gives us light into the care and concern of 
his Providence, by the climates being made habitable, the 
creatures fubjeiled and mide nounlhing, and all vegetative 
life made medicinal ; and all this for tKe lake of man, who is 
made viceroy to the king of the earth. The fhort defcripiioa 
I Ihall give of Providence is this, that it is that operation of 
the p>.wei', of the wildom, jultice and good-jels ol God, by 
which he influences, governs and ducfh, noc uuly the means, 
bur. the events of ali things, which cunLern us in this iubluna- 
ry world ; the fovereignty of vhcii we ouahi aUvjys to re- 
verence, obey Its motions. obfTve its 'i<'t4tf s ; and liften to its 
yoice. The prudent man fore feeth enj.i and b':detb b mfeif y that^ 
is, as I take ii, there is 4 Icciei Pr.;VAic;<cc imnaiei to us, 
.that fome danger threatens, il we nnve r.Gt to (hur. t. 

The iame day of the month that Sir jofri, Hotbjm kept out 
Mull a^ainft the ruyal mar'yr K.ng Cbariesl. T.it (.n e da> Sir 
John Hotbam was put tc death by I'l'* PariiHUtfn. for ih't very 
adtion : The fame day that the ¥i'i\; hir.ii'elf Cig cd the t^ar- 
rant lax the cxetution of ib« Eurl at Stxng^fdy the liime day vf 

Ihe 



224 

the month was he barbaror.fiy murdered by the blood {hirf!y 
Oliverian crew : And the fame day that King James II. came 
to the crown againft the biil of exclufioR, the fame day he was 
voted abdicated by the parliament, and the throne filled with 
King WilHam and Q^ecn Mary. 

The voice of figna! deliverances from fudden dangers, is not 
only a juft call to repentance, but a caution againft falling into 
the like danger : But ftich, who are utterly carelefs of th%i- 
felves alter, fhew a lethargy of the vvorft nature, which fceffis 
to me to be a kind of praffical atheifm, or at leaft a living in a 
contempt of heaven, when he receives good at the hand of his 
Maker, but is unconcerned at the nature and original of it ; 
neither when he receives evil does it bring him to any ilalc of 
humiliation. 

We have,a remarkable (lory of two foldiers being condemn. 
( ed to death in Flanders^ the general being prevailed upon to 
I'pare one of them, ordered them to caft dice upon the dnim- 
head for their lives : The firft throwing two fixes, wrung h'S 
hands, but was furprized when the other threw two fixes aJfo. 
The officer appointed to fe« the execution ordered them to 
throw again ; they did fo, and each of them threw two fives j 
at which the foldiers that ftood round fhouted, and faid neith- 
er of them was to die. Hereupon the officer acquainted the 
council of war, who ordered them to throw again, and then 
CCme U7) two fours : The general being made acquainted with 
it, fends for the men, and pardoned them : J lo've, fays he, in 
Jucb extraordinary cafes ^ to liften to the voice of Providence. 

We read in the holy writmgs, how God fpeaks to men, by 
appearance of angels, or by dreams and villons of the night. 
As God appeared to Jbrabamy Lot, and Jac^b ; fo angels have 
appeared to many in other cafes, as Manoab and his wife, Zac- 
hariahy the Virgin Mary, and to the apofiles ; others hare been 
warned in a dream, as King Abimi/ecb, the falfe prophet Bala- 
iintf and many others. 

it is certainly a very great and noble inquiry, what we (hall 
be after this life, being alTured that there is a plctce referved 
for the reception of our fouls after death : For if we are to be, 
we muft have a ichere, wh ch the fcriptures afTert by the ex- 
amples of Dives and Lazarus. The doftrine of fpirits w?^ 
long believed before our Saviour's time ; for even ihe difci- 
ples of the bleffe*! Jeftis perceiving our Saviour walking on the 
fea, they were much furprized, as though they had feen a fpi- 
rit. Nay, in thole ages of the world, it was believed that fpi- 
rits intermeddled in the affairs of mankind : And througlioiit 
the Old Tedamcnt I do not find any inftitiitioti, that in the 
leafl contraditis it. All the pains and labour that forae learn- 
ed nten have taken to confute the ftory of the witch of Endor^ 
and the appearance «f an old man perfonating Samuel, cannot 

make 



make fijch apparitions inconlldcnt with Bifare or religion: 
And it IS plain, thar, was it either a good or bad fpirit, it pro- 
phetically told the ufifortiina'e kinj; what fhoiild happen the 
nextdiy: For, faid the fpirit, 72;^ Lord 'will detii'er tkee into 
the hand of the Fhil^fiines ; and to-morrvw Jkiilt thau^ and thj/unSf 
ite 'untb me. 

Abundance < f Grange notions poflfefTed me when I was in the 
defolatc ifl.ipd ; erj»eciai!y of a moonlhiny night, when every 
bufh feemed a man, and every tree a nun on horJeback. Whca 
I crept into the difma! cave, whcrt the old goat lay expi ing, 
whole articulate groans even refemhled thole oi' a man, how 
was J lurprized on this oecafion, when my blood chilled in n»y 
veins, a cold iweaty dew Tat on my forehead, my hdir flood 
tjpright, and my joints, like Be/Jhazzaf's knees, (hook againlt 
one another. And indeed, though 1 aiterwards tound what 
it was, the remains of this i'.irprize did not wear off me tor a 
great while ; and I had frequently fome returns of thbTe va- 
pours on different occafions, and fometimes without any occa- 
fitti/atall." 

On^e'^night, after having Teen fome appearance in the air, as I 
had juft laid down in my bed, one of my ftet pained me ; after 
thai came a numbnel's fucceeded with a tingling in my blood ; 
when on a fudden I thought fomething alive lay upon me, 
from my knee to above half my leg. Hereupon immediately I 
flung myfelf out of bed in the dark, where I thought the crea- 
ture lay : But finding nothing. Lord dell'ver me from an rvH 
f/iirity faid I, lubat can this be? And when i lighted a candle, 
1 could j)ercelve no living creature in the place with me, but 
the poor parrot, who bemg frighted, cried out, Hild your 
tongue, and IVbat' J the matter njoith you? which words 1 had 
taught hioi, by faying lo ro him, when he made iuch (cream- 
ing noiles that I did not like. Lord^ faid I aloud, furely the 
devil has been here. Hold your tongue ^ i^yi Poll. I then was 
mad at ihe bird, and putting on my clothes, cried, I am terri- 
bly frighted. iVbat's the matter iJoitb you ? lays Poll, Yott 
toad, faid I, I'll knock your brains out. Hold your tongue^ cri- 
ed he again, and To fell a chattering, and calling Robinfon Cm- 
foe^ as he did before. But atter 1 had comoofed myfelf, and 
went to bed again, I began plainly to lee it was a dikemper 
that affected the nerves, and fo my terrors vanifhed at once. 

How intellijjenccs are given or received, we do not know ; 
nor are we fenfiblc of their being conveyed this way, fronn the 
Ipirits uncmbodied, to ours that Are in lite ; or of their being 
conveyed iJrat way, namely from u? to them : The latter cer- 
tainly IS done without the help of organs, and the former is 
conveyed by the underftandrng, and the retired faculties of thfi 
ioul. 

The fpiriis, without the help ofvQices. converfc. 

The 



sa6 

The more particular difcovenes of the coaverfe of fpirit&# 
feem to me as follow : 

Dreams, voices, f>oifes, ijjnpulfes, hints, apprfh^nfion^, '"• 
voluntary ladnefs, &c. ^tt 

Dreams of oljdyvere the ways, i>y whlcli God himfclf Wd% 
pleafed to warn men what fervices to perform, and what Iq 
ftiun; jfojepb was directed of God in a drearn to go to Eg.ypty 
and fo were the wife men >varried in a dream to depart lato 
their own country another way, to avoid the fury of h'er9(i. I 
am not like thofe who think dreams are the mere doliHgs of a 
dehrious head, or the relitts of a day's perplexities or piea- 
fures ; but on the contrary, I muil lai«e kave to fay, I ijever 
had any capital miichief befel me in rny life, but I had Tome 
notice i)t it by a dreaxn ; and had 1 not been a IhoughlUfs un- 
believing creature, I Hiigijt have taken many a warning,, and 
avoided many of the eviU I afierwardfe Icil into, iwereiy by a 
lets! negtec"^ of th^le dreams. 

1 remember, J was prefent at a difpute between a laymaa 
and a clergyman upon the fubjecf of dreams : The firft,thQ^g-ht 
ao regard fliouid be given unto rlvem, that tijeir commiinica- 
tlon from thz invifible to the viuhie world was a mere chimera, 
without ar^y fohd foundatiou : For, i, (.aid he) if dream&,^\ef« 
from the agency of any pfe(cieni being, the motives would b« 
BDpre direct, and the difcaveri-Sfr more plain ; and not by a}* 
legcries and emblematic fancies c^iprqttjng .tiling!? impertetl 
a.r.d obfcure. ».. Since,, with, the nonce of evil,;there was nojt 
a power given to avoid it, it is not irksly to proceed, from^ 
ipirir, put merely fonnirous.. 3. Tuat the incontfancy at 
fuch notices, in c»fe& equally impcjrtant, proye, they did not 
proceed froPA any fnch agent. 4. .Th^t a^. gur motl ddicK't 
diTcaras hud n&thing in the-i) of any ilgnificancy, it wou.ld be 
irrational and vain to think {hdt they, came from heaven*' 
And, 5. That as men were not always thus warned or fuppli-. 
cd With notice of good or evil, io all men are not alike fuDpTu 
ed wiiJi thern ; and whc;.t r^afon could we give, why one tuan 
or one woman ilioald not. have tiie fame hints as anothj^f. 
_To ail this the clergyman gave anlwcr, i. That as to the 
fignificarion of dre^am-s, and the obje^lions againil them, as be« 
ipg dark and doubtful, they are expreired generally by liiero. 
giyphical reprelentations, fimilies, allufjons, and figurative 
emblematic ways, by which means, for want of interpretataon, 
ihe thing was not undcrftood) and confequently tlie evil nut 
ihunned. 2. 1 hat we charge God foolilUly, to fay he hasgiv. 
en tlie notice of evil withoi>> the power to avoid it ; for if any 
one had not power to ayoidtlveicvi!, it was 00 aotice to hini j 
s»r»d it was want of giving due heed to that notice, that men firlt 
negleited ihemfelves, and tlien charged the Judge of all the 
caith with iiijtilticc. 3, ThM we gu^ht not to find fault with 

ili« 



£27 i 



the inconftancy of thefe notices, but ratlier our crazy iinder- 
ftandings, by pietenditi^ dreans were not to be regarded, and 
negleded when the voice really (poke to us for oar good. It 
was a great midake to fay dreams had no import at all ; it 
might rather be laid, none that we could perceive the realon 
of, which was owing to cur blindnefs and lupine negligence to 
be kci\r<f at one time, and our heads too much alarmed at a- 
rother; ib that the fpirit which we might be faid to be con- 
verfmg with in a dream, was tonffantly and equally kind and 
c^ieful ; but our powers not always in the fame (laieof action, 
nor equally attentive to or retentive of the hints that were giv- 
en. And, 5. To anCwer tiie laif queftio!), Why people are 
not equally fupplied ? This Teemed to be no queftion ; tor 
Providence itielf might have iome (hare in the direction of it» 
ai)d then that Providence might be limited by forae fuperiour 
direction : That as to the convene of fpirits, he could not tie 
«ip lo a ftated converfe : Such a thing th?re was, but why 
there wa« fo much of i', and no mors, was none of his buli- 
hcfs, and that no fuch dilcovery had ever been made jret to' 
mankind. Nor are we lefs to imagine of walking dreams, 
trances, vifions, noifes, hints, impulfes, and all the waking 
teflfruojiies of an invifible world, and of the communication 
that there is between us and them, which commonly entertain 
us with our eyes open. 

One time my fancy foared on high, fo fee what difcoveries I 
rould make in thofe clearer regions. I fotmd that fuch immenfe 
bodies as the fun, liars, planets and moon sin the great circle of 
ttie lower heaven, is far from being found in the fiudy of iui- 
ture, on the (urface of f lie earth : Here I faw many things tlSt 
we can entertain littic or no notion of in a (fate of common (u- 
perficial life, and the emptinefs of our notion that the planets 
were made habitable world? ; that is, I mean, for the fubfift- 
ence and exiflence of man and beaft, and the prefervation of 
the vegetative and fenfitive life : No no, this is, I afTure yon, a 
world of (pirits : For here I faw a clear den)onflration of Sa- 
tan being the prince of the power of the air, keeping his court 
or camp, with innumerable angels to attend film : But his 
power is not fo great as we imagme, he can tempt us to the 
crime, but cannot torce us to commit it : Hnmr.nu7n eji peccare. 
Neither has (he devil power to force the world info a rebel- 
lion againft heaven, thoui^h his legions are employed in the 
favagc nations to (et up their mailer for a god, and who made 
the heathens either worfliip him in perfon, or by his reprefen- 
tatives, idols, and monffcrs, wirfi tfie cruel facrifices of human 
blood. Now as to the limitations of the devil's power, yoii 
Tnu.ff underfiand, that there ate numbers cf good angels fent 
from the higher and bieft abodes, to difconcert and oppo/'e 
iheir ivieafures : And this, I hope, every Chriftian believes, 

when 



228 

when he prays to Godj the Father of Spirits, to give his angels 
charge over him while be flumbereth and fleepeth. For if by 
iheie preventing powers (bedevil was not reltrained, the earth 
*v(nild be fubjfcl to dearth, droughts and famine; the air in- 
fected with obnoxious fumes ; and, in a word, mankind woulci 
be utterly deftroyed, which might oblige our Maker to the ne- 
ceflity of a new Flat, or cife have no more creatures to honour 
and wovfliip him. 

As the devil never wanted infinuators, I fhall obferve, that I 
learned a way how to make a man dream of wha^ I pleafed. 
For infiance, let us Tuppofe one to be found afleep, let another 
lay his mouth clofe to his ear, and whifperany thing fo foftly 
;is not to awake hinrt, the Heeping man fl^ail dream of what has 
been To whilpered in his ear; nay, I can afFure you, thefe in- 
sinuating devils can do this even when we are awake, which I 
call impu/ffs tf the mind : For from whence, but from thefe in- 
finuators, come our caufelefs palTions, involuntary wickednefs^ 
or fmful defires r Who elfe forms ideas in the mind of man 
when he is alleep, or presents terrible or beautiful figures to 
the fancy ? "^Ic Milton reprefents the devil tempting Enje in 
the (hape of a toad lying juft at her ear, when in her bower fhe 
lay faff sfleep ; and brings in Enje felling AJam what an uneafy 
night's rett fhe had, and relating her dream to him. And like- 
wife I believe that good fpirits have the fame interqourfe with 
\js, in warning us againft thofe things that are evil, and prornpt- 
ing us to thofe which are good. 

Were we fo have the eyes of our fouls opened through (he 
eyes of our bodies, we fhould fee this very immediate regioa 
of air which we breathe in, thronged wifh fpirits now invifi- 
ble, and which otherwife would be fhe moft terrible : We 
Oiould view the fecret tranfaitions of thofe meffengers who arc 
employed when the parting foul takes its leave of the relu<5k- 
^nt.body^ and perhaps fiee things, nature would ftart back from 
wiihthe utn)0(l ternnirand amazement. In a word, the cur- 
tain of Providence for the difpofition of things here, and the 
curtain of judgment for the determination ot the Hate of fouls 
hereafter would be alike drawn back ; and what heart could 
iupport here its future ftate in life, much lefs that of its fu- 
ture flaie after life, even good or bad. 

A gentleman of my acquaintance, being about feven miles 
difiant from London^ a friend that came to dine with him, folic- 
ited him to go to the city. What for, faid tlie gentleman, is 
4 here 3n> occafion for me ? No, Sir, faid the other, nothing 
at all, except the etijoyment of your good company ; and {o 
|!ave over importuning him. Juft then a ftrong imptdfe of 
mind urged the gendemau, and purfed him like a voice with,^» 
/o London, j^^o /o London, Hatkytf, fays he to his friend, is 
gll well at London ? Am I wanted there ? Or did you afk me 
to go with )ou on any particular account ? Arc all my family 



£29 

trcll ? Yes, indeed, Sir, faid he, T perceived them all very hear- 
ty ; and I did not afk you to go to London upon any particular 
account whatloever, except it was tor the fake of your good 
CQinpany. Again, he puts off his refoiution, but flill the 
iinpuUe fuggefted to him, Goto London; and at length he 
did fo ; and when he came there he found a letter and mefien- 
ger had been there to feelc him, and to tell him of a particular 
bufincfs, which was firrt and laft above a thoufand pounds tc» 
him, and which might have inevitably been iofl, had he not 
returned te London that night. 

The obeying of feveral hints, or fecret impulfes, argue* 
gr«at wifdom. I knew a man that was under misfortunes^ 
being guilty of mifdemeanors againft the government; when 
abfconding for fear of his ruin, all his friends advifing him not 
to put himfelf in the hands of the law, one morning as he 
awaked, he felt a ftrong impulfe darting into his mind thus. 
Write a letter to them : And this was repeated feveral times to 
h]$ mind, and at laf^ he aufwered to it as if it had been a voice^ 
IvhofoaU I ivrite to? Immediately it returned. Write lothe judge : 
And this impulfe purfued him for feveral days, till at length 
he took pen, ink, and paper, and fat down to write to him ; 
when immediately words flowed from his pen like ftreams 
from a fair fountain, that even charmed himfelf with expec- 
tation of fuccefs : In (hort, the letter was fo ftrenuous in argu- 
ment, fo pathetic in its eloquence, and perfuafively moving, 
that when the judge had read it, he fent him an anfwer he 
inight be eafy, for he would endeavour to make the matter 
light to him ; and indeed never left exerting himfelf, till he 
had ftopt the profecution, and reftored him to his liberty and 
tamily. 

I krew a perfon, who had fo ftrong an impreffion upon her 
raind, that the houle fhe was in would be burnt that very 
night, that flie could not go to deep, the impulfe fhe had upon 
her naind preifed her not to go to bed, which, however, rtie re- 
fifted and went to bed, but was terrified with the thought, 
which, as fhe called it, run into her mind, that the houfe 
would be burnt, that fhe could not go to fleep. So mucli 
difcovery had fhe niade of her apprehenfions in the family* 
that they were all in a fright, and applied themfelves to fearcli 
from the top of the houfe to the bottom, and to fee every 
£re and every candle fafe out, lo that, as they all faid, it was 
impofiible any thing could happen in the houfe, and they fent 
to the neighbours on both fides to do the like. Thus far they 
did well, but had fhe obeyed the hint, which prefTed upon her. 
If rangely, not to go to bed, fhe had done much better, for the 
fire was aftually kindled at that time, though not broken out. 
About an hour aUer the whole family was in bec^ the houfe 
j«rt over the way, directly oppoiife, was iUl in a jBame, an<S 



f 



the wind, wh'idi was very liigh, blowing fhe flanae upoa the 
houfe this gentlewoman lived ih, fo 6l!ed it with fmoke and 
fire, in a few moments, the Itreet being narrow, that they had 
not air to breathe, or tmje to do any thin^, but jump out of 
their beds, and fave their lives ; had (he obeyed ihe hint given, 
and not gone to bed, Ihe might Irave faved leverai things: 
buf the few moments (he had fpared to her, were but juft 
fufficient to leap out of bed, put fome clothes on, and get 
down flair?, for tlie houfe was on fire in half a quarter of an 
Mour. 

While I am mentioning thefe things, rncthlnks it is very 
hard, that we fhould obey the whifpers of evil fpirits, and not 
much rather receive the notices which good ones a/e pleafed 
to give. We never perceive tlie misfortune of tliis, but when 
in real danger ; and then we cry, my mind nvfga've me^ when I 
was going about it : But if fc, why cid you (light the caution ? 
Why not liften to it, «j /oflfwVf /* And then there had been 
BO reafon to make this complaint. 

I remember about fourteen or fifteen years ago (as to time I 
cannot be very pofiive) there was a young clergyman in the 
city of Dubliriy in Ireland, who had a very nncommon dream. 
That a gentleman had killed his wite (who was a relation of 
his) by (tabbing her in feveral places. The fright of this foon 
.awaked him ; he then fell afleep a fecond time, dreamt the 
fame dream ; and, in (hqrt, a tj^ird time alfo. So troubled 
was he in his mind, that he arofe, and knocking at his moth- 
er's chamber, told his concern, and of his appreheMHons that 
all Was not right at his relation's houfe. Dear fon, fays the 
good old gentlewoman, mind not the(e foolilh dreams ; And I 
,very much wonder that you, being a perlbn in holy orders, 
ftould have regard to fuch illufions. He went to bed again, 
llept and dreamt as before. And then indeed he put on his 
night-gown, and went to Stnithfef^^ the place wher» his rela- 
tion dwelt. Here it was, alas ! he perceived his dream too 
fadly fulfilled, by feeing his relation, the young lady, big with 
child, who was a Proteltant, (tabbed in fevcn place?, by her 
barbarous hu(band, Mr. EujlacCf a rigid Papift, only upon 
ibrae difcourfes of religion that happened the day before : Af- 
ter the wretch had ftabbcd her in three places he endeavoured 
to efcape out of a window, but flie cried. My deavy don't leats 
mCf come buck ; and I/ball be ivell again. At which he return- 
ed in a helhfh rage, and gave her tour wounds morej when 
even in this condition, riling from her bed, (he wrapt herfelf 
in her night-gown, and went to the Lord Bifhop of Rapho*fi 
chamber door (the Bi(hop lodging at that time in the houfe) my 
JLordf faid (he, O, my Lordy make hajle unto me ; but as foon as 
'is Lord(hip came, (he expired in his arniS, religning her pre- 
cious foul into the hands of Almighty God. The cruel wretch 
Ler hulband was fliot by thepuriuers, Uo good a death for one 

vvbQ 



231 

who deferved the gibbet i The lady was univcrfally lamented 
by all tender and religious people. And this tragical relation 
1 have mentioned upon the account of tliat impulie, or dream, 
that ilie clergyman had at the fatal time of the bloody act. 

]t mighi be expeded I Huuld enter upon the fubjeft of ap- 
paiitions, and difcourfe concerning the reality of them ; and 
whether they can revifit the place-of their fornner exiftence, and 
refume thofe faculties ot fpeech and ftiape which they had 
when living ; but as thefe are very doubtful matters, I [hall 
oniy make a few oblervations upon them. 

1 once heard of a man who would allow the reality of ap- 
paritions, but laid it all on the devil, and thinking the fouls of 
men departed did never appear ; yet to this very man fome- 
tiiing did appear, and then he faid he faw the fhape of an an- 
cient man pafs by him in the dufk, who holdmg up his hand in 
a threatening podure, cried out, O ivicked man repent^ repent* 
Terrified with this apparition, he conlulted feveral friends, 
who advifed hire to take the advice. Bur, after all, it was not 
an apparition, but a grave and pious gentleman, who met him 
by mere accident, and had been made i'enlible of his wicked- 
iiefs; and who never undeceived him, left it fhould hinder his 
reformation : Were we always willing to make good u(e of 
Satan's real appearances, I know not but it would go a great 
way to banifh him from the vifible world ; for 1 am very pofi- 
tivc he weuld feldom vifit, if he thought his coming would do 
us any good : But lo abfolutely is he at the command of heav- 
en, that he nmft go, even to do the work he abhors. 

Sonse people make a very ill ufe of the general notion, that 
there are no apparitioris, nor fpirits at alt j which is worfe 
than thofe who fancy they fee them upon every occafion : For 
thofe carry their fiotions farther; even to annlhilat* the devil^ 
and believe nothing about hinp, neither of one kind or other. 
The next liep they come to is to conclude There is no God ; and 
fo atheifm takes its rife in the fame fink, with a carelefTnefs a- 
bout futurity : But there is no occafion to enter upon argu- 
ment, to prove the being of the Almighty, or to illultrate his 
power by words, who has fo many undeniable teftimonies in 
the breaft of every rational being to prove his exfftence : And 
we have proofs fufficient enough to convince us of the great 
luperintendency of Divine Providence in the minuteft af- 
fairs of the world, the a^anifeft exiftence ot the invifible world, 
the reality of fpirits, and intelligence between us and them. 
What I have faid, I hope will not miflead any perfon, or be a 
means whereby they may delude themfelves ; For I have 
fpoken of ihefe things with the utmoft ferioufnefs of mind, and 
with a fincere and ardent defire for the general good and bea- 
cftt of the world. 



.<F I N I S. 




^^-^rrr^ 



J^- 










^c^- 



^ 



f 



^^j^^a/^<^ jT? ^^^^^Vy 



/<^. 

y 






' e. t-y^:^^^^f/^»~i^<y y ^ 



^^o^<y^ 






wff^TWf^^^^^mmf^i 



i%ni 



.K-m 



^-^>5^S-^r 



,:iijssa^^^^ 



■v. (y:^;4.^..^3ft^l.•^ 



