LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF 




I Robinson Crusoe was born of a re- 
spectable family in York, where his 
■ther,a native of Bremen, had settled ; 
having by merchandise obtained a for- 
tune. Robinson had early wandering 
Bioughts, and could not be prevailed 
on to settle in business; but was de- 
sirous of going to sea, which gave his 
parents much trouble : he hardened 
himself in his un dutiful course, his 



BANBURY : 



PRINTED BY J. G. RUSHER. 



mother much indulged him, and botll 
parents persuaded him to remain iij 
that business, by which they had bel 
come rich. He was one day at Hull j 
with one of his companions, who wal 
going to sea in his father's ship, anil 
was easily persuaded to accompam 
him on a voyage, bound for London! 
on the first of September, 1651, without! 
his father's knowledge. When out of thel 
Umber, the sea ran mountains high, 
and Crusoe was sadly sick and sorrj 
for his imprudence and disobedience, 
The waves appeared ready to swallow 
him, and he vowed that if it should 
please God to spare his life this voyage 
he would return to his father and mo- 
ther, and live with them. 

When his sickness wore off, 
He was jeer 'd by the crew so ; 

Till a storm did arise, 

Then in prayer was Crusoe. 



Robinson at length became a Guinea 
trader, and bought enough gold-dust 
sufficient to realise £200 ; he was at 
length taken prisoner, near the Canary 
Islands, by pirates, when he was taken 
lo Sallee, by the Moors. 

He was ta'en by a pirate, 

In slavery too, so 
Zury pushed off* the ship's boat, 
And escaped with Crusoe. 

Crusoe was a good fisherman, so the 
iinperor sent him in a boat, with pro- 
r isions,and nets to catch fish, and pow- 
ler and shot and guns for shooting wild 
fowl, for the Emperor and his friends. 

Robinson contrived on this occasion 
to put a quantity of food and water 
aid other articles in the cabin, that, if 
ie should escape, with his assistant 
ury, they might be useful to them. 
A Moor was soon desired to swim 
ishore, and the escape was effected. 



A large lion was swimming toward! 
the boat, when Crusoe shot him, and! 
he swam back wounded to the shore,! 
where they dare not land, because ol 
the noise of wild beasts, which came 
to drink of the water and wash in the 
stream. During the day time we filled 
our jars with water, killed hares and 
other animals we could find for food 
We also killed a large lion, and a leo- 
pard, their skins were useful to sleep 
upon. We prevailed on some naked 
savages to supply us with food and 
water,and at length were taken on board 
a Portuguese vessel, and used most 
kindly. The captain purchased the 
boat and skins, and we sailed to the 
Brazils. I lived with the owner of a 
sugar plantation, and learned the arto 
making sugar; I planted tobacco and 
sugar canes, and prevailed on the cap- 
tain on his next voyage to purchase in 



England tools, cloths, stuffs, and other 
articles. I also purchased two slaves 
Ind a servant, and grew richer every 
tear. Some merchants and myself 
fitted up a vessel for the purchase of 
llaves on the coast of Guinea, in which 
I violent hurricane drove us beyond 
fcur knowledge, the ship struck upon 
ft sand, and the sea broke over her : w r e 
look the ship's boat, which capsized, 
fend I alone, was, after many perilous 



6 



attempts to save myself, washed ashore 
on a steep rock, whence I had greal 
difficulty to ascend, or escape ; when I 
heartily thanked God for my deliver- 
ance. I found a spring of clear water 
to allay my parching thirst, and climed 
a tree for my repose. The ship during 
the night had been driven near the 
rock from which I made my escape,; 
I swam to the ship and satisfied my 
hunger with provisions, made a rait 
with spars of wood, and landed what 
provisions or goods were in the ship, 
seamen's and carpenters' chests, nails, 
clothes, guns, pistols, powder, shot, 
swords, and other articles. I found no 
wild beasts to devour me, so built a 
hut in the hollow side of a rock, like 
the entrance of a cave, and piled the 
chests around, to secure me from the 
weather, and attacks from without, in- 
closing about a 100 yards in breadth 



i 



llVUUiHIBlUIUIlUBll 




md 200 yards descending to the sea, 
tnd ascended by a ladder from my 
tbode. Many goats and wild pigeons 
were on the island, which I shot for 
food. Here I landed 30th of Septem- 
>er, 1659, and had no other companion 
Lhan two cats and a dog, I found in 
Lhe ship. An earthquake sadly dam- 
iged my building and cave in the rock. 

shook out an old bag of rubbish by 
the side of my cabin (containing pro- 



8 



bably a few seeds), and some time 
after the rainy season was surprised at 
seeing a few blades of corn springing 
up : by preserving the produce of which 
for future seed, I was years afterwards 
enabled to supply myself with bread, 
I was ill, and, during my illness, found 
a Bible in a seaman's chest, a very 
pleasant help in trouble, a source of 
peace and comfort. 

After recovery, I went further from 
my habitation, and found some fine sa- 
vannas, melons, grapes, cocoa, orange 
and citron trees, and limes ; much of the 
fruit I put into my cot : I caught a 
young parrot, and taught it to speak; 
and found some hares, goats, pigeons, 
and turtles. 

A tamed goat became one of my 
companions ; my corn fields required 
much watching, to defend it from the 
hares and the birds, in which my dog 




was of great service. I had difficulty 
In getting in my harvest. After this, I 
turned my clay-made articles, earthen 
lipkins, &c.,and could dress my dinner 
tolerably well. My next harvest yielded 
20 bushels of barley and 20 of rice. I 
made a rough boat out of a large tree, 
jyhich I could not take to the sea; 
Ifterwards a smaller one, with which I 
lad better success, or rather worse, for 
In it I was taken by the current farther 



10 



than I intended, and, but for the change 
of wind and current, might have been 
lost. I often visited my boat, and one 
day at noon was surprised at the print 
of a man's naked foot, larger than my 
own, on the shore, on the sand ! I 
seemed thunderstruck — listened — 
looked — could hear or see nothing ! 
I doubled my fortifications, loaded 
my muskets, planted new stakes, did 
every thing to add to my security, and 
put my goats in a new enclosure, in 
the middle of a wood. 

I afterwards saw the shore spread 
with various parts of bodies, and 
the apparent remains of human sacri- 
fice. Several parties of savages 
came after this. A ship was wrecked, 
and I went in my boat to examine the 
vessel, and took two'*chests, containing 
money, liquor, &c. Five canoes of 
savages came to the island, and I saw 
30 dancing round a fire, and two poor 




wretches dragged within the circle, one 
Jvas knocked down, but the other ran 
iwiftly towards me ; three men pursued 
liim, and I shot one of them, and 
Knocked the other down with my gun, 
Ind beckoned tothepursuedman to stop : 
Ihis happened to be my man Friday, 
ivlio afterwards lived with me as a 
faithful companion and servant for 
lears. I taught him to speak to me, 
Ivhich was a comfort I had not enjoyed 



Uf'i 



12 

for a long period. Friday became a 
good Christian and wished Crusoe to go 
to his country to teach vile mans to 
be good, sober, tame mans ; to know 
God, and lead a new life. After Ro- 
binson had been 27 years upon the 
island, he one morning sent Friday to 
the shore to look for a turtle, who ran 
back to say 21 savages and 3 prisoners 
had arrived in three canoes ! I gave 
Friday two fowling pieces, and loaded 
four muskets and two pistols, with my 
sword at my side, and Friday took the 
hatchet. I went up the hill, resolved 
to kill them, and ordered Friday to keep 
close and be silent, and do as I told 
him. I. entered the wood, and bade 
Friday bring me word what they were 
doing ; he informed me they were 
round the fire, devouring one of the 
prisoners, and that a bearded man laj 
bound on the ground, whom they would 



iiun vanwuiawiBHH' 



13 




nil next. As the savages were loosing 
he next man to murder him, we both 
fired, and killed three and wounded 
ive ; we again fired, and killed two ; 
the others ran screaming about in ter- 
■or. We then unbound their prisoner, 
5'ave him a sword and pistol, which he 
ised violently against his enemies; 
Friday killed two, and but four escaped 
o sea in a canoe. In getting into one 
)f their canoes to pursue them, Friday 



14 



discovered his father at the bottom, tied 
hand and foot ! their joy was excessive 
we gave him food and water, and witl 
the other released prisoner, who was j 
Spaniard, I had an apparent kingdom, 
with three dutiful subjects. Some 
time after this an English ship anchored 
near the island, the crew of which had 
mutinied and bound the officers, and 
intended to leave them on the island 
at the return of the tide. The officers 
sat under a tree, near Crusoe, and th< 
men regaled themselves at a distance 
they were soon asleep, when Crusof 
and Friday approached the officers an< 
tendered their assistance. Each office! 
and the Crusoites were soon armed 
and killed those the captain said wer- 
the most incorrigible, and the other 
craved for mercv : those left in th 
ship were thankful to save their live 
by submission, and the Captain tol< 



15 




ne the ship was my own, for his deli- 
verance from death. Those whom the 
Captain could not again trust in the 
ihip were put ashore", and Crusoe in- 
structed them and his two subjects as 
their living and defence. 
( Crusoe and his man Friday set sail 
vith the Captain and such of his crew 
is he could depend on, arrived in En- 
gland, and found two sisters and two of 
Crusoe's brother's children living; the 



16 



Captain presented him with £200, 
After this, Crusoe sailed to the Brazils, 
and recovered much of his property 
and plantations, and returned to En- 
gland very rich. He sailed to his 
beloved island in a ship he had given 
to his nephew, and took many useful 
articles for the inhabitants, divided the 
island among them, and recommended 
religion and good fellowship as their 
guide. 

After many perils and mishaps, in 
their passage to China, Siberia,Musco- 
vy, and other places, they arrived at 
London on the 1 1th of January, 1705, 
in Crusoe's 72nd year of his age, 
when he retired to an estate in the 
country, and lived some years in peace, 
in the true worship of God, who hac 
protected and delivered him out of all 
his troubles. 

FINIS. 



