■^ , 



THE LIFE AND 

ADVENTURES 



OF 



CRUSOE ESCAPING TO THE ROCK. 






. 



ROBINSON CRUSOE. 







' £1 was bora of a respectable family in the city of Irork, 
where my father, who was a native of Bremen, settled, 'after 
having gained a handsome estate by merchandise; myliead 
was very early filled with rambling thoughts; but my father 
often persuaded me to settle in some business, and my mother 
used the tenderest entreaties, yet nothing could prevail iipon 
me to lay aside my desire of going to sea, notwithstanding 



t 



— - 



8 THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

the extreme uneasiness which my father and mother always 
•hewed at the thoughts of my leaving 1 them. I hardened 
myself against the prudent and kind advice of my most in- 
dulgent parents, and being one day at Hull, I met with one 
of my companions, who was going to sea in his father's ship ? . 
and he easily persuaded me to go with him. 

On the 1st of Sept. 1651, I went on board a ship bound 
for London, and set sail without letting my father or mother 
know the route I had taken. But no sooner was the ship out 
of the Humber, than the wind began to blow, and the sea to 
rise in a most terrible manner. I was extremely sick, and I 
firmly resolved, if it pleased God to set me on dry land, that 
would return to my parents, implore their forgiveness, and 
id a final adieu to my wandering inclinations. The storm, 
however, beginning to abate, the master fired guns for help, 
and a light ship which had ridden it out just a-head of us, 
ventured a boat to help us. It was with the utmost hazard 
that it came near us : and our men casting a rope over the 
stern with a buoy, they, after much labour and hazard, got 
hold of it, and we hauled them close under the stem and got 
all into the boat. But we had hardly left the ship a quarter 
of an hour, when we saw her founder. We at last, with great 
difficulty got to land. Having some money about me, I 
travelled to London, on my arrival at which city the master 
of a ship who had been on the coast of Guinea, fancying my 
appearance, told me, that if I would go the voyage with him 
I should be at no expense. 

I was now set up for a Guinea trader ; and my friend, to 
my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved 
to go the same voyage again ; and I embarked in the same 
vessel with one who was his mate in the former voyage, and 
had now got command of the ship. This was one of the most 
unhappy voyages ever made; for we were surprised one 
morning, by a rover of Sallee, which gave chase to us. A 
very smart engagement ensued, but we were obliged to sub- 
mit, and were all carried prisoners into Sallee, a port be- 
longing to the Moors. 

My master having the long boat of our English ship, had 
a little cabin built in the middle of it, like a barge; and as I 
was dexterous at fishing, he frequently sent me out with a 
Moor whom he called Muley. One day we sailed out of the 



L 




>:j5lf**l;:»7<"r '"--■•-'■ ; ■ ' 



THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. S 

port to fish, when, giving the boy the helm, I stepped for- 
ward, and stooping behind the Moor, took him by surprise, 
and tossed him overboard. He rose immediately, and called 
to me to take him in; bnt fetching one of the fowling pieces, 
I presented it at him, and told him that I would shoot him if 
he came near for I resolved to have my liberty. So he turn* 
ed about and as the sea was calm, he easily reached the land; 

I turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to 
him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to me, I will make youi 
great man; but, if yon will not, I must throw you intoths 
§ea too." The boy smiled, and spoke so innocently, thatl 
could not mistrust him. It no sooner got dark, than I steer- 
ed to the south, and in about ten days afterwards, we dis- 
covered a Portuguese vessel, and on out coming near I offered 
all that I possessed to the captain of the ship, but he told ma 
that he would take nothing from me. We had very good 
weather for twelve days: but after we had crossed the Line, 
a violent hurricane drove us quite out of our course. In this 
distress one of our men called out 'Land !' and the ship struck 
against a sand-bank. We took to the boat, and after we had 
rowed a league and a half, a wave came rolling a-stern of us, 
and overset the boat at once, so that out of sixteen, none es- 
caped but myself. I got upon my feet, and making towards 
the shore, I clambered up the cliffs, and got to land. Being 
much fatigued, I climbed up a tree, and slept comfortably til! 
the morning. When I awoke, it was broad day, and the 
storm had abated. 

I swam to the ship, and to my great joy, saw that all the 
provisions were dry; and being well disposed to eat, I filled 
my pockets, and ate as I went about other things. I found 
several spare yards and planks with which I made a raft. I 
emptied three of the seamen's chests, and also let down the 
carpenters' chests, all of which I placed on my raft, and after 
much labour got it safely landed. I then went in search of a 
place where to fix my dwelling, and before I set up my tent, I 
drew a half circle before a hollow place, which extended about 
twenty yards, and drove large piles into the grousd sharpened 
at the end ; and the entrance I made by a snort ladder to go 
over the top, and when I was in, I lifted it over after me, so 
that I was quite secure. Having finished my new habitation 

Jnext built a boat with which I intended to survey the island 



MfaMI 



L 



[E ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

. fife time after, in the midst of a very stormy night, I was 
startled at the firing of a gun : I hastened up to the top of my 
hilfe and heard another. I imagined that these were signals 
of i&Bm in distress ; and such it proved, aa I discovered the 
ne «flpay. I cannot explain the emotion I felt at the sight of 
this Vreck ; " that there had been but one saved !" cried I, 
a that I mio-ht have had one companion, one fellow-creature 
to h&ve comforted in his affliction." Under the power of this 
impression, nothing would serve me, but I must go in my 
ooat to the wreck which lay at a little distance. I furnished 
myself with provisions, for fear of being driven out to sea ; 
t ,nd ; ha vino* be^un my voyage, I in two hours time reached 
the skip, which was Spanish built. She was fast jammed in 
between two rocb?, and the stern and the quarter were beat- 
en to pieces by the sea. On coming near it, a dog yelped 
and efied; but there was no other living creature on board! 
and all the goods were spoiled by ^ the water. I managed 
how%ver to get one of the seamen's chests into my boat. 

■After I had got my treasure home, and began to unload, 
I tfkM several bottles filled with cordial waters, and some- 
shlrfej'wm^n were very useful to me; about 1,100 pieces of 
ei$$rt of solid gold, — but of what use was that to me? I 
would have o-iven it all for three or four pairs of shoes and 1 
stockings. After this acquisition, I lived in my old manner,, 
though terrified with fears of the savages. 

One mornin^ very early I saw five canoes on shore, and 
no fewer than thirty savages dancing round a fire. I soon< 
ate saw two miserable wretches draggea out of the canoes,. 
one of ; them was immediately knocked down, but the other 
Btrfwfcf from them, ran with incredible swiftness along the 
sands towards me. Of the three that followed, but two* 
ontered the water, the other returning back, I hastily 
fetched my guns from the foot of the ladder, and taking a. 
short cut down the hill, I clapped myself in the way be- 
tween the pursued and the pursuers; then rushing at onc8 on 
the foremost, knocked him down with the stock of my piece; 
the other was fitting his bow to shoot me, upon which I shot 
him dead directly. ' The poor savage who had fled, was so 
terrried at the noise of my piece, though he saw his enemies 
fallen, that he stood stock still, but seemed rather inclined to. 
fly than come forward. However, when I gav« him a ngfc 






THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 5 




CRUSOE SAVING FRIDAY 8 LIFE. 

of encouragement, he came near, kneeling down every ten or 
welve steps ; on coming elose, he laid his head upon the 
wound, and placed my foot upon it. But there was more to- 
do yet : the man I had felled came to himself, and my savage 
began to be afraid. I then presented the piece at the man, 
when the poor fellow, whose life I had saved, made a motion 
for my sword, which I gave him; and he cut off his enemy's 
head at one blow, and in a quarter of an hour, buried both 
bodies in the sand. I then conducted him to my cave at the 
further part of the island. Here I gave him bread, a bunch 
of raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which he wanted 
much ; and having refreshed him I began to speak to him, 
and to teach him to speak to me; and first made him know 
that his name should be Friday, which was the day wherein 
I saved his life. I taught him to say Master, and let him 
know that was to be my name. The next day I gave him 
clothes, at which he seemed pleased. 
I was now entered into the 27th year of my captivity 






« THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 

one morning, Friday came running, and before I had time to 
*peak cried, " Massa ! Massa ! sorrow ! yonder there be 
one, two, three canoe ! one, two, three ! — Having" hung my 
great sword naked by my side, and made Friday assist in 
loading what fire-arms we had, which consisted of four guns 
and two pistols, I took my glass, and went up to the side of 
the hill, when I saw twenty-one savages, three prisoners, and 
three canoes. Having thus learned their force, I entered the 
wood, with Friday beside me, till we came near them. They 
were about the fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners. 

This filled me with horror; and going behind a tree, we both 
fired and killed four, and wounded three at the first volley 
while the Indians where panic-struck at receiving so unex- 
pected a salute. Improving on their fright, we poured in a 
second volley with such effect, that we killed two more, and 
wounded several, while the air re-echoed with the yells of 
these affrighted savages, who fled in great terror. 

We persued them to the beach, and did such execution 
among them that out of twenty-one only four escaped; even 
those I shoulfi have destroyed, but on jumping into one of 
their canoes, which I made Friday also do, in order to pursue 
them, our attention was arrested by discovering a man bound 
in the canoe. He was an Indian, and I ordered Friday to 
speak to him; but when the poor fellow looked him in the face 
and heard him speak, he uttered a wild discordant scream; 
he embraced him, then cried and put his head into his bosom, 
then danced, suag and cried again. It was sometime before 
I could learn the cause of his emotion; but at length becom- 
ing more calm, he informed me that it was his own dear 
father; Some days after, Friday came running into the hut, 
almost breathless, exclaiming, " massa! massa! a ship! a 
ship!" Overjoyed at this news, I snatched up my glass, and 
ascended the hill' when to my no small surprise, I beheld an 
English ship lying at anchoi some distance from the shore. 

The joy thai 1 felt on this occasion can be more easily I 
imagined than described. Soon after, they sent one of theirl 
boats on shore, and eleven men landed three of whom seem-l 
ed to be prisoners. Resolving to preserve the ill-fated cap4 
tives, I and my man concealed ourselves among some bushes 
so that, we could secretly observe all that passed. At lengtl 
the sailors leit their captives, and strolled into an ad^acea 






THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 7 

wood. Emboldened by their absence, I ventured to the cap- 
tives, and asked, in Spanish, who they were? They started 
at the noise, and prepared to fly. I then said to them in 
English, "Gentlemen, perhaps yon have a friend whom you 
little expect. Let me know all the circumstances of your 
case." "I am captain of the ship you now see at anchor;'" 
replied one of the prisoners, "my men have mutinied against 
me, and if they do not put me and those few who have re- 
mained faithful to me, to a violent death, they have resolved 
upon leaving me and these two gentlemen to perish on this 
desolate island; they are but in that thicket, and I tremble 
for fear they may see or overhear you." "Do not needlessly 
alarm yourself, my good friend," I replied. "I am better 

?repai ed for an emergency like this, than you may imagine : 
have good store of ammunition, able and trusty friends, 
which, with your assistance, will enable us speedily to re- 
gain possession of your vessel, in which I hope to accompany 
you to my native land." Having then concerted measures 
with the captain, we followed the mutineers into the wood, 
and forced them to surrender. At midnight we rowed si- 
lently to the ship, and having got quietly on board, the crew 
surprised, yet pleased, at the unexpected appearance of their 
old commander, received him with, hearty cheers, and the 
chief mate, who had been the ringleader in the mutiny, see- 
ing the turn affairs had taken, drew a pistol from his belt, 
and applying it to his ear, blew out his brains. Tranquillity 
being thus happily restored, I returned once more to my hut 
to make the final preparations for my departure. 

Next day I went on board taking with me my man Friday, 
my dog, and my parrot. Thus I left this solitary island, after 
living upon it for twenty-eight years. We had not left the 
island three days, when we saw a great number of canoes 
filled with negroes, who came very near, on which we made 
signs for them to put back, which they did. I ordered Fri- 
day to speak to them, when instantly they discharged a great 
flight of arrows and killed poor Friday, no other man being 
in their sight The poor fellow was shot with no less than 
three arrows, and about three more fell very near him ; such 
unlucky marksmen they were ! 

I was so em-aged at the loss of my old trusty servant and 
companion, that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded 





'•f ' ■ « 



« THE ADVENTUKES OP ROBINSON CEUSOB. 




THE DEATH OF MAN-FRIDAY. 

with small shot, and four with great, and gave them such a 
broadside as they had never heard in their life before to be 
mire. Thev were not above half a cable length off when we 
fcred ; and our gunners took their aim so well that three or 
tour of their canoes were overset, as we had reason to believe 
by one shot onlv. 

After a prosperous voyage, we landed in Old England after 
i had been absent from my native country thirty-seven years 
.Y?™; v™* 1 B * York > * was very much grieved to hear* 
that both my parents were dead; but I was somewhat consoled 
when I found that they had forgiven me and left me all their 
property, if ever I should return to enjoy it. Havine- for m 
many years had a Hie of hardship an3 misfortune, I learnt 
to know the blessing of ending my days in peace, and the 
necessity of being prepared to depart from this, to another 
w a better world. 

THE END, 



