4 



13 



A large lion was swimming towards 
llic boat, when Crusoe shot him, and 
he swam back wounded to the shore, 
where they dare not land, because of 
the noise of wild beasts, which came 
to drink of the water and wash in the 
stream. During the day time we filled 
our jars with water, killed hares and 
other animals we could find for food. 
We also killed a large lion, and a leo- 
pard, their skins were uselul to sleep 
upon. We prevailed on some naked 
savages to supply us with food and 
water,and atlengihwere takenou board 
a Portuguese vessel, and used most 
kindly. The captain purchased the 
boat and skins, and we sailed to the 
Brazils. I lived with the owner of a 
sugar plantation, and learned the art of 
making sugar; I planted tobacco and 
sugar canes, and prevailed on the cap- 
tain on his next voyage to purchase in 




kill next. As the savages were loosing 
the next man to murder him, we both 
fired, and killed three and wounded 
five ; we again fired, and killed two ; 
the others ran screaming about in ter- 
ror. We then unbound their prisoner, 
gave him a sword and pistol, which ho 
used violently against his enemies; 
Friday killed two, and but four escaped 
to sea in a canoe. In getting into one 
of their canoes to pursue them, Friday 



16 

Captain presented him with £200. 
After this, Crusoe sailed to the Brazils, 
and recovered much of his property 
and plantations, and returned to En- 
gland very rich. He sailed to his 
beloved island in a ship he had given 
to his nephew, and took many useful 
ariiclos for the inhabitants, divided the 
island among them, and recommended 
religion and good fellowship as their 
guide. 

After many perils and mishaps, in 
their passage to China, Siberia, Musco- 
vy, and other places, they arrived at 
London on the 1 1th of January, 1 705, 
in Crusoe's 72nd year of his age, 
when he retired to an estate in the 
country, and lived some years in peace, 
in the true worship of God, who had 
protected and delivered him out, of all 
his troubles. 

FINIS. 



LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF 

MoMmon Crusoe* 




Robinson Crusoe was born of a re- 
spectable family in York, where his 
father, a native of Bremen, had settled ; 
having by merchandise obtained a for- 
tune. Robinson had early wandering 
thoughts, and could not be prevailed 
on to settle in business; but was de- 
sirous of going to sea, which gave his 
parents much trouble : he hardened 
himself in his undutifnl course, his 

liAXBUHY : 
( I'BINTEl) BS •). ti. HUSUEB. 



2 

mother much indulged him, and both 
parents persuaded him to remain in 
that business, by which they had be- 
come rich. He was one day at Hull, 
with one of his companions, who was 
going to sea in his father's ship, and 
was easily persuaded to accompany 
him on a voyage, bound for London, 
on the first of September, 1651, without 
his father's knowledge. When out of the 
Umber, the sea ran mountains high, 
and Crusoe was sadly sick and sorry 
for his imprudence and disobedience". 
The waves appeared ready to swallow 
him, and he vowed that ' if it should 
please God to spare his life this voyage 
he would return to his father and mo- 
ther, and live with them. 

When his sickness wore off, 
He was jeer'd by the crew so; 

Till a storm did arise, 

Then in prayer was Crusoe. 



15 




me the ship was my own, for his deli- 
verance from death. Those whom the 
Captain could not again trust in the 
ship were put ashore, and Crusoe in- 
structed them and his two subjects as 
to their living and defence. 

Crusoe and his man Friday set sail 
with the Captain and such of his crew 
as he could depend on, arrived in En- 
gland, and found two sisters and two of 
Crusoe's brother's children living; the 



34 

discovered his father at the bottom, tied 
hand and foot ! their joy was excessive : 
we gave him food and water, and with 
the other released prisoner, who was a 
Spaniard, I had an apparent kingdom, 
with three dutiful subjects. Some 
time after this an English ship anchored 
near the island, the crew of which had 
mutinied and bound the officers, and 
intended to leave them on the island 
at the return of the tide. The officers 
sat under a tree, near Crusoe, and the 
men regaled themselves at a distance ; 
they were soon asleep, when Crusoe 
and Friday approached the officers and 
tendered their assistance. Each officer 
and the Crusoites were soon armed, 
and killed thoso the captain said were 
the most incorrigible, and the others 
craved for mercy ; those left in the 
ship were thankful to save their lives 
by submission, and the Captain told 



3 

Robinson at length became a Guinea 
trader, and bought enough gold-dust 
sufficient to realise £200 ; he was at 
length taken prisoner, near the Canary 
Islands, by pirates, when ho was taken 
to Sallee, by the Moors. 

He was ta'en by a pirate, 
In slavery too, so 

Zury pushed off' the ship's boat, 
And escaped with Crusoe. 

Crusoe was a good fisherman, so the 
Emperor sent him in a boat, with pro- 
visions, and nets to catch fish, and pow- 
der and shot and guns for shooting wild 
fowl, for the Emperor and his friends. 

Robinson contrived on this occasion 
to put a quantity of food and water 
and other articles in the cabin, that, if 
he should escape, with his assistant 
Zury, they might be useful to them. 

A Moor was soon desired to swim 
ashore, and the escape was effected. 



bably a few seeds), and some time 
after the rainy season was surprised at 
seeing a few blades of com springing 
up : by preserving the produce of which 
for future seed, I was years afterwards 
enabled to supply myself with bread. 
I was ill , and, duringrny illness, found 
a Bible in a seaman's chest, a very 
pleasant help in trouble, a source of 
peace and comfort. 

After recovery, I went further from 
my habitation, and found some fine sa- 
vannas, melons, grapes, cocoa, orange 
and citron trees, and limes; much of the 
fruit I put into my cot : I caught a 
young parrot, and taught it to speak ; 
and found some hares, goats, pigeons, 
and turtles. 

A tamed goat became one of my 
companions ; my corn fields required 
much watching, to defend it from the 
hares and the birds, in which my dog 




was of great service. I had difficulty 
in getting in my harvest. After this, I 
burned my clay-made articles, earthen 
pipkins, &c.,an d could dress my dinner 
tolerably well. My next harvest yielded 
20 bushels of barley and 20 of rice. I 
made a rough boat out of a large tree, 
which I could not take to the sea; 
afterwards a smaller one, with which I 
had better success, or rather worse, for 
in it 1 was taken by the current farther 



12 

for a long period. Friday became a 
good Christian and wished Crusoe to go 
to his country to teach vile mans to 
be good, sober, tame mans ; to know 
God, and lead a new life. After Ro- 
binson had been 27 years upon the 
island, he one morning sent Friday to 
the shore to look for a turtle, who ran 
back to say 21 savages and 3 prisoners 
had arrived in three canoes ! I gave 
Friday two fowling pieces, and loaded 
four muskets and two pistols, with my 
sword at my side, and Friday took the 
hatchet. I went up the hill, resolved 
to kill them, and ordered Friday to keep 
close and be silent, and do as I told 
him. I entered the wood, and bade 
Friday bring me word what they were 
doing ; he informed mo they were 
round the fire, devouring one of the 
prisoners, and that a bearded man lay 
bound on the ground, whom they would 



5 




England tools, cloths, stuffs, and other 
articles. I also purchased two slaves 
and a servant, and grew richer every 
year. Some merchants and myself 
fitted up a vessel for the purchase of 
slaves on the coast of Guinea, in which 
a violent hurricane drove us beyond 
our knowledge, the ship struck upon 
a sand, and the sea broke over her : we 
took the ship's boat, which capsized, 
and I alone, was, after many perilous 



6 

attempts to save myself, washed ashore 
ou a steep rock, whence I had great 
difficulty to ascend, or escape ; when I 
heartily thanked God for my deliver- 
ance. I found a spring of clear water 
to allay my parching thirst, and climed 
a tree for my repose. The ship during 
the night had been driven near the 
rock from which I made my escape. 
I swam to the ship and satisfied my 
hunger with provisions, made a raft 
with spars of wood, and landed what 
provisions or goods were in the ship, 
seamen's and carpenters' chests, nails, 
clothes, guns, pistols, powder, shot, 
swords, and other articles. I found no 
wildbeasls to devour me, so built a 
hut in the hollow side of a rock, like 
the entrance of a cave, and piled the 
chests around, to secure me from the 
weather, and attacks from without, in- 
closing about a 100 yards in breadth 



1 1 




wretches dragged within the circle, one 
was knocked down, but the other ran 
swiftly towards me ; three men pursued 
him, and I shot one of them, and 
knocked the other down with my gun, 
and beckoned tothepursuedman to slop : 
this happened to be my man Friday, 
who afterwards lived with me as a 
faithful companion and servant for 
years. I taught him to speak to me, 
which was a comfort I had not enjoyed 



10 

than I intended, and, but for the change 
of wind and current, might have been 
lost. I often visited my boat, and one 
day at noon was surprised at the print 
of a man's naked foot, larger than my 
own, on the shore, on the sand ! I 
seemed thunderstruck — listened — 
looked — could hear or see nothing ! 
I doubled my fortifications, loaded 
my muskets, planted new stakes, did 
every thing to add to my security, and 
put my goats in a new enclosure, in 
the middle of a wood. 

_ I afterwards saw the shore spread 
with various parts of bodies, and 
the apparent remains of human sacri- 
fice. Several parties of savages 
came after this. A ship was wrecked, 
and I went in my boat to examine the 
vessel, and took two chests, containing 
money, liquor, &c. Five canoes of 
savages came to the island, and I saw 
tiO dancing round a fire, and two poor 




and 200 yards descending to the sea, 
and ascended by a ladder from my 
abode. Many goats and wild pigeons 
were on the island, which I shot for 
food. Here I landed 30th of Septem- 
ber, 1G59, and had no other companion 
than two cats and a dog, I found in 
the ship. An earthquake sadly dam- 
aged my building and cave in the rock. 
I shook out an old bag of rubbish by 
the side of my cabin (containing pro- 



