. ., ..l.n"..Nl|H..»..\.||4.|0|..uu.!||l)|, '6 .. .. Ii ,!;.§. }
4' ‘ill! 0' .'l \ W‘! _.¢.||.1IIll||!\‘..|!I.lI¢..V.‘lI-)\.1’|;l ‘
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hebbard
imag. ‘Joy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘1 ’=._ - Y M7
I -~ M 1 ~
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
~ _ _ _ . . V ‘ . V 74*»-an-M_~‘=.,.»~..__~_~___._.~¢~.m.__-.».M‘.,¢”¢-.:.._F
. _ . _ _ ‘ ‘ V . > ~,q»a----=-‘~‘-n-w--=---u-—-—<~» mmpmmmm
' ‘ -at-Danni-I~-a\-v-an-oa-|n"0'-.0-— ‘J \>~‘ -W Vvil
,m-~._-mmp
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
»lmh-lI‘I\_~l--v-A\A'mwnmm>WM..~w_W'»r~“
¢‘WmM~w~~MmM_-»~ » M
....=-4.‘--_~...-...._.».-'~=-...-......._.-...._.....'
 
 
 
 
I
5.
. - n ._ .~...~.~..‘.-w
_ ‘ ‘ V, -~o -....._... 4*-~'-'-,.
v <7-a-~ -...-J0 ‘
' ~,....,.4
, .
‘luv -|> ‘"0 W ~< ’
ii“ -‘7:‘'—;': '3‘
‘ ~‘..--,_,_._.
.. -.. ~
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
..~. - .
..,-._.’-v »“..-~_~ _.~ ...
,‘_,"4,..»._.,,..v. N V M
->.........N,M ‘_. -v-».---..-1*’-_,,-‘
-vur‘ :1 W‘
~A-‘’J'.”_ g‘ I
 
 
 
 
 
g . \
 
 
it ~ 3% ' 2%”
at zmzmz an
' 3. up-_
I
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BGBEN s 0N (ZEUS 01$
\./ '-"*1
\ \ K 7 {/1 /—
 
Emiaéished W1 th ei ght ele g;211t Eng:mvi;n.g' s .
 
NEW ED~ITION.
 
' 1’u1_21is11e¢{})j'. .Lm11s¢11en& Sun. ,
Z‘/rv}wA'iJ,'I)em.Qe .
 
 
J.
I U.
‘f f -
ls
., n
J \ QM
4? L.
\. ‘
.. ml.
1
Q /1 3
v
.
 
m
ADVENTURES
OF
1aon1.2vso.2v c]aUso‘n.
 
I was born of a good family, in the city of
York, where my father, who was a native of
Bremen, had settled, after having acquired a
handsome estate by merchandise. My heart
began to be very early lled with rambling
thoughts; my father often persuaded me to :
settle to some business, and my mother used " 1
the tenderest entreaties, yet nothing could
prevail against me to lay aside my desire of
going to sea; and notwithstanding the ex-
treme uneasiness my father and mother always
shewed at the thoughts of my leaving them,
as if bent on my own destruction, I harden-
ed myself against the prudent advice of? my
kind parents; and being one day at Hull,’ I l
V A y _
 Adventures of
met with one of my companions, who was
going to sea in his father’s‘ ship,‘ and he easily
persuaded me to go with him.
On the 1st of September 1651, I went on
board this ship, which was bound for London,
andwithout letting my pare.nts know the rash
and disobedient step I had taken, set sail; but
no sooner was the ship out of the Humber,
than the wind hegari towblow, and the sea to
rise in a most terrible manner. Having never
been at sea before, I was very sick, and my
mind was lled with terror. -‘ l J
D- The next day the wind abated, and the sea
grew calm. I was no longer ‘sea-sick, and my
‘companion laughedat my fears; he ridiculed
my gravity, and with _a bowl of punch made
‘me half drunk, and>-tiilfis drowned my repent-i
anceiarid all my sober '4reecti0n's._ ' The3w'ea-'
therbeontinuedtcalm for several days,‘ and we
at length came into Yarmouth Roads, where
we cast anchor to wait "for a ‘After
riding here for four or ve‘ days, the wind
. blew very hard; the road; liqwever, being
reckoned "almost as good‘ as an harbour, we
§Pe¥'t‘ P56 riot and mirth, till the eighth
Robinson Crusoe. 7
day in the morning, when the wind _ increas-
ed, and it blew a terri.ble storm. A
I now began to see terror in the faces even
of the seamen themselves; and as the master
passed by me, I could hear him say softly to
himself, ‘ Lord me merciful to us, we shall all
be lost!’ I could now ill resume the peni-
tence I had so apparently trampled upon; I
even hardened myself against it, and thought
that this‘. storm would pass over like the first.
But such a dismal sight I never before saw;
the sea ran mountains high, and broke upon.
us every three orfour minutes: a ship,f_oun-\
dered at a distance; two ships that were near 4
us had cut their masts by the board; and the
mate and bozitswain begged of the master to
let them cut away our foremast.
In the middle of the night one of the men,
who had been down on purpose, cried out we
had sprung a leak, and had now four feet wa-
ter in the hold, upon which all hands were
called to the pump. ' I worked with the rest,
but the water gained upon us, and it was &'ap-‘
parent that the ship would founder; the storm
however beginning to abate, the master red
guns for help, and a light ship which had rid
it out, just ahead of us, ventured a boat out to
help us, at the hazard of their own lives. We
all got into the boat, but hardly left the ship
a quarter of an hour when we saw her founder.
As it was impossible for the boat to get up
to the ship to which she belonged, we endea-
voured to reach the shore, and partly by row-
ing, and partly by being driven by the waves,
We at last, with great diiculty, got to land,
and walked to Yarmouth; from whence I re-
solved to travel to London by land.
0n my arrival in that city, the master of a
ship who had been on the coast of Guinea,
taking a fancy to me, told me, that if I would
go a voyage with him, I should be at no ex-
pence; and if I would carry any thing with
me, I should have the advantage of trading for
myself. Encouraged by this offer, I raised
forty pounds, which I laid out in such toys
and tries as he directed me to buy.
This was one of the most unhappy voyages
that ever man made; for as we were steering
between the Canary islands and the African
shore, we were surprised, iii the gray of the
4..
 
 
,-ml‘
1 - ' . '
I
.._...~
'-1
nm-. M2;
Ht‘-,...\
. ...‘4-~..-.¢- ~' ‘_’,.'._’.e__.._¢~ ‘
. .,~ -~_..<.._
_ — > ‘ It "-1 .‘ I <....'--~-'4'-V474-":f_“’A
I ‘‘>'’’ "4“¢-vi-"“
' "#0," 1- (;’---l""J\"'y’-P
- , _'.o.a~O--~ »-..'-0 "“
iv" -
 
 
Q v w , ~':e 0
. :' r» 1*!’ war»
. ,-i . .,_»~,‘.-I‘).
‘anvil.’ uv¢.vIA
I __ p g ' 4 ;‘‘i-..
 
 
 
 
 
 
' ’.
1
5
5.
\
l
- I
s
.
ii
I
l
I
0 .
..- '
I’.
, .
"K
t 0 ‘
I
0- .
I ~ '
I
,.
-
4'
y
r
l_ .
M‘ C
I
 
‘morning, by a Moorish rover of Salee,' who
gave chase to us, with all the sail she could
carry; we were obliged to submit, and were
all carried prisoners into Salec, aport belong-
ing to the Moors, I was kept by.the , captain
of the rover as his own prize, and made his
slave.
My master hiiving the long boat ‘of our
English ship, made it into a pleasure boat.
One day he had appointed to go about in this
boat, with two or three Moors of distinction;
but in the morning he came on board, telling
me that his guests had declined going, and or-
dered me with the man and boy to sail out
with the boat and catch some sh, for his
friends were to sup with him.
At'this moment the hopes of my deliver-
ance darted into my thoughts,v and I resolved
to furnish myself for a- voyage. I told the
Moor that we must not presume to eat our ~
master’s -bread; he said that ‘was true, and
brought 5 large basket of rusks and three jars
of fresh water into the boat. I knew where
my 1naster’s case of bottles stood, which ap-
peared‘, by their make, to have been talteia--out -
N’.
of some English prize, and I conveyed them
into the boat, while the Moor, whom we call-
ed Muly, was on shore; and also a great lump
of bees wax, with a'pa'rcel of twines, of which
I afterwards‘ made candles; a hatchet, a saw,
and a hammer. ' ~ I
Every thing being prepared we sailed out
of the port to sh; but purposely catching
none, I told Muly that this would not do,
and that we- must stand farther off, which he.
agreeing to, set the sail, and I having the
helm,‘ ran the boat out near a league farther,
and then brought her too, as if I would sh,
whengivingthe boy the ‘helm, I stepped for-
wards, and‘ stooping behind the Moor, took
him by surprise, and tossed him overboard in-
to the sea: he rose immediately, for he swam
like a cork, and called to me to take him in;
but fetching one of the fowlingspieces, I pre-
sented it at him, and told -him, ihat if he came
near the boat, I would shoot him through the
head; but asthe sea was calm, he might eas-'
ily reach the shore. So‘ he turned about,
and swam towards the land; and as he was
an excellent swimmer, I make no doubt that
he reached it with ease.
‘When .he was gone, I turned torthe boy
whom they .called- Xury, and said to him,
Xury,-iif you will be faithful to me, I will
make you a great man. The boy smiled in
my face, and promised to ‘go over all the world
with:.me. So dreadful were my apprehen-
sions of falling again into my master’s hands,‘
that L would not stop to go on shore, till I
had;;saile.d ve days; and the wind shifting -
to the southward; I ventured to come to an
anchor at the mouth of a little river.
Several times after we were obliged to goji
on shore for fresh water, and once in particu-
lar, early in the morning, Xury called softly
to me, and told me; that we had bestgo ~far-
ther off the shore; for, says he, look yonder
lies a lion fast asleep. I charged my gun, and
took aim at his head, but lying with his foot
raised alittle above his nose, the slug broke‘
his -leg. He started up growling, but fell
down again, and gave the most hideous roar
that ever I heard; ring again‘ I shot him in
the head, and saw him drop. I resolved to
take off the skin,._ and-going ashore, the boy
and I accomplished it.’ Then spreadingit
on the top of our cabin, it dried in the sun,-
and afterwards served us to lie upon.
About ten- days after, as I was steering out
to sea, Xury cried out in a fright, master,
master, a ship! imagining that it was his mas-
ter's ship, in pursuit of us. I saw that it was
a Portuguese vessel, and instantly stretched
out tosea with all the sail I could make: they
perceived me by the help of their glasses,
and shortened sail to let me come‘ up. A
Scots sailor on board _ called to me, and I an-
swered, that I had made my escape from the
Moors at Salee. They very kindly took me
in and all my goods.
\Ve had a very good voyage to the Brazils,
and arrived at All Saints Bay in about twen-
it)-two days. The generous captain recom-
mended me to an honest man who had a plan-
tation, with whom I lived till I had learnt the
manner of planting and making sugar, after
which I purchased a piece of land, and be-
came a planter. I had lived here about four
years, and had contracted an acquaintance a-
mong several merchants. I had frequently.
talked to them of the method of purchasing H
 
 
 
-negroes on the coast of Guinea,‘ and they be-
ing pleased with the project,‘ easily prevailed‘
on me’ to make a voyage for that purpose.
\Ve tted out a ship of, about 120 tons bur-
jden, Which carried 6 guns, and 14 men, he-
sides the' master, his boy, and myself.
In this vessel I set sail. We had very
good weather for about twelve days; but soon
after we had crossed the line, a violent hurri-
cane drove us quite out of our reckoning, and
for rn'a1‘1y days togethernot any in the ship ex-
pected to save their lives. In this distress,
one of our men early one morning cried out,
Landi and we had no sooner run out of the
cabin, in hopes of seeing Where We were, but
the ship. struck upon a shoal: It is not easy
to conceive our consternation; for as the rage
_ of the sea was great, We supposed that
the ship: would, in a few minutes, break to
pieces. We had a boat on board, Which the
mate laid hold of, and with the help of the
rest of the men ung her over the ship’s side,
and getting all into her, committed ourselves
to God’s mercy.‘ We steered towards '~land,~
but afterwe rowed, or rather been driven}?
A5 2*
about a league and a half, a wave, mountain
high, came rolling a stern of us with such fury
that it overset the boat at once, and separated,
us from one another. This wave carried me
a vast way towards the shore, and having
spent itself} went back, and left me upon the
land almost dry, but half dead. I stood still
a few moments to recover breath, till the wa-
ters went from me, and then took to my heels,
and with all the strength I had left me, to-
wards the shore. I got to the main land,
clamhered up the clitts of the shore, and
sat me down upon the grass.
I soon found the sea calm, and the tide ebb-
ed so far out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the ship. I swam round
hertwice; and the second time observing a
small piece of rope hanging down, I took
hold of it, and got into the forecastle. Here
I found that the ship had a great deal of wa-
ter in her hold, but, to my great joy, all the
ship's provisions were quite -
As: I found several spare yards, and some
. largespars of wood, let them down with
ropes by the ship’s side, and going dot?"
them, tied them together and made a raft.
I next broke open and emptied three of the
seamen’s chests; then lowered them down up-
on the raft, and lled them with bread, some
dried goat’s esh, and three Dutch cheeses,
several cases of bottles, in which were some
cordial waters, and other useful articles; be-
sides I found two or three broken oars that
belonged to the boat which served me to push
the raft along.
The next day I resolved to make a second
voyage. My raft being too unwieldy, I swam
to the ship and made a less one, ‘on which I
placed two or three bags of nails and spikes,
some tools and fire arms, two barrels of musket
bullets, a large bag of small shot, all the men’s
clothes Icould nd, a square fore-topsail, a
hammock, and some bedding; all these to my
very great comfort I brought safe to land.
It blew very hard all night, and in the
morning no more ship was to be seen. I
now went in search ofa placewhere I might
x my dwelling. I found a little plain on
the side of a rising hill, which was there as
steep as the side of a house, so that nothing
could‘ come down to me from the top: on
the side of this rock was a hollow space like
the entrance of a cave, before which I re- ~
solved to x my tent. This plain was not
above 100 yards broad, and twice as long,
descending to the sea.
Before I set up my tent, I drew an half
circle before the hollow place, which extend-
ed 20 yards, and in this circle pitched two
rows of strong stakes, driving them into the
ground like piles; they stood about ve feet
and a half out of the ground, sharpened on the
top. Then I took the pieces of cable I had
cut in the ship, and laid them in rows one up-
on another up to the top; and this fence was
very strong. The entrance I made by a short
ladder to go over the top, which when I was
in I lifted over after me. Into this fence I
by degrees carried all my riches, all my pro-
visions, ammunition, and stores, and made
me a large tent to secure myself and them
‘from the weather. When I had done this I
began to work my way; into the 'rock, which
was pretty soft, laying all the earth and
stones I dug out within my fence, and thus.
I had a cave just behind my tent.
 
 
 
 
 
1‘;
 
 
I.<.I'B‘W~_,.
-w. Ma.
5.,
» 5
’IQ!£!3!§\!lIlilliiil!"IIiID
,...~J- --- 4
£10-a-----~
.,.'.‘-’.>=---
 
 
,.
Robizzsorz Crusoe. ‘Z0
I had got from the ship some pens, ink,
and paper; some mathematical instruments,
and three good bibles, with several other
books, which I carefully secured. I also
brought on shore with me two cats, and a dog
swam on shore, who was a trusty servant to
-me many years, nay he was so good a compa-
nion, that I was at a loss for riothing he could
fetch me; and he only wanted the power of
speech to become a most agreeable friend.
I had scarcely nfshed my habitation when
I was very nearly buried in its ruins. ' I was
at work just at the entrance of my cave,
when all of a sudden the earth came tumbling
down from the roof of the cave, and the edge
of the hill, over my Jgcad. I was heartily
scared, and thought the top of my cave was
fallen in. There were three shocks at about
eight minutes distance, such as I believe
would have overturned the strongest build-
. ing; and about half a mile from me a great
piece of a rock fell down, with the most terri-
ble noise I ever heard. The earthquake
inade my stomach sick, and I was as one stu-
pid; but this horrible noise roused me at once.
A 3
In some little time I recovered from my
fright, and after that frequently killed goats
for my subsistence, whose fat supplied my
lamp, which was a dish made of clay baked in
the sun, and, for a wick I made use of oakum.
In the midst of all my labour, when I was rum-
maging among my things, I found a little bag
with a few husks of corn in it, and wanting it,
I shook it out by the side of my fortication.
This was just before some heavy rain, and a-
bout a month afterwards, I saw some green
stalks shooting out of the ground; but how
great was my astonishment, when, some time
after, I saw about ten or twelve ears of bar-
ley]! It was some time before I recollected
the bag with the husks, and‘ I thought they
could have been produced by nothing less than
a miracle. With this barley there also came
up a few stalks of rice, and these were worth
more to me than fty times their weight in
gold, ‘and I carefully preserved them for seed-
‘I now built myself a bower, about two
iriiies from the hut, which I called-my coun-
tn?-house.
In one of the dry seasons I took a ramble, \
Q"
o
armed with a gun, and a hatchet, and guarded
by my faithful dog. When I passed the val‘
ley in which stood my bower, I came within
view of the sea, and it being a clear day; I
plainly discovered land; but whether island or
continent I could not tell; I guessed that it
could not be less than twenty leagues o'. In
this journey I caught a young parrot; so I
took it home with me, and taught it to speak“, . ,
 
 
I travelled about twelve miles eastward alon ,.;-1.
, . ta. ,1‘
the shore, and then setting up a post for
mark, returned homewards, designing
my next tour should be the contrary way,§ ;
till I came to this post.
I took a different way home from that I
went; but unfortunately lost myself, till at
last I was obliged to nd out the sea side to
seek for my post, tired to death with the
heat of the weather and weight of ‘ my arms.
In this journey my dog seized a young kid,
and ;I saved it alive, pleased with the hopes
of having a breed of tame goats; but as I
could not bring it along without diiculty,
and longed to be at home, I left it within
the incl/osure of my bower. ,
3 4
I cannot express what satisfaction it ivas
now to come into my hut, and to lie down in
my hammock bed. I rested myself a week, em-
ployed in the weighty affair of making a cage
for my parrot, which soon became one of my
favourites. I now bethought me of my kid,
and hasted to my bower to bring ithome, or
to give it food; and the poor creature was so
tame by hunger that it followed me hiomelike
a dog. From this time it became one of my
domestics also, and would never leave the. f
And now, my reader, I will give thee a short
sketch of the gure I made. I had a great
high shapeless cap made ofgoat’s skin, a jacket
with the skirts coming down to the middle of
my thighs, and a pair of open-kneed breeches
‘of the same, with the goat’s hair hanging to
the middle of my leg. Stockings and shoes I
had none; but I had made a pair of somethings,
I" scarce knew what to call them, to ap over
my legs like spatterdashes, but of a most bar-
barous shape, and so indeed were all the rest
of my clothes: I had a broad belt of goat’s
skin dried, and _I.hung on one side a saw, \
and on the other side a hatchet. I had ano-
ther belt, not so broad, fastened over my
shoulder. Under my arm hung two pouches
for shot and powder; on my back I carried a
basket, on my shoulder a gun, and over my
head a great clumsy, ugly, goat’s skin umbrel-
la. My heard was cut short, except what grew
on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers; but as
for my gure, I had so few to observe me,
that it was of no manner -of consequence.
In this gure I frequently went to visit the
ship’s boat, whichl had found upon the beach
some time after the wreck of the vessel; and
one day about noon, when I was going to it,
I was exceedingly surprised with the print of
a man’s naked foot on the shore, which was '
plainly to be seen on the sand. I stooikilikc
one thunderstruck: I listened: I looked a-
round me; I could not hear nor see.any thing.
I went upon a rising ground to look farther;
I walked backwards and forewards on the shore,
but I could see only that one impression: I
went to look at it again; there was plainly a-
foot, ‘toes, heel, and every part very
how it. -carne there I knew not; but
A-‘
home to my fortications, looked behind me
every two or three steps, and fancied every tree,
bush, and stump to be 'a man. I had no sleep
that night; but my terror gradually were off,
and I ventured down to take measure of the
foot by my own, but I found it much larger.
This lled me again with ridiculous whimsies;
and when I went home I began to double my
fortications, planted my seven muskets on
carriages, in the manner of cannon, and was
at the iexpence of an innite deal of labour
purely from my apprehensions of this print
of a foot. And in particular I planted a vast
. number of -stakes on the outside of my wall,
which growing, became a thick grove, and
entirely concealed the place of my retreat, and
greatly added to my security.
Now, I rambled more to the western point
of the island than I had ever done before, I
was presently convinced that the seeing the
print of a man’s foot was not such a strange
thing in the. island as I had imagined; for on‘
my approaching the shore, I was perfectly con-
founded and amazedat seeiri g the shore spread
with sculls, hands; feet,~ ' and other bones of
human bodies; and particularly a place, where,
as I suppose, there had been a re made,
and a circle dug in the earth for the savage
wretches to sit down to their inhuman feasts
on the bodies of their fellow creatures. I
turned away my face from the horrid spec-
tacle, and left the place as soon as possible.
Some time after in the midst of a very
stormy night, I was startled at the ring of
a gun: I hastened to the top of 'my hill, and
heard another. I imagined that these were
signals of a ship in distress, andv so proved,
as I discovered the next day. Nothing would
serve me but I must go in my boat to this
wreck which lay at a little distance. I fur-
nished myself with a stock of provisions for
fear of being driven out to sea. and in two
hours time I reached the ship, which was Spa-
nish built. She stuck fast jammedin between
two rocks, and the stern and " were
beaten to pieces by the sea. ;'coming'
near it a dog yelped and cried, biIt‘:th'ere was 4
no other living creature on board; but -I saw‘ .
two men df0WYd in the :cook-roonk-‘ their armsfasyt a out one another,
ae‘ ‘ i
.4-. ‘~
goods were spoiled by the water. I, however,
took two of the seamen’s' chests into my
boat without knowing what was in them.
When I had got my treasures home, and
began to unload, I found several bottles lled
with cordial waters, and some neckcloths and
shirts, which were very useful to me; 1100
pieces of eight, and about a pound weight of
solid gold; but of what use was this to me?
I would have given it all for three or four
pair of shoes and stockings.
- After this acquisition, I lived in my old
manner, though terried with fears of the sa-
vages. One morning very early I saw ve
canoes of them ashore. I clambered up my
hill, and by the help of my perspective disco-
vered no less than thirty dancing round a re.
I soon after saw two miserable wretches drag-
ged out of the boats, one of whom wasim-'
mediately knocked down, but the other start-
ing from them, ran with incredible swiftness
along the sands towards me. I confess I was
horribly frightened when I saw him come my
way, imagining he wouldbe pursued by the
whole body; however, I kept my station, and
quite lost my apprehension, when I~found but
-three following him. He greatly outran them,
and was in a fair way of escaping, when com-
ing to the creek, he plungedinto it, landed,
and ran as swift as before. Of the three that
followed, buttwo entered the water, the other
-returning back-. I hastily fetched my guns
from the foot of the ladder, and taking a short
-cut down the bill, I clapped myself in the way
between ‘the-pursuers and the pursued, halloo-
aing aloud to him that ed; and beckoned with
my hand for him to come‘-back; then rushing
at once upon the foremost, Eknocked him down
with. the stock of mypiece: the other stopped
as if frightened ; but when I advanced towards
hitn,~ I perceived he was tting his bow to
‘shoot me, upon which I shot him dead direct-
-ly. . The poor savage’. who fled was so terri-
ed at the noise of my piece, :th-ongh he saw
his enemies fallen, that he stood stock still, but
seemed rather inclined to y, than to come to-
wards me. But the inan I had knocked down
came to himself, and my savage began ‘to be
afraid. I then presented my piece atithe man,
when thepoor fellow, whose life I had saved,
made a motion for my sword, which I gave
him, and he struck off his enemy’s head at one
blow, and in a quarter of an hour buried both
the bodies in the sand. I then took him away
to my cave at the farthest part of the island.
Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins
to eat, and a draught of ‘water, which he want-
ed much; and having refreshed him, I made
signs for him to lie down on some rice straw,
which the poor creature did, and went to sleep.
He was a well-made handsome fellow, of
about twenty-six years of age, of an olive-
coloured complexion, with long black hair.
He had a small nose that was not at, and
ne teeth as white as ivory. After he had
slept about half an hour he waked again, and
I 4 came running to me in the enclosure, just by
where I had been milking my goats. Then
falling down he laid his head at upon the
ground, and set my other foot upon it, and
alter this made all possible signs of thankful-
ness, subjection, and submission. I I began to
speak to him, and to teach him to speak to
me; and rst I made him to know -that his
‘name should be Friday, which was the day
!
Robinson ‘ Crusoe. 38
wherein I saved his life. I taught him to say
Master, and let him know that was to be my
name. The next day I gave him clothes, at
which he seemed pleased.
I made a little tent on the outside of my
fortication for Friday to sleep in, and at night
took in my ladder, that he might not be able
to get at me while I slept. But there was
no need of this precaution, for never man had
a more faithful servant; he had the same af-
fection for me as a child has for a father. I
made it my business to teach him every thing
proper to render him useful, especially. to
speak, and understand me when I spoke;
and he was the aptest scholar that ever was;
then -he was so merry, so diligent, and so
pleased when he could understand me or
make me understand him, that he was a
very agreeable companion.
‘I then set him to_beat out some corn and
sift it, and soon after I let him see me make
my bread and bake, and in a little time Friday
was able to do all the work for me, gas well as
I copulddoit myself. _ I now found it neces-
sary to sow a larger quantity of corn than I
used to d0,;and_ therefore, with Friday’s assist-
ance enlarged my fence.‘ In short, this was
the pleasantest year I had led in the island;
for as my man began to talk pretty well I had
some use for mytongue again; and besides the
pleasure of talking to him, I had apsingular
satisfaction in his honesty and aifection; which '
appeared more every day, so that I began real-
ly to love him.
I did not fail to instruct this poor creature,
as well as I was able, in the principles of re-
ligion, and he listened tome with great atten-
tion. I described to him the countries of
Europe, and particularly’ England; how we
lived; how we worshippedGod; and how we
traded in ships to all parts of the world. Up-
on seeing my boat, Friday stood musing a
great while, and said nothing: when -asking
what he was thinking. of, he at last said, Me
sub)’: boat like came to place at my nation. IrVe
' save the tvkz'te mans from drown. I the_n ask-
ed him, if there were any white mans, as he.
called them, in-the boat? Yes, he said, zeboat .~
full of avlzite mans. ‘ I asked him how many?
He told me upon his ngers seventeen. I then '
 
asked him what becEm'ie'of them?’ and'-he re-
plied, They live, the_g‘/‘dwell at nation.
A considerable time after this, being at the
top of a hill on the! east side of the -island,
from whénce I had discovered land, Friday
looked very earnestly towards it, and in a kind
of surprise fell a jumping and dancing, cry-
ing, O joy! 0 glad! there be’ my ’c'0zmtr_'y,
there my nation! " ' -
From this’ time I had -a mind to~venture~
over, and see if I could possibly ‘join these
bearded men, not doubting but that we might
nd some means of escaping from ’_t_henoe,? i
was now entered into the 27th year of pcapl
tivity, and intended soon to set sail, -whenione morning‘ I bid '-Friday go the sea shore to
see ‘if he could nd a~'turtle; but he had not:
been long gone, when he came: running back.
like one that felt not the ground on which he
trod,‘and before I had time to speak, cried} 0
master! 0 master! 0 -sorrow! 0 bad!‘ What’s.
the matter, Friday, said I, Ogonder there, said‘
he, one, two, three emzoe! one, two, three!‘
‘\Vell, Friday, said I, do-not be frightened: he-
was, however, terribly scared, imaginig that
they were come to look for him, and would
cut him in pieces and eat him. I asked him,
whether, ifl resolved to defend him, he would
stand by me, and do as I bid him. He said,
Me die when you bid die, master. I fetched him
a good dram of rum, and made him take two
fowling pieces, and load them-with large swan
shot. I then loaded four muskets with ve small
bullets each, and each of two pistols with a
brace of bullets, I hung my great sword na-
ked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.
I had not a moment to lose, for ninteen
“Of the horrid wretches sat huddled togcthel‘
on the ground, and the other two were stoop-
ing. down to untie a Christian, (for one of
the poor prisoners was a Spaniard), in order to “
murder him. Now, said I, Friday, do as you
see me do.’ I laid the muskets down, and
\ took up one, and then we both lred. Three
were killed and five wounded. \/Ve then rush-l
ed out of the thicket, with each a musket in
our hands. I cut the ags that Joound the
poor victim, and gave him a sword and pistol,
which he had no sooner got than he ew upgp,
his murderers. ' Meanwhile Friday ring had
killed two, and wounded a third, and after-
wards fell upon them with his hatchet. In
short, seventeen of them were killed, and four
of them getting into a canoe got out to sea.
I resolved to pursue them, lest they should
return with a greater force to destroy us, and
ran to a canoe, calling to Friday to follow me;
but I was no sooner in the canoe, than I found
another poor creature there alive, bound hand
and foot.‘ I immediately cut the twisted flags,
and seeing that he had been bound so tight
that he was almost dead, I gave him a dram,
and ordered Friday to tell him of his deliver-
tmce; but when the poor fellow looked in his
face, and heard him speak, it would have mov-
ed any one to tears, to have seen how he kiss-
ed, ‘embraced, hugged him, cried, danced,
sun" and then cried again. It was sometimeg...1
befdfre I could make him tell me what was the
matter; but when he came a little to himself,
he said it was his own dear father. Heithenz
sat down by him, held the old man’s head
close to his bosom, and chafed , his arms ‘gnd
uncles, which were ‘s'titf'with binding. I
At my desire, Friday carried the Spaniard
into‘ the canoe, and placed him by his.father.;-I
then -launching off; paddled ‘along the shore,
till he ‘broi1ght‘them near: my.rcastle, while I
walked thither. ' l - ' - -
About eight days after they were gone to
fetch over’ their companions, Friday waked me
one morning‘, by crying out,. ;Master they are
come;, I dressed and-‘hastened up to the top
of tlidhill, and ‘plainly discovered an English‘
sl1'ip*~lyiiig"‘at anchor. -At rst I felt -in my
\ mind a“tumult of joy, yl'which§was.-soon turned
, into{fea‘r;5fo‘r though -I knew them to 'b‘e*m'y
countrymen,“ ‘I had reason ,to=dread- them as
enemies.-‘ 7;Instead of ~going*towar‘d’-them; as I
" Shoiild have done,‘ had it not.been* for these
alarining"doubt_s, I staid where.I,w'as, and
wassoon ‘convinced?-that toimy suspicions I-
owcd’ my safety. ' R ‘ ,
They ran the boat ashore, on the" b_eacli‘,-
and clever! men‘ landed, three of them unarm-
e'd,»who‘ by tliei'r"gestures I thought to. be
I prisoners; and one of - them I could perceive
using the mostipassionate gestures of - entreaty,-
, atiliction, and despair; ‘while the‘ two’ others,
though ' their-1 grief seemed .le_ss 'extravaga_nt,-
it.
a.
appeared pleading for mercy. At this sight
I was stiffened with horror, and Friday called
out to me in his broken English, 0 master!
you see Englishmen eat prisoners as well as sa- "
wage men. No, no, says I, Friday, I am afraid
they will murder them; butyou may be sure
they will not eat them. At this instant I saw
a villain lift up his arm to kill one ‘of the pri-
soners, but he did not kill him. I wished
now for’ the Spaniard, and Friday’s father,
who was gone with him. While they had
been parleying with their prisoners, the water
had ebbed away from their boat, leaving her
aground; and I heard one of them say to an-
other who was going to it, why let it alo°ne
Jack, it will be aoat next tide; this conrm-
ed to me that they were my countrymen. I.
knew now to my great uneasiness, that they
would have ten hours to ramble about the
island; . I therefore designed to attack them as
soon as it was dark; but a few hours after,‘
as I saw none of them rambling about, I ima-
gined they were asleep, all but the three dis-
tressed men, who were under the shelter of “a
tree but a little way from me. To them I
went with niy man -Fniday, and said in Spp-_-
nish, What are you, .Gentlemen'l" Theystartetl
at the noise, but When they saw my uncouth
gure they prepared to fly. I then said in
English,.Gentlemen,* ‘perhaps you may llayera
friend nearlyou, whom you little expect.’ ‘He
mus be sent: directly from heayen,.said .0n_e:of
the_m'bo'wing;-fo'r our ‘condition is pastl-the
help of man.-. All help is fr.om.heaven,= ,Si;-, .
I replied;'~I,see you are in distress, land‘-am
willing to serve‘ you. The poo1".man,. Witlt a
gush" of tears, answered, Am I talking to a
man or amangel? A man, ‘an Englishman, I
returned, ready to assist and save you',,‘tell me
your case.‘ was commander of I that -ship,
he replied; my men have mutinied against
inc, and if -they do n0t.murder;me, theyfintend
to leaveme and these two g_entler'nen_iashore
-in thisdesolate place; They are butjin that
thicket, and I tremble ‘for fear they have seen.
you, and heard us speak: if they have, they
will murder us all. I asked what arms they
had got, and nding they had but one pieceof
re arms among them, I told him, it was -easy
to kill them all while they were asleep, or to
take them prisoners. He replied, that there
were two incorrigible villains among "them, ‘to
whom it would not be safe to shew mercy. I
then gaveeach of them ‘a musket, and advised
them to re among them at once; but he was
cautious of shedding blood. In the midst of
our discourse some of ‘them awaked, ‘and two
walked from the rest. The captain ‘said he
would gladly sparethem. Now, said I, if the
rest escape you, it is your fault. Aniinated
with this they went to the sailors, and the
captain reserving his own piece, the two men
shot one of the villains dead, and wounded
the other. He who was wounded‘ cried out
for help, when the captain knocked him
down with the stock of his musket.~ There
were three more in company, one of whom
was wounded. They begged for mercy; and
I coming up gave orders for sparing their
lives, on condition of their being bound hand
and foot, while they staid in the island.
The noise of our guns brought three more
straggling mep to us, and they submitting to
be bound our victory was complete. We then
consulted together how to recover the ship,
there being still twenty-ve men on board.
We knocked a great hole in the bottom of the
boat, that they might not carry her away;
and while we were doing it, we heard the ship
re a gun as a signal for the boat to come on
board. . A little after another boat with ten
men and re arms approached shore.
Those who came on shore kept close toge-
ther, marching up the little hill under which
my habitation lay. When at the top they
shouted and hallooed, but did not care to
venture far from the shore, and quickly re-
turned back. I then ordered Friday and the
mate to go to, a rising. ground and shout as
loud as they could. They heardthe noise and
ran towards it till they came to the creek;
they then called to the boat to set them
over. This was what I expected. Having
crossed the creek, they left two men in the
boat, taking the other with them. ~ We left
Friday and the mate to pursue their business
in decoying the fellows up into the woods,
by shouting and hallooing, while we surpris-
ed the two men they had leftf one lying in '
the boat, and the other asleep on the sliore.
 
 
. o ... . QM .1 \ . .. . U .. Q
1 . _ ..\.fE. ..~...:¢..-..:. . . 3 , Q Q .. , . v .. .. .
. xx. of. :mr. zannrrmtmr. .... .. U... U . ... .. . . .. . , \ »
¢..§.~
..
.w....r.,...r.w~.\\\..U\ . . M
W
sg
 
Robinsciri Crzlsoa ~ 45
The last started up at our approach, the cap;
taiu knocked l1ir_n'down,: and calledto hini
iii‘the boat to yield, or he was a dead man.
Thishe did, and heartily joined us, he be- '
ing due ofthosc who had been forced‘thr'ough
fear to join the mutiny.
At length we saw them all go to the _boat,
which was aground in the creek, the tide ebb-
ed out. They hallooed and called their com-
rades by their names, and then ran about
wringing their hands as men in despair; it
grew dark: I drew my ambuscade nearer, and
ordered'Friday and the captain to creep upon
tlicir hands and feet, that they might not
be ‘seen, and to get very nearthem before they ..
red; but one of the principal ringlcadcrs of
the mutiny, with two of the crew, came to- .
wards us, and the captain was so eager at hav-.-»
ing him in his power, that he let y, and.kill-
' ed him and another man on the spot; the third
ran for it. i I then advanced with my whole
army, when the man we‘ took out of the boat ‘
by my order called to one of them by his name,
Tom Smith? ’ The fellow answered, who is
t.hat,-Robinson? the other replied, ay, ay, for
I
Q
God’s sake, Tom, throw down your arms and
. yield, or you are all dead men this moment.
Yield! who‘ must we yield to? says Smith.
‘Vhere are they? Here they are, says he,
here’s our captain with fty men with him;
the boatswain and \Vill Fry are killed, and I
am a prisoner. VVill they give us quarter?
says Smith; The captain then called out, You
know my voice, if you lay down your arms and
submit, you shall all have your lives but Will
Aitkins. Upon which Will Aitkins called out,
for God’s sake, captain, spare my life, the rest
are as bad as I; which was not true, for he had
used the captain very ill at the beginning of the
mutiny. _The captain told him he must lay
down his arms at discretion, and trust to the
governor’s mercy. They all submitted. I
I wasnow determined to seize the ship, and
the captain chose five of those he liked best to
assist him, while I kept the rest as hostages
for their delity. We then stopped the breach
in the broken boat, and having manned them
both, the captain went to the ship about mid-
night, got on board, and being faithfully se-
eonded, they knocked down the second mate
IZo5in:.‘02: Crusoe. 51
and carpenter with the butt-end of their mus--
kets, and soon overcame all the rest.
.Next day I went on board the ship, taking
Friday with me, but did not sail that night;
and before we put off, two of the men swam
to us from the shore, desiring to be taken in,
or they should be murdered; to which we a-'
greed, and they afterwards .became honest fel-
lows. On the other hand, two men in the
ship, fearing -to be called to an account in
England, took the pinnace, and joined their-
old comrades on shore. Thus I left the
island, after being on it twenty‘-eight years.
FINIS.
#5?
. ..
 
