
for
GENERAL EDITOR
WILBUR LUCIUS CROSS
PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH IN YALE UNIVERSITY

Daniel Defoe
From the frontispiece to Defoe's Jure Divino, 1706
Laudatur & Alget
(He is praised, and yet not cherished)
Juv. Sat. I.
DEFOE'S
ROBINSON CRUSOE
EDITED BY
WILBUR L. CROSS
PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH IN THE SHEFFIELD SCIENTIFIC SCHOOL
OF YALE UNIVERSITY

NEW YORK
HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY
1911
COPYRIGHT, 1911,
BY
HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY
THE QUINN A 8ODEN CO. PRESS
RAhWAV, N. j.

CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
I. Life and Works
II. Robinson Crusoe
DESCRIPTIVE BIBLIOGRAPHY
FRONTISPIECE TO FIRST EDITION
TITLE-PAGE TO FIRST EDITION
PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION .
ROBINSON CRUSOE .
MAP OF CRUSOE'S VOYAGE
COMMENT . . .
GLOSSARY ....
PAGE
vii
xx
xxxi
. xxxiv
xxxv
. xxxvii
I
360
. 361
367
Portrait of Daniel Defoe
frontispiece

INTRODUCTION
I
DEFOE'S LIFE AND WORKS
IT IS quite difficult for anyone who reads Robinson
Crusoe to believe, while under the spell of it, that the
book was not written by the hero himself; for it reads
like the personal history of a mariner who was really
cast upon a desert island and really spent many years
there in an endeavor to make himself comfortable. It
all seems as true to fact as the Autobiography of Ben-
jamin Franklin. Such, however, is far from the case.
Robinson Crusoe is in the main an imaginary autobiog-
raphy written by an old man who had never passed be-
yond the land and waters of Europe. He had never-
theless experienced during his long life "innumerable
ups and downs in matters of fortune," which seemed to
him to have their counterpart in a famous story, then
current, of a buccaneer who had been put ashore on an
island in the South Seas. The author of Robinson Cru-
soe read so completely his own life by way of symbol into
the adventures of this buccaneer that he produced a nar-
rative having all the air of a real autobiography.
The writer who accomplished this extraordinary feat
called himself Daniel Defoe, though his real name was
Daniel Foe. His father was a prosperous butcher liv-
ing among the tradespeople of London, where the boy
vii
viii Introduction
was born, in 1659 or 1660, perhaps on September 30 of
the former year, or the very day when Robinson Crusoe
was wrecked on the Island of Despair. Like others of
their class, Defoe's parents were Dissenters or Noncon-
formists; that is to say, they dissented from the doctrines
of the Church of England, and refused to conform to
the ritual established by that church. We should be
near the mark if we called them Presbyterians. With a
view to the ministry, young Defoe at the age of four-
teen was sent to a Dissenting academy at Newington
Green, across the Thames, where he remained at his
books and at play among the fields for five years, laying
the foundation for a good knowledge of ancient and
modern literature, geography, mathematics, and history,
political as well as ecclesiastical. Among his com-
panions was Timothy Cruso, afterwards a well-known
Presbyterian minister, in memory of whom Defoe named
his romance, changing Timothy to Robinson. At that
time Latin was the medium of instruction in the great
public schools like Eton and Harrow; but at the little
Dissenting academy which Defoe attended, the master
read all his lectures in English and had his pupils write
all their exercises in the same tongue. To this custom
Defoe attributed his early mastery of a vivid and idi-
omatic English style.
From school Defoe did not pass to the Dissenting min-
istry, because, as you may know, the irregular clergy
had no social or political standing at the period when
he arrived at man's estate. He doubtless felt that he
could be more useful to Dissent if he remained a free-
lance in the discussion of all questions affecting the wel-
fare of his brethren. Under the circumstances, the most
natural calling for Defoe was trade. Marrying in 1684,
he accordingly soon settled in London as a " hose-factor,"
a sort of middleman between manufacturer and retailer.
Life and Works ix
His business, which extended with time far beyond
hosiery, took him to France, and subsequently on a
voyage to Portugal and Spain, where he acquired that
knowledge of Spanish and Portuguese character which
afterwards entered into Robinson Crusoe and other ro-
mances. He also learned withal to speak French and
Spanish fluently. Something of an adventurer, he
joined with several of his schoolfellows in the insurrec-
tion under the Duke of Monmouth; and on the entry of
William of Orange into London, he appeared among the
handsomely dressed troopers in the Prince's retinue.
These distractions, along with civil commotions, so inter-
fered with his business that Defoe became a bankrupt in
1692, and was compelled to flee to Bristol in order to
escape imprisonment for debt. He, however, soon com-
promised with his creditors and returned to London once
more. The literary outcome of his first disaster in trade
was a most illuminating Essay upon Projects (published
some years later), advocating reforms in the bankruptcy
laws, and the establishment of savings banks, insurance
companies, colleges for the education of women, asylums
for the feeble-minded, and other valuable public institu-
tions, most of which have since become a part of modern
civilization.
From the first, Defoe was like his Crusoe in that if he
failed in one enterprise he quickly sought and tried an-
other. Hitherto London had depended largely upon
Holland for her pantiles, or curved tiles, as we usually
call them in this country. Seeing an opportunity for
profit in making them at home, Defoe became interested
—first as secretary and afterwards as principal share-
holder—in an old brick-yard down the Thames, which
was developed under his management into a large pantile
manufactory employing a hundred hands. A half-cen-
tury ago the works were excavated by a curious admirer,
who discovered, amid the ruins of claypits, kilns and dry-
ing-floors, great quantities of narrow bricks, many pan-
tiles still retaining "a fine red color," and tobacco pipes
so curious in shape as to excite the mirth of a crowd of
spectators. This useful art of moulding and hardening
clay, it may be observed in passing, was acquired by Rob-
inson Crusoe only after many failures with pots and
kettles, and he was never able, any more than was Defoe,
to make a graceful tobacco pipe. Defoe's profits were
so large from the new industry, that he soon paid off his
debts, set up a coach, purchased a pleasure-boat, and alto-
gether lived in style.
In the meantime, Defoe had begun his career as po-
litical writer, with all its glory and persecution, first in
favor of the foreign policy of King William, and then in
favor of Dissent, which was openly tolerated by the
Whig advisers that came into power under the new
reign. A vigorous pamphlet in support of the war with
France so pleased the Government that Defoe, then ab-
sent from London, was sent for and immediately ap-
pointed to a post in the Customs. Thenceforth Defoe
became almost the mouthpiece of the ministry whenever
there was need of a stirring appeal to the people against
the Opposition. After the Peace of Ryswick (1697), for
example, the Tories and many others wished to disband
the army, on the ground that its maintenance was a use-
less burden upon the country; but the King wished to
have the army continued as a menace to France to keep
the peace. At this juncture Defoe came out with two
great pamphlets advocating a standing army, in reply to
those who were crying for reduced taxes and insinuating
that William was aiming to make himself an absolute
tyrant like Cromwell. Again, a pamphleteer attacked
the King as a foreigner, and Defoe at once entered the
lists with a satirical poem entitled the True-Born Eng-
Life and Works
XI
lishman, in which he showed that the English nation, far
from being of pure blood, was the most mongrel race
under the sun. The poem was immensely popular with
the middle and lower classes, who saw the jest of it; the
King, pleased to be proved as good an Englishman as any
other, welcomed Defoe at Court; and the author himself
was nicknamed the True-Born Englishman.
In the midst of this prosperity, Defoe was preparing
the way for a second disaster, much greater than the
first, by meddling too far in the controversies over Dis-
sent. According to an English law, it was necessary for
anyone holding a municipal office to conform to the
Church of England; but the law was sometimes evaded
by Dissenters, who, in order to qualify for office, had
no scruples against occasionally receiving the Sacrament
according to the rites of the Established Church. A bit-
ter debate over the legality of this so-called occasional
conformity was precipitated in 1697, when a Dissenting
Lord Mayor of London, after taking communion at a
church on a Sunday morning, went in the afternoon, with
all the insignia of his office, to a meeting-house of the
Dissenters. Into the warfare of pamphlets that suc-
ceeded Defoe entered with rare zest, taking the neutral
position that even though the law was unjust, occasional
conformity as a means of winning civic honors was "a
scandalous practice," of which all Dissenters should be
thoroughly ashamed. In turn Defoe was denounced by
his brethren as a renegade, though sincerity and logic
were on his side. The controversy drifted on aimlessly
through numerous pamphlets until the accession of Queen
Anne, with whom a Tory ministry came into power, de-
termined to clip the wings of the Dissenters. Accordingly
a bill was introduced into Parliament making occasional
conformity illegal. During the hot debate over the meas-
ure, which was finally killed by a Whig House of Lords,
Defoe launched his most famous pamphlet, entitled the
Shortest Way with the Dissenters, in which, taking the
point of view of the most bigoted High Churchmen as
completely as if he were one, he argued ironically, that
whoever attended a meeting-house should be banished
from the kingdom and the preacher be hanged. This
superb piece of irony, which appeared anonymously, was
not understood by the Dissenters, who took the pamphlet
seriously and trembled for their lives. Violent High
Churchmen were at first in glee, for it seemed to state their
views exactly; but when they learned that it was all
written in mockery, their indignation knew no bounds.
The pamphlet was burned by the common hangman; De-
foe was arrested on the charge of seditious libel, con-
victed, heavily fined, and sentenced to the pillory and to
Newgate, an old London prison famous in the literature
of crime. On three successive days he stood in the
"hieroglyphic state machine," as he called the pillory,
around which crowded the London rabble, not to insult
him, but to drink his health and to cover him with
flowers as a martyr to their cause. And what Defoe
himself thought of his persecution, was given to the mob
in a vigorous Hymn to the Pillory, concluding with a
message which they were asked to convey to his friends
everywhere:
"Tell them the men that placed him here
Are friends unto the times;
But at a loss to find his guilt,
They can't commit his crimes."
From the pillory, Defoe was conveyed to Newgate,
where he remained for nearly eighteen months, among
highwaymen, pickpockets, and still more desperate char-
acters. His pantile works of course fell into ruin. But
instead of being overwhelmed by his misfortune, Defoe
made the most out of Newgate, in the firm conviction,
to paraphrase his own words, that there can be no situ-
ation in life, however miserable, to which a man may
not adjust himself. No labor was then required of politi-
cal prisoners, and on the payment of a fee, they might
have a room apart from the rest, where they were per-
mitted to live much as they liked. Taking advantage of
the opportunity thus afforded for literary work, Defoe
rarely let a month pass without sending to his printer
one or more pamphlets on the old political and religious
questions as modified by changing circumstance; and in
the course of a few months, he turned his room into an
editorial office, whence issued from his pen a newspaper
called the Review, at first once, then twice, and finally
three times a week. With little or no aid from others,
he composed week after week weighty articles on foreign
and domestic questions then absorbing men's minds, and
lent spice to his journal by serving up the lighter scandal
of the day. Though the Review was not the first Eng-
lish newspaper to appear, it was the first of any great im-
portance, and with it was inaugurated the modern age
of journalism.
Defoe's long imprisonment came to an end in the sum-
mer of 1704, soon after the advent of a moderate Tory
ministry under Sir Robert Harley, who took him into his
service as pamphleteer, and sent him on various political
missions to Scotland and the north of England. Though
Defoe's constitution had been somewhat weakened by the
unsanitary confinement in Newgate, he still had before
him a full quarter-century, during which his life was to
be distinguished for the same untiring energy, successes
and failures, that had marked his early career. He now
trimmed his sails, it is true, more closely than formerly
to changing parties and policies, but he still awakened
violent enmities and was once more committed to New-
gate for a short period. The Review was continued un-
til 1713; and when it ceased, Defoe started one periodical
after another, until at one time he was engaged, either
as manager or leading writer, on five or six newspapers.
And despite the bankruptcy court and severe illnesses, he
kept up, by dictation if necessary, an incessant flow of
pamphlets dealing with almost every measure of national
interest at the moment it came to the front. Defoe's
course during these years was perhaps not wholly ad-
mirable. He seems to have been at times inconsistent if
not shifty in his opinions; and he has indeed been ac-
cused of political dishonesty. But the fact remains thati
he performed great and lasting public services, espe-
cially by his able and determined advocacy of the union of
England and Scotland and the succession of the House
of Hanover.
Defoe's miscellaneous tracts and editorials have, as we
see, rare value as a record of the conspicuous part which
the author of Robinson Crusoe played in the affairs of
church and state under the last of the Stuarts; but as
literature, their appeal has shrunken to very narrow
limits along with the passing of the old controversies
which occasioned them. Indeed, Defoe himself lived
beyond the period of fierce debate and on into a time
when England enjoyed greater repose than she had ex-
perienced for a century. Long before his death, the
Jacobite rebellion in the north had been suppressed, and
the position of George the First had been thereby made
secure on the British throne. Though complete religious
freedom was not granted to the Dissenters, they gained
all that they could reasonably expect for the present, by
the repeal of two harsh laws which had been passed
against them in the reign of Queen Anne. His old oc-
cupation disappearing, Defoe at once turned the art of
interesting people, which he had acquired by long prac-
tfce in journalism, to real and imaginary biography, in
which truth and fiction are sometimes so cleverly blended
that a reader may be in doubt which is the author's main
purpose. This peculiar gift of mystification he had in-
deed displayed earlier in narratives of unusual or strange
events, such as his account, written while in Newgate,
of a dreadful storm which then swept over England, or
his brief tale relating how the ghost of a Mrs. Veal ap-
peared the day after death to her friend Mrs. Bargrave
and held a long conversation with her over a dish of tea.
At length in 1719, came the Life and Strange Surprizing
Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, which was succeeded
in the same year by Farther Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe, and the next year by Crusoe's Serious Reflec-
tions during his solitary life on the Island of Despair.
By the first of these books Defoe wrote his name into
English literature for all time.
Having discovered his surpassing talent at the age of
sixty, Defoe now followed up his first success with nu-
merous adventures on land and sea, many of which have
no significance except as examples of the author's won-
derful productivity in his old age, while a few have been
singled out as "well worthy," when compared with
Robinson Crusoe, "of a secondary immortality." There
is, for example, the Memoirs of a Cavalier, a capital
story for boys, relating the experiences of a soldier of
fortune in the army of Gustavus Adolphus and later at
Naseby and Marston Moor. The question has been often
asked, Is the story true, as Defoe implies? or is it
throughout fictitious? But nobody has been able to
answer. Again, there is Captain Singleton, somewhat
like Robinson Crusoe, descriptive of an adventurer's jour-
ney across the entire continent of Africa, from sea to sea,
and as graphic in its details as if it had been written by
Livingstone or Stanley. As might be expected, Defoe's
fauna and flora are not always correct, for he had nothing
to work upon except vague tales, and old maps whereon
unexplored territory was marked by pictured elephants;
but he sometimes made shrewd guesses at what might be
discovered in the heart of Africa, as when he placed
there a lake which may be identified with Victoria
Nyanza. The same realistic effects were attained also
in Moll Flanders, a disagreeable but powerful novel,
founded perhaps upon the author's memories of Newgate;
and likewise in the Journal of the Plague Year, a little
dry in places, but abounding in tragic episodes of the ter-
rible visitation that fell upon London back in the days of
Charles the Second. In all these histories and tales, De-
foe displayed the same remarkable narrative power as in
Robinson Crusoe. If they have failed in part to hold
the attention of the public, it is mainly because they have
been eclipsed in other respects (which will be pointed out
hereafter) by Defoe's masterpiece. It is enough to say
for the present that if there had been no Robinson Crusoe,
the Memoirs of a Cavalier and the rest would still have
won for Defoe an important place in the early history of
the English novel as the first of our writers, save Bunyan,
to lend to fiction in any large way the appearance of
authentic history.
It is not to be supposed that these romances and his-
tories were sufficient to keep busy the ever restless Defoe,
though for some time he put out from three to five of
them every year. He was still contributing widely to
the newspapers, and amusing himself with tracts on
magic, in which he sought to prove from curious
anecdotes that we are all surrounded by countless unem-
bodied spirits working for our good or our harm. Just
before beginning his series of fictions, he published a
treatise on education; and before the series was com-
pleted, he had ready a book on the conduct needful to
young tradesmen if they would thrive in business. In
the midst of these labors, he also found time to prepare
for the press various circular tours which he had taken
when a young man through Great Britain, all most in-
teresting for their vivid description of manners and cus-
toms at a period when England was quite different from
what it is to-day. When Defoe had finished his work,
he had to his credit more than two hundred and fifty
separate publications, not counting innumerable con-
tributions to periodical literature. It would seem im-
possible, if we did not have the record of it, that any one
man could have written so much. But beyond the mar-
vellous activity of his mind, for which there is no ex-
planation except that he was born with it, it may be ob-
served that Defoe did not write out his works in full;
but adopted a system of abbreviations whereby a single
letter or a stroke of his pen meant a word or a phrase.
By this simple device, easily understood by his printers,
he escaped half the mechanical drudgery usually attend-
ing composition. With the possible exception of Sir
Walter Scott, Defoe was the most prolific of English
writers.
Despite his excellent advice to others for acquiring a
fortune, Defoe himself, except for brief periods, was al-
ways a poor man. The publisher, it is said, made a large
sum out of Robinson Crusoe; but the author seems to
have received little beyond daily support for this and his
other books. Broken in body and mind, the old man was
finally compelled, at the age of seventy, to retire into
hiding against his creditors. He died in London lodg-
ings, away from family and friends, on April 26, 1731;
and was buried in the Nonconformist cemetery at Bun-
hill Fields, then a suburban district of London. Forty
years ago, an obelisk, replacing a mean headstone, was
erected near his grave from a fund subscribed by the boys
and girls of England in grateful remembrance of their de-
light in reading Robinson Crusoe.
In personal appearance, Defoe was a most striking
figure, though not very pleasing. He was, said the order
for his arrest just before his first imprisonment in New-
gate, a spare man of medium height, of brown complexion
and dark-brown hair, while his features were strongly
marked by "a hooked nose, a sharp chin, gray eyes, and
a large mole near the mouth." In the portraits that
were engraved for his books during his lifetime, the mole
sometimes appears, but the brown hair is covered by a
huge wig flowing down over a cloak of ample folds;
and his nose and chin assume a more regular form, with
dark eyes and mouth expressive of that intense energy
and resolution which bore him triumphant through some
of the greatest misfortunes that can ever befall any man.
A silent man, stern if not morose in temper, Defoe
formed no intimate friendships with the other great
writers of his time. They naturally regarded the Non-
conformist, cut off by his religious beliefs from the public
school and the university, as not quite bred to the qualities
of a gentleman; and the English that he wrote, however
vigorous it might be, must have appeared to them as
nothing more than the dialect of the London street.
Defoe's tales and pamphlets, which were really composed
for the masses, thus lie rather apart from the polite lit-
erature which we first think of, when summing up the
reigns of Queen Anne and her successor. Likewise the
newspaper, such as Defoe established, had yet to be re-
fined by the Tatler and the Spectator into a delicate por-
trayal of life and manners before it could be served with
the coffee at a gentleman's breakfast table. To Steele
and Addison, Defoe sometimes referred in banter and
occasionally in compliment; but they quietly ignored him,
though they were of the same party. Politics and re-
ligion, of course, completely severed Defoe from Pope
and Swift, both of whom were extreme Tories. While
Defoe was addressing a large audience through the Re-
view and various tracts, Pope was gaining little by
little his ascendency in the world of letters with the Essay
on Criticism, the Rape of the Lock, and the famous
translation of Homer. Defoe, who thought that Pope's
verse lacked strength, did not hesitate to express his
opinion; and when the Odyssey appeared, he accused the
poet of publishing under his own name, as was indeed
the case, a translation made largely by others. In re-
taliation Pope put Defoe into the Dunciad as an im-
pudent scribbler who had lost his ears in the pillory,
though his ears were not really cropped on that occasion.
Defoe was treated with equal contempt by Swift, the in-
tellectual giant of the period. Already famous for the
Battle of the Books and the Tale of a Tub, Swift
clashed with his political enemy in the newspapers over
Dissent, stigmatizing him as an illiterate rascal. Defoe
replied with spirit that he would call no man a rascal
but that he would fight one. The challenge, needless to
say, was not accepted by the Dean of St. Patrick's. It
must have been with some pleasure as well as annoyance,
that Defoe lived to see Swift, long after the fray was over,
take hints from Robinson Crusoe and his political satires
for Gulliver's Travels. With the advance of time, the
great writers of that age have assumed towards one an-
other a new relation, in which enmities count for nothing.
Defoe had none of the urbanity which charms us in Ad-
dison, and little of the wit and brilliancy of Pope; while
his irony and logic, though serving their purpose ad-
mirably, fall short of the relentless genius of Swift. But
Defoe equalled Swift and surpassed all the rest in sheer
narrative power. Relying upon the common speech of
Englishmen as it was then spoken, he left behind him a
story which, despite verbal inaccuracies, has been read
by countless persons who have never known that Defoe
had any contemporaries at all.
II
ROBINSON CRUSOE
THE first part of Robinson Crusoe had its origin in
a singular adventure of the time, which Defoe thought
worth expanding into a good story. Like Defoe's other
narratives, it was written to sell, without the slightest
expectation of fame. Some years before its publication,
London had heard of a Scotch buccaneer named Alex-
ander Selkirk, who had lived alone for more than four
years on the island of Juan Fernandez, off the coast
of Chile. Soon after Selkirk's return home, his story
was told, with many graphic details, by the captain that
had rescued him, and by several others, including Rich-
ard Steele, who saw him twice in London before drawing
a sketch of him for the public. It is also a tradition
that Defoe had an interview with Selkirk, and obtained
from him all his papers, with a view to writing his biog-
raphy. Be that as it may, the author of Robinson Crusoe
possessed, as will be seen, all the essential details of Sel-
kirk's strange career.
Selkirk was born, it may be said for the curious, in
1676 at Largo, on the coast of Fife, Scotland. Being a
headstrong boy like Robinson Crusoe, he ran away to
sea when eighteen years old; and after varied adventures,
joined a privateering expedition to the South Seas, as
sailing master on the Cinque-Ports under the command
of one Thomas Stradling. While they lay at anchor off
Juan Fernandez for wood and water, a bitter quarrel
arose between the two officers, with the result that Sel-
Robinson Crusoe
kirk was put ashore at his own request sometime in Sep-
tember, 1704; but no sooner had he landed than he saw
his mistake, and implored Stradling to let him return to
the ship. All his cries, however, were unheeded; and
his companions sailed away, leaving him alone on an
uninhabited island. How Selkirk managed to live there
alone for four years and four months, it will be pleasant
to read in some extracts from the narrative of Captain
Woodes Rogers, the old sea-dog who discovered him and
brought him home.
"He [Selkirk] had with him [when he went ashore]
his clothes and bedding, with a firelock, some powder,
bullets, and tobacco, a hatchet, a knife, a kettle, a Bible,
some practical pieces, and his mathematical instruments,
and books. He diverted and provided for himself as
well as he could; but for the first eight months had
much ado to bear up against melancholy, and the terror
of being left alone in such a desolate place. He built
two huts with pimento trees, covered them with long
grass, and lined them with the skins of goats, which he
killed with his gun as he wanted, so long as his powder
lasted, which was but a pound; and that being near spent,
he got fire by rubbing two sticks of pimento wood to-
gether upon his knee. In the lesser hut, at some distance
from the other, he dressed his victuals, and in the larger
he slept, and employed himself in reading, singing psalms,
and praying; so that he said he was a better Christian
while in this solitude than ever he was before, or than,
he was afraid, he should ever be again. At first he
never eat anything till hunger constrained him, partly
for grief, and partly for want of bread and salt; nor did
he go to bed till he could watch no longer; the pimento
wood, which burned very clear, served him both for
firing and candle, and refreshed him with its fragrant
smell.
"He might have had fish enough, but could not eat
them for want of salt . . . except crawfish, which are
there as large as our lobsters, and very good. These
he sometimes boiled, and at other times broiled, as he did
his goat's flesh, of which he made very good broth, for
they are not so rank as ours; he kept an account of 500
that he killed while there, and caught as many more,
which he marked on the ear and let go. When his
powder failed, he took them by speed of foot; for his
way of living and continual exercise of walking and run-
ning, cleared him of all gross humors, so that he ran with
wonderful swiftness through the woods and up the rocks
and hills, as we perceived when we employed him to catch
goats for us. We had a bulldog, which we sent with
several of our nimblest runners to help him in catching
goats; but he distanced and tired both the dog and the
men, catched the goats, and brought them to us on his
back. He told us that his agility in pursuing a goat had
once like to have cost him his life; he pursued it with
so much eagerness that he catched hold of it on the brink
of a precipice of which he was not aware, the bushes hav-
ing hid it from him; so that he fell with the goat down
the said precipice a great height, and was so stunned and
bruised with the fall, that he narrowly escaped with his
life, and when he came to his senses, found the goat dead
under him. He lay there about twenty-four hours; and
was scarce able to crawl to his hut, which was about a
mile distant, or to stir abroad again in ten days.
"After he had conquered his melancholy, he diverted
himself sometimes by cutting his name on the trees, and
the time of his being left and continuance there. He
was at first much pestered with cats and rats that had
bred in great numbers from some of each species which
had got ashore from ships that put in there to wood and
water. The rats gnawed his feet and clothes while
asleep, which obliged him to cherish the cats with his
goat's-flesh; by which many of them became so tame that
they would lie about him in hundreds, and soon delivered
him from the rats. He likewise tamed some kids, and
to divert himself would now and then sing and dance
with them and his cats: so that by the care of Providence
and vigor of his youth, being now but about thirty years
old, he came at last to conquer all the inconveniences of
his solitude, and to be very easy. When his clothes wore
out, he made himself a coat and cap of goat-skins, which
he stitched together with little thongs of the same that
he cut with his knife. He had no other needle but a
nail; and when his knife was wore to the back, he made
others as well as he could of some iron hoops that were
left ashore, which he beat thin and ground upon stones.
Having some linen cloth by him, he sewed himself shirts
with a nail, and stitched them with the worsted of
his old stockings, which he pulled out on purpose.
He had his last shirt on when we found him in the
island."
Several other interesting details not contained in these
passages were also given by Captain Rogers. The goats,
which Selkirk luckily found so numerous, were of a
breed that had been left on Juan Fernandez by the
Spanish navigator after whom the island was named.
When tired of goat's flesh, Selkirk had only to climb a
cabbage-tree for its excellent fruit, or pull up a few
wild turnips, which grew in abundance from seed planted
by an English pirate a few years before. With a little
effort, he might also obtain small black plums growing
wild on the rocks and mountains. The climate was one
continual summer with moderate heat, except in June
and July, when a slight frost appeared and sometimes
heavy rains. For four years and four months the solitary
watched almost daily for some friendly sail, but he saw
nothing except Spanish privateers, until February 1, 1709,
when he caught sight of Captain Rogers' fleet. On that
night he built an immense fire on a hill-top, which at-
tracted the attention of all on board. The next morn-
ing the captain sent his pinnace ashore with men armed
for a fight with Spaniards; but instead of an enemy,
they brought back a "man clothed in goat-skins, who
looked wilder than the first owners of them." As a
result of his solitary life, Selkirk had almost lost the
power of speech, and seemed to be in a stupor. His
rescuers offered him spirits, hoping thereby to arouse
him; but he would touch nothing except water, not
even the ship's food. After a little time, however, he re-
gained his former habits, and was placed in command of
one of the vessels in the fleet. On the remainder of the
cruise, which was still to last for two years, Selkirk dis-
played great valor against the Spaniards. A part of the
rich plunder taken by Rogers and his men was sold by
auction at a London coffee-house, where people were in-
vited to come and read free of charge the wonderful
story of the marooned buccaneer. Selkirk's share in the
booty was £800.
Such was the account of Alexander Selkirk current
as early as 1712. Instead of retelling the story at the
time, Defoe kept it by him for several years until re-
lease from politics enabled him to reconstruct it at
leisure in his own way. It will be observed that he did
not forget certain details in Selkirk's confinement, like
the firelock, the goats, the solitary's enforced companion-
ship with animals, and his consolation in reading the
Scriptures. But the differences between Selkirk and Cru-
soe are more remarkable than the resemblances. When
Defoe moved the desert island into the English tropics
and introduced a shipwreck, there was involved a world
of change. Indeed, what mainly interested Defoe in
Robinson Crusoe xxv
Selkirk's story was a very unusual situation, which he
saw might be developed to the profit and delight of the
public. As a device for awakening curiosity, Robinson
Crusoe, when it first appeared on April 25, 1719, bore
no author's name on the title-page or elsewhere. Assum-
ing the role merely of an anonymous editor, Defoe ex-
pressed the opinion that the book was a genuine auto-
biography; and as proof of this, he added a frontis-
piece representing the hero in goat-skins and completely
armed, with a musket over each shoulder and a sword by
his side, as if it were a portrait drawn from the very
life.
Robinson Crusoe met with instant success. Within
four months it passed to a fourth edition, to say nothing
of piracies in various parts of England. The next year
it was translated into French and German, and the year
following that into Dutch. Robinson Crusoe thus be-
gan its progress through the world. More than a hun-
dred and fifty editions appeared during the last cen-
tury in London alone, and probably as many more in
America and the colonies of Great Britain, without count-
ing innumerable abridgments for children. It was also
then translated into every language of Europe that did
not have it before, and versions were made in Armenian,
Arabic, Persian, Bengali, and some of the dialects of the
South Seas. Robinson Crusoe has thus quietly taken its
place by the side of the Arabian Nights among those
great classics whose readers are confined to no age nor
race. "It is as nearly immortal," said Daudet, "as any
book can ever be."
How shall we account for this widespread interest in
Robinson Crusoe? What makes it to-day as living a
book as when it was first published? Defoe, astonished
at its extraordinary reception, attributed it to the moral
observations scattered through the story; and at once
proved how mistaken was his opinion by writing a vol-
ume of his hero's reflections, which few read at the time
and nobody reads now. As a matter of fact, the chief
defect of Robinson Crusoe as a work of art lies in its
insistent moral application of events, sound as it may
all be, hindering and clogging the narrative except when
the author yields to his story and is borne onward by its
sweep. Again, it has been often intimated that Defoe
won his great success by a frank appeal to that spirit of
adventure which animates youth and never quite dies in
old age. But for stirring adventure Robinson Crusoe is
equaled by Captain Singleton and the Memoirs of a
Cavalier. The truth is, adventure, more or less aimless,
may entertain for the moment; but if adventure is to
interest permanently, it must be dominated by an inter-
esting purpose. As was once said by Beattie the Scotch
poet, Defoe had for his theme in this one case the most
universal of human passions; to wit, "the desire of self-
preservation." Love, you know, is the mainspring of
most novels. The passion may be treated in a hundred
different ways, and each way will find an audience; but
no one way will appeal to all men and women from
youth to old age; and the subject makes no impression
at all upon boys and girls. On the other hand, every-
body will struggle to retain his life, however great the
odds may be against him. It is as true of the New
Zealander as of the Englishman, and of the child as of
the man in his full strength. In Robinson Crusoe De-
foe reached the bedrock of human nature; self-preserva-
tion is an instinct.
For the development of his theme, Selkirk's story sup-
plied Defoe with the most striking situation that had
yet appeared in fiction—a man left alone on a desolate
island and made dependent for life upon the wild products
of the soil and such clothing and implements as may be
recovered from a wreck or two off a dangerous coast.
Step by step we follow this unhappy man with absorbed
attention as he meets and overcomes every difficulty.
Two or three incidents of the tale stand out above the
rest. There is first that night when Crusoe, after be-
ing nearly lost at sea in his canoe, is startled out of sleep
by a mysterious voice crying, "Robin, Robin, Robin
Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin
Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you been?"
It proves to be the moan of his parrot greeting him after
his long absence. Crusoe holds out his hand and in turn
calls Poll by name, who comes and sits upon his thumb
and continues to prattle over his master's name. On
each side, it is the very voice of nature crying out in the
midst of desolation for companionship. Then there is
that moment of terror when Crusoe sees a naked foot-
print on the sands. It is a single footprint; not an-
other can be found. Whose foot made the print? It
cannot be his own, for the mark is far too large for that.
It may be Satan's, for it is said that Satan sometimes
wanders the earth in human shape in order to tempt
mortals. This inference, after careful consideration, is
at length given up as fanciful, and Crusoe arrives at the
true one: it is the huge footprint of a savage. All this
forecasts the coming of Friday to comfort him in his
loneliness, the subsequent arrival of Friday's father, and
the terrible encounter with cannibals. Finally comes the
morning when Crusoe discovers from a hill an English
ship at anchor in the offing. One struggle, however, yet
remains before he can regain his freedom, for a mutinous
crew is preparing at that very moment to maroon the
captain. In a last desperate fight, the ship is recovered,
and Crusoe sails away with his doubloons and wedges of
gold, having triumphed completely in his contest with na-
ture, savages, and mutineers.
The fertility of Defoe's invention in unfolding his
story is unsurpassed in English fiction. Here we have in
infinite variety all that "charm of circumstance" which
Stevenson speaks of in A Gossip on Romance. Not that
Robinson Crusoe has escaped criticism. Just after its
publication Defoe was asked several amusing questions
on minor details. How, for example, could Crusoe fill
his pockets with biscuit from the wreck, when, as it is
expressly said, he left his clothes on shore? How did it
happen that he had at a later time no clothes but goat-
skins, though he had brought large bundles of them from
the ship? And how could he see the old goat's eyes in
the cave when it was dark as pitch? Other critics, dis-
regarding trivial errors, real or imaginary, claimed that
it would be impossible for a man to endure twenty-odd
years of solitude. If death did not take him, it has been
said, he would become, long before that time, a savage
or a madman. Selkirk, it might be pointed out, fell into
that stupor which precedes the utter decay of reason,
though his confinement lasted for only a little more than
four years. Against his critics, Defoe adroitly main-
tained that Robinson Crusoe was not essentially fiction
at all, but an allegory of his own career; for had not he
himself, in the midst of intense literary labor, really lived
a life of silence and solitude away from the haunts of
men? and had he not survived "the most afflicting cir-
cumstances that ever man went through"? Whether
the author or his critics were right in their main con-
tention, is a fair question for debate; but no one can help
believing that Defoe himself, had he been transported
to the West Indies, would have conducted himself much
like his hero, who was one with him in tempera-
ment.
Defoe's position once granted, the manner in which he
worked out his theme is beyond ordinary praise. Others
have since tried their hand at a lone island, and they
have all failed, except Stevenson in Treasure Island,
which is a romance of quite a different type. The imi-
tations of Robinson Crusoe, which may be counted by
the score, have either been long forgotten by the read-
ing public, or been consigned to the nursery, that last
refuge for inane books this side of oblivion. Consider,
for example, the Swiss Family Robinson, which is still
read by children. At the very beginning, the author
of this book lets slip from his grasp, never to regain it,
the interesting problem that has made Robinson Crusoe
immortal. As you may know, Defoe's solitary is dis-
placed in this story by a family consisting of father,
mother, and four sons, who are wrecked on one of the
most fertile islands in Melanesia. They have but to
stretch out their hands and all things are supplied them
in abundance. There is no struggle here for existence
against spare or improper food, or against the terrible
loneliness and despair that visited Crusoe when he had
no companions but goats and a parrot. Exact as it may
be in its natural history, the Swiss Family Robinson is a
futile romance, for it is fashioned by no informing mind.
To say the truth, the adventures of Robinson Crusoe like-
wise wander to little or no purpose at the beginning and
especially at the end of the story; but from the time the
hero is shipwrecked until he leaves his island, all ad-
venture centers mainly on the one problem which fills
the author's imagination. Not only does Crusoe man-
age to render his isolation tolerable; but in the end he
lives comfortably, and finds a sort of enjoyment apart from
civilization. If there is any poetry in solitude, we have
it in Robinson Crusoe.
Finally one should not forget that serious import of
the romance to which Defoe called attention when he de-
clared it to be a symbol of his own life. It is also in a
measure the symbol of the lives of all men who have to
win their place in the world through their own efforts;
presenting to them, in the character of Crusoe, an ex-
ample of "invincible patience under the worst of mis-
ery" and of "undaunted resolution under the greatest
and most discouraging circumstances."
DESCRIPTIVE BIBLIOGRAPHY
THE best brief account of Defoe's life and writings is
Daniel Defoe, by W. Minto, in the English Men of Let-
ters Series, published by the Macmillan Company, New
York. The main facts of Defoe's life are also given by
Leslie Stephen in his article on the author in the Dic-
tionary of National Biography. The most complete bi-
ography, however, is Daniel Defoe, by W. Lee (3 vols.
London, 1869). The relation of Robinson Crusoe to De-
foe's own career is studied in detail by T. Wright in
The Life of Daniel Defoe (one volume, London and
New York, 1894). For a very interesting appreciation
of Defoe, see Leslie Stephen's essay on " Defoe's Novels"
in Hours in a Library (first series, London, 1874).
Defoe's works, comprising two hundred and fifty-four
separate titles in Wright's bibliography, have never been
collected, though there are many so-called complete edi-
tions. See, for example, for Defoe's romances the Com-
plete Works, in 16 volumes, with an introduction by G.
H. Maynadier, published by Thomas Y. Crowell and
Company, New York City. Some of Defoe's miscel-
laneous tracts and poems are contained in The Earlier
Life and the Chief Earlier Works of Daniel Defoe, one
volume, edited by H. Morley, and published by George
Routledge and Sons, New York City. The following
list contains the more interesting single publications along
with the date of their first issue. A brief sentence, in-
dicating the contents of a book or a pamphlet, has been
added in those cases where none appears in the In-
troduction:
xxxi
xxxii Descriptive Bibliography
1698. An Essay Upon Projects.
1698. An Argument Showing that a Standing Army, with Con-
sent of Parliament, is not Inconsistent with a Free
Government.
1701. The True-Born Englishman.
1702. The Shortest Way with the Dissenters: or, Proposals
for the Establishment of the Church.
1703. A Hymn to the Pillory.
1704. The Storm: or, a Collection of the Most Remarkable
Casualties and Disasters, which Happened in the
Late Dreadful Tempest, both by Sea and Land.
1705. The Consolidator: or, Memoirs of Sundry Transactions
from the World in the Moon.
A satire on contemporary society.
1706. A True Relation of the Apparition of One Mrs. Veal.
1709. The History of the Union of Great Britain.
A very interesting account, based upon personal ob-
servation, of events connected with the union of
England and Scotland in 1707.
1713. Reasons Against the Succession of the House of Hanover.
This and the two following pamphlets are ironical
tracts in favor of the House of Hanover and against
the Jacobites; but they were misunderstood and led
to Defoe's commitment to Newgate for scandalous
libel.
1713. And What If the Pretender Should Cornel
1713. An Answer to a Question that Nobody Thinks of, viz.,
What if the Queen Should Diet
1715. An Appeal to Honour and Justice, Though It Be of His
Worst Enemies, by Daniel Defoe. Being a True
Account of His Conduct in Publick Affairs.
Fearing the approach of death (for he had just
suffered a stroke of apoplexy), Defoe here explains
the principles which had guided him in his political
career.
1715. The Family Instructor.
A manual of conduct for parents, children, and serv-
ants, still readable.
1719. The Life and Strange Surprizing Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe.
A facsimile reprint, with an introduction by Austin
Dobson, was published in London in 1883. The present
Descriptive Bibliography
xxxi 11
edition follows this reprint in all essentials, though
the spelling, capitalization, and punctuation have been
frankly modernized. In its original form, Robinson
Crusoe appeared without the division into chapters,
which has been made here for convenience in reading.
1719. The Farther Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
This continuation gives an account of Crusoe's visit
to his island and of stirring adventures in China and
Siberia. Friday is killed by savages.
1720. Serious Reflections During the Life and Surprizing Ad-
ventures of Robinson Crusoe.
Defoe here identifies himself with his hero.
1720. Memoirs of a Cavalier.
1720. The Life, Adventures, and Piracies of the Famous
Captain Singleton.
1722. The Fortunes and Misfortunes of the Famous Moll
Flanders.
1722. A Journal of the Plague Year.
A graphic story of the dreadful plague that fell upon
London in 1665. 1722. The History and Remarkable Life of the Truly Honour-
able Colonel Jacque.
The career of a male convict, written as a counterpart
to Moll Flanders.
1724. A Tour Through the Whole Island of Great Britain.
This book, completed in 1727, is the best single con-
temporary account that we have of the industries,
manners, and customs of Defoe's England.
1725. The Complete English Tradesman.
Subsequently enlarged, with a view to giving mer-
chants full directions in the conduct of business.
1727. An Essay on the History and Reality of Apparitions.
Well-known for many diverting ghost stories.
Frontispiece to the First Edition of Robinson Crusoe, 1719.
THE
LIFE
AND
STRANGE SURPRIZING
ADVENTURES
OP
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
Of TORIC, MARINER:
Who lived Eight and Twenty Years, all alone in an un-inhabited Ifland on the
Coaft of AMERICA, near the Mouth of
the Great River ofOR.ooNOQ.UEj
Having been caft on Shore by Shipwreck, where-
in all the Men_peri(hed but himfclf.
WITH
An Account how he was at laft as firaneely deli-
ver'dby PYRATES.
Written tyH
LONDON
Primed for W.TAYLOR
Row.
Title-Page to the First Edition of Robinson Crusoe.
PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION
IF ever the story of any private man's adventures
in the world were worth making public, and were ac-
ceptable when published, the editor of this account
thinks this will be so.
The wonders of this man's life exceed all that (he
thinks) is to be found extant; the life of one man being
scarce capable of a greater variety.
The story is told with modesty, with seriousness, and
with a religious application of events to the uses to
which wise men always apply them; viz., to the instruc-
tion of others by this example, and to justify and honor
the wisdom of Providence in all the variety of our cir-
cumstances, let them happen how they will.
The editor believes the thing to be a just history of
fact; neither is there any appearance of fiction in it; and,
however, thinks, because all such things are dispatched,
that the improvement of it, as well to the diversion as
to the instruction of the reader, will be the same; and
as such, he thinks, without farther compliment to the
world, he does them a great service in the publication.
THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE
CHAPTER I
I RUN AWAY TO SEA
I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of
a good family, though not of that country, my father
being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at Hull.
He got a good estate by merchandise, and leaving off
his trade, lived afterward at York, from whence he 5
had married my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and from
whom I was called Robinson Kreutznaer; but by the
usual corruption of words in England we are now called,
nay, we call ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe, and 10
so my companions always called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of which was lieutenant-
colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders,
formerly commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart,
and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk against the 15
Spaniards; what became of my second brother I never
knew, any more than my father and mother did know
what was become of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any
trade, my head began to be filled very early with ram-
bling thoughts. My father, who was very ancient, had
given me a competent share of learning, as far as house
education and a country free school generally goes, and
5 designed me for the law; but I would be satisfied with
nothing but going to sea; and my inclination to this led
me so strongly against the will, nay, the commands, of
my father, and against all the entreaties and persuasions
of my mother and other friends, that there seemed to be
10 something fatal in that propension of nature tending di-
rectly to the life of misery which was to befall me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design.
He called me one morning into his chamber, where he was
15 confined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly
with me upon this subject. He asked me what reasons
more than a mere wandering inclination I had for leav-
ing my father's house and my native country, where I
might be well introduced, and had a prospect of raising
20 my fortunes by application and industry, with a life of
ease and pleasure. He told me it was for men of
desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring superior
fortunes on the other, who went abroad upon adventures,
to rise by enterprise, and make themselves famous in un-
25 dertakings of a nature out of the common road; that these
things were all either too far above me, or too far below
me; that mine was the middle state, or what might be
called the upper station of low life, which he had found
by long experience was the best state in the world, the
30 most suited to human happiness, not exposed to the mis-
eries and hardships, the labor and sufferings, of the
mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed with
the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the upper part
of mankind. He told me I might judge of the happiness
of this state by this one thing, viz., that this was the
I Run Away to Sea 3
state of life which all other people envied; that kings
have frequently lamented the miserable consequences of
being born to great things, and wished they had been
placed in the middle of the two extremes, between the
mean and the great; that the wise man gave his testimony 5
to this as the just standard of true felicity, when he
prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.
He bid me observe it, and I should always find, that
the calamities of life were shared among the upper and
lower part of mankind; but that the middle station had 10
the fewest disasters, and was not exposed to so many
vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of mankind.
Nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
uneasinesses either of body or mind as those were who,
by vicious living, luxury, and extravagancies on one hand, 15
or by hard labor, want of necessaries, and mean or in-
sufficient diet on the other hand, bring distempers upon
themselves by the natural consequences of their way of
living; that the middle station of life was calculated for
all kind of virtues and all kind of enjoyments; that peace20
and plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune; that
temperance, moderation, quietness, health, society, all
agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were the
blessings attending the middle station of life; that this
way men went silently and smoothly through the world, 25
and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with the la-
bors of the hands or of the head, not sold to the life of
slavery for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed cir-
cumstances which rob the soul of peace, and the body of
rest; not enraged with the passion of envy, or secret30
burning lust of ambition for great things; but in easy
circumstances sliding gently through the world, and
sensibly tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter,
feeling that they are happy, and learning by every day's
experience to know it more sensibly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the young man, not to
precipitate myself into miseries which Nature and the
station of life I was born in seemed to have provided
5 against; that I was under no necessity of seeking my
bread; that he would do well for me, and endeavor to
enter me fairly into the station of life which he had
been just recommending to me; and that if I was not
very easy and happy in the world it must be my mere
10 fate or fault that must hinder it, and that he should
have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his
duty in warning me against measures which he knew
would be to my hurt; in a word, that as he would do
very kind things for me if I would stay and settle at
15 home as he directed, so he would not have so much
hand in my misfortunes as to give me any encouragement
to go away. And to close all, he told me I had my elder
brother for an example, to whom he had used the same
earnest persuasions to keep him from going into the Low
20 Country wars, but could not prevail, his young desires
prompting him to run into the army, where he was killed;
and though he said he would not cease to pray for me, yet
he would venture to say to me, that if I did take this
foolish step, God would not bless me, and I would have
25 leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
counsel when there might be none to assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, which
was truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did not
know it to be so himself—I say, I observed the tears
30 run down his face very plentifully, and especially when
he spoke of my brother who was killed; and that when
he spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none to as-
sist me, he was so moved that he broke off the discourse,
and told me his heart was so full he could say no more
to me.
I Run Away to Sea 5
Iwas sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed
who could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of
going abroad any more, but to settle at home according
to my father's desire. But alas! a few days wore it
all off; and, in short, to prevent any of my father's farther5
importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved to run
quite away from him. However, I did not act so hastily
neither as my first heat of resolution prompted, but I took
my mother, at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter
than ordinary, and told her, that my thoughts were so 10
entirely bent upon seeing the world that I should never
settle to anything with resolution enough to go through
with it, and my father had better give me his consent
than force me to go without it; that I was now eighteen
years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, 15
or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure if I did, I should
never serve out my time, and I should certainly run
away from my master before my time was out, and go to
sea; and if she would speak to my father to let me go
but one voyage abroad, if I came home again and did 20
not like it, I would go no more, and I would promise
by a double diligence to recover that time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion. She told
me she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my
father upon any such subject; that he knew too well25
what was my interest to give his consent to anything so
much for my hurt, and that she wondered how I could
think of any such thing after such a discourse as I had had
with my father, and such kind and tender expressions as
she knew my father had used to me; and that, in short,30
if I would ruin myself there was no help for me; but I
might depend I should never have their consent to it; that
for her part, she would not have so much hand in my de-
struction, and I should never have it to say that my
mother was willing when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father,
yet, as I have heard afterwards, she reported all the
discourse to him, and that my father, after showing a
great concern at it, said to her with a sigh, "That boy
5 might be happy if he would stay at home, but if he
goes abroad he will be the miserablest wretch that was
ever born: I can give no consent to it."
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though in the meantime I continued obstinately
10 deaf to all proposals of settling to business, and frequently
expostulating with my father and mother about their be-
ing so positively determined against what they knew my
inclinations prompted me to. But being one day at Hull,
where I went casually, and without any purpose of mak-
15 ing an elopement that time; but I say, being there, and
one of my companions being going by sea to London, in
his father's ship, and prompting me to go with them,
with the common allurement of seafaring men, viz., that
it should cost me nothing for my passage, I consulted
20 neither father nor mother any more, nor so much as sent
them word of it; but leaving them to hear of it as they
might, without asking God's blessing, or my father's,
without any consideration of circumstances or conse-
quences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on the first of
25 September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for Lon-
don. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I be-
lieve, began sooner, or continued longer than mine. The
ship was no sooner gotten out of the Humber, but the
wind began to blow, and the waves to rise in a most
30 frightful manner; and as I had never been at sea before, I
was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified in my
mind. I began now seriously to reflect upon what I had
done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment
of Heaven for my wicked leaving my father's house,
and abandoning my duty; all the good counsel of my
I Run Away to Sea 7
parents, my father's tears and my mother's entreaties,
came now fresh into my mind, and my conscience, which
was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it
has been since, reproached me with the contempt of
advice, and the breach of my duty to God and my 5
father.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which
I had never been upon before, went very high, though
nothing like what I have seen many times since; no, nor
like what I saw a few days after. But it was enough 10
to affect me then, who was but a young sailor, and
had never known anything of the matter. I expected
every wave would have swallowed us up, and that every
time the ship fell down, as I thought, in the trough or
hollow of the sea, we should never rise more; and in 15
this agony of mind I made many vows and resolutions,
that if it would please God here to spare my life this one
voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon dry land again I
would go directly home to my father, and never set it into
a ship again while I lived; that I would take his advice, 20
and never run myself into such miseries as these any more.
Now I saw plainly the goodness of his observations about
the middle station of life, how easy, how comfortably he
had lived all his days, and never had been exposed to
tempests at sea, or troubles on shore; and I resolved that25
I would, like a true repenting prodigal, go home to my
father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while
the storm continued, and indeed some time after; but the
next day the wind was abated and the sea calmer, and I 30
began to be a little inured to it. However, I was very
grave for all that day, being also a little seasick still; but
towards night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite
over, and a charming fine evening followed; the sun went
down perfectly clear, and rose so the next morning; and
having little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining
upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most delightful
that ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no more
5 seasick but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon
the sea that was so rough and terrible the day before,
and could be so calm and so pleasant in so little time
after. And now lest my good resolutions should con-
tinue, my companion, who had indeed enticed me away,
10comes to me: "Well, Bob," says he, clapping me on the
shoulder, "how do you do after it? I warrant you
were frighted, wa'n't you, last night, when it blew but a
capful of wind?" "A capful, d' you call it?" said I;
"'t was a terrible storm." "A storm, you fool you," re-
15 plies he; "do you call that a storm? Why, it was
nothing at all; give us but a good ship and sea-room, and
we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that; but
you 're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob. Come, let us make
a bowl of punch, and we '11 forget all that; d' ye see what
20 charming weather 't is now?"
To make short this sad part of my story, we went the
old way of all sailors; the punch was made, and I was
made drunk with it, and in that one night's wickedness
I drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon
25 my past conduct, and all my resolutions for my future.
In a word, as the sea was returned to its smoothness of
surface and settled calmness by the abatement of that
storm, so the hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears
and apprehensions of being swallowed up by the sea be-
30 ing forgotten, and the current of my former desires re-
turned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises that I
made in my distress. I found indeed some intervals of
reflection, and the serious thoughts did, as it were, en-
deavor to return again sometimes; but I shook them off,
and roused myself from them as it were from a distemper,
and applying myself to drink and company, soon mastered
the return of those fits, for so I called them, and I had in
five or six days got as complete a victory over conscience
as any young fellow that resolved not to be troubled with
it could desire. But I was to have another trial for it5
still; and Providence, as in such cases generally it does,
resolved to leave me entirely without excuse. For if I
would not take this for a deliverance, the next was
to be such a one as the worst and most hardened
wretch among us would confess both the danger and the1o
mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yar-
mouth Roads; the wind having been contrary and the
weather calm, we had made but little way since the
storm. Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, and 15
here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz., at south-
west, for seven or eight days, during which time a great
many ships from Newcastle came into the same roads, as
the common harbor where the ships might wait for a wind
for the river. 20
We had not, however, rid here so long, but should
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too
fresh; and after we had lain four or five days, blew very
hard. However, the roads being reckoned as good as a
harbor, the anchorage good, and our ground-tackle very 25
strong, our men were unconcerned, and not in the least
apprehensive of danger, but spent the time in rest and
mirth, after the manner of the sea; but the eighth day
in the morning the wind increased, and we had all hands
at work to strike our topmasts, and make everything snug 30
and close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible.
By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rid
forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once
or twice our anchor had come home; upon which our
master ordered out the sheet-anchor, so that we rode
with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered out to the
better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and now
I began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of
5 the seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant to
the business of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and
out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly to him-
self say several times, "Lord, be merciful to us, we shall
be all lost, we shall be all undone;" and the like. Dur-
10ing these first hurries I was stupid, lying still in my
cabin, which was in the steerage, and cannot describe my
temper; I could ill reassume the first penitence, which I
had so apparently trampled upon, and hardened myself
against; I thought the bitterness of death had been past,
15 and that this would be nothing too, like the first. But
when the master himself came by me, as I said just now,
and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully
frighted; I got up out of my cabin, and looked out. But
such a dismal sight I never saw; the sea went mountains
20high, and broke upon us every three or four minutes;
when I could look about, I could see nothing but.distress
round us. Two ships that rid near us we found had cut
their masts by the board, being deep loaden; and our men
cried out that a ship which rid about a mile ahead of us
25 was foundered. Two more ships, being driven from their
anchors, were run out of the roads to sea at all ad-
ventures, and that with not a mast standing. The light
ships fared the best, as not so much laboring in the sea;
but two or three of them drove, and came close by us,
30 running away with only their sprit-sail out before the
wind.
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the
master of our ship to let them cut away the foremast,
which he was very unwilling to. But the boatswain pro-
testing to him that if he did not the ship would founder,
he consented; and when they had cut away the foremast,
the mainmast stood so loose, and shook the ship so much,
they were obliged to cut her away also, and make a clear
deck.
Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at 5
all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been in
such a fright before at but a little. But if I can ex-
press at this distance the thoughts I had about me at that
time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon account
of my former convictions, and the having returned from 10
them to the resolutions I had wickedly taken at first,
than I was at death itself; and these, added to the terror
of the storm, put me into such a condition that I can by
no words describe it. But the worst was not come yet;
the storm continued with such fury that the seamen them-15
selves acknowledged they had never known a worse. We
had a good ship, but she was deep loaden, and wallowed
in the sea, that the seamen every now and then cried out
she would founder. It was my advantage in one respect,
that I did not know what they meant by founder till I in- 20
quired. However, the storm was so violent that I saw
what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and
some others more sensible than the rest, at their prayers,
and expecting every moment when the ship would go to
the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all25
the rest of our distresses, one of the men that had been
down on purpose to see cried out we had sprung a leak;
another said there was four foot water in the hold. Then
all hands were called to the pump. At that very word
my heart, as I thought, died within me, and I fell back-30 wards upon the side of my bed where I sat, into the
cabin. However, the men roused me, and told me that
I, that was able to do nothing before, was as well able
to pump as another; at which I stirred up and went to
the pump and worked very heartily. While this was
doing, the master, seeing some light colliers who, not able
to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and run away
to sea, and would come near us, ordered to fire a gun as
a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what that
5 meant, was so surprised that I thought the ship had
broke, or some dreadful thing had happened. In a word,
I was so surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As this
was a time when everybody had his own life to think of,
nobody minded me, or what was become of me; but an-
10 other man stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me
aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead;
and it was a great while before I came to myself.
We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold,
it was apparent that the ship would founder, and though
15 the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible
she could swim till we might run into a port, so the master
continued firing guns for help; and a light ship, who had
rid it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help us.
It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but
20 it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat
to lie near the ship's side, till at last the men rowing very
heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our men
cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it, and
then veered it out a great length, which they after great
25 labor and hazard took hold of, and we hauled them close
under our stern, and got all into their boat. It was to no
purpose for them or us after we were in the boat to
think of reaching to their own ship, so all agreed to let
her drive, and only to pull her in toward shore as much
30 as we could, and our master promised them that if the
boat was staved upon shore he would make it good to
their master; so partly rowing and partly driving, our
boat went away to the nor'ward, sloping towards the
shore almost as far as Winterton Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out
of our ship but we saw her sink, and then I understood
for the first time what was meant by a ship foundering in
the sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look
up when the seamen told me she was sinking; for from that
moment they rather put me into the boat than that I5
might be said to go in; my heart was as it were dead
within me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind
and the thoughts of what was yet before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet labor-
ing at the oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could 10
see, when, our boat mounting the waves, we were able to
see the shore, a great many people running along the
shore to assist us when we should come near. But we
made but slow way towards the shore, nor were we able
to reach the shore, till being past the lighthouse at Win-15
terton, the shore falls off to the westward towards Cro-
mer, and so the land broke off a little the violence of the
wind. Here we got in, and though not without much
difficulty got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards on
foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were 20
used with great humanity as well by the magistrates of
the town, who assigned us good quarters, as by particular
merchants and owners of ships, and had money given us
sufficient to carry us either to London or back to Hull,
as we thought fit.
CHAPTER II CAPTURED BY A TURKISH ROVER
HAD I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull,
and have gone home, I had been happy, and my father,
an emblem of our blessed Saviour's parable, had even
killed the fatted calf for me; for hearing the ship I went
5 away in was cast away in Yarmouth Road, it was a great
while before he had any assurance that I was not
drowned. But my ill fate pushed me on now with an
obstinacy that nothing could resist; and though I had
several times loud calls from my reason and my more
10 composed judgment to go home, yet I had no power to
do it. I know not what to call this, nor will I urge that
it is a secret overruling decree that hurries us on to be
the instruments of our own destruction, even though it
be before us, and that we rush upon it with our eyes open.
15 Certainly nothing but some such decreed unavoidable mis-
ery attending, and which it was impossible for me to
escape, could have pushed me forward against the calm
reasonings and persuasions of my most retired thoughts,
and against two such visible instructions as I had met
20 with in my first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before,
and who was the master's son, was now less forward than
I. The first time he spoke to me after we were at Yar-
mouth, which was not till two or three days, for we were
25 separated in the town to several quarters—I say, the
first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was altered,
14
Captured by a Turkish Rover 15
and, looking very melancholy and shaking his head, asked
me how I did; and telling his father who I was, and how
I had come this voyage only for a trial in order to go
farther abroad, his father turning to me with a very grave
and concerned tone, "Young man," says he, "you ought5
never to go to sea any more; you ought to take this for
a plain and visible token that you are not to be a seafaring
man." "Why, sir," said I, "will you go to sea no
more?" "That is another case," said he; "it is my
calling, and therefore my duty; but as you made this 10
voyage for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given
you of what you are to expect if you persist; perhaps this
is all befallen us on your account, like Jonah in the ship
o. Tarshish. Pray," continues he, "what are you? and
on what account did you go to sea?" Upon that I told 15
him some of my story, at the end of which he burst out
with a strange kind of passion. "What had I done,"
says he, "that such an unhappy wretch should come into
my ship? I would not set my foot in the same ship
with thee again for a thousand pounds." This indeed 20
was, as I said, an excursion of his spirits, which were yet
agitated by the sense of his loss, and was farther than he
could have authority to go. However, he afterwards
talked very gravely to me, exhorted me to go back to my
father, and not tempt Providence to my ruin; told me I25
might see a visible hand of Heaven against me. "And,
young man," said he, "depend upon it, if you do not go
back, wherever you go you will meet with nothing but
disasters and disappointments, till your father's words are
fulfilled upon you." 30
We parted soon after; for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more; which way he went, I know not.
As for me, having some money in my pocket, I travelled
to London by land; and there, as well as on the road,
had many struggles with myself what course of life I
should take, and whether I should go home, or go
to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that
offered to my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to
5 me how I should be laughed at among the neighbors, and
should be ashamed to see, not my father and mother only,
but even everybody else; from whence I have since often
observed how incongruous and irrational the common
temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason
10 which ought to guide them in such cases, viz., that they
are not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not
ashamed of the action for which they ought justly to be
esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the returning, which
only can make them be esteemed wise men.
15 In this state of life, however, I remained some time,
uncertain what measures to take, and what course of life
to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to going
home; and as I stayed a while, the remembrance of the
distress I had been in wore off; and as that abated, the
20 little motion I had in my desires to a return wore off
with it, till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts of it,
and looked out for a voyage.
That evil influence which carried me first away from
my father's house, that hurried me into the wild and in-
25 digested notion of raising my fortune, and that impressed
those conceits so forcibly upon me as to make me deaf
to all good advice, and to the entreaties and even com-
mand of my father—I say, the same influence, whatever
it was, presented the most unfortunate of all enterprises
30to my view; and I went on board a vessel bound to the
coast of Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a
voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures
I did not ship myself as a sailor, whereby, though I might
indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet at
Captured by a Turkish Rover 17
the same time I had learned the duty and office of a fore-
mast man, and in time might have qualified myself for a
mate or lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was al-
ways my fate to choose for the worse, so I did here! for
having money in my pocket, and good clothes upon my 5
back, I would always go on board in the habit of a gen-
tleman; and so I neither had any business in the ship, nor
learned to do any.
It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good com-
pany in London, which does not always happen to such 10
loose and unguided young fellows as I then was, the
devil generally not omitting to lay some snare for them
very early; but it was not so with me. I first fell ac-
quainted with the master of a ship who had been on the
coast of Guinea, and who, having had very good success 15
there, was resolved to go again; and who, taking a fancy
to my conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at
that time, hearing me say I had a mind to see the world,
told me if I would go the voyage with him I should be
at no expense; I should be his messmate and his com-20
panion; and if I could carry anything with me, I should
have all the advantage of it that the trade would
admit, and perhaps I might meet with some encourage-
ment.
I embraced the offer; and, entering into a strict friend-25
ship with this captain, who was an honest and plain-deal-
ing man, I went the voyage with him, and carried a small
adventure with me, which, by the disinterested honesty
of my friend the captain, I increased very considerably,
for I carried about £40 in such toys and trifles as the 30
captain directed me to buy. This £40 I had mustered
together by the assistance of some of my relations whom I
corresponded with, and who, I believe, got my father, or
at least my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was suo
cessful in all my adventures, and which I owe to the in-
tegrity and honesty of my friend the captain; under whom
also I got a competent knowledge of the mathematics and
5 rules of navigation, learned how to keep an account of
the ship's course, take an observation, and, in short, to un-
derstand some things that were needful to be understood
by a sailor. For, as he took delight to introduce me, I
took delight to learn; and, in a word, this voyage made
10 me both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought home five
pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for my adventure, which
yielded me in London at my return almost £300, and
this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have
since so completed my ruin.
15 Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too; par-
ticularly, that I was continually sick, being thrown into a
violent calenture by the excessive heat of the climate; our
principal trading being upon the coast, from the latitude
of fifteen degrees north even to the line itself.
20 I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend,
to my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I re-
solved to go the same voyage again, and I embarked in
the same vessel with one who was his mate in the former
voyage, and had now got the command of the ship. This
25was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made; for
though I did not carry quite £100 of my new-gained
wealth, so that I had £200 left, and which I lodged with
my friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell
into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was
30 this, viz., our ship making her course toward the Canary
Islands, or rather between those islands and the African
shore, was surprised in the gray of the morning by a
Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave chase to us with all
the sail she could make. We crowded also as much can-
vas as our yards would spread, or our masts carry, to have
got clear; but finding the pirate gained upon us, and
would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we pre-
pared to fight, our ship having twelve guns, and the rogue
eighteen. About three in the afternoon he came up with
us, and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our quar-5
ter, instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we
brought eight of our guns to bear on that side, and
poured in a broadside upon him, which made him sheer
off again, after returning our fire and pouring in also his
small-shot from near two hundred men which he had on 10
board. However, we had not a man touched, all our men
keeping close. He prepared to attack us again, and we
to defend ourselves; but laying us on board the next time
upon our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our
decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the 15
decks and rigging. We plied them with small-shot, half-
pikes, powder-chests, and such like, and cleared our deck
of them twice. However, to cut short this melancholy
part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three of
our men killed and eight wounded, we were obliged to 20
yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port
belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first
I apprehended, nor was I carried up the country to the
emperor's court, as the rest of our men were, but was 25
kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize, and
made his slave, being young and nimble, and fit for his
business. At this surprising change of my circumstances
from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly
overwhelmed; and now I looked back upon my father's 30
prophetic discourse to me, that I should be miserable,
and have none to relieve me, which I thought was now so
effectually brought to pass that it could not be worse;
that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and I
was undone without redemption. But alas! this was but
a taste of the misery I was to go through, as will appear
in the sequel of this story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to
his house, so I was in hopes that he would take me with
5 him when he went to sea again, believing that it would
some time or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish
or Portugal man-of-war; and that then I should be set at
liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken away; for
when he went to sea, he left me on shore to look after his
10 little garden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about
his house; and when he came home again from his cruise,
he ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method I might take to effect it, but found no way that
15 had the least probability in it. Nothing presented to
make the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody to
communicate it to that would embark with me, no fel-
low-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotsman there
but myself; so that for two years, though I often pleased
20 myself with the imagination, yet I never had the least
encouraging prospect of putting it in practice.
CHAPTER III
ESCAPE WITH XURY
AFTER about two years an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thought of making some at-
tempt for my liberty again in my head. My patron
lying at home longer than usual without fitting out his
ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money, he used 5
constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener, if
the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnace, and go
out into the road a-fishing; and as he always took me
and a young Maresco with him to row the boat, we
made him very merry, and I proved very dexterous imo
catching fish; insomuch, that sometimes he would send
me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth the
Maresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of fish for
him.
It happened one time that, going a-fishing in a stark 15
calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a league from the shore we lost sight of it; and
rowing we knew not whither or which way, we labored
all day, and all the next night, and when the morning
came we found we had pulled off to sea instead of pulling20
in for the shore, and that we were at least two leagues
from the shore. However, we got well in again, though
with a great deal of labor, and some danger, for the wind
began to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but par-
ticularly we were all very hungry. 25
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to
21
take more care of himself for the future; and having ly-
ing by him the long-boat of our English ship which he
had taken, he resolved he would not go a-fishing any more
without a compass and some provision; so he ordered the 5 carpenter of his ship, who also was an English slave, to
build a little stateroom, or cabin, in the middle of the
long-boat, like that of a barge, with a place to stand be-
hind it to steer and haul home the main-sheet, and room
before for a hand or two to stand and work the sails.
10 She sailed with what we call a shoulder-of-mutton sail;
and the boom jibbed over the top of the cabin, which lay
very snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie,
with a slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some
small lockers to put in some bottles of such liquor as he
15 thought fit to drink; particularly his bread, rice, and
coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing, and
as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never
went without me. It happened that he had appointed to
20 go out in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with
two or three Moors of some distinction in that place, and
for whom he had provided extraordinarily; and had
therefore sent on board the boat overnight a larger store
of provisions than ordinary; and had ordered me to get
25 ready three fuzees with powder and shot, which were on
board his ship, for that they designed some sport of
fowling as well as fishing.
I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited
the next morning with the boat, washed clean, her an-
3ocient and pendants out, and everything to accommodate
his guests; when by and by my patron came on board
alone, and told me his guests had put off going, upon
some business that fell out, and ordered me with the man
and boy, as usual, to go out with the boat and catch
them some fish, for that his friends were to sup at his
Escape with Xury 23
house; and commanded that as soon as I had got some
fish I should bring it home to his house; all which I pre-
pared to do. This moment my former notions of deliv-
erance darted into my thoughts, for now I found I was
like to have a little ship at my command; and my master 5
being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not for a fishing
business, but for a voyage; though I knew not, neither did
I so much as consider, whither I should steer; for any-
where, to get out of that place, was my way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak 10
to this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on
board; for I told him we must not presume to eat of our
patron's bread. He said that was true; so he brought
a large basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind, and three
jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew where my 15
patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident by
the make were taken out of some English prize; and I
conveyed them into the boat while the Moor was on
shore, as if they had been there before for our master. I
conveyed also a great lump of beeswax into the boat, 20
which weighed above half a hundred-weight, with a par-
cel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a ham-
mer, all which were great use to us afterwards, especially
the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried upon
him, which he innocently came into also. His name was 25
Ismael, who they call Muly, or Moely; so I called to him,
"Moely," said I, "our patron's guns are on board the
boat; can you not get a little powder and shot? it may
be we may kill some alcamies" (a fowl like our curlews)
"for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gunner's stores 30
in the ship." "Yes," says he, "I'll bring some;" and
accordingly he brought a great leather pouch which held
about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more; and
another with shot, that had five or six pounds, with some
bullets, and put all into the boat. At the same time I had
found some powder of my master's in the great cabin,
with which I filled one of the large bottles in the case,
which was almost empty, pouring what was in it into an-
other; and thus furnished with everything needful, we
5 sailed out of the port to fish. The castle, which is at
the entrance of the port, knew who we were, and took no
notice of us; and we were not above a mile out of the
port before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to
fish. The wind blew from the N. N. E., which was con-
10 trary to my desire; for had it blown southerly I had been
sure to have made the coast of Spain, and at least reached
to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which
way it would, I would be gone from that horrid place
where I was, and leave the rest to Fate.
15 After we had fished some time and catched nothing,
for when I had fish on my hook I would not pull them up
that he might not see them, I said to the Moor, "This
will not do; our master will not be thus served; we
must stand farther off." He, thinking no harm, agreed,
20and being in the head of the boat set the sails; and as I
had the helm I run the boat out near a league farther,
and then brought her to as if I would fish; when giving
the boy the helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor
was, and making as if I stooped for something behind
25 him, I took him by surprise with my arm under his twist,
and tossed him clear overboard into the sea. He rose
immediately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me,
begged to be taken in, told me he would go all the world
over with me. He swam so strong after the boat that he
30 would have reached me very quickly, there being but little
wind; upon which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching
one of the fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and
told him I had done him no hurt, and if he would be
quiet I would do him none. "But," said I, "you swim
well enough to reach to the shore, and the sea is calm;
Escape with Xury 25
make the best of your way to shore, and I will do you
no harm; but if you come near the boat I'll shoot you
through the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty."
So he turned himself about, and swam for the shore, and
I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was 5
an excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was no
venturing to trust him. When he was gone I turned
to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him, 10
"Xury, if you will be faithful to me I'll make you a
great man; but if you will not stroke your face to be true
to me," that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's beard,
"I must throw you into the sea too." The boy smiled
in my face, and spoke so innocently that I could not 15
mistrust him, and swore to be faithful to me, and go
all over the world with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming,
I stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretch-
ing to windward, that they might think me gone towards 20
the straits' mouth (as indeed any one that had been in
their wits must have been supposed to do); for who
would have supposed we were sailed on to the southward
to the truly barbarian coast, where whole nations of
negroes were sure to surround us with their canoes, and 25
destroy us; where we could ne'er once go on shore but
we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless
savages of human kind?
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening I changed
my course, and steered directly south and by east, bend-30
ing my course a little toward the east, that I might keep
in with the shore; and having a fair, fresh gale of wind,
and a smooth, quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe
by the next day at three o'clock in the afternoon, when I
first made the land, I could not be less than a hundred and
fifty miles south of Sallee; quite beyond the Emperor of
Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any other king there-
abouts, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
5 and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their
hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to
an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I had sailed
in that manner five days; and then the wind shifting to
the southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels
10were in chase of me, they also would now give over; so
I ventured to make to the coast, and came to an anchor
in the mouth of a little river, I knew not what or
where; neither what latitude, what country, what na-
tions, or what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see,
15 any people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh water.
We came into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim
on shore as soon as it was dark, and discover the country;
but as soon as it was quite dark we heard such dreadful
noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of wild
20 creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that the poor boy
was ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go
on shore till day. "Well, Xury," said I, "then I won't;
but it may be we may see men by day, who will be as
bad to us as those lions." "Then we give them the
25shoot gun," says Xury, laughing; "make them run way."
Such English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves.
However, I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I
gave him a dram (out of our patron's case of bottles) to
cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was good, and I
30took it; we dropped our little anchor and lay still all
night. I say still, for we slept none; for in two or three
hours we saw vast great creatures (we knew not what to
call them) of many sorts come down to the seashore and
run into the water, wallowing and washing themselves for
the pleasure of cooling themselves; and they made such
Escape with Xury 27
hideous howlings and yellings that I never indeed heard
the like.
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I
too; but we were both more frighted when we heard one
of these mighty creatures come swimming towards our 5
boat; we could not see him, but we might hear him by
his blowing to be a monstrous huge and furious beast.
Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so for aught I
know; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor
and row away. "No," says I, "Xury; we can slip our1o
cable with the buoy to it, and go off to sea; they cannot
follow us far." I had no sooner said so, but I perceived
the creature (whatever it was) within two oars' length,
which something surprised me; however, I immediately
stepped to the cabin door, and taking up my gun, fired 15
at him, upon which he immediately turned about and
swam towards the shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises,
and hideous cries and howlings, that were raised, as well
upon the edge of the shore as higher within the country, 20
upon the noise or report of the gun, a thing I have some
reason to believe those creatures had never heard before.
This convinced me that there was no going on shore for
us in the night upon that coast; and how to venture on
shore in the day was another question too; for to have25
fallen into the hands of any of the savages had been as
bad as have fallen into the hands of lions and tigers; at
least we were equally apprehensive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint 30
left in the boat; when or where to get to it was the
point. Xury said if I would let him go on shore with
one of the jars, he would find if there was any water
and bring some to me. I asked him why he would go?
why I should not go and he stay in the boat? The boy
answered with so much affection that made me love him
ever after. Says he, "If wild mans come, they eat me,
you go way." "Well, Xury," said I, "we will both
go; and if the wild mans come, we will kill them; they
5 shall eat neither of us." So I gave Xury a piece of rusk
bread to eat, and a dram out of our patron's case of
bottles which I mentioned before; and we hauled in the
boat as near the shore as we thought was proper, and so
waded on shore, carrying nothing but our arms and two
10jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river; but the
boy seeing a low place about a mile up the country,
rambled to it; and by and by I saw him come running
15 towards me. I thought he was pursued by some savage,
or frighted with some wild beast, and I ran forward
towards him to help him; but when I came nearer to him,
I saw something hanging over his shoulders, which was a
creature that he had shot, like a hare, but different in
20 color, and longer legs. However, we were very glad
of it, and it was very good meat; but the great joy that
poor Xury came with was to tell me he had found good
water, and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take such
25 pains for water, for a little higher up the creek where
we were we found the water fresh when the tide was
out, which flowed but a little way up; so we filled our
jars, and feasted on the hare we had killed, and prepared
to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of any human
30 creature in that part of the country.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew
very well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape
de Verde Islands also, lay not far off from the coast.
But as I had no instruments to take an observation to
know what latitude we were in, and did not exactly know,
Escape with Xury 29
or at least remember, what latitude they were in, I knew
not where to look for them, or when to stand off to sea
towards them; otherwise I might now easily have found
some of these islands. But my hope was, that if I stood
along this coast till I came to that part where the English 5
traded, I should find some of their vessels upon their
usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I
now was must be that country which, lying between the
Emperor of Morocco's dominions and the negroes, lies1o
waste and uninhabited, except by wild beasts; the negroes
having abandoned it and gone farther south for fear of
the Moors, and the Moors not thinking it worth inhab-
iting, by reason of its barrenness; and indeed both for-
saking it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, 15
leopards, and other furious creatures which harbor there;
so that the Moors use it for their hunting only, where
they go like an army, two or three thousand men at a
time; and indeed for near an hundred miles together
upon this coast we saw nothing but a waste uninhabited 20
country by day, and heard nothing but howlings and
roarings of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the daytime I thought I saw the
Pico of Teneriffe, being the high top of the Mountain
Teneriffe in the Canaries, and had a great mind to ven-25
ture out, in hopes of reaching thither; but having tried
twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds, the sea
also going too high for my little vessel; so I resolved to
pursue my first design, and keep along the shore.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water 30
after we had left this place; and once in particular, being
early in the morning, we came to an anchor under a
little point of land which was pretty high; and the tide
beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther in. Xury,
whose eyes were more about him than it seems mine were,
calls softly to me, and tells me that we had best go farther
off the shore. "For," says he, "look; yonder lies a
dreadful monster on the side of that hillock fast asleep."
I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster
5 indeed, for it was a terrible great lion that lay on the side
of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that
hung as it were a little over him. "Xury," says I,
"you shall go on shore and kill him." Xury looked
frighted, and said, " Me kill! He eat me at one mouth,"
10—one mouthful he meant. However, I said no more to
the boy, but bade him lie still, and I took our biggest
gun, which was almost musket-bore, and loaded it with a
good charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid it
down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets; and
15 the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded with five
smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could with the
first piece to have shot him into the head, but he lay
so, with his leg raised a little above his nose, that the
slugs hit his leg about the knee, and broke the bone. He
20 started up growling at first, but finding his leg broke, fell
down again, and then got up upon three legs and gave
the most hideous roar that ever I heard. I was a little
surprised that I had not hit him on the head. However,
I took up the second piece immediately, and, though he
25 began to move off, fired again, and shot him into the
head, and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make
but little noise, but lay struggling for life. Then Xury
took heart, and would have me let him go on shore.
"Well, go," said I; so the boy jumped into the water,
30 and, taking a little gun in one hand, swam to shore
with the other hand, and, coming close to the creature,
put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him into
the head again, which despatched him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food; and
I was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot
Escape with Xury 31
upon a creature that was good for nothing to us. How-
ever, Xury said he would have some of him; so he comes
on board, and asked me to give him the hatchet. "For
what, Xury?" said I. "Me cut off his head," said he.
However, Xury could not cut off his head, but he cut off 5
a foot, and brought it with him, and it was a monstrous
great one.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of
him might one way or other be of some value to us; and
I resolved to take off his skin if I could. So Xury and 10
I went to work with him; but Xury was much the better
workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do it. In-
deed, it took us up both the whole day, but at last we got
off the hide of him, and spreading it on the top of our
cabin, the sun effectually dried it in two days' time, and it 15
afterwards served me to lie upon.
After this stop we made on to the southward con-
tinually for ten or twelve days, living very sparing on
our provisions, which began to abate very much, and
going no oftener into the shore than we were obliged to 20
for fresh water. My design in this was to make the
river Gambia or Senegal,—that is to say, anywhere about
the Cape de Verde,—where I was in hopes to meet with
some European ship; and if I did not, I knew not what
course I had to take, but to seek out for the islands, or 25
perish there among the negroes. I knew that all the
ships from Europe, which sailed either to the coast of
Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this cape,
or those islands; and in a word, I put the whole of my
fortune upon this single point, either that I must meet 30
with some ship, or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land was
inhabited; and in two or three places, as we sailed by,
we saw people stand upon the shore to look at us; we
could also perceive they were quite black, and stark naked.
I was once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but
Xury was my better counsellor, and said to me, " No go,
no go." However, I hauled in nearer the shore that I
5 might talk to them, and I found they ran along the shore
by me a good way. I observed they had no weapons in
their hands, except one, who had a long slender stick,
which Xury said was a lance, and that they would
throw them a great way with good aim. So I kept at a
10 distance, but talked with them by signs as well as I could,
and particularly made signs for something to eat; they
beckoned to me to stop my boat, and that they would
fetch me some meat. Upon this I lowered the top of
my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up into the
15 country, and in less than half an hour came back, and
brought with them two pieces of dried flesh and some
corn, such as is the produce of their country; but we
neither knew what the one or the other was. However,
we were willing to accept it, but how to come at it was
20 our next dispute, for I was not for venturing on shore to
them, and they were as much afraid of us; but they took
a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore
and laid it down, and went and stood a great way off till
we fetched it on board, and then came close to us again.
25 We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing
to make them amends. But an opportunity offered that
very instant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we
were lying by the shore came two mighty creatures, one
pursuing the other (as we took it) with great fury from
30the mountains towards the sea; whether it was the male
pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport or in
rage, we could not tell, any more than we could tell
whether it was usual or strange, but I believe it was the
latter; because, in the first place, those ravenous creatures
seldom appear but in the night; and in the second place,
Escape with Xury
33
we found the people terribly frighted, especially the
women. The man that had the lance or dart did not fly
from them, but the rest did; however, as the two creatures
ran directly into the water, they did not seem to offer
to fall upon any of the negroes, but plunged themselves 5
into the sea, and swam about, as if they had come for
their diversion. At last, one of them began to come
nearer our boat than at first I expected; but I lay ready
for him, for I had loaded my gun with all possible ex-
pedition, and bade Xury load both the others. As soon 10
as he came fairly within my reach, I fired, and shot
him directly into the head; immediately he sunk down
into the water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and
down, as if he was struggling for life, and so indeed he
was. He immediately made to the shore; but between the 15
wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the strangling of
the water, he died just before he reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these
poor creatures at the noise and the fire of my gun;
some of them were even ready to die for fear, and fell 20
down as dead with the very terror. But when they saw
the creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that I made
signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart and
came to the shore, and began to search for the creature.
I found him by his blood staining the water; and by the25
help of a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the
negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore, and found
that it was a most curious leopard, spotted, and fine to
an admirable degree; and the negroes held up their hands
with admiration, to think what it was I had killed him 30
with.
The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire and
the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly
to the mountains from whence they came; nor could I,
at that distance, know what it was. I found quickly the
negroes were for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was
willing to have them take it as a favor from me; which,
when I made signs to them that they might take him,
they were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to
5 work with him; and though they had no knife, yet, with a
sharpened piece of wood, they took off his skin as read-
ily, and much more readily than we could have done
with a knife. They offered me some of the flesh, which
I declined, making as if I would give it them, but made
10 signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely, and
brought me a great deal more of their provision, which,
though I did not understand, yet I accepted. Then I
made signs to them for some water, and held out one of
my jars to them, turning it bottom upward, to show
15 that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled.
They called immediately to some of their friends, and
there came two women, and brought a great vessel made
of earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun; this they
set down for me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore
20with my jars, and filled them all three.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it
was, and water; and leaving my friendly negroes, I made
forward for about eleven days more, without offering to
go near the shore, till I saw the land run out a great
25 length into the sea, at about the distance of four or five
leagues before me; and the sea being very calm, I kept
a large offing, to make this point. At length, doubling
the point, at about two leagues from the land, I saw
plainly land on the other side, to seaward; then I con-
30 eluded, as it was most certain indeed, that this was the
Cape de Verde, and those the islands, called from thence
Cape de Verde Islands. However, they were at a great
distance, and I could not well tell what I had best to do;
for if I should be taken with a fresh wind, I might
neither reach one or other.
TAKEN UP BY A PORTUGUESE CAPTAIN
IN this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into
the cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the helm;
when, on a sudden, the boy cried out, "Master, master,
a ship with a sail!" and the foolish boy was frighted out
of his wits, thinking it must needs be some of his master's 5
ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were gotten
far enough out of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin,
and immediately saw, not only the ship, but what she was,
viz., that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought,
was bound to the coast of Guinea, for negroes. But 10
when I observed the course she steered, I was soon con-
vinced they were bound some other way, and did not
design to come any nearer to the shore; upon which I
stretched out to sea as much as I could, resolving to
speak with them, if possible. 15
With all the sail I could make, I found I should not
be able to come in their way, but that they would be
gone by before I could make any signal to them; but
after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to despair,
they, it seems, saw me by the help of their perspective 20
glasses, and that it was some European boat, which, as
they supposed, must belong to some ship that was lost, so
they shortened sail to let me come up. I was encour-
aged with this; and as I had my patron's ancient on
board, I made a waft of it to them for a signal of distress, 25
and fired a gun, both which they saw; for they told me
35
they saw the smoke, though they did not hear the gun.
Upon these signals they very kindly brought to, and lay
by for me; and in about three hours' time I came up
with them. 5 They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in
Spanish, and in French, but I understood none of them;
but at last a Scots sailor, who was on board, called to
me, and I answered him, and told him I was an Eng-
lishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery
10 from the Moors, at Sallee. Then they bade me come
on board, and very kindly took me in, and all my
goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, that any one will
believe, that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from
15 such a miserable, and almost hopeless, condition as I was
in; and I immediately offered all I had to the captain
of the ship, as a return for my deliverance. But he
generously told me he would take nothing from me, but
that all I had should be delivered safe to me when I came
20 to the Brazils. "For," says he, "I have saved your
life on no other terms than I would be glad to be saved
myself; and it may, one time or other, be my lot to be
taken up in the same condition. Besides," says he,
"when I carry you to the Brazils, so great a way from
25 your own country, if I should take from you what
you have, you will be starved there, and then I only
take away that life I have given. No, no, Seignior In-
glese," says he, "Mr. Englishman, I will carry you
thither in charity, and those things will help you to
30 buy your subsistence there, and your passage home
again."
As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was just
in the performance to a tittle; for he ordered the seamen
that none should offer to touch anything I had; then he
took everything into his own possession, and gave me
Taken up by a Portuguese Captain 37
back an exact inventory of them, that I might have them,
even so much as my three earthen jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he
saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's use,
and asked me what I would have for it. I told him he 5
had been so generous to me in everything that I could
not offer to make any price of the boat, but left it en-
tirely to him; upon which he told me he would give me
a note of his hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight for
it at Brazil, and when it came there, if any one offered to 10
give more, he would make it up. He offered me
also sixty pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which
I was loath to take; not that I was not willing to let the
captain have him, but I was very loath to sell the poor
boy's liberty, who had assisted me so faithfully in pro-15
curing my own. However, when I let him know my
reason he owned it to be just, and offered me this
medium, that he would give the boy an obligation to set
him free in ten years if he turned Christian. Upon this,
and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let the 20
captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and ar-
rived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay,
in about twenty-two days after. And now I was once
more delivered from the most miserable of all conditions 25
of life; and what to do next with myself, I was now to
consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can
never enough remember. He would take nothing of me
for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's 30
skin and forty for the lion's skin, which I had in my
boat, and caused everything I had in the ship to be punctu-
ally delivered me; and what I was willing to sell he
bought, such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and
a piece of the lump of beeswax—for I had made candles
of the rest; in a word, I made about 220 pieces of eight
of all my cargo, and with this stock I went on shore in
the Brazils.
I had not been long here, but being recommended to
5 the house of a good honest man like himself, who had an
ingenio as they call it, that is, a plantation and a sugar-
house, I lived with him some time, and acquainted myself
by that means with the manner of their planting and
making of sugar; and seeing how well the planters lived,
10 and how they grew rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could
get license to settle there, I would turn planter among
them, resolving in the mean time to find out some way to
get my money which I had left in London remitted to me.
To this purpose, getting a kind of a letter of naturaliza-
15 tion, I purchased as much land that was uncured as my
money would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation
and settlement, and such a one as might be suitable to the
stock which I proposed to myself to receive from Eng-
land.
30 I had a neighbor, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much
such circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbor,
because his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on
very sociably together. My stock was but low, as well
25as his; and we rather planted for food than anything
else, for about two years. However, we began to in-
crease, and our land began to come into order; so that
the third year we planted some tobacco, and made each
of us a large piece of ground ready for planting canes
30in the year to come. But we both wanted help; and
now I found, more than before, I had done wrong in
parting with my boy Xury.
But alas! for me to do wrong that never did right
was no great wonder. I had no remedy but to go on.
I was gotten into an employment quite remote to my
Taken up by a Portuguese Captain 39
genius, and directly contrary to the life I delighted in,
and for which I forsook my father's house, and broke
through all his good advice; nay, I was coming into
the very middle station, or upper degree of low life,
which my father advised me to before; and which, if 5
I resolved to go on with, I might as well have stayed at
home, and never have fatigued myself in the world as I
had done. And I used often to say to myself, I could
have done this as well in England among my friends, as
have gone five thousand miles off to do it among strangers 10
and savages in a wilderness, and at such a distance as
never to hear from any part of the world that had the
least knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition with
the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with, but 15
now and then this neighbor; no work to be done, but
by the labor of my hands; and I used to say, I lived just
like a man cast away upon some desolate island, that had
nobody there but himself. But how just has it been!
and how should all men reflect, that when they compare 20
their present conditions with others that are worse,
Heaven may oblige them to make the exchange, and be
convinced of their former felicity by their experience,—
I say, how just has it been, that the truly solitary life I
reflected on in an island of mere desolation should be my 25
lot, who had so often unjustly compared it with the life
which I then led, in which, had I continued, I had in all
probability been exceeding prosperous and rich.
I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation before my kind friend, the cap- 30
tain of the ship that took me up at sea, went back; for the
ship remained there in providing his loading, and prepar-
ing for his voyage, near three months; when, telling him
what little stock I had left behind me in London, he
gave me this friendly and sincere advice: "Seignior
Inglese," says he, for so he always called me, "if you
will give me letters, and a procuration here in form to me,
with orders to the person who has your money in Lon-
don to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I
5 shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this coun-
try, I will bring you the produce of them, God willing,
at my return. But since human affairs are all subject to
changes and disasters, I would have you give orders but
for one hundred pounds sterling, which, you say, is half
10your stock, and let the hazard be run for the first; so
that if it come safe, you may order the rest the same way;
and if it miscarry, you may have the other half to have
recourse to for your supply."
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly,
15 that I could not but be convinced it was the best course
I could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the
gentlewoman with whom I had left my money, and a
procuration to the Portuguese captain, as he desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
20of all my adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had
met with the Portugal captain at sea, the humanity of his
behavior, and in what condition I was now in, with all
other necessary directions for my supply. And when this
honest captain came to Lisbon, he found means, by some
25 of the English merchants there, to send over not the order
only, but a full account of my story to a merchant at
London, who represented it effectually to her; where-
upon she not only delivered the money, but out of her
own pocket sent the Portugal captain a very handsome
30 present for his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vesting this hundred pounds
in English goods, such as the captain had writ for, sent
them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all
safe to me to the Brazils; among which, without my di-
rection (for I was too young in my business to think of
them), he had taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron-
work, and utensils necessary for my plantation, and which
were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made,
for I was surprised with joy of it; and my good steward, 5
the captain, had laid out the five pounds, which my
friend had sent him for a present for himself, to purchase
and bring me over a servant under bond for six years'
service, and would not accept of any consideration, ex-
cept a little tobacco, which I would have him accept, be-10
ing of my own produce.
Neither was this all; but my goods being all English
manufactures, such as cloth, stuffs, baize, and things
particularly valuable and desirable in the country, I
found means to sell them to a very great advantage; so15
that I might say I had more than four times the value
of my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my poor
neighbor, I mean in the advancement of my plantation;
for the first thing I did, I bought me a negro slave, and
an European servant also; I mean another besides that20
which the captain brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very
means of our greatest adversity, so was it with me. I
went on the next year with great success in my planta-
tion. I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my own 25
ground, more than I had disposed of for necessaries
among my neighbors; and these fifty rolls being each of
above a hundred-weight, were well cured and laid by
against the return of the fleet from Lisbon. And now,
increasing in business and in wealth, my head began to 30
be full of projects and undertakings beyond my reach,
such as are, indeed, often the ruin of the best heads in
business.
SHIPWRECKED ON A DESOLATE ISLAND
HAD I continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me
for which my father so earnestly recommended a quiet,
retired life, and which he had so sensibly described the
5 middle station of life to be full of. But other things
attended me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of all
my own miseries; and particularly, to increase my fault
and double the reflections upon myself, which in my
future sorrows I should have leisure to make. All these
10 miscarriages were procured by my apparent obstinate ad-
hering to my foolish inclination of wandering abroad,
and pursuing that inclination in contradiction to the
clearest views of doing myself good in a fair and plain
pursuit of those prospects, and those measures of life,
15 which Nature and Providence concurred to present me
with, and to make my duty.
As I had once done thus in my breaking away from my
parents, so I could not be content now, but I must go and
leave the happy view I had of being a rich and thriving
20 man in my new plantation, only to pursue a rash and im-
moderate desire of rising faster than the nature of the
thing admitted; and thus I cast myself down again into
the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell into,
or perhaps could be consistent with life and a state of
25 health in the world.
To come, then, by the just degrees to the particulars of
42
Shipwrecked on a Desolate Island 43
this part of my story. You may suppose that having
now lived almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning
to thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, I
had not only learned the language, but had contracted ac-
quaintance and friendship among my fellow-planters, ass
well as among the merchants at St. Salvador, which was
our port, and that in my discourses among them I had
frequently given them an account of my two voyages to
the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with the
negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase upon the 10
coast for trifles—such as beads, toys, knives, scissors,
hatchets, bits of glass, and the like—not only gold-dust,
Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, etc., but negroes, for the
service of the Brazils, in great numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my discourses 15
on these heads, but especially to that part which related
to the buying negroes; which was a trade, at that time,
not only not far entered into, but, as far as it was,
had been carried on by the assiento, or permission, of the
kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the public, 20
so that few negroes were brought, and those excessive
dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants
and planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those
things very earnestly, three of them came to me the next 25
morning, and told me they had been musing very much
upon what I had discoursed with them of, the last
night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me.
And after enjoining me secrecy, they told me that they
had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they30
had all plantations as well as I, and were straitened for
nothing so much as servants; that as it was a trade that
could not be carried on because they could not publicly
sell the negroes when they came home, so they desired
to make but one voyage, to bring the negroes on shore
privately, and divide them among their own plantations;
and, in a word, the question was, whether I would go
their supercargo in the ship, to manage the trading part
upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered me that I
5 should have my equal share of the negroes without pro-
viding any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it
been made to any one that had not had a settlement and
plantation of his own to look after, which was in a fair
10 way of coming to be very considerable, and with a good
stock upon it. But for me, that was thus entered and
established, and had nothing to do but go on as I had
begun, for three or four years more, and to have sent
for the other hundred pounds from England; and who,
15 in that time, and with that little addition, could scarce
have failed of being worth three or four thousand pounds
sterling and that increasing too—for me to think of such
a voyage was the most preposterous thing that ever man
in such circumstances could be guilty of.
20 But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could
no more resist the offer than I could restrain my first
rambling designs, when my father's good counsel was
lost upon me. In a word, I told them I would go with
all my heart, if they would undertake to look after my
25 plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it to such
as I should direct if I miscarried. This they all engaged
to do, and entered into writings or covenants to do so;
and I made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and
effects, in case of my death; making the captain of the
30 ship that had saved my life, as before, my universal heir,
but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had di-
rected in my will; one half of the produce being to him-
self, and the other to be shipped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my ef-
fects, and keep up my plantation. Had I used half as
much prudence to have looked into my own interest, and
have made a judgment of what I ought to have done and
not to have done, I had certainly never gone away from so
prosperous an undertaking, leaving all the probable views
of a thriving circumstance, and gone upon a voyage to 5
sea, attended with all its common hazards, to say nothing
of the reasons I had to expect particular misfortunes to
myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates
of my fancy rather than my reason. And accordingly, 10
the ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all
things done as by agreement by my partners in the voyage,
I went on board in an evil hour, the first of September,
1659, being the same day eight year that I went from
my father and mother at Hull, in order to act the rebel 15
to their authority, and the fool to my own interest.
Our ship was about a hundred and twenty tons'
burthen, carried six guns and fourteen men, besides
the master, his boy, and myself. We had on board no
large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit for 20
our trade with the negroes,—such as beads, bits of glass,
shells, and odd trifles, especially little looking-glasses,
knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to the northward upon our own coast, with design 25
to stretch over for the African coast, when they came
about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude, which,
it seems, was the manner of their course in those days.
We had very good weather, only excessive hot, all the
way upon our own coast, till we came the height of 30
Cape St. Augustino, from whence, keeping farther off at
sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we was bound
for the Isle Fernando de Noronha, holding our course
N. E. by N., and leaving those isles on the east. In this
course we passed the line in about twelve days' time, and
were, by our last observation, in 7° 22' northern lati-
tude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us quite
out of our knowledge. It began from the southeast, came
about to the northwest, and then settled into the north-
5 east, from whence it blew in such a terrible manner that
for twelve days together we could do nothing but drive,
and, scudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever
fate and the fury of the winds directed; and during these
twelve days, I need not say that I expected every day to
lobe swallowed up, nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect
to save their lives.
In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm,
one of our men die of the calenture, and one man and
the boy washed overboard. About the twelfth day, the
15 weather abating a little, the master made an observation
as well as he could, and found that he was in about
eleven degrees north latitude, but that he was twenty-
two degrees of longitude difference west from Cape St.
Augustino; so that he found he was gotten upon the
20 coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the
river Amazon, toward that of the river Orinoco, com-
monly called the Great River, and began to consult with
me what course he should take, for the ship was leaky
and very much disabled, and he was going directly back
25 to the coast of Brazil.
I was positively against that; and looking over the
charts of the sea-coast of America with him, we con-
cluded there was no inhabited country for us to have re-
course to till we came within the circle of the Caribbee
30 Islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for Bar-
badoes, which by keeping off at sea, to avoid the indraft
of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico, we might easily perform,
as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail; whereas we could
not possibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa with-
out some assistance, both to our ship and to ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and steered
away N. W. by W. in order to reach some of our Eng-
lish islands, where I hoped for relief; but our voyage
was otherwise determined; for being in the latitude of
12° 18', a second storm came upon us, which carried 5
us away with the same impetuosity westward, and drove
us so out of the very way of all human commerce that
had all our lives been saved as to the sea, we were rather
in danger of being devoured by savages than ever re-
turning to our own country. 10
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one
of our men early in the morning cried out, "Land!" and
we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in
hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we were, but
the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her mo-15
tion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in such a
manner that we expected we should all have perished im-
mediately; and we were immediately driven into our
close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and spray
of the sea. 20
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consternation of
men in such circumstances. We knew nothing where
we were, or upon what land it was we were driven,
whether an island or the main, whether inhabited or not 25
inhabited; and as the rage of the wind was still great,
though rather less than at first, we could not so much as
hope to have the ship hold many minutes without break-
ing in pieces, unless the winds, by a kind of miracle,
should turn immediately about. In a word, we sat look-30
ing upon one another, and expecting death every moment,
and every man acting accordingly, as preparing for an-
other world; for there was little or nothing more for us
to do in this. That which was our present comfort,
and all the comfort we had, was that, contrary to our
expectation, the ship did not break yet, and that the mas-
ter said the wind began to abate.
Now, though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand,
5 and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off, we
were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing to
do but to think of saving our lives as well as we could.
We had a boat at our stern just before the storm, but
she was first staved by dashing against the ship's rudder,
10 and in the next place she broke away, and either sunk
or was driven off to sea, so there was no hope from her;
we had another boat on board, but how to get her off into
the sea was a doubtful thing. However, there was no
room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break
15 in pieces every minute, and some told us she was actu-
ally broken already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of
the boat, and with the help of the rest of the men they
got her slung over the ship's side; and getting all into
20 her, let go, and committed ourselves, being eleven in
number, to God's mercy and the wild sea; for though the
storm was abated considerably, yet the sea went dreadful
high upon the shore, and might well be called den wild
zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.
25 And now our case was very dismal indeed, for we all
saw plainly that the sea went so high that the boat could
not live, and that we should be inevitably drowned. As
to making sail, we had none; nor if we had, could we
have done anything with it; so we worked at the oar
30 towards the land, though with heavy hearts, like men
going to execution, for we all knew that when the boat
came nearer the shore, she would be dashed in a thousand
pieces by the breach of the sea. However, we committed
our souls to God in the most earnest manner; and the
wind driving us towards the shore, we hastened our de-
struction with our own hands, pulling as well as we could
towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was, if 5
we might happen into some bay or gulf, or the mouth
of some river, where by great chance we might have run
our boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and per-
haps made smooth water. But there was nothing of this
appeared; but as we made nearer and nearer the shore, the 10
land looked more frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-
like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us ex-
pect the coup de grace. In a word, it took us with such 15
a fury that it overset the boat at once; and separating us,
as well from the boat as from one another, gave us not
time hardly to say, " O God!" for we were all swallowed
up in a moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which 20
I felt when I sunk into the water; for though I swam
very well, yet I could not deliver myself from the waves
so as to draw breath, till that wave having driven me, or
rather carried me, a vast way on towards the shore,
and having spent itself, went back, and left me upon the 25
land almost dry, but half dead with the water I took in.
I had so much presence of mind, as well as breath left,
that seeing myself nearer the mainland than I expected,
I got upon my feet, and endeavored to make on towards
the land as fast as I could, before another wave should 30
return and take me up again. But I soon found it was
impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me
as high as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy, which
I had no means or strength to contend with. My busi-
ness was to hold my breath, and raise myself upon the
water, if I could; and so, by swimming, to preserve my
breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible;
my greatest concern now being that the sea, as it would
carry me a great way towards the shore when it came on,
5 might not carry me back again with it when it gave back
towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me at once
twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and I could
feel myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness
10towards the shore a very great way; but I held my
breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward with all
my might. I was ready to burst with holding my breath
when, as I felt myself rising up, so, to my immediate re-
lief, I found my head and hands shoot out above the
15 surface of the water; and though it was not two seconds
of time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved me
greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was cov-
ered again with water a good while, but not so long but I
held it out; and finding the water had spent itself, and
20 began to return, I struck forward against the return of
the waves, and felt ground again with my feet. I stood
still a few moments to recover breath, and till the water
went from me, and then took to my heels and ran with
what strength I had farther towards the shore. But
25 neither would this deliver me from the fury of the sea,
which came pouring in after me again, and twice more I
was lifted up by the waves and carried forwards as be-
fore, the shore being very flat.
The last time of these two had well near been fatal
30to me; for the sea, having hurried me along as before,
landed me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of a rock,
and that with such force as it left me senseless, and in-
deed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the blow
taking my side and breast, beat the breath as it were
quite out of my body; and had it returned again im-
mediately, I must have been strangled in the water. But
I recovered a little before the return of the waves, and
seeing I should be covered again with the water, I re-
solved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to hold
my breath, if possible, till the wave went back. Now 5
as the waves were not so high as at first, being near land,
I held my hold till the wave abated, and then fetched
another run, which brought me so near the shore that the
next wave, though it went over me, yet did not so swal-
low me up as to carry me away, and the next run I took 10
I got to the mainland, where, to my great comfort, I
clambered up the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down
upon the grass, free from danger, and quite out of the
reach of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to 15
look up and thank God that my life was saved in a case
wherein there was some minutes before scarce any room
to hope. I believe it is impossible to express to the life
what the ecstasies and transports of the soul are when it
is so saved, as I may say, out of the very grave; and I do20
not wonder now at that custom, viz., that when a male-
factor, who has the halter about his neck, is tied up, and
just going to be turned off, and has a reprieve brought to
him—I say, I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon
with it, to let him blood that very moment they tell him 25
of it, that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits
from the heart, and overwhelm him:
"For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first."
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands,
and my whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the con-30
templation of my deliverance, making a thousand gestures
and motions which I cannot describe, reflecting upon all
my comrades that were drowned, and that there should
not be one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I never
saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three
of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fel-
lows. 5 I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach
and froth of the sea being so big I could hardly see it,
it lay so far off, and considered, Lord! how was it pos-
sible I could get on shore?
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part
10 of my condition, I began to look round me to see what
kind of place I was in, and what was next to be done,
and I soon found my comforts abate, and that, in a word,
I had a dreadful deliverance; for I was wet, had no
clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink 15 to comfort me, neither did I see any prospect before me
but that of perishing with hunger, or being devoured by
wild beasts; and that which was particularly afflicting
to me was, that I had no weapon either to hunt and
kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend myself 20 against any other creature that might desire to kill me
for theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a
knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a box. This
was all my provision; and this threw me into terrible
agonies of mind, that for a while I ran about like a mad- 25 man. Night coming upon me, I began, with a heavy
heart, to consider what would be my lot if there were any
ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at night they al-
ways come abroad for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time 30 was, to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but
thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolved to sit
all night, and consider the next day what death I should
die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked about
a furlong from the shore, to see if I could find any fresh
water to drink, which I did, to my great joy; and having
drank, and put a little tobacco in my mouth to prevent
hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, en-
deavored to place myself so, as that if I should sleep I
might not fall; and having cut me a short stick, like a
truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging, and 5
having been excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and
slept as comfortably as, I believe, few could have done in
my condition, and found myself the most refreshed with
it that I think I ever was on such an occasion.
RECOVERY OF THE SHIP'S CARGO
WHEN I waked it was broad day, the weather clear,
and the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and
swell as before. But that which surprised me most was,
that the ship was lifted off in the night from the sand
5 where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was driven
up almost as far as the rock which I first mentioned,
where I had been so bruised by the dashing me against it.
This being within about a mile from the shore where I
was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished
10 myself on board, that, at least, I might save some neces-
sary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree I
looked about me again, and the first thing I found was the
boat, which lay as the wind and the sea had tossed her
15 up upon the land, about two miles on my right hand. I
walked as far as I could upon the shore to have got to
her, but found a neck or inlet of water between me and
the boat, which was about half a mile broad; so I came
back for the present, being more intent upon getting at
20 the ship, where I hoped to find something for my pres-
ent subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the
tide ebbed so far out that I could come within a quarter
of a mile of the ship; and here I found a fresh renewing
25 of my grief, for I saw, evidently, that if we had kept on
board we had been all safe, that is to say, we had all got
54
Recovery of the Ship's Cargo 55
safe on shore, and I had not been so miserable as to be
left entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I
now was. This forced tears from my eyes again; but as
there was little relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to
get to the ship; so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather 5
was hot to extremity, and took the water. But when I
came to the ship, my difficulty was still greater to know
how to get on board; for as she lay aground, and high out
of the water, there was nothing within my reach to lay
hold of. I swam round her twice, and the second time 10
I spied a small piece of a rope, which I wondered I did
not see at first, hang down by the fore-chains so low as
that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by the
help of that rope got up into the forecastle of the ship.
Here I found that the ship was bulged, and had a great 15
deal of water in her hold, but that she lay so on the
side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth, that her
stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low al-
most to the water. By this means all her quarter was
free, and all that was in that part was dry; for you may20
be sure my first work was to search and to see what was
spoiled and what was free. And first I found that all
the ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the
water; and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the
bread-room and filled my pockets with biscuit, and eat 25
it as I went about other things, for I had no time to lose.
I also found some rum in the great cabin, of which I took
a large dram, and which I had indeed need enough of to
spirit me for what was before me. Now I wanted
nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with many things 30 which I foresaw would be very necessary to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not
to be had, and this extremity roused my application. We
had several spare yards, and two or three large spars of
wood, and a spare topmast or two in the ship. I re- solved to fall to work with these, and flung as many of
them overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying
every one with a rope, that they might not drive away.
When this was done I went down the ship's side, and,
5 pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast together at
both ends as well as I could, in the form of a raft; and
laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them cross-
ways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that
it was not able to bear any great weight, the pieces be-
10 ing too light. So I went to work, and with the car-
penter's saw I cut a spare topmast into three lengths, and
added them to my raft, with a great deal of labor and
pains; but hope of furnishing myself with necessaries en-
couraged me to go beyond what I should have been able
15 to have done upon another occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reason-
able weight. My next care was what to load it with,
and how to preserve what I laid upon it from the
surf of the sea; but I was not long considering this.
20I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could
get, and having considered well what I most wanted, I
first got three of the seamen's chests, which I had broken
open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my
raft. The first of these I filled with provisions, viz.,
25 bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried
goat's flesh, which we lived much upon, and a little re-
mainder of European corn, which had been laid by for
some fowls which we brought to sea with us; but the
fowls were killed. There had been some barley and
30 wheat together, but, to my great disappointment, I found
afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As
for liquors, I found several cases of bottles belonging to
our skipper, in which were some cordial waters, and, in
all, about five or six gallons of rack. These I stowed
by themselves, there being no need to put them into the
chest, nor no room for them. While I was doing this, I
found the tide began to flow, though very calm, and I had
the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat,
which I had left on shore upon the sand, swim away; as
for my breeches, which were only linen, and open-kneed, 5
I swam on board in them, and my stockings. However,
this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I
found enough, but took no more than I wanted for
present use; for I had other things which my eye was
more upon, as, first, tools to work with on shore; and it1o
was after long searching that I found out the carpenter's
chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and
much more valuable than a ship-loading of gold would
have been at that time. I got it down to my raft, even
whole as it was, without losing time to look into it, for I15
knew in general what it contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms;
there were two very good fowling-pieces in the great
cabin, and two pistols; these I secured first, with some
powder-horns, and a small bag of shot, and two old rusty 20
swords. I knew there were three barrels of powder in
the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them; but with much search I found them, two of them
dry and good, the third had taken water; those two I got
to my raft with the arms. And now I thought myself 25
pretty well freighted, and began to think how I should
get to shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor
rudder; and the least capful of wind would have over-
set all my navigation.
I had three encouragements, 1. A smooth, calm sea. 30
2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore. 3. What
little wind there was blew me towards the land. And
thus, having found two or three broken oars belonging
to the boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest,
I found two saws, an axe, and a hammer, and with this
cargo I put to sea. For a mile or thereabouts my raft
went very well, only that I found it drive a little distant
from the place where I had landed before, by which I per-
ceived that there was some indraft of the water, and con-
5 sequently I hoped to find some creek or river there, which
I might make use of as a port to get to land with my
cargo.
As I imagined, so it was; there appeared before me
a little opening of the land, and I found a strong cur-
1o rent of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well as
I could to keep in the middle of the stream. But here I
had like to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I
had, I think verily would have broke my heart; for
knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at
15 one end of it upon a shoal, and not being aground at the
other end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo had
slipped off towards that end that was afloat, and so fallen
into the water. I did my utmost by setting my back
against the chests to keep them in their places, but could
20 not thrust off the raft with all my strength, neither
durst I stir from the posture I was in, but holding up the
chests with all my might, stood in that manner near half
an hour, in which time the rising of the water brought
me a little more upon a level; and a little after, the water
25 still rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust her off
with the oar I had into the channel, and then driving up
higher, I at length found myself in the mouth of a little
river, with land on both sides, and a strong current or
tide running up. I looked on both sides for a proper
30 place to get to shore, for I was not willing to be driven
too high up the river, hoping in time to see some ship at
sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as near the
coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of
the creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I
guided my raft, and at last got so near as that, reaching
ground with my oar, I could thrust her directly in; but
here I had like to have dipped all my cargo in the sea
again; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to say,
sloping, there was no place to land but where one end5
of my float, if it run on shore, would lie so high and the
other sink lower, as before, that it would endanger my
cargo again. All that I could do was to wait till the tide
was at the highest, keeping the raft with my oar like an
anchor to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a1o
flat piece of ground, which I expected the water would
flow over; and so it did. As soon as I found water
enough, for my raft drew about a foot of water, I thrust
her on upon that flat piece of ground, and there fastened
or moored her by sticking my two broken oars into the 15
ground; one on one side near one end, and one on the
other side near the other end; and thus I lay till the
water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo
safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country and seek a 20
proper place for my habitation, and where to stow my
goods to secure them from whatever might happen.
Where I was, I yet knew not; whether on the continent,
or on an island; whether inhabited, or not inhabited;
whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a 25
hill, not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep
and high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills,
which lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took out
one of the fowling-pieces and one of the pistols, and a
horn of powder; and thus armed, I travelled for dis-30
covery up to the top of that hill, where, after I had with
great labor and difficulty got to the top, I saw my fate
to my great affliction, viz., that I was in an island en-
vironed every way with the sea, no land to be seen, ex-
cept some rocks which lay a great way off, and two small
islands less than this, which lay about three leagues to
the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and,
as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by
5 wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none; yet I saw
abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither,
when I killed them, could I tell what was fit for food,
and what not. At my coming back, I shot at a great
bird which I saw sitting upon a tree on the side of a
10 great wood. I believe it was the first gun that had been
fired there since the creation of the world. I had no
sooner fired, but from all the parts of the wood there
arose an innumerable number of fowls of many sorts,
making a confused screaming, and crying every one ac-
15cording to his usual note; but not one of them of any
kind that I knew. As for the creature I killed, I took
it to be a kind of a hawk, its color and beak resembling
it, but had no talons or claws more than common; its
flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.
20 Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft,
and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which
took me up the rest of that day; and what to do with
myself at night I knew not, nor indeed where to rest;
for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing
25 but some wild beast might devour me, though, as I after-
wards found, there was really no need for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round
with the chests and boards that I had brought on shore,
and made a kind of a hut for that night's lodging; as for
30 food, I yet saw not which way to supply myself, except
that I had seen two or three creatures like hares run out
of the wood where I shot the fowl.
I now began to consider, that I might yet get a great
many things out of the ship which would be useful to me,
and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and such
other things as might come to land; and I resolved to
make another voyage on board the vessel, if possible. And
as I knew that the first storm that blew must necessarily
break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things
apart till I got everything out of the ship that I could 5
get. Then I called a council, that is to say, in my
thoughts, whether I should take back the raft, but this
appeared impracticable; so I resolved to go as before,
when the tide was down; and I did so, only that I
stripped before I went from my hut, having nothing on 10
but a chequered shirt and a pair of linen drawers, and a
pair of pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a sec-
ond raft, and having had experience of the first, I neither
made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard; but yet I15
brought away several things very useful to me; as, first,
in the carpenter's stores I found two or three bags full
of nails and spikes, a great screwjack, a dozen or two of
hatchets, and, above all, that most useful thing called a
grindstone. All these I secured, together with several 20
things belonging to the gunner, particularly two or
three iron crows, and two barrels of musket bullets, seven
muskets, and another fowling-piece, with some small
quantity of powder more; a large bag full of small-shot,
and a great roll of sheet lead; but this last was so heavy25
I could not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I
could find, and a spare foretop sail, a hammock, and some
bedding; and with this I loaded my second raft, and
brought them all safe on shore, to my very great comfort. 30
I was under some apprehensions during my absence
from the land that at least my provisions might be
devoured on shore; but when I came back, I found no
sign of any visitor, only there sat a creature like a wild-
cat upon one of the chests, which, when I came towards
it, ran away a little distance, and then stood still. She
sat very composed and unconcerned, and looked full in
my face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me.
I presented my gun at her; but as she did not understand
5 it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to
stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though,
by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store was
not great. However, I spared her a bit, I say, and she
went to it, smelled of it, and ate it, and looked (as
10pleased) for more; but I thanked her, and could spare no
more, so she marched off.
Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was
fain to open the barrels of powder and bring them by
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large casks, I went
15 to work to make me a little tent with the sail and some
poles which I cut for that purpose; and into this tent I
brought everything that I knew would spoil either with
rain or sun; and I piled all the empty chests and casks up
in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden
20 attempt, either from man or beast.
When I had done this I blocked up the door of the
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest set up
on end without; and spreading one of the beds upon the
ground, laying my two pistols just at my head, and my
25 gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time, and
slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary and
heavy; for the night before I had slept little, and had la-
bored very hard all day, as well to fetch all those things
from the ship, as to get them on shore.
30 I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever
was laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was not
satisfied still, for while the ship sat upright in that
posture, I thought I ought to get everything out of her
that I could. So every day at low water I went on board,
and brought away something or other; but, particularly,
the third time I went I brought away as much of the
rigging as I could, as also all the small ropes and rope-
twine I could get, with a piece of spare canvas, which
was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of
wet gunpowder; in a word, I brought away all the sails 5
first and last, only that I was fain to cut them in pieces,
and bring as much at a time as I could; for they were
no more useful to be sails, but as mere canvas only.
But that which comforted me more still was that, at
last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages as 10
these, and thought I had nothing more to expect from
the ship that was worth my meddling with,—I say, after
all this, I found a great hogshead of bread, and three
large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a
barrel of fine flour; this was surprising to me, because I15
had given over expecting any more provisions, except
what was spoilt by the water. I soon emptied the hogs-
head of that bread, and wrapped it up parcel by parcel in
pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and, in a word, I
got all this safe on shore also. 20
The next day I made another voyage. And now, hav-
ing plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to
hand out, I began with the cables; and cutting the great
cable into pieces, such as I could move, I got two cables
and a hawser on shore, with al' the iron-work I could 25
get; and having cut down the sprit-sail yard, and the
mizzen yard, and everything I could to make a large raft,
I loaded it with all those heavy goods, and came away.
But my good luck began now to leave me; for this raft
was so unwieldy, and so overladen, that after I was en-30
tered the little cove where I had landed the rest of my
goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the
other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the
water. As for myself, it was no great harm, for I was
near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was great part of it
lost, especially the iron, which I expected would have
been of great use to me. However, when the tide was out
I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the
iron, though with infinite labor; for I was fain to dip for
5 it into the water, a work which fatigued me very much.
After this I went every day on board, and brought away
what I could get.
I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship; in which time I had
10 brought away all that one pair of hands could well be
supposed capable to bring, though I believe verily, had the
calm weather held, I should have brought away the whole
ship piece by piece. But preparing the twelfth time to
go on board, I found the wind begin to rise. However,
15 at low water I went on board, and though I thought I
had rummaged the cabin so effectually as that nothing
more could be found, yet I discovered a locker with
drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three
razors, and one pair of large scissors, with some ten or a
20dozen of good knives and forks; in another, I found about
thirty-six pounds value in money, some European coin,
some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. "O
drug!" said I aloud, "what art thou good for? Thou
25 art not worth to me, no, not the taking off of the ground;
one of those knives is worth all this heap. I have no
manner of use for thee; even remain where thou art, and
go to the bottom as a creature whose life is not worth sav-
ing." However, upon second thoughts, I took it away;
30 and wrapping all this in a piece of canvas, I began to
think of making another raft; but while I was preparing
this, I found the sky overcast, and the wind began to rise,
and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the
shore. It presently occurred to me that it was in vain to
pretend to make a raft with the wind off shore, and
that it was my business to be gone before the tide of
flood began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the
shore at all. Accordingly I let myself down into the
water, and swam across the channel, which lay between
the ship and the sands, and even that with difficulty 5
enough, partly with the weight of the things I had about
me, and partly the roughness of the water; for the wind
rose very hastily, and before it was quite high water it
blew a storm.
But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay 10
with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew very
hard all that night, and in the morning when I looked
out, behold, no more ship was to be seen. I was a little
surprised, but recovered myself with this satisfactory re-
flection, viz., that I had lost no time, nor abated no 15
diligence, to get everything out of her that could be
useful to me, and that indeed there was little left in her
that I was able to bring away if I had had more time.
MY HABITATION
I NOW gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of
anything out of her, except what might drive on shore
from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of her afterwards
did; but those things were of small use to me.
5 My thoughts were now wholly employed about secur-
ing myself against either savages, if any should appear,
or wild beasts, if any were in the island; and I had
many thoughts of the method how to do this, and what
kind of dwelling to make, whether I should make me a
10cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth; and, in
short, I resolved upon both, the manner and description
of which it may not be improper to give an account of.
I soon found the place I was in was not for my settle-
ment, particularly because it was upon a low moorish
15 ground near the sea, and I believed would not be whole-
some; and more particularly because there was no fresh
water near it. So I resolved to find a more healthy and
more convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation, which I
20 found would be proper for me. First, health and fresh
water, I just now mentioned. Secondly, shelter from
the heat of the sun. Thirdly, security from ravenous
creatures, whether men or beasts. Fourthly, a view to
the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight I might not
25 lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which I was
not willing to banish all my expectation yet.
66
My Habitation 67
In search of a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this
little plain was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could
come down upon me from the top. On the side of this
rock there was a hollow place, worn a little way in, like 5
the entrance or door of a cave; but there was not really
any cave, or way into the rock at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place,
I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above
an hundred yards broad, and about twice as long, and 10
lay like a green before my door, and at the end of it
descended irregularly every way down into the low
grounds by the seaside. It was on the N. N. W. side of
the hill, so that I was sheltered from the heat every day,
till it came to a W. and by S. sun, or thereabouts, which 15
in those countries is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before the
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-
diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter
from its beginning and ending. 20
In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the ground till they stood very firm
like piles, the biggest end being out of the ground about
five feet and a half, and sharpened on the top. The two
rows did not stand above six inches from one another. 25
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in
the ship, and laid them in rows one upon another, within
the circle, between these two rows of stakes, up to the top,
placing other stakes in the inside leaning against them,
about two feet and a half high, like a spur to a post; and30
this fence was so strong that neither man nor beast could
get into it, or over it. This cost me a great deal of
time and labor, especially to cut the piles in the woods,
bring them to the place, and drive them into the earth. The entrance into this place I made to be not by a
door, but by a short ladder to go over the top; which
ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me, and so
I was completely fenced in, and fortified, as I thought,
from all the world, and consequently slept secure in the
5 night, which otherwise I could not have done; though, as
it appeared afterward, there was no need of all this cau-
tion from the enemies that I apprehended danger from.
Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labor, I car-
ried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and
10 stores, of which you have the account above; and I made
me a large tent, which, to preserve me from the rains
that in one part of the year are very violent there, I
made double, viz., one smaller tent within, and one larger
tent above it, and covered the uppermost with a large
15 tarpaulin, which I had saved among the sails. And now
I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought
on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very good
one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every-
20thing that would spoil by the wet; and having thus en-
closed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which, till
now, I had left open, and so passed and repassed, as I
said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into
25 the rock; and bringing all the earth and stones that I
dug down out through my tent, I laid them up within
my fence in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the
ground within about a foot and a half; and thus I made
me a cave just behind my tent which served me like a
30 cellar to my house.
It cost me much labor and many days before all these
things were brought to perfection, and therefore I must
go back to some other things which took up some of my
thoughts. At the same time it happened, after I had
laid my scheme for the setting up my tent and making the
cave, that a storm of rain falling from a thick dark cloud,
a sudden flash of lightning happened, and after that a
great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it. I
was not so much surprised with the lightning as I was
with a thought which darted into my mind as swift as the 5
lightning itself. Oh, my powder! My very heart sunk
within me when I thought, that at one blast all my
powder might be destroyed, on which, not my defence
only, but the providing me food, as I thought, entirely de-
pended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own 10
danger; though had the powder took fire, I had never
known who had hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me that after the
storm was over I laid aside all my works, my building,
and fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and 15
boxes to separate the powder, and keep it a little and a
little in a parcel, in hope that whatever might come it
might not all take fire at once, and to keep it so apart
that it should not be possible to make one part fire an-
other. I finished this work in about a fortnight; and I20
think my powder, which in all was about 240 pounds'
weight, was divided in not less than a hundred parcels.
As to the barrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend
any danger from that, so I placed it in my new cave, which
in my fancy I called my kitchen, and the rest I hid up and 25
down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet might
come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went
out once, at least, every day with my gun, as well to
divert myself as to see if I could kill anything fit for 30
food, and as near as I could to acquaint myself with what
the island produced. The first time I went out, I pres- -ently discovered that there were goats in the island, which
was a great satisfaction to me; but then it was attended
with this misfortune to me, viz., that they were so shy,
so subtle, and so swift of foot that it was the difficultest
thing in the world to come at them. But I was not dis-
couraged at this, not doubting but I might now and then
shoot one, as it soon happened; for after I had found
5 their haunts a little, I laid wait in this manner for them.
I observed if they saw me in the valleys, though they were
upon the rocks, they would run away as in a terrible
fright; but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me, from whence
10I concluded that, by the position of their optics, their
sight was so directed downward that they did not readily
see objects that were above them. So afterward I took
this method: I always climbed the rocks first to get
above them, and then had frequently a fair mark. The
15 first shot I made among these creatures I killed a she
goat, which had a little kid by her, which she gave suck
to, which grieved me heartily; but when the old one fell,
the kid stood stock still by her till I came and took her
up; and not only so, but when I carried the old one
20 with me upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to
my enclosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took
the kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes
to have bred it up tame; but it would not eat, so I was
forced to kill it, and eat it myself. These two supplied me
25 with flesh a great while, for I eat sparingly, and saved my
provisions, my bread especially, as much as possibly I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel
to burn; and what I did for that, as also how I enlarged
30 my cave, and what conveniences I made, I shall give a
full account of in its place. But I must first give some
little account of myself, and of my thoughts about living,
which it may well be supposed were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I was
not cast away upon that island without being driven, as is
said, by a violent storm, quite out of the course of our in-
tended voyage, and a great way, viz., some hundreds of
leagues, out of the ordinary course of the trade of man-
kind, I had great reason to consider it as a determination
of Heaven that in this desolate place, and in this desolate 5
manner, I should end my life. The tears would run
plentifully down my face when I made these reflections,
and sometimes I would expostulate with myself, why
Providence should thus completely ruin its creatures,
and render them so absolutely miserable, so without help 10
abandoned, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly
be rational to be thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to check
these thoughts, and to reprove me; and particularly one
day, walking with my gun in my hand by the seaside, I15
was very pensive upon the subject of my present condi-
tion, when Reason, as it were, expostulated with me
t' other way, thus: " Well, you are in a desolate condition,
it is true, but pray remember, where are the rest of you?
Did not you come eleven of you into the boat? Where20
are the ten? Why were not they saved, and you lost?
Why were you singled out? Is it better to be here, or
there?" And then I pointed to the sea. All evils are
to be considered with the good that is in them, and with
what worse attends them. 25
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur-
nished for my subsistence, and what would have been
my case if it had not happened, which was an hundred
thousand to one, that the ship floated from the place
where she first struck and was driven so near to the 30
shore that I had time to get all these things out of her;
what would have been my case, if I had been to have
lived in the condition in which I at first came on shore,
without necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply and
procure them? "Particularly," said I aloud (though to
myself), "what should I have done without a gun, with-
out ammunition, without any tools to make anything or
to work with, without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any
manner of covering?" and that now I had all these to a
5 sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way to provide my-
self in such a manner, as to live without my gun when
my ammunition was spent; so that I had a tolerable
view of subsisting without any want as long as I lived.
For I considered from the beginning how I would provide
10 for the accidents that might happen, and for the time
that was to come, even not only after my ammunition
should be spent, but even after my health or strength
should decay.
I confess I had not entertained any notion of my am-
15 munition being destroyed at one blast—I mean, my
powder being blown up by lightning; and this made the
thoughts of it so surprising to me when it lightened and
thundered, as I observed just now.
And now being to enter into a melancholy relation
ao of a scene of silent life such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world before, I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the 3Oth of September when, in the manner as above said, I first set foot upon this horrid island, when the sun, being
25 to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head, for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of 9° 22' north of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it
came into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning
30 of time for want of books and pen and ink, and should
even forget the Sabbath days from the working days; but
to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large post,
in capital letters; and making it into a great cross, I
set it upon the shore where I first landed, viz., "I came
on shore here on the 3Oth of September, 1659." Upon
the sides of this square post I cut every day a notch with
my knife, and every seventh notch was as long again as
the rest, and every first day of the month as long again
as that long one; and thus I kept my calendar, or
weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time. 5
In the next place we are to observe, that among the
many things which I brought out of the ship in the sev-
eral voyages which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I
got several things of less value, but not all less useful to
me, which I omitted setting down before; as in par-10 ticular, pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in the cap-
tain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping, three or
four compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials,
perspectives, charts, and books of navigation, all which I
huddled together, whether I might want them or no. 15
Also I found three very good Bibles, which came to me
in my cargo from England, and which I had packed up
among my things; some Portuguese books also, and
among them two or three Popish prayer-books, and sev-
eral other books, all which I carefully secured. And I20
must not forget that we had in the ship a dog and two
cats, of whose eminent history I may have occasion to
say something in its place; for I carried both the cats
with me; and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship
of himself, and swam on shore to me the day after I25
went on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty
servant to me many years. I wanted nothing that he
could fetch me, nor any company that he could make up
to me; I only wanted to have him talk to me, but that
would not do. As I observed before, I found pen, 30
ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost; and
I shall show that while my ink lasted, I kept things very
exact; but after that was gone, I could not, for I could
not make any ink by any means that I could devise. And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together; and of
these, this of ink was one, as also spade, pick-axe, and
shovel (to dig or remove the earth), needles, pins, and
thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want that with-
5 out much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily; and it was near a whole year before I had en-
tirely finished my little pale or surrounded habitation.
The piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I could well
10 lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing in the
woods, and more by far in bringing home; so that I
spent sometimes two days in cutting and bringing home
one of those posts, and a third day in driving it into the
ground; for which purpose I got a heavy piece of wood at
15 first, but at last bethought myself of one of the iron crows,
which, however, though I found it, yet it made driving
those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work.
But what need I have been concerned at the tedious-
ness of anything I had to do, seeing I had time enough
20 to do it in? nor had I any other employment, if that had
been over,—at least, that I could foresee,—except the
ranging the island to seek for food, which I did more or
less every day.
I now began to consider seriously my condition, and
25 the circumstance I was reduced to; and I drew up the
state of my affairs in writing; not so much to leave them
to any that were to come after me, for I was like to have
but few heirs, as to deliver my thoughts from daily
poring upon them, and afflicting my mind. And as my
30 reason began now to master my despondency, I began to
comfort myself as well as I could, and to set the good
against the evil, that I might have something to distin-
guish my case from worse; and I stated it very impar-
tially, like debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed
against the miseries I suffered, thus:
75
Evil.
I am cast upon a hor-
rible desolate island, void
of all hope of recovery.
I am singled out and
separated, as it were, from
all the world to be miser-
able.
I am divided from man-
kind, a solitaire, one ban-
ished from human society.
I have not clothes to
cover me.
I am without any de-
fence or means to resist
any violence of man or
beast.
I have no soul to speak
to, or relieve me.
Good. But I am alive, and
not drowned, as all my
ship's company was.
But I am singled out,
too, from all the ship's 5
crew to be spared from
death; and He that mi-
raculously saved me from
death, can deliver me from
this condition. 10
But I am not starved
and perishing on a barren
place, affording no suste-
nance.
But I am in a hot cli-15
mate, where if I had
clothes I could hardly
wear them.
But I am cast on an
island, where I see no 20
wild beasts to hurt me,
as I saw on the coast of
Africa; and what if I had
been shipwrecked there?
But God wonderfully 25
sent the ship in near
enough to the shore, that
I have gotten out so
many necessary things as
will either supply my 30
wants, or enable me to
supply myself even as
long as I live,
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony,
that there was scarce any condition in the world so
miserable but there was something negative or some-
thing positive to be thankful for in it; and let this
5 stand as a direction from the experience of the most
miserable of all conditions in this world, that we may
always find in it something to comfort ourselves from
and to set in the description of good and evil on the
credit side of the account.
10 Having now brought my mind a little to relish my
condition, and given over looking out to sea, to see if I
could spy a ship,—I say, giving over these things, I
began to apply myself to accommodate my way of liv-
ing, and to make things as easy to me as I could.
15 I have already described my habitation, which was
a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong
pale of posts and cables; but I might now rather call
it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up against it of
turfs, about two feet thick on the outside, and after
20 some time—I think it was a year and a half—I raised
rafters from it leaning to the rock, and thatched or cov-
ered it with boughs of trees and such things as I could
get to keep out the rain, which I found at some times of
the year very violent.
25 I have already observed how I brought all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made be-
hind me. But I must observe, too, that at first this was
a confused heap of goods, which as they lay in no order,
so they took up all my place; I had no room to turn
30 myself. So I set myself to enlarge my cave an 1 works
farther into the earth; for it was a loose sandy rock,
which yielded easily to the labor I bestowed on it. And
so, when I found I was pretty safe as to beasts of prey, I
worked sideways to the right hand into the rock; and
then, turning to the right again, worked quite out, and
made me a door to come out on the outside of my pale
or fortification. This gave me not only egress and
regress, as it were a back way to my tent and to my
storehouse, but gave me room to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such 5
necessary things as I found I most wanted, as par-
ticularly a chair and a table; for without these I was
not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world.
I could not write or eat, or do several things with so
much pleasure without a table. 10
So I went to work; and here I must needs observe,
that as reason is the substance and original of the
mathematics, so by stating and squaring everything by
reason, and by making the most rational judgment of
things, every man may be in time master of every 15
mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my life;
and yet in time, by labor, application, and contrivance, I
found at last that I wanted nothing but I could have
made it, especially if I had had tools. However, I made
abundance of things even without tools, and some with 20
no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which, per-
haps, were never made that way before, and that with
infinite labor. For example, if I wanted a board, I had
no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge
before me, and hew it flat on either side with my axe, 25
till I had brought it to be thin as a plank, and then
dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method
I could make but one board out of a whole tree; but this
I had no remedy for but patience, any more than I had for
the prodigious deal of time and labor which it took me 30
up to make a plank or board. But my time or labor was
little worth, and so it was as well employed one way as
another.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I ob-
served above, in the first place, and this I did out of the
short pieces of boards that I brought on my raft from the ship. But when I had wrought out some boards, as
..above, I made large shelves of the breadth of a foot and a half one over another, all along one side of my cave, 5 to lay all my tools, nails, and ironwork; and, in a word, to separate everything at large in their places, that I might come easily at them. I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and all things that would hang up; so that had my cave been to be seen,
10it looked like a general magazine of all necessary things;
and I had everything so ready at my hand that it was
a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in such order,
and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so great.
And now it was when I began to keep a journal of
15every day's employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too
much hurry, and not only hurry as to labor, but in too
much discomposure of mind; and my journal would have
been full of many dull things. For example, I must have
said thus:
20 "September 30th.—After I got to shore, and had
escaped drowning, instead of being thankful to God
for my deliverance, having first vomited with the great
quantity of salt water which was gotten into my stomach,
and recovering myself a little, I ran about the shore,
25 wringing my hands, and beating my head and face, ex-
claiming at my misery, and crying out, I was undone,
undone till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on
the ground to repose; but durst not sleep, for fear of
being devoured.
30 "Some days after this, and after I had been on
board the ship, and got all that I could out of her, yet I
could not forbear getting up to the top of a little moun-
tain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship;
then fancy at a vast distance I spied a sail, please myself
with the hopes of it, and then, after looking steadily till
I was almost blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep
like a child, and thus increase my misery by my folly."
But having gotten over these things in some measure,
and having settled my household stuff and habitation,
made me a table and a chair, and all as handsome about 5
me as I could, I began to keep my journal, of which I
shall here give you the copy (though in it will be told
all these particulars over again) as long as it lasted; for,
having no more ink, I was forced to leave it off.
JOURNAL FOR A YEAR
September 30, 1659.—I, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm,
in the offing, came on shore on this dismal unfortu-
nate island, which I called the Island of Despair, all
5 the rest of the ship's company being drowned, and my-
self almost dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself
at the dismal circumstances I was brought to, viz., I
had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, or place to fly
10to; and in despair of any relief, saw nothing but death
before me; either that I should be devoured by wild
beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death for want
of food. At the approach of night, I slept in a tree for
fear of wild creatures, but slept soundly, though it rained
15 all night.
October 1.—In the morning I saw, to my great sur-
prise, the ship had floated with the high tide, and was
driven on shore again much nearer the island; which, as
it was some comfort on one hand, for seeing her sit up-
20 right, and not broken to pieces, I hoped, if the wind
abated, I might get on board, and get some food and
necessaries out of her for my relief; so, on the other
hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades,
who, I imagined, if we had all stayed on board, might
80
Journal for a Year 81
have saved the ship, or at least that they would not have
been all drowned as they were; and that had the men
been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat out of
the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to some other
part of the world. I spent great part of this day in per- 5
plexing myself on these things; but at length seeing the
ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as near as I could,
and then swam on board; this day also it continued rain-
ing, though with no wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th.—All these days1o
entirely spent in many several voyages to get all I could
out of the ship, which I brought on shore, every tide of
flood, upon rafts. Much rain also in these days, though
with some intervals of fair weather; but, it seems, this
was the rainy season. 15
Oct. 20.—I overset my raft, and all the goods I had
got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them when the
tide was out.
Oct. 25.—It rained all night and all day, with some 20
gusts of wind, during which time the ship broke in pieces,
the wind blowing a little harder than before, and was no
more to be seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at
low water. I spent this day in covering and securing the
goods which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil5
them.
Oct. 26.—I walked about the shore almost all day to
find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned
to secure myself from an attack in the night, either from
wild beasts or men. Towards night I fixed upon a30
proper place under a rock, and marked out a semicircle
for my encampment, which I resolved to strengthen with
a work, wall, or fortification made of double piles, lined
within with cables, and without with turf.
From the 26th to the sOth I worked very hard in
carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though
some part of the time it rained exceeding hard.
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island
with my gun to see for some food, and discover the
5 country; when I killed a she goat, and her kid followed
me home, which I afterwards killed also, because it would
not feed.
Nov. i.—I set up my tent under a rock, and lay
there for the first night, making it as large as I could,
10 with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2.—I set up all my chests and boards, and the
pieces of timber which made my rafts, and with them
formed a fence round me, a little within the place I had
marked out for my fortification.
15 Nov. 3.—I went out with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the
afternoon went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4.—This morning I began to order my times of
work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time
20 of diversion, viz., every morning I walked out with my
gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain; then em-
ployed myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then eat
what I had to live on; and from twelve to two I lay
down to sleep, the weather being excessive hot; and then
25 in the evening to work again. The working part of this
day and of the next were wholly employed in making
my table; for I was yet but a very sorry workman,
though time and necessity made me a complete natural
mechanic soon after, as I believe it would do any one
30 else.
Nov. 5.—This day went abroad with my gun and my
dog, and killed a wild-cat; her skin pretty soft, but her
flesh good for nothing. Every creature I killed, I took
off the skins and preserved them. Coming back by the
seashore, I saw many sorts of sea-fowls, which I did not
understand; but was surprised, and almost frighted, with
two or three seals, which, while I was gazing at, not
well knowing what they were, got into the sea, and
escaped me for that time.
Nov. 6.—After my morning walk I went to work with 5
my table again, and finished it, though not to my liking;
nor was it long before I learned to mend it.
Nov. 7.—Now it began to be settled fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, lOth, and part of the I2th (for the
nth was Sunday) I took wholly up to make me a chair, 10
and with much ado, brought it to a tolerable shape, but
never to please me; and even in the making, I pulled it
in pieces several times. Note: I soon neglected my
keeping Sundays; for, omitting my mark for them on my
post, I forgot which was which. 15
Nov. 13.—This day it rained, which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accom-
panied with terrible thunder and lightning, which
frighted me dreadfully, for fear of my powder. As soon
as it was over, I resolved to separate my stock of powder 20
into as many little parcels as possible, that it might not
be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16.—These three days I spent in making
little square chests or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or two pound at most, of powder; and so putting25
the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure and remote
from one another as possible. On one of these three days
I killed a large bird that was good to eat, but I know
not what to call it.
Nov. 17.—This day I began to dig behind my tent 30
into the rock, to make room for my farther conveniency.
Note: three things I wanted exceedingly for this work,
viz., a pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow or basket;
so I desisted from my work, and began to consider how to
supply that want, and make me some tools. As for a
pick-axe, I made use of the iron crows, which were
proper enough, though heavy; but the next thing was a
shovel or spade. This was so absolutely necessary that
indeed I could do nothing effectually without it; but
5 what kind of one to make I knew not.
Nov. 18.—The next day, in searching the woods, I
found a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the Brazils
they call the iron-tree, for its exceeding hardness; of
this, with great labor, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut
10 a piece, and brought it home, too, with difficulty enough,
for it was exceeding heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no
other way, made me a long while upon this machine, for
I worked it effectually, by little and little, into the form
15 of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly shaped like ours
in England, only that the broad part having no iron shod
upon it at bottom, it would not last me so long. How-
ever, it served well enough for the uses which I had oc-
casion to put it to; but never was a shovel, I believe,
20 made after that fashion, or so long a-making.
I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wheel-
barrow. A basket I could not make by any means, hav-
ing no such things as twigs that would bend to make
wicker ware, at least none yet found out. And as to a
25 wheelbarrow, I fancied I could make all but the wheel,
but that I had no notion of, neither did I know how to
go about it; besides, I had no possible way to make the
iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel to
run in, so I gave it over; and so for carrying away the
30 earth which I dug out of the cave, I made me a thing
like a hod which the laborers carry mortar in, when they
serve the bricklayers.
This was not so difficult to me as the making the
shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt
which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me
up no less than four days; I mean always, excepting my
morning walk with my gun, which I seldom failed, and
very seldom failed also bringing home something fit to
eat.
Nov. 23.—My other work having now stood still be-5
cause of my making these tools, when they were finished
I went on, and working every day, as my strength and
time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widening
and deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods com-
modiously. I0
Note: During all this time I worked to make this
room or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as
a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and
a cellar; as for my lodging, I kept to the tent, except
that sometimes in the wet season of the year it rained 15
so hard that I could not keep myself dry, which caused
me afterwards to cover all my place within my pale with
long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against the
rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of trees,
like a thatch. 20
December 10.—I began now to think my cave or
vault finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it
too large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the
top and one side, so much that, in short, it frighted me,
and not without reason too; for if I had been under it, I25
had never wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster I
had a great deal of work to do over again; for I had
the loose earth to carry out; and, which was of more im-
portance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be
sure no more would come down. 30
Dec. 11.—This day I went to work with it accord-
ingly, and got two shores or posts pitched upright to the
top, with two pieces of boards across over each post.
This I finished the next day; and setting more posts up
with boards, in about a week more I had the roof se-
cured; and the posts, standing in rows, served me for
partitions to part of my house.
Dec. 17.—From this day to the 20th I placed shelves,
and knocked up nails on the posts to hang everything up
5 that could be hung up; and now I began to be in some
order within doors.
Dec. 20.—Now I carried everything into the cave, and
began to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of
boards, like a dresser, to order my victuals upon; but
10boards began to be very scarce with me; also I made me
another table.
Dec. 24.—Much rain all night and all day; no stirring
out.
Dec. 25.—Rain all day. 15 Dec. 26.—No rain, and the earth much cooler than
before, and pleasanter.
Dec. 27.—Killed a young goat, and lamed another, so that I catched it, and led it home in a string. When I had it home, I bound and splintered up its leg, which 20was broke. N. B.—I took such care of it that it lived; and the leg grew well and as strong as ever; but by my nursing it so long it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my door, and would not go away. This was the first time that I entertained a thought of breeding up 25 some tame creatures, that I might have food when my powder and shot was all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30.—Great heats and no breeze, so that
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for
food. This time I spent in putting all my things in order
30 within doors.
January 1.—Very hot still, but I went abroad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the
day. This evening, going farther into the valleys which
lay towards the centre of the island, I found there was
plenty of goats, though exceeding shy, and hard to come
at. However, I resolved to try if I could not bring my
dog to hunt them down.
Jan. 2.—Accordingly, the next day, I went out with
my dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was mis-
taken, for they all faced about upon the dog; and he knew 5
his danger too well, for he would not come near them.
Jan. 3.—I began my fence or wall; which, being still
jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to
make very thick and strong.
N. B.—This wall being described before, I pur-10
posely omit what was said in the journal. It is suffi-
cient to observe that I was no less time than from the 3d
of January to the 14th of April working, finishing, and
perfecting this wall, though it was no more than about
twenty-four yards in length, being a half-circle from 15
one place in the rock to another place about eight yards
from it, the door of the cave being in the centre be-
hind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering
me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but I20
thought I should never be perfectly secure till this
wall was finished. And it is scarce credible what in-
expressible labor everything was done with, especially
the bringing piles out of the woods, and driving them
into the ground; for I made them much bigger than I25
need to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside double-
fenced with a turf-wall raised up close to it, I persuaded
myself that if any people were to come on shore there,
they would not perceive anything like a habitation; and 30
it was very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter
upon a very remarkable occasion.
During this time, I made my rounds in the woods
for game every day, when the rain permitted me, and
made frequent discoveries in these walks of something
or other to my advantage; particularly I found a kind
of wild pigeons, who built, not as wood pigeons in a tree,
but rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the rocks.
And taking some young ones, I endeavored to breed
5 them up tame, and did so; but when they grew older
they flew all away, which, perhaps, was at first for
want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them.
However, I frequently found their nests, and got their
young ones, which were very good meat.
10 And now in the managing my household affairs I
found myself wanting in many things which I thought
at first it was impossible for me to make, as indeed,
as to some of them, it was. For instance, I could never
make a cask to be hooped; I had a small runlet or two,
15 as I observed before, but I could never arrive to the
capacity of making one by them, though I spent many
weeks about it. I could neither put in the heads, or
joint the staves so true to one another as to make them
hold water; so I gave that also over.
20 In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle;
so that as soon as ever it was dark, which was generally
by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remem-
bered the lump of beeswax with which I made candles
in my African adventure, but I had none of that now.
35 The only remedy I had was, that when I had killed a
goat I saved the tallow, and with a little dish made of
clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I added a wick
of some oakum, I made me a lamp; and this gave me
light, though not a clear steady light like a candle.
30 In the middle of all my labors it happened that, rum-
maging my things, I found a little bag, which, as I
hinted before, had been filled with corn for the feeding
of poultry, not for this voyage, but before, as I sup-
pose, when the ship came from Lisbon. What little re-
mainder of corn had been in the bag was all devoured
with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but husks and
dust; and being willing to have the bag for some other
use, I think it was to put powder in, when I divided it
for fear of the lightning, or some such use, I shook the
husks of corn out of it on one side of my fortification, 5
under the rock. It was a little before the great rains,
just now mentioned, that I threw this stuff away, taking
no notice of anything, and not so much as remembering
that I had thrown anything there; when, about a month
after, or thereabout, I saw some few stalks of some- 1c
thing green shooting out of the ground, which I fancied
might be some plant I had not seen; but I was sur-
prised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a little
longer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come out,
which were perfect green barley of the same kind as 15
our European, nay, as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and con-
fusion of my thoughts on this occasion. I had hitherto
acted upon no religious foundation at all; indeed, I had
very few notions of religion in my head, or had enter-20
tained any sense of anything that had befallen me other-
wise than as a chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases
God; without so much as inquiring into the end of Provi-
dence in these things, or His order in governing events
in the world. But after I saw barley grow there, in a 25
climate which I knew was not proper for corn, and espe-
cially that I knew not how it came there, it startled me
strangely, and I began to suggest that God had miracu-
lously caused this grain to grow without any help of
seed sown, and that it was so directed purely for my 30
sustenance on that wild, miserable place. This touched
my heart a little, and brought tears out of my eyes; and
I began to bless myself that such a prodigy of Nature
should happen upon my account; and this was the more
strange to me, because I saw near it still, all along by
the side of the rock, some other straggling stalks, which
proved to be stalks of rice, and which I knew, be-
cause I had seen it grow in Africa, when I was ashore
there. 5 I not only thought these the pure productions of Provi-
dence for my support, but, not doubting but that there
was more in the place, I went all over that part of the
island where I had been before, peering in every corner,
and under every rock, to see for more of it; but I could
10 not find any. At last it occurred to my thoughts that I
had shook a bag of chicken's meat out in that place, and
then the wonder began to cease; and I must confess, my
religious thankfulness to God's providence began to
abate too, upon the discovering that all this was nothing
15but what was common; though I ought to have been as
thankful for so strange and unforeseen providence as if
it had been miraculous; for it was really the work of
Providence as to me, that should order or appoint that
ten or twelve grains of corn should remain unspoiled
20 (when the rats had destroyed all the rest), as if it had
been dropped from heaven; as also that I should throw it
out in that particular place, where, it being in the shade
of a high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I
had thrown it anywhere else at that time, it had been
25 burnt up and destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be
sure, in their season, which was about the end of June;
and laying up every corn, I resolved to sow them all
again, hoping in time to have some quantity sufficient to
30 supply me with bread. But it was not till the fourth
year that I could allow myself the least grain of this
corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall say
afterwards in its order; for I lost all that I sowed the
first season by not observing the proper time; for I
sowed it just before the dry season, so that it never came
up at all, at least not as it would have done; of which in
its place.
Besides this barley, there was, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same
care, and whose use was of the same kind, or to the same 5
purpose, viz., to make me bread, or rather food; for I
found ways to cook it up without baking, though I did
that also after some time. But to return to my
journal.
I worked excessive hard these three or four months to 10
get my wall done; and the I4th of April I closed it
up, contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over the
wall by a ladder, that there might be no sign in the
outside of my habitation.
April 16.—I finished the ladder, so I went up with 15
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down on the inside. This was a complete en-
closure to me; for within I had room enough, and nothing
could come at me from without, unless it could first
mount my wall. 20
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had
almost had all my labor overthrown at once, and myself
killed. The case was thus: As I was busy in the inside
of it, behind my tent, just in the entrance into my cave,
I was terribly frighted with a most dreadful surprising 25
thing indeed; for all on a sudden I found the earth
come crumbling down from the roof of my cave, and
from the edge of the hill over my head, and two of the
posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful man-
ner. I was heartily scared, but thought nothing of what 30
was really the cause, only thinking that the top of my
cave was falling in, as some of it had done before; and
for fear I should be buried in it, I ran forward to my
ladder; and not thinking myself safe there neither, I got
over my wall for fear of the pieces of the hill which I ex-
pected might roll down upon me. I was no sooner
stepped down upon the firm ground but I plainly saw it
was a terrible earthquake; for the ground I stood on
shook three times at about eight minutes' distance, with
5 three such shocks as would have overturned the strongest
building that could be supposed to have stood on the
earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock, which
stood about half a mile from me next the sea, fell down
with such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my
10 life. I perceived also the very sea was put into violent
motion by it; and I believe the shocks were stronger un-
der the water than on the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt
the like, or discoursed with any one that had, that I was
15 like one dead or stupefied; and the motion of the earth
made my stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea.
But the noise of the falling of the rock awaked me, as it
were, and rousing me from the stupefied condition I was
in, filled me with horror, and I thought of nothing then
20 but the hill falling upon my tent and all my household
goods, and burying all at once; and this sunk my very soul
within me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more
for some time, I began to take courage; and yet I had
25 not heart enough to go over my wall again, for fear of
being buried alive, but sat still upon the ground, greatly
cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do.
All this while I had not the least serious religious
thought, nothing but the common, "Lord, have mercy
30 upon me!" and when it was over, that went away too.
While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow
cloudy, as if it would rain. Soon after that the wind
rose by little and little, so that in less than half an
hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane. The sea was
all on a sudden covered over with foam and froth; the
shore was covered with the breach of the water; the
trees were torn up by the roots; and a terrible storm it
was; and this held about three hours, and then began to
abate; and in two hours more it was stark calm, and be-
gan to rain very hard. 5
All this while I sat upon the ground, very much ter-
rified and dejected; when on a sudden it came into my
thoughts that, these winds and rain being the conse-
quences of the earthquake, the earthquake itself was
spent and over, and I might venture into my cave again. 10
With this thought my spirits began to revive; and the
rain also helping to persuade me, I went in and sat
down in my tent. But the rain was so violent that my
tent was ready to be beaten down with it, and I was
forced to go into my cave, though very much afraid and 15
uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to
cut a hole through my new fortification, like a sink, to
let the water go out, which would else have drowned
my cave. After I had been in my cave some time, and 20
found still no more shocks of the earthquake follow,
I began to be more composed. And now to support my
spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I went to my
little store, and took a small sup of rum, which, how-
ever, I did then, and always, very sparingly, knowing I25
could have no more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that night and great part of
the next day, so that I could not stir abroad; but my
mind being more composed, I began to think of what I
had best do, concluding that if the island was subject to 30
these earthquakes, there would be no living for me in a
cave, but I must consider of building me some little hut
in an open place, which I might surround with a wall,
as I had done here, and so make myself secure from
wild beasts or men; but concluded, if I stayed where I
was, I should certainly, one time or other, be buried
alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent
from the place where it stood, which was just under the
5 hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it should be
shaken again, would certainly fall upon my tent; and I
spent the two next days, being the 1gth and 2Oth of
April, in contriving where and how to remove my habita-
tion.
10 The fear of being swallowed up alive made me that I
never slept in quiet; and yet the apprehension of lying
abroad without any fence was almost equal to it. But
still, when I looked about and saw how everything was
put in order, how pleasantly concealed I was, and how
15 safe from danger, it made me very loath to remove. In the meantime it occurred to me that it would re-
quire a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that I
must be contented to run the venture where I was, till
I had formed a camp for myself, and had secured it so as
20 to remove to it. So with this resolution I composed my-
self for a time, and resolved that I would go to work
with all speed to build me a wall with piles and cables,
etc., in a circle as before, and set my tent up in it when
it was finished, but that I would venture to stay where I
25 was till it was finished, and fit to remove to. This was
the 21 st.
April 22.—The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this resolve in execution; but I was at a
great loss about my tools. I had three large axes and
30abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for
traffic with the Indians), but with much chopping and
cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches
and dull; and though I had a grindstone, I could not
turn it and grind my tools too. This cost me as much
thought as a statesman would have bestowed upon a
grand point of politics, or a judge upon the life and
death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel with a
string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both
hands at liberty. Note: I had never seen any such thing
in England, or at least not to take notice how it was done, 5
though since I have observed it is very common there;
besides that, my grindstone was very large and heavy.
This machine cost me a full week's work to bring it to
perfection.
April 28, 29.—These two whole days I took up in 10
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grindstone
performing very well.
April 30.—Having perceived my bread had been low
a great while, now I took a survey of it, and reduced
myself to one biscuit-cake a day, which made my heart 15
very heavy.
May 1.—In the morning, looking towards the seaside,
the tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore
bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask. When
I came to it, I found a small barrel, and two or three 30
pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on
shore by the late hurricane; and looking towards the
wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie higher out of the
water than it used to do. I examined the barrel which
was driven on shore, and soon found it was a barrel of 25
gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the powder was
caked as hard as a stone. However, I rolled it farther
on shore for the present, and went on upon the sands
as near as I could to the wreck of the ship to look for
more. 30
When I came down to the ship I found it strangely
removed. The forecastle, which lay before buried in
sand, was heaved up at least six feet; and the stern,
which was broken to pieces, and parted from the rest by
the force of the sea soon after I had left rummaging her,
was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side, and the
sand was thrown so high on that side next her stern that
whereas there was a great place of water before, so that
I could not come within a quarter of a mile of the
5 wreck without swimming, I could now walk quite up to
her when the tide was out. I was surprised with this at
first, but soon concluded it must be done by the earth-
quake. And as by this violence the ship was more broken
open than formerly, so many things came daily on shore
10 which the sea had loosened, and which the winds and
water rolled by degrees to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of
removing my habitation; and I busied myself mightily,
that day especially, in searching whether I could make
15 any way into the ship. But I found nothing was to be
expected of that kind, for that all the inside of the ship
was choked up with sand. However, as I had learned
not to despair of anything, I resolved to pull every-
thing to pieces that I could of the ship, concluding that
20 everything I could get from her would be of some
use or other to me.
May 3.—I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a
beam through, which I thought held some of the upper
part or quarter-deck together; and when I had cut it
25 through, I cleared away the sand as well as I could from
the side which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I
was obliged to give over for that time.
May 4.—I went a-fishing, but caught not one fish that
I durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when,
30 just going to leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had
made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but I had no
hooks; yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much as
I cared to eat; all which I dried in the sun, and eat
them dry.
May 5.—Worked on the wreck, cut another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir planks off from the
decks, which I tied together, and made swim on shore,
when the tide of flood came on.
May 6.—Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts
out of her, and other pieces of ironwork; worked very5
hard, and came home very much tired, and had thoughts
of giving it over.
May 7.—Went to the wreck again, but with an in-
tent not to work, but found the weight of the wreck had
broke itself down, the beams being cut; that several 10
pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the inside of the
hold lay so open that I could see into it, but almost full
of water and sand.
May 8.—Went to the wreck, and carried an iron
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of 15
the water or sand. I wrenched open two planks, and
brought them on shore also with the tide. I left the
iron crow in the wreck for next day.
May 9.—Went to the wreck, and with the crow made
way into the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and 20
loosened them with the crow, but could not break them
up. I felt also the roll of English lead, and could stir it,
but it was too heavy to remove.
May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14.—Went every day to the
wreck, and got a great deal of pieces of timber, and 25
boards, or plank, and two or three hundred-weight of
iron.
May 15.—I carried two hatchets to try if I could not
cut a piece off of the roll of lead, by placing the edge
of one hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it30
lay about a foot and a half in the water, I could not make
any blow to drive the hatchet.
May 16.—It had blowed hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water;
but I stayed so long in the woods to get pigeons for
food, that the tide prevented me going to the wreck that
day.
May 17.—I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore, at a great distance, near two miles off me, but
5 resolved to see what they were, and found it was a piece
of the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.
May 24.—Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck, and with hard labor I loosened some things so
much with the crow that the first blowing tide several
10 casks floated out, and two of the seamen's chests. But
the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land
that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead which
had some Brazil pork in it, but the salt water and the
sand had spoiled it.
15 I continued this work every day to the I5th of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be
when the tide was up, that I might be ready when it
was ebbed out. And by this time I had gotten timber,
20 and plank, and ironwork enough to have builded a good
boat, if I had known how; and, also, I got at several
times, and in several pieces, near one hundred-weight of
the sheet lead.
June 16.—Going down to the seaside, I found a large
25 tortoise or turtle. This was the first I had seen, which
it seems was only my misfortune, not any defect of the
place, or scarcity; for had I happened to be on the
other side of the island, I might have had hundreds of
them every day, as I found afterwards; but, perhaps, had
30 paid dear enough for them.
June 17 I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in
her threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me, at that
time, the most savory and pleasant that ever I tasted in
my life, having had no flesh, but of goats and fowls,
since I landed in this horrid place.
June 18.—Rained all day, and I stayed within. I
thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in that
latitude.
June 19.—Very ill and shivering, as if the weather5
had been cold.
June 20.—No rest all night; violent pains in my head,
and feverish.
June 21.—Very ill, frighted almost to death with the
apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no 10
help. Prayed to God for the first time since the storm
off of Hull, but scarce knew what I said or why, my
thoughts being all confused.
June 22.—A little better, but under dreadful appre-
hensions of sickness. I5
June 23.—Very bad again; cold and shivering, and
then a violent headache.
June 24.—Much better.
June 25.—An ague very violent; the fit held me seven
hours; cold fit, and hot, with faint sweats after it. 20
June 26.—Better; and having no victuals to eat, took
my gun, but found myself very weak. However, I
killed a she-goat, and with much difficulty got it home,
and broiled some of it, and eat. I would fain have
stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot. 25
June 27.—The ague again so violent that I lay abed
all day, and neither eat nor drank. I was ready to per-
ish for thirst; but so weak I had not strength to stand
up, or to get myself any water to drink. Prayed to
God again, but was light-headed; and when I was not, I30
was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; only I
lay and cried, "Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity me!
Lord, have mercy upon me!" I suppose I did nothing
else for two or three hours, till the fit wearing off, I fell
asleep, and did not wake till far in the night. When I
waked, I found myself much refreshed, but weak and
exceeding thirsty. However, as I had no water in my
whole habitation, I was forced to lie till morning, and
went to sleep again. In this second sleep I had this ter-
5 rible dream.
I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the
outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after
the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend from a
great black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and light upon
10 the ground. He was all over as bright as a flame, so
that I could but just bear to look towards him. His
countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible
for words to describe. When he stepped upon the ground
with his feet, I thought the earth trembled, just as it
15 had done before in the earthquake, and all the air looked,
to my apprehension, as if it had been filled with flashes
of fire.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth but he
moved forward towards me, with a long spear or weapon
20in his hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising
ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard a
voice so terrible that it is impossible to express the terror
of it. All that I can say I understood was this: "See-
ing all these things have not brought thee to repentance,
25 now thou shalt die; " at which words I thought he lifted
up the spear that was in his hand to kill me.
No one that shall ever read this account will expect
that I should be able to describe the horrors of my soul
at this terrible vision; I mean, that even while it was a
30dream, I even dreamed of those horrors; nor is it any
more possible to describe the impression that remained
upon my mind when I awaked, and found it was but a
dream.
I had, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had received
by the good instruction of my father was then worn out,
by an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of seafaring
wickedness, and a constant conversation with nothing
but such as were, like myself, wicked and profane to the
last degree. I do not remember that I had, in all that
time, one thought that so much as tended either to look-5
ing upwards towards God, or inwards towards a reflec-
tion upon my ways; but a certain stupidity of soul, with-
out desire of good, or conscience of evil, had entirely
overwhelmed me; and I was all that the most hardened,
unthinking, wicked creature among our common sailors 10
can be supposed to be; not having the least sense, either of
the fear of God, in danger, or of thankfulness to God, in
deliverance.
In the relating what is already past of my story,
this will be the more easily believed, when I shall add 15
that, through all the variety of miseries that had to this
day befallen me, I never had so much as one thought of it
being the hand of God, or that it was a just punish-
ment for my sin, my rebellious behavior against my
father, or my present sins, which were great; or so 20
much as a punishment for the general course of my
wicked life. When I was on the desperate expedition on
the desert shores of Africa, I never had so much as one
thought of what would become of me; or one wish to
God to direct me whither I should go, or to keep me from 25
the danger which apparently surrounded me, as well
from voracious creatures as cruel savages. But I was
merely thoughtless of a God or a Providence; acted like
a mere brute from the principles of Nature, and by the
dictates of common sense only, and indeed hardly that. 30
When I was delivered and taken up at sea by the
Portugal captain, well used, and dealt justly and hon-
orably with, as well as charitably, I had not the least
thankfulness in my thoughts. When again I was ship-
wrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning on this
island, I was as far from remorse, or looking on it as
a judgment; I only said to myself often that I was an
unfortunate dog, and born to be always miserable.
It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found
5 all my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was
surprised with a kind of ecstasy, and some transports of
soul, which, had the grace of God assisted, might have
come up to true thankfulness; but it ended where it
begun, in a mere common flight of joy, or, as I may say,
10 being glad I was alive, without the least reflection upon
the distinguishing goodness of the hand which had pre-
served me, and had singled me out to be preserved,
when all the rest were destroyed; or an inquiry why
Providence had been thus merciful to me; even just the
15 same common sort of joy which seamen generally have
after they are got safe ashore from a shipwreck, which
they drown all in the next bowl of punch, and forget
almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest of my life was
like it.
20 Even when I was afterwards, on due consideration,
made sensible of my condition, how I was cast on this
dreadful place, out of the reach of humankind, out
of all hope of relief, or prospect of redemption, as soon
as I saw but a prospect of living, and that I should not
25 starve and perish for hunger, all the sense of my afflic-
tion wore off, and I began to be very easy, applied my-
self to the works proper for my preservation and supply,
and was far enough from being afflicted at my condition,
as a judgment from Heaven, or as the hand of God
30against me; these were thoughts which very seldom en-
tered into my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my
journal, had at first some little influence upon me, and
began to affect me with seriousness as long as I thought
it had something miraculous in it; but as soon as ever
that part of the thought was removed, all the impression
which was raised from it wore off also, as I have noted
already.
Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more
terrible in its nature, or more immediately directing to 5
the invisible Power, which alone directs such things, yet
no sooner was the first fright over but the impression it
had made went off also. I had no more sense of God or
His judgments, much less of the present affliction of my
circumstances being from His hand, than if I had beemo
in the most prosperous condition of life.
But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisurely
view of the miseries of death came to place itself before
me; when my spirits began to sink under the burthen of
a strong distemper, and Nature was exhausted with the 15
violence of the fever; conscience, that had slept so long,
began to awake, and I began to reproach myself with my
past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wick-
edness, provoked the justice of God to lay me under un-
common strokes, and to deal with me in so vindictive a 20
manner.
These reflections oppressed me for the second or third
day of my distemper; and in the violence, as well of the
fever as of the dreadful reproaches of my conscience,
extorted some words from me, like praying to God, 25
though I cannot say they were either a prayer attended
with desires or with hopes; it was rather the voice of
mere fright and distress. My thoughts were confused,
the convictions great upon my mind, and the horror of
dying in such a miserable condition raised vapors into my 30
head with the mere apprehensions; and in these hurries
of my soul, I know not what my tongue might express;
but it was rather exclamation, such as, "Lord! what a
miserable creature am I! If I should be sick, I shall
certainly die for want of help; and what will become of
me?" Then the tears burst out of my eyes, and I
could say no more for a good while.
In this interval, the good advice of my father came
to my mind, and presently his prediction, which I men-
5 tioned at the beginning of this story, viz., that if I
did take this foolish step, God would not bless me, and I
would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neg-
lected his counsel, when there might be none to assist in
my recovery. "Now," said I aloud, "my dear father's
10words are come to pass; God's justice has overtaken me,
and I have none to help or hear me. I rejected the voice
of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a posture
or station of life wherein I might have been happy and
easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor learn to
15 know the blessing of it from my parents. I left them to
mourn over my folly, and now I am left to mourn under
the consequences of it. I refused their help and assist-
ance who would have lifted me into the world, and
would have made everything easy to me; and now I have
20 difficulties to struggle with too great for even Nature it-
self to support, and no assistance, no help, no comfort, no
advice." Then I cried out, " Lord, be my help, for I am
in great distress."
This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I
25 had made for many years. But I return to my journal.
June 28.—Having been somewhat refreshed with the
sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up;
and though the fright and terror of my dream was
very great, yet I considered that the fit of the ague
30 would return again the next day, and now was my time
to get something to refresh and support myself when I
should be ill. And the first thing I did I filled a large
square case-bottle with water, and set it upon my table,
in reach of my bed; and to take off the chill or aguish
disposition of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint
of rum into it, and mixed them together. Then I got
me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, 5
but could eat very little. I walked about, but was very
weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted in the
sense of my miserable condition, dreading the return of
my distemper the next day. At night I made my sup-
per of three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the 10
ashes, and eat, as we call it, in the shell; and this was
the first bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing to,
even as I could remember, in my whole life.
After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself
so weak that I could hardly carry the gun (for I never 15
went out without that) ; so I went but a little way, and
sat down upon the ground, looking out upon the sea,
which was just before me, and very calm and smooth.
As I sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred to me.
What is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so 20
much? whence is it produced? And what am I, and all
the other creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal;
whence are we? Sure we are all made by some secret
Power, who formed the earth and sea, the air and sky.
And who is that? 25
Then it followed most naturally, It is God that has
made it all. Well, but then it came on strangely, if
God has made all these things He guides and governs
them all, and all things that concern them; for the Power
that could make all things, must certainly have power 30
to guide and direct them.
If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of His
works, either without His knowledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He
knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful condition.
And if nothing happens without His appointment, He
has appointed all this to befall me.
Nothing occurred to my thoughts to contradict any of
these conclusions; and therefore it rested upon me with
5 the greater force that it must needs be that God had
appointed all this to befall me; that I was brought to
this miserable circumstance by His direction, He having
the sole power, not of me only, but of everything that
happened in the world. Immediately it followed, Why
10has God done this to me? What have I done to be thus
used?
My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry,
as if I had blasphemed, and methought it spoke to me
like a voice: "Wretch! dost thou ask what thou hast
15 done? Look back upon a dreadful misspent life, and ask
thyself what thou hast not done. Ask why is it that
thou wert not long ago destroyed? Why wert thou not
drowned in Yarmouth Roads; killed in the fight when
the ship was taken by the Sallee man-of-war; devoured
20by the wild beasts on the coast of Africa; or drowned
here, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou
ask, What have I done?"
I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one
astonished, and had not a word to say, no, not to an-
25 swer to myself, but rose up pensive and sad, walked back
to my retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I had
been going to bed. But my thoughts were sadly dis-
turbed, and I had no inclination to sleep; so I sat down
in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for it began to be
30 dark. Now, as the apprehension of the return of my
distemper terrified me very much, it occurred to my
thought that the Brazilians take no physic but their to-
bacco for almost all distempers; and I had a piece of a
roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite
cured, and some also that was green, and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this chest
I found a cure both for soul and body. I opened the
chest, and found what I looked for, viz., the tobacco;
and as the few books I had saved lay there too, I took
out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before, and 5
which to this time I had not found leisure, or so much
as inclination, to look into. I say, I took it out, and
brought both that and the tobacco with me to the table.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to
my distemper, or whether it was good for it or no; but I10
tried several experiments with it, as if I was resolved it
should hit one way or other. I first took a piece of a
leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which indeed at first
almost stupefied my brain, the tobacco being green and
strong, and that I had not been much used to it. Then 15
I took some and steeped it an hour or two in some rum,
and resolved to take a dose of it when I lay down. And
lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held my
nose close over the smoke of it as long as I could bear it,
as well for the heat, as almost for suffocation. 20
In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible,
and began to read, but my head was too much disturbed
with the tobacco to bear reading, at least that time; only
having opened the book casually, the first words that oc-
curred to me were these: "Call on Me in the day of25
trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify
Me."
The words were very apt to my case, and made some
impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading
them, though not so much as they did afterwards; for30
as for being delivered, the word had no sound, as I may
say, to me, the thing was so remote, so impossible in my
apprehension of things, that I began to say, as the chil-
dren of Israel did when they were promised flesh to eat,
"Can God spread a table in the wilderness?" so I began
to say, Can God Himself deliver me from this place?
And as it was not for many years that any hope ap-
peared, this prevailed very often .upon my thoughts.
But, however, the words made a great impression upon
5 me, and I mused upon them very often.
It grew now late, and the tobacco had, as I said,
dozed my head so much that I inclined to sleep; so I left
my lamp burning in the cave, lest I should want any-
thing in the night, and went to bed. But before I lay
10 down, I did what I never had done in all my life; I
kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to
me, that if I called upon Him in the day of trouble, He
would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect
prayer was over, I drank the rum in which I had
15 steeped the tobacco; which was so strong and rank of the
tobacco that indeed I could scarce get it down. Im-
mediately upon this I went to bed. I found presently it
flew up in my head violently; but I fell into a sound
sleep, and waked no more till, by the sun, it must neces-
20 sarily be near three o'clock in the afternoon the next day.
Nay, to this hour I am partly of the opinion that I slept
all the next day and night, and till almost three that day
after; for otherwise I knew not how I should lose a day
out of my reckoning in the days of the week, as it ap-
25 peared some years after I had done. For if I had lost it
by crossing and recrossing the line, I should have lost
more than one day. But certainly I lost a day in my
account, and never knew which way.
Be that, however, one way or the other, when I awaked
30I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits
lively and cheerful. When I got up, I was stronger
than I was the day before, and my stomach better, for I
was hungry; and, in short, I had no fit the next day,
but continued much altered for the better. This was
the
The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too far.
I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a brand-goose,
and brought them home, but was not very forward to
eat them; so I eat some more of the turtle's eggs, which 5
were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine,
which I had supposed did me good the day before, viz.,
the tobacco steeped in rum; only I did not take so much
as before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my
head over the smoke. However, I was not so well the 10
next day, which was the 1st of July, as I hoped I should
have been; for I had a little spice of the cold fit, but it
was not much.
July 2.—I renewed the medicine all the three ways;
and dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the 15
quantity which I drank.
July 3.—I missed the fit for good and all, though I
did not recover my full strength for some weeks after.
While I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran ex-
ceedingly upon this Scripture, "I will deliver thee; " and20
the impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon my
mind, in bar of my ever expecting it. But as I was dis-
couraging myself with such thoughts, it occurred to my
mind that I pored so much upon my deliverance from the
main affliction, that I disregarded the deliverance I had 25
received; and I was, as it were, made to ask myself such
questions as these, viz., Have I not been delivered, and
wonderfully too, from sickness? from the most distressed
condition that could be, and that was so frightful to me?
and what notice I had taken of it? Had I done my30
part? God had delivered me, but I had not glorified
Him; that is to say, I had not owned and been thankful
for that as a deliverance; and how could I expect greater
deliverance?
This touched my heart very much; and immediately I
kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud for my re-
covery from my sickness.
July 4.—In the morning I took the Bible; and be-
ginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to read 5 it, and imposed upon myself to read awhile every morning
and every night, not tying myself to the number of chap-
ters, but as long as my thoughts should engage me. It
was not long after I set seriously to this work but I
found my heart more deeply and sincerely affected with
10 the wickedness of my past life. The impression of my
dream revived, and the words, "All these things have
not brought thee to repentance," ran seriously in my
thought. I was earnestly begging of God to give me re-
pentance, when it happened providentially, the very day,
15 that, reading the Scripture, I came to these words, "He
is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance, and
to give remission." I threw down the book; and with
my heart as well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a
kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus, Thou
20son of David! Jesus, Thou exalted Prince and Saviour,
give me repentance!"
This was the first time that I could say, in the true
sense of the words, that I prayed in all my life; for now
I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with a true
25 Scripture view of hope founded on the encouragement of
the Word of God; and from this time, I may say, I be-
gan to have hope that God would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned above,
"Call on Me, and I will deliver you," in a different
30sense from what I had ever done before; for then I had
no notion of anything being called deliverance but my be-
ing delivered from the captivity I was in; for though I
was indeed at large in the place, yet the island was cer-
tainly a prison to me, and that in the worst sense in the
world. But now I learned to take it in another sense;
now I looked back upon my past life with such horror,
and my sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought
nothing of God but deliverance from the load of guilt
that bore down all my comfort. As for my solitary life,
it was nothing; I did not so much as pray to be delivered 5
from it, or think of it; it was all of no consideration, in
comparison to this. And I add this part here, to hint to
whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to a true
sense of things, they will find deliverance from sin a much
greater blessing than deliverance from affliction. 10
But leaving this part, I return to my journal.
My condition began now to be, though not less miser-
able as to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind;
and my thoughts being directed, by a constant reading the
Scripture and praying to God, to things of a higher 15
nature, I had a great deal of comfort within, which till
now I knew nothing of. Also, as my health and strength
returned, I bestirred myself to furnish myself with every-
thing that I wanted, and make my way of living as reg-
ular as I could. 20
From the 4th of July to the I4th, I was chiefly em-
ployed in walking about with my gun in my hand, a
little and a little at a time, as a man that was gathering
up his strength after a fit of sickness; for it is hardly to
be imagined how low I was, and to what weakness I was 25
reduced. The application which I made use of was per-
fectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an ague
before; neither can I recommend it to any one to practise,
by this experiment; and though it did carry off the fit, yet
it rather contributed to weakening me; for I had frequent 30
convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time.
I learnt from it also this, in particular, that being
abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing
to my health that could be, especially in those rains which
came attended with storms and hurricanes of wind; for
as the rain which came in the dry season was always
most accompanied with such storms, so I found that rain
was much more dangerous than the rain which fell in
September and October. 5 I had been now in this unhappy island above ten
months; all possibility of deliverance from this condition
seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I firmly be-
lieved that no human shape had ever set foot upon that
place. Having now secured my habitation, as I thought,
10 fully to my mind, I had a great desire to make a more
perfect discovery of the island, and to see what other
productions I might find, which I yet knew nothing of.
It was the 15th of July that I began to take a more par-
ticular survey of the island itself. I went up the creek
15 first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore.
I found, after I came about two miles up, that the tide
did not flow any higher, and that it was no more than
a little brook of running water, and very fresh and good;
but this being the dry season, there was hardly any
20 water in some parts of it, at least not enough to run
in any stream, so as it could be perceived.
On the bank of this brook I found many pleasant
savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with
grass; and on the rising parts of them, next to the
25 higher grounds, where the water, as might be supposed,
never overflowed, I found a great deal of tobacco, green,
and growing to a great and very strong stalk. There
were divers other plants, which I had no notion of, or
understanding about, and might perhaps have virtues of
30 their own, which I could not find out.
I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians,
in all that climate, make their bread of, but I could find
none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not then un-
derstand them. I saw several sugar-canes, but wild, and,
for want of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself
with these discoveries for this time, and came back,
musing with myself what course I might take to know
the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants
which I should discover; but could bring it to no conclu-
sion; for, in short, I had made so little observation while5
I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the plants in
the field, at least very little that might serve me to any
purpose now in my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again; and after going something farther than I had gone 10
the day before, I found the brook and the savannas began
to cease, and the country became more woody than be-
fore. In this part I found different fruits, and par-
ticularly I found melons upon the ground in great
abundance, and grapes upon the trees. The vines had 15
spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters of grapes
were just now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This
was a surprising discovery, and I was exceeding glad of
them; but I was warned by my experience to eat spar-
ingly of them, remembering that when I was ashore in 20
Barbary the eating of grapes killed several of our Eng-
lishmen, who were slaves there, by throwing them into
fluxes and fevers. But I found an excellent use for these
grapes; and that was, to cure or dry them in the sun, and
keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept, which I25
thought would be, as indeed they were, as wholesome as
agreeable to eat, when no grapes might be to be had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not back to
my habitation; which, by the way, was the first night, as
I might say, I had lain from home. In the night, I took 30
my first contrivance, and got up into a tree, where I slept
well; and the next morning proceeded upon my discov-
ery, travelling near four miles, as I might judge by the
length of the valley, keeping still due north, with a ridge
of hills on the south and north side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening, where
the country seemed to descend to the west; and a little
spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the
hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and the
5 country appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, every-
thing being in a constant verdure or flourish of spring,
that it looked like a planted garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious vale,
surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure, though mixed
10 with my other afflicting thoughts, to think that this was
all my own; that I was king and lord of all this country
indefeasibly, and had a right of possession; and, if I could
convey it, I might have it in inheritance as completely as
any lord of a manor in England. I saw here abundance
15of cocoa-trees, orange, and lemon, and citron trees; but
all wild, and very few bearing any fruit, at least not then.
However, the green limes that I gathered were not only
pleasant to eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their
juice afterwards with water, which made it very whole-
20 some, and very cool and refreshing.
I found now I had business enough to gather and
carry home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of
grapes as limes and lemons to furnish myself for the wet
season, which I knew was approaching.
25 In order to this, I gathered a great heap of grapes
in one place, and a lesser heap in another place, and a
great parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and,
taking a few of each with me, I travelled homeward; and
resolved to come again, and bring a bag or sack, or what I
30 could make, to carry the rest home.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey, I
came home (so I must now call my tent and my cave);
but before I got thither, the grapes were spoiled; the
richness of the fruits, and the weight of the juice, having
broken them and bruised them, they were good for little
or nothing: as to the limes, they were good, but I could
bring but a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest; but I
was surprised, when, coming to my heap of grapes, 5
which were so rich and fine when I gathered them, I
found them all spread about, trod to pieces, and dragged
about, some here, some there, and abundance eaten and
devoured. By this I concluded there were some wild
creatures thereabouts, which had done this; but what they 10
were, I knew not.
However, as I found that there was no laying them
up on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, but
that one way they would be destroyed, and the other
way they would be crushed with their own weight, I took 15
another course; for I gathered a large quantity of the
grapes, and hung them up upon the out-branches of the
trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun; and as for
the limes and lemons, I carried as many back as I could
well stand under. 20
When I came home from this journey, I contemplated
with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and
the pleasantness of the situation; the security from
storms on that side the water and the wood; and con-
cluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode 25
which was by far the worst part of the country. Upon
the whole, I began to consider of removing my habita-
tion, and to look out for a place equally safe as where I
now was situate, if possible, in that pleasant, fruitful part
of the island. 30
This thought ran long in my head, and I was ex-
ceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the
place tempting me; but when I came to a nearer view
of it, and to consider that I was now by the seaside, where
it was at least possible that something might happen to
my advantage, and, by the same ill fate that brought me
hither, might bring some other unhappy wretches to the
same place; and though it was scarce probable that any
such thing should ever happen, yet to enclose myself
5 among the hills and woods in the centre of the island
was to anticipate my bondage, and to render such an af-
fair not only improbable, but impossible; and that there-
fore I ought not by any means to remove.
However, I was so enamoured of this place that I
10 spent much of my time there for the whole remaining
part of the month of July; and though, upon second
thoughts, I resolved, as above, not to remove, yet I built
me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a
distance with a strong fence, being a double hedge as high
15 as I could reach, well staked, and filled between with
brushwood. And here I lay very secure, sometimes two
or three nights together, always going over it with a lad-
der, as before; so that I fancied now I had my country
house and my sea-coast house; and this work took me up
20 to the beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy
my labor, but the rains came on, and made me stick close
to my first habitation; for though I had made me a
tent like the other, with a piece of a sail, and spread it
25 very well, yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me
from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat into when
the rains were extraordinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had fin-
ished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3d of
30 August, I found the grapes I had hung up were per-
fectly dried, and indeed were excellent good raisins of the
sun; so I began to take them down from the trees. And
it was very happy that I did so, for the rains which fol-
lowed would have spoiled them, and I had lost the best
part of my winter food; for I had above two hundred
large bunches of them. No sooner had I taken them all
down, and carried most of them home to my cave, but
it began to rain; and from hence, which was the 14th of
August, it rained, more or less, every day till the middle
of October, and sometimes so violently that I could not 5
stir out of my cave for several days.
In this season, I was much surprised with the increase
of my family. I had been concerned for the loss of one
of my cats, who run away from me, or, as I thought,
had been dead, and I heard no more tale or tidings of 10
her till, to my astonishment, she came home about the
end of August with three kittens. This was the more
strange to me, because, though I had killed a wild-cat, as
I called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was a quite different kind from our European cats; yet the young cats 15
were the same kind of house-breed like the old one; and
both my cats being females, I thought it very strange.
But from these three cats I afterwards came to be so
pestered with cats that I was forced to kill them like
vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from my 20
house as much as possible.
From the I4th of August to the 26th, incessant rain, so
that I could not stir, and was now very careful not to
be much wet. In this confinement, I began to be strait-
ened for food; but venturing out twice, I one day killed 25
a goat, and the last day, which was the 26th, found a
very large tortoise, which was a treat to me, and my
food was regulated thus: I eat a bunch of raisins for my
breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, for
my dinner, broiled,—for, to my great misfortune, I had 30
no vessel to boil or stew anything; and two or three of
the turtle's eggs for my supper.
During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave,
and by degrees worked it on towards one side, till I
came to the outside of the hill, and made a door, or way
out, which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I came
in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at
lying so open; for as I had managed myself before, I
5 was in a perfect enclosure; whereas now, I thought I lay
exposed, and open for anything to come in upon me; and
yet I could not perceive that there was any living thing
to fear, the biggest creature that I had yet seen upon the
island being a goat.
10 Sept. 30.—I was now come to the unhappy anniversary
of my landing. I cast up the notches on my post, and
found I had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five
days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, setting it apart
to religious exercise, prostrating myself on the ground
15 with the most serious humiliation, confessing my sins to
God, acknowledging His righteous judgments upon me,
and praying to Him to have mercy on me through Jesus
Christ; and having not tasted the least refreshment for
twelve hours, even till the going down of the sun, I
20 then eat a biscuit-cake and a bunch of grapes, and went to
bed, finishing the day as I began it.
I had all this time observed no Sabbath day, for as at
first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had,
after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks by mak-
25 ing a longer notch than ordinary for the Sabbath day,
and so did not really know what any of the days were.
But now, having cast up the days, as above, I found I had
been there a year, so I divided it into weeks, and set
apart every seventh day for a Sabbath; though I found
30 at the end of my account, I had lost a day or two in my
reckoning.
A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I
contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write
down only the most remarkable events of my life, with-
out continuing a daily memorandum of other things.
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE ISLAND
THE rainy season and the dry season began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as
to provide for them accordingly; but I bought all my ex-
perience before I had it, and this I am going to relate
was one of the most discouraging experiments that I made 5
at all. I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears
of barley and rice, which I had so surprisingly found
spring up, as I thought, of themselves, and believe there
were about thirty stalks of rice, and about twenty of bar-
ley; and now I thought it a proper time to sow it after the 10
rains, the sun being in its southern position, going from
me.
Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground as well as I
could with my wooden spade, and dividing it into two
parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was sowing, it casu-15
ally occurred to my thoughts that I would not sow it all
at first, because I did not know when was the proper
time for it, so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed, leav-
ing about a handful of each.
It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did 20
so, for not one grain of that I sowed this time came to
anything, for the dry months following, the earth having
had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no moisture
to assist its growth, and never came up at all till the wet
season had come again, and then it grew as if it had been 25
but newly sown.
"9
Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily
imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister
piece of ground to make another trial in, and I dug up a
piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest
5 of my seed in February, a little before the vernal equinox.
And this having the rainy months of March and April to
water it, sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a very
good crop; but having part of the seed left only, and not
daring to sow all that I had, I had but a small quantity at
10 last, my whole crop not amounting to above half a peck
of each kind. But by this experiment I was made mas-
ter of my business, and knew exactly when the proper
season was to sow, and that I might expect two seed-
times and two harvests every year.
15 While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the
rains were over, and the weather began to settle, which
was about the month of November, I made a visit up the
country to my bower, where, though I had not been some
20 months, yet I found all things just as I left them. The
circle or double hedge that I had made was not only firm
and entire, but the stakes which I had cut out of some
trees that grew thereabouts were all shot out, and grown
with long branches, as much as a willow-tree usually
25 shoots the first year after lopping its head. I could not
tell what tree to call it that these stakes were cut from.
I was surprised, and yet very well pleased to see the
young trees grow, and I pruned them, and led them up to
grow as much alike as I could. And it is scarce credible
30how beautiful a figure they grew into in three years; so
that though the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five
yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now call
them, soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, suf-
ficient to lodge under all the dry season.
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and
The Other Side of the Island 121
make me a hedge like this, in a semicircle round my wall
(I mean that of my first dwelling), which I did; and
placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about
eight yards' distance from my first fence, they grew pres-
ently, and were at first a fine cover to my habitation, and 5
afterward served for a defence also, as I shall observe in
its order.
I found now that the seasons of the year might gen-
erally be divided, not into summer and winter, as in
Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons; 10
which were generally thus:
Half February, "\ n . , , . ,
T.. , I Rainy, the sun being then on or near
tj if A+ .i' I the equinox.
Half April, J
Half April, "}
, !Dry, the sun being then to the north
June, Y t L i. ic
,' of the line. *5
July,
Half August, J
Half August, "In. i_ L • L
„ . Rainy, the sun being then come
September, > , .
IT ix si j i buck.
Half October, J
Half October, ^
~ ,i Dry, the sun being then to the south
December, }- , L ..
. of the line.
January, I
Half February, J
The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, as 20
the winds happened to blow, but this was the general
observation I made. After I had found by experience
the ill consequence of being abroad in the rain, I took
care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand, that I
might not be obliged to go out; and I sat within doors25
as much as possible during the wet months.
In this time I found much employment, and very suit-
able also to the time, for I found great occasion of many
things which I had no way to furnish myself with but by
hard labor and constant application; particularly, I'tried
5 many ways to make myself a basket; but all the twigs
I could get for the purpose proved so brittle that they
would do nothing. It proved of excellent advantage to
me now, that when I was a boy I used to take great
delight in standing at a basket-maker's in the town where
10my father lived, to see them make their wicker ware; and
being, as boys usually are, very officious to help, and a
great observer of the manner how they worked those
things, and sometimes lending a hand, I had by this means
full knowledge of the methods of it, that I wanted
15 nothing but the materials; when it came into my mind
that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes
that grew might possibly be as tough as the sallows, and
willows, and osiers in England, and I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day, I went to my country house,
20as I called it; and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I
found them to my purpose as much as I could desire;
whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet
to cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there
was great plenty of them. These I set up to dry within
25 my circle or hedge, and when they were fit for use, I car-
ried them to my cave; and here during the next season I
employed myself in making, as well as I could, a great
many baskets, both to carry earth, or to carry or lay up
anything as I had occasion. And though I did not finish
30 them very handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently ser-
viceable for my purpose. And thus, afterwards, I took
care never to be without them; and as my wicker ware
decayed, I made more; especially I made strong deep
baskets to place my corn in, instead of sacks, when I
should come to have any quantity of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world
of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible,
how to supply two wants. I had no vessels to hold any-
thing that was liquid, except two runlets, which were
almost full of rum, and some glass bottles, some of the 5
common size, and others which were case-bottles square,
for the holding of waters, spirits, etc. I had not so much
as a pot to boil anything, except a great kettle, which I
saved out of the ship, and which was too big for such use
as I desired it, viz., to make broth, and stew a bit of meat 10
by itself. The second thing I would fain have had was a
tobacco-pipe; but it was impossible to me to make one.
However, I found a contrivance for that, too, at last.
I employed myself in planting my second rows of
stakes or piles and in this wicker working all the sum-15
iner or dry season, when another business took me up more
time than it could be imagined I could spare.
I mentioned before that I had a great mind to see
the whole island, and that I had travelled up the brook,
and so on to where I built my bower, and where I had 20
an opening quite to the sea, on the other side of the
island. I now resolved to travel quite across to the sea-
shore on that side; so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my
dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual,
with two biscuit-cakes and a great bunch of raisins in my 25
pouch for my store, I began my journey. When I had
passed the vale where my bower stood, as above, I came
within view of the sea to the west; and it being a very
clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an island or a
continent I could not tell; but it lay very high, ex-30
tending from the west to the W. S. W. at a very great
distance; by my guess, it could not be less than fifteen or
twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might be,
otherwise than that I knew it must be part of America,
and, as I concluded, by all my observations, must be near
the Spanish dominions, and perhaps was all inhabited by
savages, where, if I should have landed, I had been in a
worse condition than I was now; and therefore I ac-
5quiesced in the dispositions of Providence, which I began
now to own and to believe ordered everything for the
best. I say, I quieted my mind with this, and left afflict-
ing myself with fruitless wishes of being there.
Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered tothat if this land was the Spanish coast, I should cer-
tainly, one time or other, see some vessel pass or repass
one way or other; but if not, then it was the savage coast
between the Spanish country and Brazils, which are in-
deed the worst of savages; for they are cannibals or men- 15 eaters, and fail not to murder and devour all the human
bodies that fall into their hands.
With these considerations I walked very leisurely for-
ward. I found that side of the island, where I now was,
much pleasanter than mine, the open or savanna fields 20 sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very
fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and fain I
would have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be
tame, and taught it to speak to me. I did, after some
painstaking, catch a young parrot, for I knocked it down 25 with a stick, and having recovered it, I brought it home;
but it was some years before I could make him speak.
However, at last I taught him to call me by my name
very familiarly. But the accident that followed, though
it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place. 30 I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found
in the low grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and
foxes; but they differed greatly from all the other kinds
I had met with, nor could I satisfy myself to eat them,
though I killed several. But I had no need to be ven-
turous, for I had no want of food, and of that which was
very good too; especially these three sorts, viz., goats,
pigeons, and turtle or tortoise; which, added to my
grapes, Leadenhall Market could not have furnished a
table better than I, in proportion to the company. And
though my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great 5
cause for thankfulness, and that I was not driven to any
extremities for food, but rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never travelled in this journey above two miles
outright in a day, or thereabouts; but I took so many
turns and returns, to see what discoveries I could make, 10
that I came weary enough to the place where I resolved
to sit down for all night; and then I either reposed my-
self in a tree, or surrounded myself with a row of stakes,
set upright in the ground, either from one tree to an-
other, or so as no wild creature could come at me with-15
out waking me.
As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised to
see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the
island, for here indeed the shore was covered with in-
numerable turtles; whereas, on the other side, I had found 20
but three in a year and a half. Here was also an infinite
number of fowls of many kinds, some which I had seen,
and some which I had not seen before, and many of
them very good meat, but such as I knew not the names
of, except those called penguins. 25
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot, and therefore had more
mind to kill a she goat, if I could, which I could better
feed on; and though there were many goats here, more
than on my side the island, yet it was with much more 30
difficulty that I could come near them, the country being
flat and even, and they saw me much sooner than when
I was on the hill.
I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter
than mine; but yet I had not the least inclination to re- move, for as I was fixed in my habitation, it became
natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was here to be
as it were upon a journey, and from home. However,
I travelled along the shore of the sea towards the east, I
5 suppose about twelve miles, and then setting up a great
pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I would go
home again; and that the next journey I took should be
on the other side of the island, east from my dwelling, and
so round till I came to my post again; of which in its
10 place.
I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island so much in my
view that I could not miss finding my first dwelling by
viewing the country. But I found myself mistaken; for
15 being come about two or three miles, I found myself
descended into a very large valley, but so surrounded
with hills, and those hills covered with wood, that I
could not see which was my way by any direction but
that of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew very well
20 the position of the sun at that time of the day.
It happened to my farther misfortune that the weather
proved hazy for three or four days while I was in this
valley; and not being able to see the sun, I wandered
about very uncomfortably, and at last was obliged to find
25 out the seaside, look for my post, and come back the same
way I went; and then by easy journeys I turned home-
ward, the weather being exceeding hot, and my gun, am-
munition, hatchet, and other things very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
30 seized upon it, and I, running in to take hold of it, caught
it, and saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind
to bring it home if I could, for I had often been musing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two,
and so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply
me when my powder and shot should be all spent.
I made a collar to this little creature, and with a
string, which I made of some rope-yarn, which I always
carried about me, I led him along, though with some dif-
ficulty, till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed
him and left him, for I was very impatient to be at 5
home, from whence I had been absent above a month.
PROVIDING FOR MY COMFORTS
I CANNOT express what a satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock
bed. This little wandering journey, without settled
place of abode, had been so unpleasant to me that my
5 own house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settle-
ment to me compared to that; and it rendered everything
about me so comfortable that I resolved I would never
go a great way from it again, while it should be my lot
to stay on the island.
10 I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale my-
self after my long journey; during which most of the time
was taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for
my Poll, who began now to be a mere domestic, and to be
mighty well acquainted with me. Then I began to think
15 of the poor kid which I had penned in within my little
circle, and resolved to go and fetch it home, or give it
some food. Accordingly I went, and found it where I
left it, for indeed it could not get out, but almost starved
for want of food. I went and cut boughs of trees, and
20 branches of such shrubs as I could find, and threw it over,
and having fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it
away; but it was so tame with being hungry that I had
no need to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog.
And as I continually fed it, the creature became so loving,
25 so gentle, and so fond that it became from that time one of
my domestics also, and would never leave me afterwards.
128
Providing for My Comforts 129
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the same sol-
emn manner as before, being the anniversary of my land-
ing on the island, having now been there two years, and
no more prospect of being delivered than the first day I 5
came there. I spent the whole day in humble and thank-
ful acknowledgments of the many wonderful mercies
which my solitary condition was attended with, and
without which it might have been infinitely more mis-
erable. I gave humble and hearty thanks that God had 10
been pleased to discover to me even that it was possible
I might be more happy in this solitary condition, than I
should have been in a liberty of society, and in all the
pleasures of the world; that He could fully make up to
me the deficiencies of my solitary state, and the want of 15
human society, by His presence, and the communications
of His grace to my soul, supporting, comforting, and en-
couraging me to depend upon His providence here, and
hope for His eternal presence hereafter.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much 20
more happy this life I now led was, with all its mis-
erable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abomi-
nable life I led all the past part of my days. And now
I changed both my sorrows and my joys; my very desires
altered, my affections changed their gusts, and my de-25
lights were perfectly new from what they were at my
first coming, or indeed for the two years past.
Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or
for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my
condition would break out upon me on a sudden, and my 30
very heart would die within me, to think of the woods,
the mountains, the deserts I was in, and how I was a
prisoner, locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of the
ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without redemption.
In the midst of the greatest composures of my mind, this
would break out upon me like a storm, and make me
wring my hands, and weep like a child. Sometimes it
would take me in the middle of my work, and I would
immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the ground
5 for an hour or two together; and this was still worse to
me, for if I could burst out into tears, or vent myself by
words, it would go off, and the grief, having exhausted
itself, would abate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts.
10I daily read the Word of God, and applied all the com-
forts of it to my present state. One morning, being
very sad, I opened the Bible upon these words, "I will
never leave thee, nor forsake thee." Immediately it oc-
curred that these words were to me; why else should they
15 be directed in such a manner, just at the moment when I
was mourning over my condition, as one forsaken of God
and man?"Well then," said I, "if God does not for-
sake me, of what ill consequence can it be, or what mat-
ters it, though the world should all forsake me, seeing
20 on the other hand if I had all the world, and should lose
the favor and blessing of God, there would be no com-
parison in the loss?"
From this moment I began to conclude in my mind
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this for-
25 saken solitary condition, than it was probable I should
ever have been in any other particular state in the world,
and with this thought I was going to give thanks to God
for bringing me to this place.
I know not what it was, but something shocked my
30 mind at that thought, and I durst not speak the words.
"How canst thou be such a hypocrite," said I, even
audibly, "to pretend to be thankful for a condition
which, however thou mayest endeavor to be contented
with, thou wouldest rather pray heartily to be delivered
from?" So I stopped there; but though I could not say
I thanked God for being there, yet I sincerely gave
thanks to God for opening my eyes, by whatever afflict-
ing providences, to see the former condition of my life,
and to mourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never
opened the Bible, nor shut it, but my very soul within me 5
blessed God for directing my friend in England, without
any order of mine, to pack it up among my goods, and
for assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of
the ship.
Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my 10
third year; and though I have not given the reader the
trouble of so particular account of my works this year
as the first, yet in general it may be observed that I was
very seldom idle, but having regularly divided my time,
according to the several daily employments that were be-15
fore me, such as, first, my duty to God, and the reading
the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart some time
for, thrice every day; secondly, the going abroad with my
gun for food, which generally took me up three hours in
every morning, when it did not rain; thirdly, the order- 20
ing, curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed
or catched for my supply; these took up great part of
the day; also, it is to be considered that the middle of the
day, when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of the
heat was too great to stir out; so that about four hours 25
in the evening was all the time I could be supposed to
work in, with this exception, that sometimes I changed
my hours of hunting and working, and went to work in
the morning, and abroad with my gun in the after-
noon. 30
To this short time allowed for labor, I desire may be
added the exceeding laboriousness of my work; the many
hours which, for want of tools, want of help, and want
of skill, everything I did took up out of my time. For
example, I was full two and forty days making me a
board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave;
whereas two sawyers, with their tools and a saw-pit,
would have cut six of them out of the same tree in half a
day. 5 My case was this: it was to be a large tree which was
to be cut down, because my board was to be a broad
one. This tree I was three days a-cutting down, and two
more cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to a log, or
piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking and hewing,
10 I reduced both the sides of it into chips till it began to be
light enough to move; then I turned it, and made one
side of it smooth and flat as a board from end to end;
then turning that side downward, cut the other side, till I
brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and
15 smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the labor of
my hands in such a piece of work; but labor and patience
carried me through that, and many other things. I only
observe this in particular, to show the reason why so
much of my time went away with so little work, viz., that
20 what might be a little to be done with help and tools
was a vast labor, and required a prodigious time, to do
alone and by hand. But notwithstanding this, with pa-
tience and labor, I went through many things, and, in-
deed, everything that my circumstances made necessary
25 to me to do, as will appear by what follows.
I was now, in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I
had manured or dug up for them was not great; for as I
observed, my seed of each was not above the quantity of
30half a peck; for I had lost one whole crop by sowing
in the dry season. But now my crop promised very well,
when on a sudden I found I was in danger of losing it
all again by enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce
possible to keep from it; as, first, the goats and wild
creatures which I called hares, who, tasting the sweet-
ness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it
came up, and eat it so close that it could get no time to
shoot up into stalk.
This I saw no remedy for but by making an enclosure
about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of 5
toil, and the more, because it required speed. However,
as my arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I
got it totally well fenced in about three weeks' time, and
shooting some of the creatures in the daytime, I set my
dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at 10
the gate, where he would stand and bark all night long;
so in a little time the enemies forsook the place, and the
corn grew very strong and well, and began to ripen
apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before while my corn was 15
in the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now
when it was in the ear; for going along by the place to
see how it throve, I saw my little crop surrounded with
fowls, of I know not how many sorts, who stood, as it
were, watching till I should be gone. I immediately let 20
fly among them, for I always had my gun with me. I
had no sooner shot, but there rose up a little cloud of
fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among the corn
itself.
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few 25
days they would devour all my hopes, that I should be
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all, and what
to do I could not tell. However, I resolved not to lose
my corn, if possible, though I should watch it night and
day. In the first place, I went among it to see what 30
damage was already done, and found they had spoiled a
good deal of it; but that as it was yet too green for them,
the loss was not so great but that the remainder was like
to be a good crop if it could be saved.
I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away,
I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away.
And the event proved it to be so; for as I walked off, as
if I was gone, I was no sooner out of their sight but they
5 dropped down, one by one, into the corn again. I was so
provoked that I could not have patience to stay till more
came on, knowing that every grain that they eat now was,
as it might be said, a peck-loaf to me in the consequence;
but coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and killed three
ioof them. This was what I wished for; so I took them
up, and served them as we serve notorious thieves in
England, viz., hanged them in chains, for a terror to
others. It is impossible to imagine almost that this
should have such an effect as it had, for the fowls would
15 not only not come at the corn, but, in short, they forsook
all that part of the island, and I could never see a bird
near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there.
This I was very glad of, you may be sure; and about
the latter end of December, which was our second harvest
20 of the year, I reaped my crop.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut it
down, and all I could do was to make one as well as I
could out of one of the broadswords, or cutlasses, which
I saved among the arms out of the ship. However, as
25 my first crop was but small, I had no great difficulty
to cut it down; in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut
nothing off but the ears, and carried it away in a great
basket which I had made, and so rubbed it out with my
hands; and at the end of all my harvesting, I found that
30 out of my half peck of seed I had near two bushels of
rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley, that is
to say, by my guess, for I had no measure at that
time.
- However, this was a great encouragement to me, and I
foresaw that, in time, it would please God to supply me
with bread. And yet here I was perplexed again, for I
neither knew how to grind or make meal of my corn, nor
indeed how to clean it and part it; nor, if made into
meal, how to make bread of it, and if how to make it, yet
I knew not how to bake it. These things being added 5
to my desire of having a good quantity for store, and to
secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of
this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the next
season, and, in the meantime, to employ all my study and
hours of working to accomplish this great work of pro-10
viding myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said that now I worked for my
bread. 'T is a little wonderful, and what I believe few
people have thought much upon, viz., the strange multi-
tude of little things necessary in the providing, produc-15
ing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing this one
article of bread.
I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found
this to my daily discouragement, and was made more and
more sensible of it every hour, even after I had got the 20
first handful of seed-corn, which, as I have said, came up
unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.
First, I had no plough to turn up the earth, no
spade or shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered by
making a wooden spade, as I observed before, but this 25
did my work in but a wooden manner; and though it
cost me a great many days to make it, yet, for want of
iron, it not only wore out the sooner, but made my work
the harder, and made it be performed much worse.
However, this I bore with, and was content to work it 30
out with patience, and bear with the badness of the per-
formance. When the corn was sowed, I had no harrow,
but was forced to go over it myself, and drag a great
heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be
called, rather than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing and grown, I have observed al-
ready how many things I wanted to fence it, secure it,
mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thrash, part it
from the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a mill to
5 grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into
bread, and an oven to bake it, and yet all these things I
did without, as shall be observed; and yet the corn was
an inestimable comfort and advantage to me too. All
this, as I said, made everything laborious and tedious to
10 me, but that there was no help for; neither was my time
so much loss to me, because, as I had divided it, a cer-
tain part of it was every day appointed to these works,
and as I resolved to use none of the corn for bread till I
had a greater quantity by me, I had the next six months
15 to apply myself wholly, by labor and invention, to fur-
nish myself with utensils proper for the performing all
the operations necessary for the making the corn, when I
had it, fit for my use.
But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now
20 seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I
did this, I had a week's work at least to make me a
spade, which, when it was done, was but a sorry one in-
deed, and very heavy, and required double labor to work
with it. However, I went through that, and sowed my
25 seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as near my house
as I could find them to my mind, and fenced them in with
a good hedge, the stakes of which were all cut of that
wood which I had set before, and knew it would grow;
so that in one year's time I knew I should have a quick
30 or living hedge, that would want but little repair. This
work was not so little as to take me up less than three
months, because great part of that time was of the wet
season, when I could not go abroad.
Within doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not
go out, I found employment on the following occasions;
always observing, that all the while I was at work, I
diverted myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching
him to speak, and I quickly learned him to know his
own name, and at last to speak it out pretty loud,
"Poll," which was the first word I ever heard spoken 5
in the island by any mouth but my own. This, there-
fore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work; for
now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my
hands, as follows, viz., I had long studied, by some
means or other, to make myself some earthen vessels, 10
which indeed I wanted sorely, but knew not where to
come at them. However, considering the heat of the
climate, I did not doubt but if I could find out any such
clay, I might botch up some such pot as might, being
dried in the sun, be hard enough and strong enough to 15
bear handling, and to hold anything that was dry, and re-
quired to be kept so; and as this was necessary in the
preparing corn, meal, etc., which was the thing I was
upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and
fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put 20
into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at
me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this
paste; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made; how
many of them fell in, and how many fell out, the clay 25
not being stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many
cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun, being set
out too hastily; and how many fell in pieces with only
removing, as well before as after they were dried; and,
in a word, how, after having labored hard to find the 30
clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work
it, I could not make above two large earthen ugly things
(I cannot call them jars) in about two months' labor.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two great wicker baskets, which I had made
on purpose for them, that they might not break; and as
between the pot and the basket there was a little room to
spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley straw, and
5 these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought
would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when the
corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better suc-
10cess; such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and
pipkins, and any things my hand turned to; and the heat
of the sun baked them strangely hard. But all this would
not answer my end, which was to get an earthen pot to
hold what was liquid, and bear the fire, which none of
15 these could do. It happened after some time, making a
pretty large fire for cooking my meat, when I went to
put it out after I had done with it, I found a broken
piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire, burnt
as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably
20 surprised to see it, and said to myself that certainly they
might be made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to studying how to order my fire so as
to make it burn me some pots. I had no notion of a
kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with
25 lead, though I had some lead to do it with; but I placed
three large pipkins, and two or three pots in a pile, one
upon another, and placed my firewood all around it, with
a great heap of embers under them. I plied the fire with
fresh fuel round the outside, and upon the top, till I
30 saw the pots in the inside red-hot quite through, and
observed that they did not crack at all. When I saw
them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five
or six hours, till I found one of them, though it did not
crack, did melt or run, for the sand which was mixed
with the clay melted by the violence of the heat, and
would have run into glass, if I had gone on; so I slacked
my fire gradually till the pots began to abate of the red
color; and watching them all night, that I might not let
the fire abate too fast, in the morning I had three very
good, I will not say handsome, pipkins, and two other5
earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be desired, and one
of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.
After this experiment I need not say that I wanted no
sort of earthenware for my use; but I must needs say, as
to the shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any 10
one may suppose, when I had no way of making them but
as the children make dirt pies, or as a woman would
make pies that never learned to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal
to mine when I found I had made an earthen pot that 15
would bear the fire; and I had hardly patience to stay
till they were cold, before I set one upon the fire again,
with some water in it, to boil me some meat, which it did
admirably well; and with a piece of a kid I made some
very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal and several 20
other ingredients requisite to make it so good as I would
have had it been.
My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to
stamp or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was
no thought at arriving to that perfection of art with one 25
pair of hands. To supply this want I was at a great loss;
for, of all trades in the world, I was perfectly un-
qualified for a stone-cutter as for any whatever; neither
had I any tools to go about it with. I spent many a day
to find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow, and 30
make fit for a mortar, and could find none at all, except
what was in the solid rock, and which I had no way to
dig or cut out; nor indeed were the rocks in the island
of hardness sufficient, but were all of a sandy, crumbling
stone, which neither would bear the weight of a heavy
pestle or would break the corn without filling it with
sand. So, after a great deal of time lost in searching for
a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out for a
great block of hard wood, which I found indeed much
5easier; and getting one as big as I had strength to stir,
I rounded it, and formed it in the outside with my axe
and hatchet, and then, with the help of fire, and infinite
labor, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in Brazil
make their canoes. After this, I made a great heavy
10pestle, or beater, of the wood called the iron-wood; and
this I prepared and laid by against I had my next crop
of corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather
pound, my corn into meal, to make my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or search, to
15 dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the
husk, without which I did not see it possible I could
have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, so much
as but to think on, for to be sure I had nothing like the
necessary thing to make it; I mean fine thin canvas or
20 stuff, to search the meal through. And here I was at a
full stop for many months, nor did I really know what
to do; linen I had none left, but what was mere rags; I
had goats' hair, but neither knew I how to weave it or
spin it; and had I known how, here was no tools to work
25 it with. All the remedy that I found for this was, that
at last I did remember I had, among the seamen's
clothes which were saved out of the ship, some neck-
cloths of calico or muslin; and with some pieces of these
I made three small sieves, but proper enough for the
30work; and thus I made shift for some years. How I did
afterwards, I shall show in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when I came to have corn;
for, first, I had no yeast. As to that part, as there was
no supplying the want, so I did not concern myself much
about it; but for an oven I was indeed in great pain.
At length I found out an experiment for that also, which
was this: I made some earthen vessels very broad, but
not deep, that is to say, about two feet diameter, and
not above nine inches deep; these I burned in the fire, as5
I had done the other, and laid them by; and when I
wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth,
which I had paved with some square tiles, of my own
making and burning also; but I should not call them
square. 10
When the firewood was burned pretty much into em-
bers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon this
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there I let them lie
till the hearth was very hot; then sweeping away all the
embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and, whelming 15
down the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers all
round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the
heat. And thus, as well as in the best oven in the
world, I baked my barley loaves, and became, in little
time, a mere pastry-cook into the bargain; for I made20
myself several cakes of the rice, and puddings; indeed I
made no pies, neither had I anything to put into them,
supposing I had, except the flesh either of fowls or
goats.
It need not be wondered at if all these things took 25
me up most part of the third year of my abode here; for
it is to be observed, that in the intervals of these things
I had my new harvest and husbandry to manage; for I
reaped my corn in its season, and carried it home as well
as I could, and laid it up in the ear, in my large baskets, 30
till I had time to rub it out, for I had no floor to thrash
it on, or instrument to thrash it with.
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I
really wanted to build my barns bigger. I wanted a
place to lay it up in, for the increase of the corn now
yielded me so much that I had of the barley about
twenty bushels, and of the rice as much, or more, inso-
much that now I resolved to begin to use it freely; for my
bread had been quite gone a great while; also, I resolved
5 to see what quantity would be sufficient for me a whole
year, and to sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of
barley and rice was much more than I could consume in
a year; so I resolved to sow just the same quantity every
10 year that I sowed the last, in hopes that such a quantity
would fully provide me with bread, etc.
I BUILD A BOAT
ALL the while these things were doing, you may be
sure my thoughts run many times upon the prospect of
land which I had seen from the other side of the island,
and I was not without secret wishes that I were on
shore there, fancying the seeing the mainland, and in an 5
inhabited country I might find some way or other to
convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find some
means of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers
of such a condition, and how I might fall into the hands 10
of savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to
think far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa; that
if I once came into their power, I should run a hazard
more than a thousand to one of being killed, and per-
haps of being eaten; for I had heard that the people 15
of the Caribbean coasts were cannibals, or man-eaters,
and I knew by the latitude that I could not be far off
from that shore. That suppose they were not cannibals,
yet that they might kill me, as many Europeans who had
fallen into their hands had been served, even when they 20
had been ten or twenty together, much more I, that was
but one, and could make little or no defence; all these
things, I say, which I ought to have considered well of,
and did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, yet took up
none of my apprehensions at first, but my head ran 25
mightily upon the thought of getting over to the shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but this
was in vain. Then I thought I would go and look at
5 our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown up
upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when we were
first cast away. She lay almost where she did at first, but
not quite; and was turned, by the force of the waves
and the winds, almost bottom upward, against a high
10 ridge of beachy rough sand, but no water about her, as
before.
If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have
launched her into the water, the boat would have done
well enough, and I might have gone back into the Brazils
15with her easily enough; but I might have foreseen that
I could no more turn her, and set her upright upon
her bottom, than I could remove the island. However, I
went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers, and
brought them to the boat, resolved to try what I could
20do; suggesting to myself that if I could but turn her
down, I might easily repair the damage she had re-
ceived, and she would be a very good boat, and I might
go to sea in her very easily.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless
25 toil, and spent, I think, three or four weeks about it. At
last finding it impossible to heave it up with my little
strength, I fell to digging away the sand, to undermine it,
and so to make it fall down, setting pieces of wood to
thrust and guide it right in the fall. But when I had
30 done this, I was unable to stir it up again, or to get un-
der it, much less to move it forward towards the water; so
I was forced to give it over. And yet, though I gave
over the hopes of the boat, my desire to venture over
for the main increased, rather than decreased, as the
means for it seemed impossible.
I Build a Boat 145
This at length put me upon thinking whether it was
not possible to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as
the natives of those climates make, even without tools,
or, as I might say, without hands, viz., of the trunk
of a great tree. This I not only thought possible, but 5
easy, and pleased myself extremely with the thoughts of
making it, and with my having much more convenience
for it than any of the negroes or Indians; but not at all
considering the particular inconveniences which I lay
under more than the Indians did, viz., want of hands to 10
move it, when it was made, into the water, a difficulty
much harder for me to surmount than all the consequences
of want of tools could be to them. For what was it to
me, that when I had chosen a vast tree in the woods, I
might with much trouble cut it down, if, after I might 15
be able with my tools to hew and dub the outside
into the proper shape of a boat, and burn or cut out
the inside to make it hollow, so to make a boat of
it; if, after all this, I must leave it just there where
I found it, and was not able to launch it into the 20
water?
One would have thought I could not have had the least
reflection upon my mind of my circumstance while I
was making this boat, but I should have immediately
thought how I should get it into the sea; but my thoughts 25
were so intent upon my voyage over the sea in it that I
never once considered how I should get it off of the
land; and it was really, in its own nature, more easy for
me to guide it over forty-five miles of sea than about
forty-five fathoms of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in 30
the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did who had any of his senses awake. I
pleased myself with the design, without determining
whether I was ever able to undertake it. Not but that
the difficulty of launching my boat came often into my
head; but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by
this foolish answer which I gave myself, "Let's first
make it; I '11 warrant I '11 find some way or other to
5 get it along when 't is done."
This was a most preposterous method; but the eager-
ness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled
a cedar-tree: I question much whether Solomon ever
had such a one for the building of the Temple at Jeru-
losalem. It was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower
part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it lessened for a
while, and then parted into branches. It was not with-
out infinite labor that I felled this tree. I was twenty
15 days hacking and hewing at it at the bottom; I was
fourteen more getting the branches and limbs, and the
vast spreading head of it cut off, which I hacked and
hewed through with axe and hatchet, and inexpressible
labor. After this, it cost me a month to shape it and
20 dub it to a proportion, and to something like the bottom
of a boat, that it might swim upright as it ought to do. It
cost me near three months more to clear the inside, and
work it out so as to make an exact boat of it. This I
did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and
25 by the dint of hard labor, till I had brought it to be a
very handsome periagua, and big enough to have carried
six and twenty men, and consequently big enough to
have carried me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was extremely
30 delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger
than I ever saw a canoe or periagua that was made of
one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost,
you may be sure; and there remained nothing but to get
it into the water; and had I gotten it into the water, I
make no question but I should have begun the maddest
voyage, and the most unlikely to be performed, that ever
was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me,
though they cost me infinite labor too. It lay about one
hundred yards from the water, and not more; but the 5
first inconvenience was, it was uphill towards the creek.
Well, to take away this discouragement, I resolved to
dig into the surface of the earth, and so make a declivity.
This I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains;
but who grudges pains that have their deliverance in 10
view? But when this was worked through, and this
difficulty managed, it was still much at one, for I could
no more stir the canoe than I could the other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved
to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the 15
canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the
water. Well, I began this work; and when I began to
enter into it, and calculate how deep it was to be dug,
how broad, how the stuff to be thrown out, I found
that by the number of hands I had, being none but my 20
own, it must have been ten or twelve years before I
should have gone through with it; for the shore lay high,
so that at the upper end it must have been at least twenty
feet deep; so at length, though with great reluctancy, I
gave this attempt over also. 25
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too
late, the folly of beginning a work before we count the
cost, and before we judge rightly of our own strength
to go through with it.
In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year 30
in this place, and kept my anniversary with the same
devotion, and with as much comfort as ever before; for,
by a constant study and serious application of the Word
of God, and by the assistance of His grace, I gained a
different knowledge from what I had before. I enter-
tained different notions of things. I looked now upon
the world as a thing remote, which I had nothing to do
with, no expectation from, and, indeed, no desires about.
In a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was
5 ever like to have; so I thought it looked, as we may
perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz., as a place I had lived
in, but was come out of it; and well might I say, as
father Abraham to Dives, "Between me and thee is a
great gulf fixed."
10 In the first place, I was removed from all the wicked-
ness of the world here. I had neither the lust of the
flesh, the lust of the eye, or the pride of life. I had
nothing to covet, for I had all that I was now capable
of enjoying. I was lord of the whole manor; or, if I
15 pleased, I might call myself king or emperer over the
whole country which I had possession of. There were
no rivals: I had no competitor, none to dispute sover-
eignty or command with me. I might have raised ship-
loadings of corn, but I had no use for it; so I let as little
20 grow as I thought enough for my occasion. I had tor-
toise or turtles enough, but now and then one was as
much as I could put to any use. I had timber enough
to have built a fleet of ships. I had grapes enough to
have made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to have
25 loaded that fleet when they had been built.
But all I could make use of was all that was valuable.
I had enough to eat and to supply my wants, and what
was all the rest to me? If I killed more flesh than I
could eat, the dog must eat it, or the vermin. If I
30 sowed more corn than I could eat, it must be spoiled.
The trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the
ground; I could make no more use of them than for
fuel, and that I had no occasion for but to dress my
food.
In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated
to me, upon just reflection, that all the good things of
this world are no farther good to us than they are for
our use; and that whatever we may heap up indeed to
give others, we enjoy just as much as we can use, and no
more. The most covetous griping miser in the world 5
would have been cured of the vice of covetousness, if he
had been in my case; for I possessed infinitely more than
I knew what to do with. I had no room for desire, ex-
cept it was of things which I had not, and they were but
trifles, though indeed of great use to me. I had, as 110
hinted before, a parcel of money, as well gold as silver,
about thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas! there the nasty,
sorry, useless stuff lay; I had no manner of business for
it; and I often thought with myself that I would have
given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for a 15
handmill to grind my corn; nay, I would have given it
all for six pennyworth of turnip and carrot seed out of
England, or for a handful of peas and beans, and a bottle
of ink. As it was, I had not the least advantage by it,
or benefit from it; but there it lay in a drawer, and grew20
mouldy with the damp of the cave in the wet season; and
if I had had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been
the same case, and they had been of no manner of value
to me because of no use.
CONTENTMENT IN SOLITUDE
I HAD now brought my state of life to be much easier
in itself than it was at first, and much easier to my mind,
as well as to my body. I frequently sat down to my
meat with thankfulness, and admired the hand of God's
5 providence, which had thus spread my table in the
wilderness. I learned to look more upon the bright side
of my condition, and less upon the dark side, and to con-
sider what I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted; and
this gave me sometimes such secret comforts that I can-
10 not express them; and which I take notice of here, to
put those discontented people in mind of it, who cannot
enjoy comfortably what God has given them, because they
see and covet something that He has not given them.
All our discontents about what we want appeared to
15 me to spring from the want of thankfulness for what we
have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubt-
less would be so to any one that should fall into such
distress as mine was; and this was, to compare my pres-
soent condition with what I at first expected it should be;
nay, with what it would certainly have been, if the good
providence of God had not wonderfully ordered the
ship to be cast up nearer to the shore, where I not
only could come at her, but could bring what I got out
25 of her to the shore, for my relief and comfort; with-
out which I had wanted for tools to work, weapons
150
Contentment in Solitude 151
for defence, or gunpowder and shot for getting my
food.
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in repre-
senting to myself, in the most lively colors, how I must
have acted if I had got nothing out of the ship. How I 5
could not have so much as got any food, except fish and
turtles; and that as it was long before I found any of
them, I must have perished first; that I should have lived,
if I had not perished, like a mere savage; that if I had
killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no 10
way to flay or open them, or part the flesh from the skin
and the bowels, or to cut it up; but must gnaw it with
my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a beast.
These reflections made me very sensible of the good-
ness of Providence to me, and very thankful for my 15
present condition, with all its hardships and misfortunes;
and this part also I cannot but recommend to the re-
flection of those who are apt, in their misery, to say, Is
any affliction like mine? Let them consider how much
worse the cases of some people are, and their case might 20
have been, if Providence had thought fit.
I had another reflection which assisted me also to
comfort my mind with hopes; and this was, comparing
my present condition with what I had deserved, and had
therefore reason to expect from the hand of Providence. 25
I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the
knowledge and fear of God. I had been well instructed
by father and mother; neither had they been wanting to
me in their early endeavors to infuse a religious awe of
God into my mind, a sense of my duty, and of what 30
the nature and end of my being required of me. But,
alas! falling early into the seafaring life, which, of all
the lives, is the most destitute of the fear of God, though
His terrors are always before them,—I say, falling early
into the seafaring life, and into seafaring company, all
that little sense of religion which I had entertained was
laughed out of me by my messmates; by a hardened
despising of dangers, and the views of death, which grew
habitual to me; by my long absence from all manner of
5 opportunities to converse with anything but what was
like myself, or to hear anything that was good, or tended
towards it.
So void was I of everything that was good, or of
the least sense of what I was, or was to be, that in the
10 greatest deliverances I enjoyed, such as my escape from
Sallee; my being taken up by the Portuguese master of
the ship; my being planted so well in the Brazils; my
receiving the cargo from England, and the like, I never
had once the words, "Thank God," so much as on my
15 mind, or in my mouth; nor in the greatest distress had I
so much as a thought to pray to Him, or so much as to
say, "Lord, have mercy upon me!" no, nor to mention
the name of God, unless it was to swear by and blas-
pheme it.
20 I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as I have already observed, on the account of my
wicked and hardened life past; and when I looked about
me, and considered what particular providences had at-
tended me since my coming into this place, and how
25 God had dealt bountifully with me, had not only pun-
ished me less than my iniquity had deserved, but had so
plentifully provided for me; this gave me great hopes that
my repentance was accepted, and that God had yet
mercy in store for me.
30 With these reflections, I worked my mind up, not only
to resignation to the will of God in the present disposi-
tion of my circumstances, but even to a sincere thankful-
ness for my condition; and that I, who was yet a living
man, ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due
punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so many mercies,
which I had no reason to have expected in that place;
that I ought never more to repine at my condition, but to
rejoice, and to give daily thanks for that daily bread,
which nothing but a crowd of wonders could have
brought; that I ought to consider I had been fed even 5
by miracle, even as great as that of feeding Elijah by
ravens; nay, by a long series of miracles; and that I
could hardly have named a place in the unhabitable
part of the world where I could have been cast more to
my advantage; a place where, as I had no society, which 10
was my affliction on one hand, so I found no ravenous
beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my life;
no venomous creatures or poisonous, which I might
feed on to my hurt; no savages to murder and devour
me. 15
In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way,
so it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted nothing
to make it a life of comfort, but to be able to make my
sense of God's goodness to me, and care over me in this
condition, be my daily consolation; and after I did make20
a just improvement of these things, I went away, and
was no more sad.
I had now been here so long that many things which
I brought on shore for my help were either quite gone,
or very much wasted, and near spent. My ink, as I ob-25
served, had been gone for some time, all but a very little,
which I eked out with water, a little and a little, till it
was so pale it scarce left any appearance of black upon
the paper. As long as it lasted, I made use of it to
minute down the days of the month on which any re-30
markable thing happened to me. And, first, by casting
up times past, I remember that there was a strange con-
currence of days in the various providences which befell
me, and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to
observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had
reason to have looked upon with a great deal of
curiosity.
First, I had observed that the same day that I broke
away from my father and my friends, and run away to
5 Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day afterwards
I was taken by the Sallee man-of-war, and made a slave.
The same day of the year that I escaped out of the
wreck of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day-
year afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the
10 boat.
The same day of the year I was born on, viz., the 30th of September, that same day I had my life so miraculously
saved twenty-seven years after, when I was cast on shore
in this island; so that my wicked life and my solitary life
15 began both on a day.
The next thing to my ink's being wasted was that of
my bread; I mean the biscuit, which I brought out of the
ship. This I had husbanded to the last degree, allow-
ing myself but one cake of bread a day for above a year;
20 and yet I was quite without bread for near a year before
I got any corn of my own; and great reason I had to be
thankful that I had any at all, the getting it being, as has
been already observed, next to miraculous.
My clothes began to decay, too, mightily. As to
25 linen, I had had none a good while, except some chequered
shirts which I found in the chests of the other seamen,
and which I carefully preserved, because many times I
could bear no other clothes on but a shirt; and it was a
very great help to me that I had, among all the men's
30 clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts. There
were also several thick watch-coats of the seamen's which
were left indeed, but they were too hot to wear; and
though it is true that the weather was so violent hot
that there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite
naked, no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was
not, nor could abide the thoughts of it, though I was all
alone.
The reason why I could not go quite naked was, I
could not bear the heat of the sun so well when quite
naked as with some clothes on; nay, the very heat fre- 5
quently blistered my skin; whereas, with a shirt on, the
air itself made some motion, and whistling under that
shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No more
could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun
without a cap or a hat. The heat of the sun beating 10
with such violence, as it does in that place, would give
me the headache presently, by darting so directly on my
head, without a cap or hat on, so that I could not bear it;
whereas, if I put on my hat, it would presently go
away. I5
Upon those views, I began to consider about putting
the few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some
order. I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and my
business was now to try if I could not make jackets out of
the great watch-coats which I had by me, and with such 20
other materials as I had; so I set to work a-tailoring, or
rather, indeed, a-botching, for I made most piteous work
of it. However, I made shift to make two or three new
waistcoats, which I hoped would serve me a great while.
As for breeches or drawers, I made but a very sorry shift 25
indeed till afterward.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the
creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones, and I
had hung them up stretched out with sticks in the sun,
by which means some of them were so dry and hard that 30
they were fit for little, but others it seems were very use-
ful. The first thing I made of these was a great cap
for my head, with the hair on the outside, to shoot off
the rain; and this I performed so well, that after this I
made me a suit of clothes wholly of these skins, that is to
say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at knees, and both
loose, for they were rather wanting to keep me cool than
to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that
they were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter,
5I was a worse tailor. However, they were such as I
made very good shift with; and when I was abroad, if it
happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap being
outermost, I was kept very dry.
After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to
10 make me an umbrella. I was indeed in great want of
one, and had a great mind to make one. I had seen them
made in the Brazils, where they are very useful in the
great heats which are there; and I felt the heats every
jot as great here, and greater too, being nearer the
15 equinox. Besides, as I was obliged to be much abroad,
it was a most useful thing to me, as well for the rains
as the heats. I took a world of pains at it, and was a
great while before I could make anything likely to hold;
nay, after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or
20three before I made one to my mind; but at last I
made one that answered indifferently well. The main
difficulty I found was to make it to let down. I could
make it to spread; but if it did not let down too, and
draw in, it was not portable for me any way but just
25 over my head, which would not do. However, at last,
as I said, I made one to answer, and covered it with skins,
the hair upwards, .so that it cast off the rains like a pent-
house, and kept off the sun so effectually, that I could
walk out in the hottest of the weather with greater ad-
30vantage than I could before in the coolest; and when I
had no need of it, could close it, and carry it under my
arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being en-
tirely composed by resigning to the will of God, and
throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of His provi-
dence. This made my life better than sociable; for when
I began to regret the want of conversation, I would ask
myself whether thus conversing mutually with my own
thoughts and, as I hope I may say, with even God Him-
self, by ejaculations, was not better than the utmost 5
enjoyment of human society in the world?
A DANGEROUS CRUISE
I CANNOT say that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary thing happened to me; but I lived on in the
same course, in the same posture and place, just as be-
fore. The chief things I was employed in, besides my
5 yearly labor of planting my barley and rice, and curing
my raisins, of both which I always kept up just enough
to have sufficient stock of one year's provisions before-
hand—I say, besides this yearly labor, and my daily labor
of going out with my gun, I had one labor, to make
10 me a canoe, which at last I finished; so that by digging a
canal to it of six feet wide, and four feet deep, I
brought it into the creek, almost half a mile. As for
the first, which was so vastly big, as I made it without
considering beforehand, as I ought to do, how I should be
15 able to launch it; so, never being able to bring it to the
water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let it
lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach me to be
wiser next time. Indeed, the next time, though I could
not get a tree proper for it, and in a place where I could
20 not get the water to it at any less distance than, as I
have said, near half a mile, yet as I saw it was practicable
at last, I never gave it over; and though I was near two
years about it, yet I never grudged my labor, in hopes of
having a boat to go off to sea at last.
25 However, though my little periagua was finished, yet
the size of it was not at all answerable to the design
158
A Dangerous Cruise 159
which I had in view when I made the first; I mean, of
venturing over to the terra firma, where it was above
forty miles broad. Accordingly, the smallness of my
boat assisted to put an end to that design, and now I
thought no more of it. But as I had a boat, my next 5
design was to make a tour round the island; for as I had
been on the other side in one place, crossing, as I have
already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I
made in that little journey made me very eager to see
other parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I10
thought of nothing but sailing round the island.
For this purpose, that I might do everything with dis-
cretion and consideration, I fitted up a little mast to my
boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces of
the ship's sail, which lay in store, and of which I had a 15
great stock by me. Having fitted my mast and sail, and
tried the boat, I found she would sail very well. Then
I made little lockers, or boxes, at either end of my boat,
to put provisions, necessaries, and ammunition, etc., into,
to be kept dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea; 20
and a little long hollow place I cut in the inside of the
boat, where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang
down over it to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the 25
sun off of me, like an awning; and thus I every now and
then took a little voyage upon the sea, but never went far
out, nor far from the little creek. But at last, being
eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom, I
resolved upon my tour; and accordingly I victualled my30
ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of my loaves
(cakes I should rather call them) of barley bread, an
earthen pot full of parched rice, a food I eat a great
deal of, a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder
and shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats, of
those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out of the
seamen's chests; these I took, one to lie upon, and the
other to cover me in the night.
It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of
5 my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I set
out on this voyage, and I found it much longer than I
expected; for though the island itself was not very
large, yet when I came to the east side of it I found a
great ledge of rocks lie out above two leagues into the
losea, some above water, some under it, and beyond that a
shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more; so that I was
obliged to go a great way out to sea to double the point.
When first I discovered them, I was going to give
over my enterprise, and come back again, not knowing
15 how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and, above
all, doubting how I should get back again, so I came to
an anchor; for I had made me a kind of an anchor with
a piece of a broken grappling which I got out of the
ship.
20 Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on
shore, climbing up upon a hill, which seemed to overlook
that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved
to venture. In my viewing the sea from that hill, where
I stood, I perceived a strong, and indeed a most furious
25 current, which run to the east, and even came close to
the point; and I took the more notice of it, because I saw
there might be some danger that when I came into it I
might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and not
be able to make the island again. And indeed, had I not
30 gotten first up upon this hill, I believe it would have been
so; for there was the same current on the other side the
island, only that it set off at a farther distance; and I
saw there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I had
nothing to do but to get in out of the first current, and I
should presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days; because the wind,
blowing pretty fresh at E. S. E., and that being just con-
trary to the said current, made a great breach of the sea
upon the point; so that it was not safe for me to keep
too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go too far off 5
because of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having
abated overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured.
But I am a warning piece again to all rash and ignorant
pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point, when even 10
I was not my boat's length from the shore, but I found
myself in a great depth of water, and a current like the
sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with it with
such violence that all I could do could not keep her so
much as on the edge of it, but I found it hurried me 15
farther and farther out from the eddy, which was on my
left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and
all I could do with my paddlers signified nothing. And
now I began to give myself over for lost; for as the cur-
rent was on both sides the island, I knew in a few 20
leagues' distance they must join again, and then I was ir-
recoverably gone. Nor did I see any possibility of
avoiding it; so that I had no prospect before me but of
perishing; not by the sea, for that was calm enough,
but of starving for hunger. I had indeed found a tortoise 25
on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed
it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh water,
that is to say, one of my earthen pots; but what was
all this to being driven into the vast ocean, where, to be
sure, there was no shore, no mainland or island, for a 30
thousand leagues at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of
God to make the most miserable condition mankind
could be in worse. Now I looked back upon my des-
olate solitary island as the most pleasant place in the
world, and all the happiness my heart could wish for was
to be but there again. I stretched out my hands to it,
with eager wishes. "O happy desert!" said I, "I shall
never see thee more. O miserable creature," said I,
5" whither am I going?" Then I reproached myself
with my unthankful temper, and how I had repined at
my solitary condition; and now what would I give to be
on shore there again. Thus we never see the true state
of our condition till it is illustrated to us by its contraries;
10 nor know how to value what we enjoy but by the want of
it. It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I
was now in, being driven from my beloved island (for
so it appeared to me now to be) into the wide ocean, al-
most two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever
15 recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till in-
deed my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my
boat as much to the northward, that is, towards the side
of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I
could; when about noon, as the sun passed the meridian,
20I thought I felt a little breeze of wind in my face, spring-
ing up from the S. S. E. This cheered my heart a little,
and especially when, in about half an hour more, it blew
a pretty small gentle gale. By this time I was gotten
at a frightful distance from the island; and had the
25 least cloud or hazy weather intervened, I had been un-
done another way too; for I had no compass on board,
and should never have known how to have steered
towards the island if I had but once lost sight of it.
But the weather continuing clear, I applied myself to
30 get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing away
to the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat be-
gan to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the
water some alteration of the current was near; for where
the current was so strong the water was foul. But per-
ceiving the water clear, I found the current abate, and
presently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a
breach of the sea upon some rocks. These rocks I found
caused the current to part again; and as the main stress 5
of it ran away more southerly, leaving the rocks to the
northeast, so the other returned by the repulse of the
rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to
the northwest with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to 10
them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just
going to murder them, or who have been in such like ex-
tremities, may guess what my present surprise of joy
was, and how gladly I put my boat into the stream of
this eddy; and the wind also freshening, how gladly I15
spread my sail to it, running cheerfully before the wind,
and with a strong tide or eddy under foot.
This eddy carried me about a league in my way back
again, directly towards the island, but about two leagues
more to the northward than the current which carried 20
me away at first; so that when I came near the island,
I found myself open to the northern shore of it, that is
to say, the other end of the island, opposite to that
which I went out from.
When I had made something more than a league of 25
way by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was
spent, and served me no farther. However, I found
that being between the two great currents, viz., that on
the south side, which had hurried me away, and that
on the north, which lay about a league on the other 30
side; I say, between these two, in the wake of the island,
I found the water at least still, and running no way; and
having still a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on
steering directly for the island, though not making such
fresh way as I did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then within
about a league of the island, I found the point of the
rocks which occasioned this disaster stretching out, as
is described before, to the southward, and casting off the
5 current more southwardly had, of course, made another
eddy to the north, and this I found very strong, but not
directly setting the way my course lay, which was due
west, but almost full north. However, having a fresh
gale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting northwest;
10 and in about an hour came within about a mile of the
shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave
God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all
thoughts of my deliverance by my boat; and, refreshing
15 myself with such things as I had, I brought my boat
close to the shore, in a little cove that I had spied under
some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent
with the labor and fatigue of the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home with
20 my boat. I had run so much hazard, and knew too much
the case, to think of attempting it by the way I went
out; and what might be at the other side (I mean the
west side) I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any
more ventures. So I only resolved in the morning to
25 make my way westward along the shore, and to see if
there was no creek where I might lay up my frigate in
safety, so as to have her again if I wanted her. In about
three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came to
a very good inlet or bay, about a mile over, which nar-
30 rowed till it came to a very little rivulet or brook, where
I found a very convenient harbor for my boat, and
where she lay as if she had been in a little dock made on
purpose for her. Here I put in, and having stowed my
boat very safe, I went on shore to look about me, and see
where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I travelled on foot to
that shore; so taking nothing out of my boat but my gun
and my umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot, I began my
march. The way was comfortable enough after such as
voyage as I had been upon, and I reached my old bower
in the evening, where I found everything standing as I
left it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as I said
before, my country house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to 10
rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep. But
judge you, if you can, that read my story, what a sur-
prise I must be in, when I was waked out of my sleep
by a voice calling me by my name several times, "Robin,
Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe! Where are 15
you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you? Where have you
been?"
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the
day, and with walking the latter part, that I did not wake 20
thoroughly; but dozing between sleeping and waking,
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me. But as
the voice continued to repeat "Robin Crusoe, Robin
Crusoe," at last I began to wake more perfectly, and was
at first dreadfully frighted, and started up in the utmost 25
consternation. But no sooner were my eyes open but I
saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and im-
mediately knew that it was he that spoke to me; for just
in such bemoaning language I had used to talk to him,
and teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly that he30
would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to my
face, and cry, "Poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you?
Where have you been? How come you here?" and such
things as I had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while
before I could compose myself. First, I was amazed
how the creature got thither, and then, how he should
just keep about the place, and nowhere else. But as I
5 was well satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll,
I got it over; and holding out my hand, and calling him
by his name, Poll, the sociable creature came to me, and
sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and continued
talking to me,—Poor Robin Crusoe! and how I did come
10here? and where had I been?—just as if he had been
overjoyed to see me again; and so I carried him home
along with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some
time, and had enough to do for many days to sit still,
15 and reflect upon the danger I had been in. I would have
been very glad to have had my boat again on my side
of the island; but I knew not how it was practicable
to get it about. As to the east side of the island, which
I had gone round, I knew well enough there was no
20venturing that way; my very heart would shrink, and
my very blood run chill, but to think of it. And as to
the other side of the island, I did not know how it might
be there; but supposing the current ran with the same
force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on
25 the other, I might run the same risk of being driven down
the stream, and carried by the island, as I had been be-
fore of being carried away from it. So, with these
thoughts, I contented myself to be without any boat,
though it had been the product of so many months' labor
to make it, and of so many more to get it unto the sea.
MY COMPANIONS
IN this government of my temper I remained near a
year, lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may well
suppose; and my thoughts being very much composed
as to my condition, and fully comforted in resigning my-
self to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I lived 5
really very happily in all things, except that of society.
I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic ex-
ercises which my necessities put me upon applying myself
to, and I believe could, upon occasion, make a very
good carpenter, especially considering how few tools I10
had. Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection
in my earthenware, and contrived well enough to make
them with a wheel, which I found infinitely easier and
better, because I made things round and shapable which
before were filthy things indeed to look on. But I think 15
I was never more vain of my own performance, or more
joyful for anything I found out, than for my being able
to make a tobacco-pipe. And though it was a very ugly
clumsy thing when it was done, and only burnt red,
like other earthenware, yet as it was hard and firm, 20
and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted
with it; for I had been always used to smoke, and there
were pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not
knowing that there was tobacco in the island; and after-
wards, when I searched the ship again, I could not come 25
at any pipes at all.
167
In my wicker ware also I improved much, and made
abundance of necessary baskets, as well as my invention
showed me; though not very handsome, yet they were
such as were very handy and convenient for my laying
5 things up in, or fetching things home in. For example,
if I killed a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a tree,
flay it, and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it
home in a basket; and the like by a turtle; I could cut
it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh,
10 which was enough for me, and bring them home in a
basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also large deep
baskets were my receivers for my corn, which I always
rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it
in great baskets.
15 I began now to perceive my powder abated consid-
erably, and this was a want which it was impossible for
me to supply, and I began seriously to consider what I
must do when I should have no more powder; that is to
say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as is ob-
20 served, in the third year of my being here kept a young
kid, and bred her up tame, and I was in hope of getting
a he goat. But I could not by any means bring it to
pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and I could never
find in my heart to kill her, till she died at last of mere
25 age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set
myself to study some art to trap and snare the goats, to
see whether I could not catch some of them alive; and
30 particularly, I wanted a she goat great with young. To
this purpose, I made snares to hamper them, and I do
believe they were more than once taken in them; but my
tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and I always
found them broken, and my bait devoured.
At length I resolved to try a pitfall; so I dug sev-
My Companions 169
eral large pits in the earth, in places where I had ob-
served the goats used to feed, and over these pits I
placed hurdles, of my own making too, with a great
weight upon them; and several times I put ears of bar-
ley and dry rice, without setting the trap, and I could 5
easily perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up
the corn, for I could see the mark of their feet. At length
I set three traps in one night, and going the next morn-
ing, I found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and
gone; this was very discouraging. However, I altered 10
my trap; and, not to trouble you with particulars, going
one morning to see my trap, I found in one of them a
large old he goat, and in one of the other three kids, a
male and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him, 15
he was so fierce I durst not go into the pit to him; that
is to say, to go about to bring him away alive, which was
what I wanted. I could have killed him, but that was
not my business, nor would it answer my end; so I even
let him out, and he ran away, as if he had been frighted 20
out of his wits. But I had forgot then what I learned
afterwards, that hunger will tame a lion. If I had let
him stay there three or four days without food, and
then have carried him some water to drink, and then a
little corn, he would have been as tame as one of the 25
kids, for they are mighty sagacious, tractable creatures
where they are well used. However, for the present I
let him go, knowing no better at that time. Then
I went to the three kids, and taking them one by one, I
tied them with strings together, and with some difficulty 30
brought them all home.
It was a good while before they would feed, but
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and
they began to be tame. And now I found that if I ex-
pected to supply myself with goat-flesh when I had no
powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way, when perhaps I might have them about my
house like a flock of sheep.
But then it presently occurred to me that I must keep 5 the tame from the wild, or else they would always run wild when they grew up: and the only way for this was to have some enclosed piece of ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so effectually that those within might not break out, or those without 10 break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands;
yet as I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing it,
my first piece of work was to find out a proper piece of
ground, viz., where there was likely to be herbage for
15 them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to keep
them from the sun.
Those who understand such enclosures will think I
had very little contrivance when I pitched upon a place
very proper for all these, being a plain open piece of
20meadow land, or savanna (as our people call it in the
western colonies), which had two or three little drills of
fresh water in it, and at one end was very woody; I say,
they will smile at my forecast, when I shall tell them I
began my enclosing of this piece of ground in such a
25 manner that my hedge or pale must have been at least two
miles about. Nor was the madness of it so great as to
the compass, for if it was ten miles about, I was like to
have time enough to do it in. But I did not consider
that my goats would be as wild in so much compass as
30 if they had had the whole island, and I should have so
much room to chase them in that I should never catch
them.
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about
fifty yards, when this thought occurred to me, so I pres-
ently stopped short, and, for the first beginning, I re-
solved to enclose a piece of about one hundred and fifty
yards in length, and one hundred yards in breadth;
which, as it would maintain as many as I should have in
any reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I could add
more ground to my enclosure. 5
This was acting with some prudence, and I went to
work with courage. I was about three months hedging
in the first piece, and, till I had done it, I tethered the
three kids in the best part of it, and used them to feed
as near me as possible, to make them familiar; and very 10
often I would go and carry them some ears of barley, or
a handful of rice, and feed them out of my hand; so
that after my enclosure was finished, and I let them
loose, they would follow me up and down, bleating after
me for a handful of corn. 15
This answered my end, and in about a year and half
I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in
two years more I had three and forty, besides several that
I took and killed for my food. And after that I en-
closed five several pieces of ground to feed them in, with 20
little pens to drive them into, to take them as I wanted,
and gates out of one piece of ground into another.
But this was not all, for now I not only had goat's
flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing
which, indeed, in my beginning, I did not so much as25
think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts,
was really an agreeable surprise. For now I set up my
dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a
day; and as Nature, who gives supplies of food to every
creature, dictates even naturally how to make use of it, 30
so I that had never milked a cow, much less a goat, or
seen butter or cheese made, very readily and handily,
though after a great many essays and miscarriages, made
me both butter and cheese at last, and never wanted it
afterwards.
How mercifully can our great Creator treat His
creatures, even in those conditions in which they seemed
to be overwhelmed in destruction! How can He
sweeten the bitterest providences, and give us cause to
5 praise Him for dungeons and prisons! What a table was
here spread for me in a wilderness where I saw nothing
at first but to perish for hunger!
It would have made a Stoic smile to have seen me
and my little family sit down to dinner. There was my
10 majesty, the prince and lord of the whole island. I had the lives of all my subjects at my absolute command. I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away; and no rebels among all my subjects.
Then to see how like a king I dined, too, all alone,
15 attended by my servants. Poll, as if he had been my
favorite, was the only person permitted to talk to me.
My dog, who was now grown very old and crazy, and
had found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat
always at my right hand, and two cats, one on one side
20 the table, and one on the other, expecting now and then
a bit from my hand, as a mark of special favor.
But these were not the two cats which I brought on
shore at first, for they were both of them dead, and
had been interred near my habitation, by my own hand.
25 But one of them having multiplied by I know not what
kind of creature, these were two which I had preserved
tame, whereas the rest run wild in the woods, and be-
came indeed troublesome to me at last; for they would
often come into my house, and plunder me too, till at
30 last I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great
many; at length they left me. With this attendance, and
in this plentiful manner, I lived; neither could I be said
to want anything but society; and of that, in some time
after this, I was like to have too much.
FOOTPRINT IN THE SAND
I WAS something impatient, as I have observed, to
have the use of my boat, though very loath to run any
more hazards; and therefore sometimes I sat contriving
ways to get her about the island, and at other times I sat
myself down contented enough without her. But I had a 5
strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of
the island where, as I have said, in my last ramble, I
went up the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the
current set, that I might see what I had to do. This in-
clination increased upon me every day, and at length 10
I resolved to travel thither by land, following the edge
of the shore. I did so; but had any one in England been
to meet such a man as I was, it must either have frighted
them, or raised a great deal of laughter; and as I fre-
quently stood still to look at myself, I could not but 15
smile at the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire,
with such an equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased
to take a sketch of my figure, as follows.
I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep 20
the sun from me, as to shoot the rain off from running
into my neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates
as the rain upon the flesh, under the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat skin, the skirts coming
down to about the middle of my thighs; and a pair of25
open-kneed breeches of the same. The breeches were
173
made of the skin of an old he goat, whose hair hung down
such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it
reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I
had none, but had made me a pair of somethings, I
5 scarce know what to call them, like buskins, to flap over
my legs, and lace on either side like spatterdashes; but of
a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the rest of
my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I
10 drew together with two thongs of the same, instead of
buckles; and in a kind of a frog on either side of this,
instead of a sword and a dagger, hung a little saw and
a hatchet, one on one side, one on the other. I had
another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the same
15manner, which hung over my shoulder; and at the end
of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both made
of goat's skin too; in one of which hung my powder, in
the other my shot. At my back I carried my basket, on
my shoulder my gun, and over my head a great clumsy
20 ugly goat-skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the
most necessary thing I had about me, next to my gun. As
for my face, the color of it was really not so mulatto-like
as one might expect from a man not at all careful of it,
and living within nineteen degrees of the equinox. My
25 beard I had once suffered to grow till it was about a quar-
ter of a yard long; but as I had both scissors and razors
sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on
my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a large pair of
Mahometan whiskers, such as I had seen worn by some
30 Turks whom I saw at Sallee; for the Moors did not
wear such, though the Turks did. Of these mustachios
or whiskers, I will not say they were long enough to hang
my hat upon them, but they were of a length and shape
monstrous enough, and such as, in England, would have
passed for frightful.
Footprint in the Sand 175
But all this is by the bye; for as to my figure I had so
few to observe me that it was of no manner of conse-
quence; so I say no more to that part. In this kind of
figure I went my new journey, and was out five or six
days. I travelled first along the seashore, directly to 5
the place where I first brought my boat to an anchor,
to get up upon the rocks. And having no boat now to
take care of, I went over the land, a nearer way, to the
same height that I was upon before; when, looking for-
ward to the point of the rocks which lay out, and which 10
I was obliged to double with my boat, as is said above, I
was surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet, no
rippling, no motion, no current, any more there than in
other places.
I was at a strange loss to understand this, and re-15
solved to spend some time in the observing it, to see if
nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it. But
I was presently convinced how it was, viz., that the tide
of ebb setting from the west, and joining with the cur-
rent of waters from some great river on the shore, must 20
be the occasion of this current; and that according as
the wind blew more forcibly from the west, or from the
north, this current came near, or went farther from the
shore; for waiting thereabouts till evening, I went up
to the rock again, and then the tide of ebb being made, I 25
plainly saw the current again as before, only that it run
farther off, being near half a league from the shore;
whereas in my case it set close upon the shore, and hur-
ried me and my canoe along with it, which, at another
time, it would not have done. 3o
This observation convinced me that I had nothing to
do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the
island again. But when I began to think of putting it
in practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at the
remembrance of the danger I had been in that I could
not think of it again with any patience; but, on the con-
trary, I took up another resolution, which was more
safe, though more laborious; and this was, that I would
5 build, or rather make me another periagua or canoe; and
so have one for one side of the island, and one for the
other.
You are to understand that now I had, as I may call
it, two plantations in the island; one, my little fortifica-
lotion or tent, with the wall about it, under the rock, with
the cave behind me, which, by this time, I had enlarged
into several apartments or caves, one within another.
One of these, which was the driest and largest, and had
a door out beyond my wall or fortification, that is to
15 say, beyond where my wall joined to the rock, was all
filled up with the large earthen pots, of which I have
given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great
baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each,
where I laid up my stores of provision, especially my
20 corn, some in the ear, cut off short from the straw, and
the other rubbed out with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by this
time grown so big, and spread so very much, that there
25 was not the least appearance, to any one's view, of any
habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within
the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces
of corn ground, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed,
30 and which duly yielded me their harvest in its season; and
whenever I had occasion for more corn, I had more land
adjoining as fit as that.
Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now
a tolerable plantation there also; for, first, I had my
little bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair; that
is to say, I kept the hedge which circled it in constantly
fitted up to its usual height, the ladder standing always in
the inside. I kept the trees, which at first were no
more than my stakes, but were now grown very firm and
tall, I kept them always so cut that they might spread5
and grow thick and wild, and make the more agreeable
shade, which they did effectually to my mind. In the
middle of this, I had my tent always standing, being a
piece of a sail spread over poles, set up for that purpose,
and which never wanted any repair or renewing; and un-10
der this I had made me a squab or couch, with the skins
of the creatures I had killed, and with other soft things,
and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-
bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to
cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent 15
from my chief seat, I took up my country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle,
that is to say, my goats. And as I had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground, so
I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, lest the goats should 20
break through, that I never left off till, with infinite
labor, I had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of
small stakes, and so near to one another, that it was
rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce room to
put a hand through between them; which afterwards, 25
when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy
season, made the enclosure strong like a wall, indeed,
stronger than any wall.
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that
I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared 30
necessary for my comfortable support; for I considered
the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand
would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and
cheese for me as long as I lived in the place, if it were to
be forty years; and that keeping them in my reach de-
pended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to
such a degree that I might be sure of keeping them to-
gether; which, by this method, indeed, I so effectually
secured that when these little stakes began to grow, I
5 had planted them so very thick I was forced to pull some
of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which
I principally depended on for my winter store of raisins,
and which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as
10 the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet.
And indeed they were not agreeable only, but physical,
wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the last degree.
As this was also about halfway between my other
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat,
15 I generally stayed and lay here in my way thither; for I
used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all things
about or belonging to her in very good order. Sometimes
I went out in her to divert myself, but no more haz-
ardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above a
20 stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive
of being hurried out of my knowledge again by the cur-
rents or winds, or any other accident. But now I come
to a new scene of my life.
It happened one day, about noon, going towards my
25 boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a
man's naked foot on the shore, which was very plain to
be seen in the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck, or
as if I had seen an apparition. I listened, I looked round
me, I could hear nothing, nor see anything. I went up
30 to a rising ground, to look farther. I went up the shore,
and down the shore, but it was all one; I could see no
other impression but that one. I went to it again to see
if there were any more, and to observe if it might not be
my fancy; but there was no room for that, for there was
exactly the very print of a foot—toes, heel, and every part
of a foot. How it came thither, I knew not, nor could
in the least imagine. But after innumerable fluttering
thoughts, like a man perfectly confused and out of my-
self, I came home to my fortification, not feeling, as we
say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree, 5
looking behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking
every bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a
distance to be a man; nor is it possible to describe how
many various shapes affrighted imagination represented
things to me in, how many wild ideas were found every 10
moment in my fancy, and what strange unaccountable
whimsies came into my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it
ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued. Whether
I went over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in 15
at the hole in the rock, which I called a door, I cannot
remember; no, nor could I remember the next morning,
for never frighted hare fled to cover, or fox to earth,
with more terror of mind than I to this retreat.
I slept none that night. The farther I was from the 20
occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were;
which is something contrary to the nature of such things,
and especially to the usual practice of all creatures in
fear. But I was so embarrassed with my own frightful
ideas of the thing, that I formed nothing but dismal 25
imaginations to myself, even though I was now a great
way off it. Sometimes I fancied it must be the devil,
and reason joined in with me upon this supposition; for
how should any other thing in human shape come into
the place? Where was the vessel that brought them?30
What marks was there of any other footsteps? And how
was it possible a man should come there? But then to
think that Satan should take human shape upon him in
such a place, where there could be no manner of occa-
sion for it, but to leave the print of his foot behind him,
and that even for no purpose too, for he could not be
sure I should see it; this was an amusement the other
way. I considered that the devil might have found
out abundance of other ways to have terrified me than
5 this of the single print of a foot; that as I lived quite
on the other side of the island, he would never have been
so simple to leave a mark in a place where it was ten
thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not, and
in the sand too, which the first surge of the sea, upon a
10 high wind, would have defaced entirely. All this
seemed inconsistent with the thing itself, and with all
the notions we usually entertain of the subtilty of the
devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me
15 out of all apprehensions of its being the devil; and I
presently concluded, then, that it must be some more
dangerous creature, viz., that it must be some of the
savages of the mainland over against me, who had wan-
dered out to sea in their canoes, and, either driven by
20 the currents or by contrary winds, had made the island,
and had been on shore, but were gone away again to
sea, being as loath, perhaps, to have stayed in this
desolate island as I would have been to have had
them.
25 While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I
was very thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy
as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that they did
not see my boat, by which they would have concluded
that some inhabitants had been in the place, and perhaps
30 have searched farther for me. Then terrible thoughts
racked my imagination about their having found my boat,
and that there were people here; and that if so, I should
certainly have them come again in greater numbers, and
devour me; that if it should happen so that they should
not find me, yet they would find my enclosure, destroy all
my corn, carry away all my flock of tame goats, and I
should perish at last for mere want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope. All that
former confidence in God, which was founded upon
such wonderful experience as I had had of His goodness, 5
now vanished, as if He that had fed me by miracle
hitherto could not preserve, by His power, the provision
which He had made for me by His goodness. I re-
proached myself with my easiness, that would not sow
any more corn one year than would just serve me till 10
the next season, as if no accident could intervene to pre-
vent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground.
And this I thought so just a reproof that I resolved for
the future to have two or three years' corn beforehand,
so that, whatever might come, I might not perish for 15
want of bread.
How strange a chequer work of Providence is the
life of man! and by what secret differing springs are the
affections hurried about as differing circumstances pre-
sent! To-day we love what to-morrov we hate; to-day20
we seek what to-morrow we shun; to-day we desire what
to-morrow we fear; nay, even tremble at the apprehen-
sions of. This was exemplified in me, at this time, in the
most lively manner imaginable; for I, whose only affliction
was that I seemed banished from human society, that I25
was alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut off
from mankind, and condemned to what I called silent
life; that I was as one whom Heaven thought not worthy
to be numbered among the living, or to appear among
the rest of His creatures; that to have seen one of my30
own species would have seemed to me a raising me from
death to life, and the greatest blessing that Heaven it-
self, next to the supreme blessing of salvation, could be-
stow; I say, that I should now tremble at the very ap-
prehensions of seeing a man, and was ready to sink into
the ground at but the shadow or silent appearance of a
man's having set his foot in the island!
Such is the uneven state of human life; and it af-
forded me a great many curious speculations afterwards,
5 when I had a little recovered my first surprise. I con-
sidered that this was the station of life the infinitely wise
and good providence of God had determined for me;
that, as I could not foresee what the ends of Divine wis-
dom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute His
10 sovereignty, who, as I was His creature, had an un-
doubted right, by creation, to govern and dispose of me
absolutely as He thought fit, and who, as I was a creature
who had offended Him, had likewise a judicial right to
condemn me to what punishment He thought fit; and
15 that it was my part to submit to bear His indignation,
because I had sinned against Him.
[ I then reflected that God, who was not only right-
eous, but omnipotent, as He had thought fit thus to pun-
ish and afflict me, so He was able to deliver me; that if
20 He did not think fit to do it, 't was my unquestioned
duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to His
will; and, on the other hand, it was my duty also to
hope in Him, pray to Him, and quietly to attend the
dictates and directions of His daily providence.
25 These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I
may say, weeks and months; and one particular effect of
my cogitations on this occasion I cannot omit, viz., one
morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with thought
about my danger from the appearance of savages, I found
30it discomposed me very much; upon which those words
of the Scripture came into my thoughts, "Call upon Me
in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou
shalt glorify Me."
Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed, my heart
was not only comforted, but I was guided and encouraged
to pray earnestly to God for deliverance. When I had
done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to read,
the first words that presented to me were, "Wait on
the Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen
thy heart; wait, I say, on the Lord." It is impossible 5
to express the comfort this gave me. In answer, I
thankfully laid down the book, and was no more sad,
at least, not on that occasion.
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and
reflections, it came into my thought one day that all this 10
might be a mere chimera of my own; and that this foot
might be the print of my own foot, when I came on
shore from my boat. This cheered me up a little too,
and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion, that
it was nothing else but my own foot; and why might not 15
I come that way from the boat, as well as I was going
that way to the boat? Again, I considered also that I
could by no means tell, for certain, where I had trod,
and where I had not; and that if, at last, this was only
the print of my own foot, I had played the part of those so
fools who strive to make stories of spectres and ap-
paritions, and then are frighted at them more than any-
body.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again, for I had not stirred out of my castle for three 25
days and nights, so that I began to starve for provision;
for I had little or nothing within doors but some barley-
cakes and water. Then I knew that my goats wanted to
be milked too, which usually was my evening diversion;
and the poor creatures were in great pain and incon-3o
venience for want of it; and, indeed, it almost spoiled
some of them, and almost dried up their milk.
Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this
was nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and so
I might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I be- gan to go abroad again, and went to my country house
to milk my flock. But to see with what fear I went
forward, how often I looked behind me, how I was
ready, every now and then, to lay down my basket, and
5 run for my life, it would have made any one have
thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I
had been lately most terribly frighted; and so, indeed, I
had.
However, as I went down thus two or three days, and
10 having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and
to think there was really nothing in it but my own
imagination. But I could not persuade myself fully of
this till I should go down to the shore again, and see this
print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see if
15 there was any similitude or fitness, that I might be as-
sured it was my own foot. But when I came to the
place, first, it appeared evidently to me that when I laid
up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere
thereabout; secondly, when I came to measure the mark
20 with my own foot, I found my foot not so large by a
great deal. Both these things filled my head with new
imaginations, and gave me the vapors again to the highest
degree; so that I shook with cold, like one in an ague;
and I went home again, filled with the belief that some
25 man or men had been on shore there; or, in short, that
the island was inhabited, and I might be surprised be-
fore I was aware. And what course to take for my
security, I knew not.
Oh, what ridiculous resolution men take when pos-
3osessed with fear! It deprives them of the use of those
means which reason offers for their relief. The first
thing I proposed to myself was to throw down my en-
closures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods
that the enemy might not find them, and then frequent
the island in prospect of the same or the like booty; then
to the simple thing of digging up my two corn-fields, that
they might not find such a grain there, and still be
prompted to frequent the island; then to demolish my
bower and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of
habitation, and be prompted to look farther, in order5
to find out the persons inhabiting.
These were the subject of the first night's cogitation,
after I was come home again, while the apprehensions
which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and
my head was full of vapors, as above. Thus fear of 10
danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger
itself when apparent to the eyes; and we find the burthen
of anxiety greater, by much, than the evil which we are
anxious about; and, which was worse than all this, I had
not that relief in this trouble from the resignation I used 15
to practise that I hoped to have. I looked, I thought,
like Saul, who complained not only that the Philistines
were upon him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did
not now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying
to God in my distress, and resting upon His providence, 20
as I had done before, for my defence and deliverance;
which, if I had done, I had at least been more cheerfully
supported under this new surprise, and perhaps carried
through it with more resolution.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all 25
night, but in the morning I fell asleep; and having, by
the amusement of my mind, been, as it were, tired, and
my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and waked
much better composed than I had ever been before. And
now I began to think sedately; and upon the utmost30
debate with myself, I concluded that this island, which
was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from
the mainland than as I had seen, was not so entirely
abandoned as I might imagine; that although there were
no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, yet that
there might sometimes come boats off from the shore,
who, either with design, or perhaps never but when they
were driven by cross winds, might come to this place; that
I had lived here fifteen years now, and had not met
5 with the least shadow or figure of any people yet; and
that if at any time they should be driven here, it was
probable they went away again as soon as ever they
could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix there
upon any occasion to this time; that the most I could
10 suggest any danger from, was from any such casual ac-
cidental landing of straggling people from the main, who,
as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were here
against their wills; so they made no stay here, but went
off again with all possible speed, seldom staying one night
15 on shore, lest they should not have the help of the tides
and daylight back again; and that, therefore, I had
nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in case
I should see any savages land upon the spot.
MEASURES OF DEFENCE AGAINST
CANNIBALS
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave
so large as to bring a door through again, which door,
as I said, came out beyond where my fortification joined
to the rock. Upon maturely considering this, therefore, 5
I resolved to draw me a second fortification, in the same
manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall just
where I had planted a double row of trees about twelve
years before, of which I made mention. These trees
having been planted so thick before, they wanted but aio
few piles to be driven between them, that they should be
thicker and stronger, and my wall would be soon fin-
ished.
So that I had now a double wall; and my outer wall
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and 15
everything I could think of, to make it strong, having
in it seven little holes about as big as I might put my
arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened my wall
to above ten feet thick, with continual bringing earth
out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, 20
and walking upon it; and through the seven holes I
contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took notice
that I got seven on shore out of the ship. These, I say,
I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames,
that held them like a carriage, that so I could fire all 25
the seven guns in two minutes' time. This wall I was
187
many a weary month a-finishing, and yet never thought
myself safe till it was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without
my wall, for a great way every way, as full with stakes,
5 or sticks, of the osier-like wood, which I found so apt to
grow, as they could well stand; insomuch, that I believe
I might set in near twenty thousand of them, leaving a
pretty large space between them and my wall, that I
might have room to see an enemy, and they might have no
10 shelter from the young trees, if they attempted to ap-
proach my outer wall.
Thus in two years' time I had a thick grove; and in
five or six years' time I had a wood before my dwelling,
growing so monstrous thick and strong that it was in-
15 deed perfectly impassable; and no men, of what kind so-
ever, would ever imagine that there was anything beyond
it, much less a habitation. As for the way which I pro-
posed to myself to go in and out, for I left no avenue,
it was by setting two ladders, one to a part of the rock
20 which was low, and then broke in, and left room to place
another ladder upon that; so when the two ladders were
taken down, no man living could come down to me with-
out mischieving himself; and if they had come down,
they were still on the outside of my outer wall.
25 Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen, at
length, that they were not altogether without just rea-
son; though I foresaw nothing at that time more than my
mere fear suggested to me.
30 While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of
my other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me for
my little herd of goats. They were not only a present
supply to me upon every occasion, and began to be suf-
ficient to me, without the expense of powder and shot,
but also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild
Measures of Defence 189
ones, and I was loath to lose the advantage of them, and
to have them all to nurse up over again.
To this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think of but two ways to preserve them. One was, to
find another convenient place to dig a cave under ground, 5
and to drive them into it every night; and the other
was, to enclose two or three little bits of land, remote
from one another, and as much concealed as I could,
where I might keep about half a dozen young goats in
each place; so that if any disaster happened to the flock in 10
general, I might be able to raise them again with little
trouble and time. And this, though it would require
a great deal of time and labor, I thought was the most
rational design.
Accordingly I spent some time to find out the most 15
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one which
was as private indeed as my heart could wish for. It
was a little damp piece of ground, in the middle of the
hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, I almost
lost myself once before, endeavoring to come back that 20
way from the eastern part of the island. Here I found a
clear piece of land, near three acres, so surrounded with
woods that it was almost an enclosure by Nature; at
least, it did not want near so much labor to make it
so as the other pieces of ground I had worked so hard at. 25
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground,
and in less than a month's time I had so fenced it round
that my flock, or herd, call it which you please, who were
not so wild now as at first they might be supposed to be,
were well enough secured in it. So, without any farther 30
delay, I removed ten young she goats and two he goats
to this piece. And when they were there, I continued
to perfect the fence till I had made it as secure as the
other, which, however, I did at more leisure, and it took
me up more time by a great deal.
All this labor I was at the expense of, purely from
my apprehensions on the account of the print of a man's
foot which I had seen; for, as yet, I never saw any
human creature come near the island. And I had now
5 lived two years under these uneasinesses, which, indeed,
made my life much less comfortable than it was before, as
may well be imagined by any who know what it is to
live in the constant snare of the fear of man. And this
I must observe, with grief too, that the discomposure of
10 my mind had too great impressions also upon the religious
part of my thoughts; for the dread and terror of falling
into the hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon my
spirits that I seldom found myself in a due temper for
application to my Maker, at least not with the sedate
15 calmness and resignation of soul which I was wont to do.
I rather prayed to God as under great affliction and
pressure of mind, surrounded with danger, and in ex-
pectation every night of being murdered and devoured
before morning; and I must testify from my experience
20 that a temper of peace, thankfulness, love, and affection
is much more the proper frame for prayer than that of
terror and discomposure; and that under the dread of
mischief impending, a man is no more fit for a comfort-
ing performance of the duty of praying to God, than he
25 is for repentance on a sick-bed. For these discomposures
affect the mind, as the others do the body; and the discom-
posure of the mind must necessarily be as great a disability
as that of the body, and much greater, praying to God
being properly an act of the mind, not of the body.
30 But to go on. After I had thus secured one part of
my little living stock, I went about the whole island;
searching for another private place to make such another
deposit; when, wandering more to the west point of the
island than I had ever gone yet, and looking out to sea,
I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance.
I had found a prospective glass or two in one of the sea-
men's chests, which I saved out of our ship, but I had it
not about me; and this was so remote that I could not
tell what to make of it, though I looked at it till my
eyes were not able to hold to look any longer. Whether 5
it was a boat or not, I do not know; but as I descended
from the hill, I could see no more of it, so I gave it over;
only I resolved to go no more out without a prospective
glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill to the end of the 10
island, where, indeed, I had never been before, I was
presently convinced that the seeing the print of a man's
foot was not such a strange thing in the island as I
imagined. And, but that it was a special providence that
I was cast upon the side of the island where the sav-15
ages never came, I should easily have known that nothing
was more frequent than for the canoes from the main,
when they happened to be a little too far out at sea, to
shoot over to that side of the island for harbor; likewise,
as they often met and fought in their canoes, the victors 20
having taken any prisoners would bring them over to
this shore, where, according to their dreadful customs, be-
ing all cannibals, they would kill and eat them; of which
hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I25
said above, being the S. W. point of the island, I was
perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for
me to express the horror of my mind at seeing the shore
spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of human
bodies; and particularly, I observed a place where there30
had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth, like a
cockpit, where it is supposed the savage wretches had sat
down to their inhuman feastings upon the bodies of their
fellow-creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things
that I entertained no notion of any danger to myself from
it for a long while. All my apprehensions were buried
in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish
brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human
5 nature, which, though I had heard of often, yet I never
had so near a view of before. In short, I turned away
my face from the horrid spectacle. My stomach grew
sick, and I was just at the point of fainting, when Nature
discharged the disorder from my stomach. And having
10 vomited with an uncommon violence, I was a little re-
lieved, but could not bear to stay in the place a moment;
so I got me up the hill again with all the speed I could,
and walked on towards my own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island, I
15 stood still a while, as amazed; and then recovering my-
self, I looked up with the utmost affection of my soul,
and with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God thanks
that had cast my first lot in a part of the world where I
was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as these;
20 and that, though I had esteemed my present condition
very miserable, had yet given me so many comforts in
it that I had still more to give thanks for than to com-
plain of; and this above all, that I had, even in this mis-
erable condition, been comforted with the knowledge of
25 Himself, and the hope of His blessing; which was a
felicity more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery
which I had suffered, or could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my
castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the safety
30of my circumstances, than ever I was before; for I ob-
served that these wretches never came to this island in
search of what they could get; perhaps not seeking, not
wanting, or not expecting, anything here; and having
often, no doubt, been up in the covered, woody part of it,
without finding anything to their purpose. I knew I had
been here now almost eighteen years, and never saw the
least footsteps of human creature there before; and I
might be here eighteen more as entirely concealed as I was
now, if I did not discover myself to them, which I
had no manner of occasion to do; it being my only busi-5
ness to keep myself entirely concealed where I was, un-
less I found a better sort of creatures than cannibals to
make myself known to.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the wretched 10
inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one an-
other up, that I continued pensive and sad, and kept
close within my own circle for almost two years after
this. When I say my own circle, I mean by it my three
plantations, viz., my castle, my country seat, which I15
called my bower, and my enclosure in the woods. Nor
did I look after this for any other use than as an enclosure
for my goats; for the aversion which Nature gave me to
these hellish wretches was such that I was fearful of see-
ing them as of seeing the devil himself. Nor did I so 20
much as go to look after my boat in all this time, but
began rather to think of making me another; for I could
not think of ever making any more attempts to bring the
other boat round the island to me, lest I should meet
with some of these creatures at sea, in which, if I had 25
happened to have fallen into their hands, I knew what
would have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I
was in no danger of being discovered by these people,
began to wear off my uneasiness about them; and I30
began to live just in the same composed manner as be-
fore; only with this difference, that I used more caution,
and kept my eyes more about me, than I did before, lest
I should happen to be seen by any of them; and par-
ticularly, I was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any
of them being on the island should happen to hear of it.
And it was, therefore, a very good providence to me that
I had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, that
I needed not hunt any more about the woods, or shoot
5 at them. And if I did catch any of them after this, it
was by traps and snares, as I had done before; so that
for two years after this I believe I never fired my gun
once off, though I never went out without it; and, which
was more, as I had saved three pistols out of the ship, I
10 always carried them out with me, or at least two of
them, sticking them in my goat-skin belt. Also I fur-
bished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out of the
ship, and made me a belt to put it on also; so that I was
now a most formidable fellow to look at when I went
15 abroad, if you add to the former description of my-
self the particular of two pistols and a great broad-
sword hanging at my side in a belt, but without a
scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time,
20I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my
former calm, sedate way of living. All these things
tended to showing me, more and more, how far my con-
dition was from being miserable, compared to some
others; nay, to many other particulars of life, which it
25 might have pleased God to have made my lot. It put
me upon reflecting how little repining there would be
among mankind at any condition of life, if people would
rather compare their condition with those that are worse,
in order to be thankful, than be always comparing them
30 with those which are better, to assist their murmurings
and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really many
things which I wanted, so indeed I thought that the
frights I had been in about these savage wretches, and the
concern I had been in for my own preservation, had taken
off the edge of my invention for my own conveniences.
And I had dropped a good design, which I had once bent
my thoughts too much upon; and that was, to try if I
could not make some of my barley into malt, and then
try to brew myself some beer. This was really a whim- 5
sical thought, and I reproved myself often for the
simplicity of it; for I presently saw there would be the
want of several things necessary to the making my beer,
that it would be impossible for me to supply. As, first,
casks to preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have 10
observed already, I could never compass; no, though I
spent not many days, but weeks, nay, months, in attempt-
ing it, but to no purpose. In the next place, I had no
hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no cop-
per or kettle to make it boil; and yet all these things not-15
withstanding, I verily believe, had not these things inter-
vened, I mean the frights and terrors I was in about the
savages, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to
pass too; for I seldom gave anything over without ac-
complishing it when I once had it in my head enough to 20
begin it.
But my invention now run quite another way; for,
night and day, I could think of nothing but how I
might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel
bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim 25
they should bring hither to destroy. It would take up
a larger volume than this whole work is intended to be,
to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather
brooded upon, in my thought, for the destroying these
creatures, or at least frighting them so as to prevent their 30
coming hither any more. But all was abortive; nothing
could be possible to take effect, unless I was to be there
to do it myself. And what could one man do among
them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of
them together, with their darts, or their bows and ar-
rows, with which they could shoot as true to a mark as I
could with my gun?
Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and put in five or six pound
5 of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their fire,
would consequently take fire, and blow up all that was
near it. But as, in the first place, I should be very loath
to waste so much powder upon them, my store being now
within the quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be
10 sure of its going off at any certain time, when it might
surprise them; and, at best, that it would.do little more
than just blow the fire about their ears, and fright them,
but not sufficient to make them forsake the place. So I
laid it aside, and then proposed that I would place my-
15 self in ambush in some convenient place, with my three
guns all double-loaded, and, in the middle of their bloody
ceremony, let fly at them, when I should be sure to kill
or wound perhaps two or three at every shot; and then
falling in upon them with my three pistols and my sword,
20I made no doubt but that if there was twenty I should
kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some
weeks; and I was so full of it that I often dreamed of it,
and sometimes that I was just going to let fly at them in
my sleep.
25 I went so far with it in my imagination that I em-
ployed myself several days to find out proper places to
put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them;
and I went frequently to the place itself, which was now
grown more familiar to me; and specially while my mind
30 was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and of a bloody
putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I may
call it, the horror I had at the place, and at the signals of
the barbarous wretches devouring one another, abated my
malice.
Well, at length I found a place in the side of the
hill, where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I
saw any of their boats coming; and might then, even be-
fore they would be ready to come on shore, convey my-
self, unseen, into thickets of trees, in one of which there
was a hollow large enough to conceal me entirely; and 5
where I might sit and observe all their bloody doings,
and take my full aim at their heads, when they were so
close together as that it would be next to impossible that
I should miss my shot, or that I could fail wounding
three or four of them at the first shot. 10
In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design; and,
accordingly, I prepared two muskets and my ordinary
fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace
of slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets, about the
size of pistol-bullets; and the fowling-piece I loaded 15
with near a handful of swan-shot, of the largest size. I
also loaded my pistols with about four bullets each; and
in this posture, well provided with ammunition for a
second and third charge, I prepared myself for my ex-
pedition. 20
After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and in
my imagination put it in practice, I continually made my
tour every morning up to the top of the hill, which was
from my castle, as I called it, about three miles or more,
to see if I could observe any boats upon the sea coming 25
near the island, or standing over towards it. But I be-
gan to tire of this hard duty, after I had, for two or three
months, constantly kept my watch, but came always back
without any discovery; there having not, in all that time,
been the least appearance, not only on or near the shore, 30
but not on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses
could reach every way.
As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to look
out, so long also I kept up the vigor of my design, and my
spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable form for
so outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or thirty
naked savages for an offence which I had not at all en-
tered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any farther than
my passions were at first fired by the horror I conceived
5 at the unnatural custom of that people of the country;
who, it seems, had been suffered by Providence, in His
wise disposition of the world, to have no other guide than
that of their own abominable and vitiated passions; and
consequently were left, and perhaps had been so for some
10 ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such dreadful
customs, as nothing but Nature entirely abandoned of
Heaven, and acted by some hellish degeneracy, could have
run them into. But now when, as I have said, I began to
be weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made so
15 long and so far every morning in vain, so my opinion of
the action itself began to alter; and I began, with cooler
and calmer thoughts, to consider what it was I was go-
ing to engage in. What authority or call I had to pre-
tend to be judge and executioner upon these men as crim-
20 inals, whom Heaven had thought fit, for so many ages,
to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it were,
the executioners of His judgments one upon another.
How far these people were offenders against me, and
what right I had to engage in the quarrel of that blood
25 which they shed promiscuously one upon another. I de-
bated this very often with myself, thus: How do I know
what God Himself judges in this particular case? It is
certain these people either do not commit this as a crime;
it is not against their own consciences' reproving, or their
30 light reproaching them. They do not know it be an
offence, and then commit it in defiance of Divine justice,
as we do in almost all the sins we commit. They think
it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war than we
do to kill an ox; nor to eat human flesh than we do to
eat mutton.
When I had considered this a little, it followed neces-
sarily that I was certainly in the wrong in it; that these
people were not murderers in the sense that I had before
condemned them in my thoughts, any more than those
Christians were murderers who often put to death the 5
prisoners taken in battle; or more frequently, upon many
occasions, put whole troops of men to the sword, without
giving quarter, though they threw down their arms and
submitted.
In the next place it occurred to me that albeit the 10
usage they thus gave one another was thus brutish and
inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me; these people
had done me no injury. That if they attempted me, or
I saw it necessary for my immediate preservation to fall
upon them, something might be said for it; but that as I15
was yet out of their power, and they had really no
knowledge of me, and consequently no design upon me,
and therefore it could not be just for me to fall upon
them. That this would justify the conduct of the Span-
iards in all their barbarities practised in America, and 20
where they destroyed millions of these people; who, how-
ever they were idolaters and barbarians, and had several
bloody and barbarous rites in their customs, such as
sacrificing human bodies to their idols, were yet, as to
the Spaniards, very innocent people; and that the rooting25
them out of the country is spoken of with the utmost ab-
horrence and detestation by even the Spaniards them-
selves at this time, and by all other Christian nations of
Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody and unnatural piece
of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God or man; and such, 30
as for which the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned to
be frightful and terrible to all people of humanity, or of
Christian compassion; as if the kingdom of Spain were
particularly eminent for the product of a race of men
who were without principles of tenderness, or the com-
mon bowels of pity to the miserable, which is reckoned
to be a mark of generous temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and to
a kind of a full stop; and I began, by little and little, to
5 be off of my design, and to conclude I had taken wrong
measures in my resolutions to attack the savages; that it
was not my business to meddle with them, unless they
first attacked me; and this it was my business, if possible,
to prevent; but that if I were discovered and attacked,
10 then I knew my duty.
On the other hand, I argued with myself that this
really was the way not to deliver myself, but entirely to
ruin and destroy myself; for unless I was sure to kill
every one that not only should be on shore at that time,
15 but that should ever come on shore afterwards, if but
one of them escaped to tell their country people what
had happened, they would come over again by thousands
to revenge the death of their fellows, and I should only
bring upon myself a certain destruction which, at pres-
20 ent, I had no manner of occasion for.
Upon the whole, I concluded that neither in prin-
ciples nor in policy I ought, one way or other, to con-
cern myself in this affair. That my business was, by
all possible means, to conceal myself from them, and not
25 to leave the least signal to them to guess by that there
were any living creatures upon the island; I mean of
human shape.
Religion joined in with this prudential, and I was
convinced now, many ways, that I was perfectly out of
30 my duty when I was laying all my bloody schemes for
the destruction of innocent creatures; I mean innocent
as to me. As to the crimes they were guilty of towards
one another, I had nothing to do with them. They were
national, and I ought to leave them to the justice of God,
who is the Governor of nations, and knows how, by na-
tional punishments, to make a just retribution for national
offences, and to bring public judgments upon those who
offend in a public manner by such ways as best pleases
Him.
This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was a5
greater satisfaction to me than that I had not been suf-
fered to do a thing which I now saw so much reason to
believe would have been no less a sin than that of wilfull
murder, if I had committed it. And I gave most humble
thanks on my knees to God that had thus delivered me 10
from blood-guiltiness; beseeching Him to grant me the
protection of His providence, that I might not fall into
the hands of the barbarians, or that I might not lay my
hands upon them, unless I had a more clear call from
Heaven to do it, in defence of my own life.
A WONDERFUL CAVE
IN this disposition I continued for near a year after
this; and so far was I from desiring an occasion for
falling upon these wretches, that in all that time I never
once went up the hill to see whether there were any of
5 them in sight, or to know whether any of them had been
on shore there or not, that I might not be tempted to
renew any of my contrivances against them, or be pro-
voked, by any advantage which might present itself, to
fall upon them. Only this I did, I went and removed
10 my boat, which I had on the other side the island,
and carried it down to the east end of the whole
island, where I ran it into a little cove, which I found
under some high rocks, and where I knew, by reason
of the currents, the savages durst not, at least would
15 not come, with their boats, upon any account whatso-
ever.
With my boat I carried away everything that I had
left there belonging to her, though not necessary for the
bare going thither, viz., a mast and sail which I had
20 made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed
which could not be called either anchor or grappling;
however, it was the best I could make of its kind. All
these I removed, that there might not be the least shadow
of any discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of
25 any human habitation, upon the island.
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired
202
A Wonderful Cave 203
than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other than
upon my constant employment, viz., to milk my she goats,
and manage my little flock in the wood, which, as it was
quite on the other part of the island, was quite out of
danger; for certain it is, that these savage people, who 5
sometimes haunted this island, never came with any
thoughts of finding anything here, and consequently
never wandered off from the coast; and I doubt not but
they might have been several times on shore after my
apprehensions of them had made me cautious, as well as 10
before; and indeed, I looked back with some horror upon
the thoughts of what my condition would have been if I
had chopped upon them and been discovered before that,
when, naked and unarmed, except with one gun, and that
loaded often only with small shot, I walked everywhere, 15
peeping and peeping about the island to see what I could
get. What a surprise should I have been in if, when I
discovered the print of a man's foot, I had, instead of
that, seen fifteen or twenty savages, and found them pur-
suing me, and by the swiftness of their running, no pos-ao
sibility of my escaping them!
The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul
within me, and distressed my mind so much that I could
not soon recover it, to think what I should have done,
and how I not only should not have been able to resist 25
them, but even should not have had presence of mind
enough to do what I might have done, much less what
now, after so much consideration and preparation, I
might be able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of
these things, I should be very melancholy, and sometimes 30
it would last a great while; but I resolved it, at last, all
into thankfulness to that Providence which had delivered
me from so many unseen dangers, and had kept me from
those mischiefs which I could no way have been the
agent in delivering myself from, because I had not the
least notion of any such thing depending, or the least
supposition of it being possible.
This renewed a contemplation which often had come
to my thoughts in former time, when first I began to see
5 the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the dangers we
run through in this life. How wonderfully we are de-
livered when we know nothing of it. How, when we
are in a quandary, as we call it, a doubt or hesitation,
whether to go this way or that way, a secret hint shall di- 10 rect us this way, when we intended to go that way; nay,
when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps business,
has called to go the other way, yet a strange impression
upon the mind from we know not what springs, and by
we know not what power, shall overrule us to go this 15 way; and it shall afterwards appear that had we gone
that way which we should have gone, and even to our
imagination ought to have gone, we should have been
ruined and lost. Upon these and many like reflections
I afterwards made it a certain rule with me, that when- 20 ever I found those secret hints or pressings of my mind to
doing, or not doing, anything that presented, or to going
this way or that way, I never failed to obey the secret
dictate, though I knew no other reason for it than that
such a pressure, or such a hint, hung upon my mind. I 25 could give many examples of the success of this conduct
in the course of my life, but more especially in the latter
part of my inhabiting this unhappy island; besides many
occasions which it is very likely I might have taken notice
of, if I had seen with the same eyes then that I saw with 30now. But 't is never too late to be wise; and I cannot
but advise all considering men, whose lives are attended
with such extraordinary incidents as mine, or even though
not so extraordinary, not to slight such secret intimations
of Providence, let them come from what invisible in-
telligence they will. That I shall not discuss, and per-
haps cannot account for; but certainly they are a proof of
the converse of spirits, and the secret communication be-
tween those embodied and those unembodied, and such a
proof as can never be withstood, of which I shall have oc-
casion to give some very remarkable instances in the re-5
mainder of my solitary residence in this dismal place.
I believe the reader of this will not think strange if I
confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived
in, and the concern that was now upon me, put an end
to all invention, and to all the contrivances that I had 10
laid for my future accommodations and conveniences. I
had the care of my safety more now upon my hands than
that of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a
stick of wood now, for fear the noise I should make
should be heard; much less would I fire a gun, for the 15
same reason; and, above all, I was intolerably uneasy at
making any fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a great
distance in the day, should betray me; and for this rea-
son I removed that part of my business which required
fire, such as burning of pots and pipes, etc., into my new 20
apartment in the woods; where, after I had been some
time, I found, to my unspeakable consolation, a mere
natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, and
where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of
it, would be so hardy as to venture in; nor, indeed, would 25
any man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing so
much as a safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where, by mere accident I would say (if I did
not see abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to 30
Providence), I was cutting down some thick branches of
trees to make charcoal; and before I go on, I must ob-
serve the reason of my making this charcoal, which was
thus:
I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation,
as I said before; and yet I could not live there without
baking my bread, cooking my meat, etc. So I contrived
to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in England
under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal; and then
5 putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home,
and perform the other services which fire was wanting for
at home, without danger of smoke.
But this is by the bye. While I was cutting down
some wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick
10 branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a
kind of hollow place. I was curious to look into it;
and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it
was pretty large; that is to say, sufficient for me to stand
upright in it, and perhaps another with me. But I must
15 confess to you I made more haste out than I did in when,
looking farther into the place, and which was perfectly
dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature,
whether devil or man I knew not, which twinkled like
two stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth shining
20 directly in, and making the reflection.
However, after some pause I recovered myself, and
began to call myself a thousand fools, and tell myself
that he that was afraid to see the devil was not fit to
live twenty years in an island all alone, and that I durst
25 to believe there was nothing in this cave that was more
frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking up my cour-
age, I took up a great firebrand, and in I rushed again,
with the stick flaming in my hand. I had not gone three
steps in, but I was almost as much frighted as I was
30before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man
in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as if
of words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I
stepped back, and was indeed struck with such a surprise
that it put me into a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat
on my head, I will not answer for it that my hair might
not have lifted it off. But still plucking up my spirits
as well as I could, and encouraging myself a little with
considering that the power and presence of God was
everywhere, and was able to protect me, upon this I
stepped forward again, and by the light of the firebrand, 5
holding it up a little over my head, I saw lying on the
ground a most monstrous, frightful, old he goat, just
making his will, as we say, and gasping for life; and dy-
ing, indeed, of mere old age.
I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, 10
and he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise him-
self; and I thought with myself he might even lie there;
for if he had frighted me so, he would certainly fright
any of the savages, if any of them should be so hardy
as to come in there while he had any life in him. 15
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to
look round me, when I found the cave was but very
small; that is to say, it might be about twelve feet over,
but in no manner of shape, either round or square, no
hands having ever been employed in making it but those 20
of mere Nature. I observed also that there was a place
at the farther side of it that went in farther, but was so
low that it required me to creep upon my hands and
knees to go into it, and whither I went I knew not;
so having no candle, I gave it over for some time, but 25
resolved to come again the next day, provided with
candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock
of one of the muskets, with some wild-fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six
large candles of my own making, for I made very good 30
candles now of goat's tallow; and going into this low
place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have
said, almost ten yards; which, by the way, I thought was
a venture bold enough, considering that I knew not how
far it might go, nor what was beyond it. When I was
got through the strait, I found the roof rose higher up, I
believe near twenty feet. But never was such a glorious
sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was to look round
the sides and roof of this vault or cave; the walls re-
5 fleeted a hundred thousand lights to me from my two
candles. What it was in the rock, whether diamonds,
or any other precious stones, or gold, which I rather sup-
posed it to be, I knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity or
10 grotto of its kind, as could be expected, though perfectly
dark. The floor was dry and level, and had a sort of
small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no nauseous
or venomous creature to be seen; neither was there any
damp or wet on the sides or roof. The only difficulty
15 in it was the entrance, which, however, as it was a place
of security, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought
that was a convenience; so that I was really rejoiced at
the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to bring
some of those things which I was most anxious about to
20this place; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my
magazine of powder, and all my spare arms, viz., two
fowling-pieces, for I had three in all, and three muskets,
for of them I had eight in all. So I kept at my castle
only five, which stood ready-mounted, like pieces of can-
25 non, on my outmost fence; and were ready also to take
out upon any expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I
took occasion to open the barrel of powder which I took
up out of the sea, and which had been wet; and I found
30 that the water had penetrated about three or four inches
into the powder on every side, which caking, and grow-
ing hard, had preserved the inside like a kernel in a shell;
so that I had near sixty pounds of very good powder in
the centre of the cask. And this was an agreeable dis-
covery to me at that time; so I carried all away thither,
never keeping above two or three pounds of powder with
me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind. I
also carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, 5
where none could come at them; for I persuaded myself,
while I was here, if five hundred savages were to hunt
me, they could never find me out; or, if they did, they
would not venture to attack me here.
The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in the 10
mouth of the cave the next day after I made this discov-
ery; and I found it much easier to dig a great hole there,
and throw him in and cover him with earth, than to drag
him out; so I interred him there, to prevent the offence
to my nose.
A LIGHT ON THE SHORE
I WAS now in my twenty-third year of residence in
this island; and was so naturalized to the place, and
to the manner of living, that could I have but enjoyed
the certainty that no savages would come to the place to
5 disturb me, I could have been content to have capitulated
for spending the rest of my time there, even to the last
moment, till I had laid me down and died, like the old
goat in the cave. I had also arrived to some little diver-
sions and amusements, which made the time pass more
10 pleasantly with me a great deal than it did before. As,
first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to speak;
and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and
plain, that it was very pleasant to me; and he lived with
me no less than six and twenty years. How long he might
15 live afterwards I know not, though I know they have a
notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred years. Per-
haps poor Poll may be alive there still, calling after poor
Robin Crusoe to this day. I wish no Englishman the
ill luck to come there and hear him; but if he did, he
20 would certainly believe it was the devil. My dog was a
very pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than
sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere old age.
As for my cats, they multiplied, as I have observed, to
that degree that I was obliged to shoot several of them at
25 first to keep them from devouring me and all I had; but
at length, when the two old ones I brought with me were
A Light on the Shore 211
gone, and after some time continually driving them from
me, and letting them have no provision with me, they all
ran wild into the woods, except two or three favorites,
which I kept tame, and whose young, when they had any,
I always drowned; and these were part of my family. 5
Besides these, I always kept two or three household kids
about me, whom I taught to feed out of my hand. And
I had two more parrots, which talked pretty well, and
would all call "Robin Crusoe," but none like my first;
nor, indeed, did I take the pains with any of them that I10
had done with him. I had also several tame seafowls,
whose names I know not, whom I caught upon the shore,
and cut their wings; and the little stakes which I had
planted before my castle wall being now grown up to a
good thick grove, these fowls all lived among these low 15
trees, and bred there, which was very agreeable to me;
so that, as I said above, I began to be very well contented
with the life I led, if it might but have been secured
from the dread of the savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be20
amiss for all people who shall meet with my story, to
make this just observation from it, viz., how frequently,
in the course of our lives, the evil which in itself we seek
most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into it,
is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means 25
or door of our deliverance, by which alone we can be
raised again from the affliction we are fallen into. I
could give many examples of this in the course of my
unaccountable life; but in nothing was it more par-
ticularly remarkable than in the circumstances of my last 30
years of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above,
in my twenty-third year; and this, being the southern
solstice (for winter I cannot call it), was the particular
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty much
abroad in the fields; when, going out pretty early in the
morning, even before it was thorough daylight, I was
surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon the shore,
at a distance from me of about two miles, towards the
5 end of the island, where I had observed some savages
had been, as before. But not on the other side; but, to
my great affliction, it was on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stepped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might
10be surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from
the apprehensions I had that if these savages, in rambling
over the island, should find my corn standing or cut, or
any of my works and improvements, they would im-
mediately conclude that there were people in the place,
15 and would then never give over till they had found me
out. In this extremity I went back directly to -ny castle,
pulled up the ladder after me, and made all things with-
out look as wild and natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
20 posture of defence. I loaded all my cannon, as I called
them, that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and re-
solved to defend myself to the last gasp; not forgetting
seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection, and
25 earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands
of the barbarians. And in this posture I continued about
two hours; but began to be mighty impatient for in-
telligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I
30 should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in
ignorance any longer; so setting up my ladder to the side
of the hill where there was a flat place, as I observed be-
fore, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I set it up
again, and mounted to the top of the hill; and pulling
out my prospective glass, which I had taken on purpose,
I laid me down flat on my belly on the ground, and be-
gan to look for the place. I presently found there was
no less than nine naked savages sitting round a small fire
they had made, not to warm them, for they had no need
of that, the weather being extreme hot, but, as I supposed, 5
to dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh
which they had brought with them, whether alive or dead,
I could not know.
They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, 10
they seemed to me to wait for the return of the flood to
go away again. It is not easy to imagine what confusion
this sight put me into, especially seeing them come on my
side the island, and so near me too. But when I ob-
served their coming must be always with the current of 15
the ebb, I began afterwards to be more sedate in my mind,
being satisfied that I might go abroad with safety all the
time of the tide of flood, if they were not on shore before;
and having made this observation, I went abroad about
my harvest-work with the more composure. 20
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and row
(or paddle, as we call it) all away. I should have ob-
served, that for an hour and more before they went off,
they went to dancing; and I could easily discern their25
postures and gestures by my glasses. I could not per-
ceive, by my nicest observation, but that they were stark
naked, and had not the least covering upon them; but
whether they were men or women, that I could not dis-
tinguish. 30
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle,
and my great sword by my side, without a scabbard, and
with all the speed I was able to make I went away to the
hill where I had discovered the first appearance of all.
And as soon as I gat thither, which was not less than
two hours (for I could not go apace, being so loaden with
arms as I was), I perceived there had been three canoes
more of savages on that place; and looking out farther, I 5 saw they were all at sea together, making over for the
main.
This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when, go-
ing down to the shore, I could see the marks of horror
which the dismal work they had been about had left be-
10 hind it, viz., the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh
of human bodies, eaten and devoured by those wretches
with merriment and sport. I was so filled with indig-
nation at the sight that I began now to premeditate the
destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be who
15 or how many soever.
It seemed evident to me that the visits which they thus
made to this island are not very frequent, for it was
above fifteen months before any more of them came on
shore there again; that is to say, I neither saw them, or
20 any footsteps or signals of them, in all that time; for, as to
the rainy seasons, then they are sure not to come abroad,
at least not so far. Yet all this while I lived uncom-
fortably, by reason of the constant apprehensions I was
in of their coming upon me by surprise; from whence I
25 observe that the expectation of evil is more bitter than
the suffering, especially if there is no room to shake off
that expectation, or those apprehensions.
During all this time I was in the murdering humor,
and took up most of my hours, which should have been
30 better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and
fall upon them the very next time I should see them;
especially if they should be divided, as they were the last
time, into two parties. Nor did I consider at all that if
I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, I was still the
next day, or week, or month, to kill another, and so an-
other, even ad infinitum, till I should be at length no less
a murderer than they were in being man-eaters, and per-
haps much more so.
I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of
mind, expecting that I should, one day or other, fall into 5
the hands of these merciless creatures; and if I did at
any time venture abroad, it was not without looking
round me with the greatest care and caution imaginable.
And now I found, to my great comfort, how happy it
was that I provided for a tame flock or herd of goats; for 10
I durst not, upon any account, fire my gun, especially
near that side of the island where they usually came, lest
I should alarm the savages. And if they had fled from
me now, I was sure to have them come back again, with
perhaps two or three hundred canoes with them, in a few 15
days, and then I knew what to expect.
However, I wore out a year and three months more
before I ever saw any more of the savages, and then I
found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true
they might have been there once or twice, but either they 20
made no stay, or at least I did not hear them; but in the
month of May, as near as I could calculate, and in my
four and twentieth year, I had a very strange encounter
with them; of which in its place.
A SPANISH WRECK
THE perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or
sixteen months' interval, was very great. I slept unquiet,
dreamed always frightful dreams, and often started out
of my sleep in the night. In the day great troubles over-
5 whelmed my mind, and in the night I dreamed often of
killing the savages, and of the reasons why I might justify
the doing of it. But, to waive all this for a while, it was
in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as
well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon, for I
10marked all upon the post still; I say, it was the sixteenth
of May that it blew a very great storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very
foul night it was after it. I know not what was the
particular occasion of it, but as I was reading in the
15 Bible, and taken up with very serious thoughts about my
present condition, I was surprised with a noise of a gun,
as I thought, fired at sea.
This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite different
nature from any I had met with before; for the notions
20 this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind.
I started up in the greatest haste imaginable, and, in a
trice, clapped my ladder to the middle place of the rock,
and pulled it after me; and mounting it the second time,
got to the top of the hill the very moment that a flash of
25 fire bid me listen for a second gun, which accordingly,
in about half a minute, I heard; and, by the sound, knew
216
A Spanish Wreck 217
that it was from that part of the sea where I was driven
down the current in my boat.
I immediately considered that this must be some ship in
distress, and that they had some comrade, or some other
ship in company, and fired these guns for signals of 5
distress, and to obtain help. I had this presence of mind,
at that minute, as to think that though I could not help
them, it may be they might help me; so I brought to-
gether all the dry wood I could get at hand, and, mak-
ing a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill. 10
The wood was dry, and blazed freely; and though the
wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out; so that I
was certain, if there was any such thing as a ship, they
must needs see it, and no doubt they did; for as soon as
ever my fire blazed up I heard another gun, and after 15
that several others, all from the same quarter. I plied
my fire all night long till day broke; and when it was
broad day, and the air cleared up, I saw something at a
great distance at sea, full east of the island, whether a
sail or a hull I could not distinguish, no, not with 20
my glasses, the distance was so great, and the weather
still something hazy also; at least it was so out at
sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move; so I presently concluded that 25
it was a ship at an anchor. And being eager, you may
be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand and
ran toward the south side of the island, to the rocks where
I had formerly been carried away with the current; and
getting up there, the weather by this time being perfectly 30
clear, I could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the wreck
of a ship, cast away in the night upon those concealed
rocks which I found when I was out in my boat; and
which rocks, as they checked the violence of the stream,
and made a kind of counter-stream or eddy, were the oc-
casion of my recovering from the most desperate, hope-
less condition that ever I had been in in all my life.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's de-
struction; for it seems these men, whoever they were,
5 being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly
under water, had been driven upon them in the night,
the wind blowing hard at E. and E. N. E. Had they
seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose they did
not, they must, as I thought, have endeavored to have
10saved themselves on shore by the help of their boat; but
their firing of guns for help, especially when they saw,
as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts.
First, I imagined that upon seeing my light, they might
have put themselves into their boat, and have endeavored
15to make the shore; but that the sea going very high,
they might have been cast away. Other times I imagined
that they might have lost their boat before, as might be
the case many ways; as, particularly, by the breaking of
the sea upon their ship, which many times obliges men to
20 stave, or take in pieces their boat, and sometimes to
throw it overboard with their own hands. Other times
I imagined they had some other ship or ships in company,
who, upon the signals of distress they had made, had
taken them up and carried them off. Other whiles I
25 fancied they were all gone off to sea in their boat, and,
being hurried away by the current that I had been
formerly in, were carried out into the great ocean,
where there was nothing but misery and perishing; and
that, perhaps, they might by this time think of starving,
30 and of being in a condition to eat one another.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the
condition I was in, I could do no more than look on upon
the misery of the poor men, and pity them; which had
still this good effect on my side, that it gave me more
and more cause to give thanks to God, who had so hap-
pily and comfortably provided for me in my desolate con-
dition; and that of two ships' companies who were now
cast away upon this part of the world, not one life should
be spared but mine. I learned here again to observe,
that it is very rare that the providence of God casts us 5
into any condition of life so low, or any misery so great,
but we may see something or other to be thankful for,
and may see others in worse circumstances than our own. Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I
could not so much as see room to suppose any of them 10
were saved. Nothing could make it rational so much as
to wish or expect that they did not all perish there, ex-
cept the possibility only of their being taken up by an-
other ship in company; and this was but mere possibility
indeed, for I saw not the least signal or appearance of 15
any such thing.
I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words, what
a strange longing or hankering of desires I felt in my
soul upon this sight, breaking out sometimes thus: "Oh,
that there had been but one or two, nay, or but one soul, 20
saved out of this ship, to have escaped to me, that I
might but have had one companion, one fellow-creature,
to have spoken to me, and to have conversed with!" In
all the time of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so
strong a desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, 25
or so deep a regret at the want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the affections
which, when they are set agoing by some object in view,
or be it some object, though not in view, yet rendered
present to the mind by the power of imagination, that 30
motion carries out the soul by its impetuosity to such
violent, eager embracings of the object, that the absence
of it is insupportable.
Such were these earnest wishings that but one man
had been saved!" Oh, that it had been but one!" I be-
lieve I repeated the words, "Oh, that it had been but one! " a thousand times; and the desires were so moved by it that when I spoke the words my hands would clinch together, and my ringers press the palms of my 5 hands, that if I had had any soft thing in my hand, it would have crushed it involuntarily; and my teeth in my head would strike together, and set against one another so strong, that for some time I could not part them again. Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason
10 and manner of them. All I can say to them is to de-
scribe the fact, which was even surprising to me when I
found it, though I knew not from what it should pro-
ceed. It was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and of
strong ideas formed in my mind, realizing the comfort
15 which the conversation of one of my fellow-Christians
would have been to me.
But it was not to be. Either their fate or mine, or
both, forbid it; for, till the last year of my being on this
island, I never knew whether any were saved out of that
20ship or no; and had only the affliction, some days after,
to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at the
end of the island which was next the shipwreck. He had
on no clothes but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-
kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing
25 to direct me so much as to guess what nation he was of.
He had nothing in his pocket but two pieces of eight and
a tobacco-pipe. The last was to me of ten times more
value than the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
30 out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might
find something on board that might be useful to me.
But that did not altogether press me so much as the
possibility that there might be yet some living creature
on board, whose life I might not only save, but might,
by saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree.
And this thought clung so to my heart that I could not
be quiet night nor day, but I must venture out in my
boat on board this wreck; and committing the rest to
God's providence, I thought, the impression was so strong
upon my mind that it could not be resisted, that it must 5
come from some invisible direction, and that I should be
wanting to myself if I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back
to my castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a
quantity of bread, a great pot for fresh water, a compass 10
to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a great deal
of that left), a basket full of raisins, and thus, loading
myself with everything necessary, I went down to my
boat, got the water out of her, and got her afloat, loaded
all my cargo in her, and then went home again for more. 15
My second cargo was a great bag full of rice, the um-
brella to set up over my head for shade, another large
pot full of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small
loaves or barley-cakes, more than before, with a bottle of
goat's milk and a cheese; all which, with great labor and 20
sweat, I brought to my boat. And praying to God to di-
rect my voyage, I put out; and rowing, or paddling, the
canoe along the shore, I came at last to the utmost point
of the island on that side, viz., N. E. And now I was
to launch out into the ocean, and either to venture or not 25
to venture. I looked on the rapid currents which ran
constantly on both sides of the island at a distance, and
which were very terrible to me, from the remembrance of
the hazard I had been in before, and my heart began to
fail me; for I foresaw that if I was driven into either of 30
those currents, I should be carried a vast way out to
sea, and perhaps out of my reach, or sight of the island
again; and that then, as my boat was but small, if any
little gale of wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind that I began to
give over my enterprise; and having hauled my boat
into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat
me down upon a little rising bit of ground, very pensive
and anxious, between fear and desire, about my voyage;
5 when, as I was musing, I could perceive that the tide was
turned, and the flood came on; upon which my going was
for so many hours impracticable. Upon this, presently
it occurred to me that I should go up to the highest piece
of ground I could find and observe, if I could, how the 10sets of the tide, or currents, lay when the flood came
in, that I might judge whether, if I was driven one way
out, I might not expect to be driven another way home,
with the same rapidness of the currents. This thought
was no sooner in my head but I cast my eye upon a little 15 hill, which sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways, and
from whence I had a clear view of the currents, or sets of
the tide, and which way I was to guide myself in my return. Here I found, that as the current of the ebb set
out close by the south point of the island, so the current of 20the flood set in close by the shore of the north side; and
that I had nothing to do but to keep to the north of the
island in my return, and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next
morning to set out with the first of the tide, and reposing 25 myself for the night in the canoe, under the great watch-
coat I mentioned, I launched out. I made first a little
out to sea, full north, till I began to feel the benefit of
the current which set eastward, and which carried me
at a great rate; and yet did not so hurry me as the south- 3oern side current had done before, and so as to take from
me all government of the boat; but having a strong steer-
age with my paddle, I went at a great rate directly for the
wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it.
It was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which, by
its building, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between
two rocks. All the stern and quarter of her was beaten
to pieces with the sea; and as her forecastle, which stuck
in the rocks, had run on with great violence, her main-
mast and foremast were brought by the board; that is to
say, broken short off; but her bowsprit was sound, and 5
the head and bow appeared firm. When I came close
to her a dog appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming,
yelped and cried; and as soon as I called him, jumped
into the sea to come to me, and I took him into the boat,
but found him almost dead for hunger and thirst. I gave 10
him a cake of my bread, and he eat it like a ravenous
wolf that had been starving a fortnight in the snow.
I then gave the poor creature some fresh water, with
which, if I would have let him, he would have burst
himself. 15
After this I went on board; but the first sight I met
with was two men drowned in the cook-room, or fore-
castle of the ship, with their arms fast about one another.
I concluded, as is indeed probable, that when the ship
struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke so high, and so 20
continually over her, that the men were not able to bear
it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in of
the water, as much as if they had been under water.
Besides the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that
had life; nor any goods that I could see, but what were25
spoiled by the water. There were some casks of liquor,
whether wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in
the hold, and which, the water being ebbed out, I could
see; but they were too big to meddle with. I saw several
chests, which I believed belonged to some of the seamen; 30
and I got two of them into the boat, without examining
what was in them.
Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the forepart
broken off, I am persuaded I might have made a good
voyage; for by what I found in these two chests, I had
room to suppose the ship had a great deal of wealth on board; and if I may guess by the course she steered, she must have been bound from the Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south part of America, beyond the 5 Brazils, to the Havana, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that time, to anybody; and what became of the rest of her people, I then knew not. I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of
10 liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat
with much difficulty. There were several muskets in a
cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about four pounds
of powder in it. As for the muskets, I had no occasion
for them, so I left them, but took the powder-horn. I
15 took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted extremely;
as also two little brass kettles, a copper pot to make choc-
olate, and a gridiron. And with this cargo, and the dog,
I came away, the tide beginning to make home again; and
the same evening, about an hour within night, I reached
20 the island again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. I reposed that night in the boat; and in the morning
I resolved to harbor what I had gotten in my new cave,
not to carry it home to my castle. After refreshing my-
self, I got all my cargo on shore, and began to examine
25 the particulars. The cask of liquor I found to be a kind
of rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils, and, in a
word, not at all good. But when I came to open the
chests, I found several things of great use to me. For
example, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an ex-
30 traordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, fine, and
very good; the bottles held about three pints each, and
were tipped with silver. I found two pots of very good
succades, or sweetmeats, so fastened also on top that the
salt water had not hurt them; and two more of the same,
which the water had spoiled. I found some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me; and about a
dozen and half of linen white handkerchiefs and colored
neckcloths. The former were also very welcome, being
exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day. Be-
sides this, when I came to the till in the chest, I found 5
there three great bags of pieces of eight, which held out
about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of them,
wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some
small bars or wedges of gold. I suppose they might all
weigh near a pound. 10
The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but
of little value; but by the circumstances, it must have be-
longed to the gunner's mate; though there was no powder
in it, but about two pounds of fine glazed powder, in
three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their 15
fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the whole, I got very
little by this voyage that was of any use to me; for as to
the money, I had no manner of occasion for it; 't was to
me as the dirt under my feet; and I would have given it
all for three or four pair of English shoes and stockings, 20
which were things I greatly wanted, but had not had on
my feet now for many years. I had indeed gotten two
pair of shoes now, which I took off of the feet of the
two drowned men whom I saw in the wreck, and I
found two pair more in one of the chests, which were 25
very welcome to me; but they were not like our English
shoes, either for ease or service, being rather what we
call pumps than shoes. I found in this seaman's chest
about fifty pieces of eight in royals, but no gold. I
suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the other, 30
which seemed to belong to some officer.
Well, however, I lugged this money home to my cave,
and laid it up, as I had done that before which I
brought from our own ship; but it was great pity, as I
said, that the other part of this ship had not come to
my share, for I am satisfied I might have loaded my
canoe several times over with money, which, if I had
ever escaped to England, would have lain here safe
enough till I might have come again and fetched it.
5 Having now brought all my things on shore, and se-
cured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or
paddled her along the shore to her old harbor, where I
laid her up, and made the best of my way to my old
habitation, where I found everything safe and quiet. So
10I began to repose myself, live after my old fashion, and
take care of my family affairs; and, for a while, I lived
easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than I used
to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad so much;
and if at any time I did stir with any freedom, it was
15 always to the east part of the island, where I was pretty
well satisfied the savages never came, and where I could
go without so many precautions, and such a load of
arms and ammunition as I always carried with me if I
went the other way.
MY STRANGE DREAM
I LIVED in this condition near two years more; but my
unlucky head, that was always to let me know it was
born to make my body miserable, was all this two years
filled with projects and designs, how, if it were possible, I
might get away from this island; for sometimes I was 5
for making another voyage to the wreck, though my rea-
son told me that there was nothing left there worth the
hazard of my voyage; sometimes for a ramble one way,
sometimes another; and I believe verily, if I had had the
boat that I went from Sallee in, I should have ventured 10
to sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither.
I have been, in all my circumstances, a memento to
those who are touched with the general plague of man-
kind, whence, for aught I know, one half of their mis-
eries flow; I mean, that of not being satisfied with the 15
station wherein God and Nature has placed them; for
not to look upon my primitive condition, and the excellent
advice of my father, the opposition to which was, as I
may call it, my ORIGINAL SIN, my subsequent mistakes of
the same kind had been the means of my coming into 20
this miserable condition; for had that Providence, which
so happily had seated me at the Brazils as a planter,
blessed me with confined desires, and I could have been
contented to have gone on gradually, I might have been,
by this time, I mean in the time of my being in this 25
island, one of the most considerable planters in the
Brazils; nay, I am persuaded that by the improvements
I had made in that little time I lived there, and the in-
crease I should probably have made if I had stayed, I
might have been worth an hundred thousand moidores.
5 And what business had I to leave a settled fortune, a
well-stocked plantation, improving and increasing, to turn
supercargo to Guinea to fetch negroes, when patience
and time would have so increased our stock at home,
that we could have bought them at our own door from
10those whose business it was to fetch them; and though
it had cost us something more, yet the difference of that
price was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard.
But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so
reflection upon the folly of it is as ordinarily the exercise
15of more years, or of the dear-bought experience of time;
and so it was with me now. And yet, so deep had the
mistake taken root in my temper that I could not satisfy
myself in my station, but was continually poring upon
the means and possibility of my escape from this place.
20 And that I may, with the greater pleasure to the reader,
bring on the remaining part of my story, it may not be
improper to give some account of my first conceptions on
the subject of this foolish scheme for my escape, and how,
and upon what foundation, I acted.
25 I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after
my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and
secured under water, as usual, and my condition restored
to what it was before. I had more wealth, indeed, than
I had before, but was not at all the richer; for I had no
30 more use for it than the Indians of Peru had before the
Spaniards came there.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March,
the four and twentieth year of my first setting foot in
this island of solitariness. I was lying in my bed, or
hammock, awake, very well in health, had no pain, no
My Strange Dream 229
distemper, no uneasiness of body, no, nor any uneasiness
of mind, more than ordinary, but could by no means
close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink all
night long, otherwise than as follows.
It is as impossible as needless to set down the in-5
numerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that
great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this
night's time. I ran over the whole history of my life
in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it, to my
coming to this island, and also of the part of my life 10
since I came to this island. In my reflections upon the
state of my case since I came on shore on this island, I
was comparing the happy posture of my affairs in the
first years of my habitation here compared to the life of
anxiety, fear, and care which I had lived ever since I15
had seen the print of a foot in the sand; not that I
did not believe the savages had frequented the island even
all the while, and might have been several hundreds of
them at times on shore there; but I had never known it,
and was incapable of any apprehensions about it. My 20
satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the same;
and I was as happy in not knowing my danger as if I had
never really been exposed to it. This furnished my
thoughts with many very profitable reflections, and par-
ticularly this one: how infinitely good that Providence is25
which has provided, in its government of mankind, such
narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge of things, and
though he walks in the midst of so many thousand
dangers, the sight of which, if discovered to him, would
distract his mind and sink his spirits, he is kept serene 30
and calm, by having the events of things hid from his
eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which surround
him.
After these thoughts had for some time entertained
me, I came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I
had been in for so many years in this very island, and how
I had walked about in the greatest security and with all
possible tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing but a
brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual approach of
5 night had been between me and the worst kind of de-
struction, viz., that of falling into the hands of cannibals
and savages, who would have seized on me with the same
view as I did of a goat or a turtle, and have thought it
no more a crime to kill and devour me than I did of a
10 pigeon or a curlew. I would unjustly slander myself if
I should say I was not sincerely thankful to my great
Preserver, to whose singular protection I acknowledged,
with great humility, that all these unknown deliverances
were due, and without which I must inevitably have
15 fallen into their merciless hands.
When these thoughts were over, my head was for
some time taken up in considering the nature of these
wretched creatures, I mean the savages, and how it came
to pass in the world that the wise Governor of all things
20should give up any of His creatures to such inhumanity;
nay, to something so much below even brutality itself
as to devour its own kind. But as this ended in some (at
that time fruitless) speculations, it occurred to me to
inquire what part of the world these wretches lived in;
25 how far off the coast was from whence they came; what
they ventured over so far from home for; what kind of
boats they had; and why I might not order myself and
my business so, that I might be as able to go over
thither as they were to come to me.
30 I never so much as troubled myself to consider what
I should do with myself when I came thither; what
would become of me, if I fell into the hands of the sav-
ages; or how I should escape from them, if they at-
tempted me; no, nor so much as how it was possible for
me to reach the coast, and not be attempted by some or
other of them, without any possibility of delivering my-
self; and if I should not fall into their hands, what I
should do for provision, or whither I should bend my
course. None of these thoughts, I say, so much as came
in my way; but my mind was wholly bent upon the no- 5
tion of my passing over in my boat to the mainland. I
looked back upon my present condition as the most mis-
erable that could possibly be; that I was not able to throw
myself into anything, but death, that could be called
worse; that if I reached the shore of the main, I might 10
perhaps meet with relief, or I might coast along, as I
did on the shore of Africa, till I came to some inhabited
country, and where I might find some relief; and after
all, perhaps I might fall in with some Christian ship that
might take me in; and if the worse came to the worst, I15
could but die, which would put an end to all these mis-
eries at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit of a dis-
turbed mind, an impatient temper, made as it were des-
perate by the long continuance of my troubles, and the
disappointments I had met in the wreck I had been on 20
board of, and where I had been so near the obtaining
what I so earnestly longed for, viz., somebody to speak to,
and to learn some knowledge from of the place where I
was, and of the probable means of my deliverance. I
say, I was agitated wholly by these thoughts. All my 25
calm of mind, in my resignation to Providence, and
waiting the issue of the dispositions of Heaven, seemed
to be suspended; and I had, as it were, no power to turn
my thoughts to anything but to the project of a voyage
to the main, which came upon me with such force, and 30
such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to be
resisted.
When this had agitated my thought for two hours,
or more, with such violence that it set my very blood into
a ferment, and my pulse beat as high as if I had been in
a fever, merely with the extraordinary fervor of my mind
about it, Nature, as if I had been fatigued and exhausted
with the very thought of it, threw me into a sound sleep.
One would have thought I should have dreamed of it, but
5 I did not, nor of anything relating to it; but I dreamed
that as I was going out in the morning, as usual, from
my castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven
savages coming to land, and that they brought with
them another savage, whom they were going to kill in
10order to eat him; when, on a sudden, the savage that
they were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his
life. And I thought, in my sleep, that he came running
into my little thick grove before my fortification to hide
himself; and that I, seeing him alone, and not perceiv-
J5 mg that the other sought him that way, showed myself
to him, and smiling upon him, encouraged him; that he
kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to assist him;
upon which I showed my ladder, made him go up, and
carried him into my cave, and he became my servant; and
20 that as soon as I had gotten this man, I said to myself,
"Now I may certainly venture to the mainland; for
this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me
what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and whither
not to go for fear of being devoured; what places to
25 venture into, and what to escape." I waked with this
thought, and was under such inexpressible impressions
of joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream, that the
disappointments which I felt upon coming to myself and
finding it was no more than a dream were equally ex-
30 travagant the other way, and threw me into a very great
dejection of spirit.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion; that my
only way to go about an attempt for an escape was, if
possible, to get a savage into my possession; and, if pos-
sible, it should be one of their prisoners whom they had
condemned to be eaten, and should bring thither to kill.
But these thoughts still were attended with this difficulty,
that it was impossible to effect this without attacking a
whole caravan of them, and killing them all; and this
was not only a very desperate attempt, and might mis- 5
carry, but, on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the
lawfulness of it to me; and my heart trembled at the
thoughts of shedding so much blood, though it was for my
deliverance. I need not repeat the arguments which oc-
curred to me against this, they being the same mentioned 10
before. But though I had other reasons to offer now,
viz., that those men were enemies to my life, and would
devour me if they could; that it was self-preservation, in
the highest degree, to deliver myself from this death of a
life, and was acting in my own defence as much as if they 15
were actually assaulting me, and the like; I say, though
these things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding
human blood for my deliverance were very terrible to me
and such as I could by no means reconcile myself to a
great while. 20
However, at last, after many secret disputes with my-
self, and after great perplexities about it, for all these
arguments, one way and another, struggled in my head
a long time, the eager prevailing desire of deliverance at
length mastered all the rest, and I resolved, if possible, 25
to get one of those savages into my hands, cost what it
would. My next thing, then, was to contrive how to
do it, and this indeed was very difficult to resolve on.
But as I could pitch upon no probable means for it, so I
resolved to put myself upon the watch, to see them when 30
they came on shore, and leave the rest to the event, tak-
ing such measures as the opportunity should present, let
be what would be.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself
upon the scout as often as possible, and indeed so often,
till I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year
and half that I waited; and for great part of that time
went out to the west end, and to the southwest corner
of the island, almost every day, to see for canoes, but
5 none appeared. This was very discouraging, and began
to trouble me much; though I cannot say that it did in
this case, as it had done some time before that, viz., wear
off the edge of my desire to the thing. But the longer it
seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for it. In a
10word, I was not at first so careful to shun the sight of
these savages, and avoid being seen by them, as I was now
eager to be upon them.
Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay,
two or three savages, if I had them, so as to make them
15 entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should direct
them, and to prevent their being able at any time to do me
any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself
with this affair; but nothing still presented. All my
fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no savages came
near me for a great while.
RESCUE OF FRIDAY
ABOUT a year and half after I had entertained these
notions, and by long musing had, as it were, resolved
them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to put
them in execution, I was surprised, one morning early,
with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together 5
on my side the island, and the people who belonged to
them all landed, and out of my sight. The number of
them broke all my measures; for seeing so many, and
knowing that they always came four, or six, or sometimes
more, in a boat, I could not tell what to think of it, or1o
how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty men
single-handed; so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and
discomforted. However, I put myself into all the same
postures for an attack that I had formerly provided, and
was just ready for action if anything had presented. 15
Having waited a good while, listening to hear if they
made any noise, at length, being very impatient, I set my
guns at the foot of my ladder, and clambered up to the
top of the hill, by my two stages, as usual; standing so,
however, that my head did not appear above the hill, so 20
that they could not perceive me by any means. Here I
observed, by the help of my prospective glass, that they
were no less than thirty in number, that they had a fire
kindled, that they had had meat dressed. How they
had cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was; but25
they were all dancing, in I know not how many bar-
235
barous gestures and figures, their own way, round the
fire.
While I was thus looking on them, I perceived by my
prospective two miserable wretches dragged from the
5 boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now
brought out for the slaughter. I perceived one of them
immediately fell, being knocked down, I suppose, with
a club or wooden sword, for that was their way, and two
or three others were at work immediately, cutting him
10 open for their cookery, while the other victim was left
standing by himself, till they should be ready for him.
In that very moment this poor wretch seeing himself a
little at liberty, Nature inspired him with hopes of life,
and he started away from them, and ran with incredible
15 swiftness along the sands directly towards me, I mean
towards that part of the coast where my habitation was.
I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknowledge)
when I perceived him to run my way, and especially
when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the whole
20body; and now I expected that part of my dream was
coming to pass, and that he would certainly take shelter
in my grove; but I could not depend, by any means,
upon my dream for the rest of it, viz., that the other sav-
ages would not pursue him thither, and find him there.
25 However, I kept my station, and my spirits began to re-
cover when I found that there was not above three men
that followed him; and still more was I encouraged when
I found that he outstripped them exceedingly in running,
and gained ground of them; so that if he could but hold
30 it for half an hour, I saw easily he would fairly get
away from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek, which
I mentioned often at the first part of my story, when I
landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly
he must necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would
Rescue of Friday 237
be taken there. But when the savage escaping came
thither he made nothing of it, though the tide was then
up; but plunging in, swam through in about thirty
strokes or thereabouts, landed, and ran on with exceed-
ing strength and swiftness. When the three persons 5
came to the creek, I found that two of them could swim,
but the third could not, and that, standing on the other
side, he looked at the other, but went no further, and
soon after went softly back, which, as it happened, was
very well for him in the main. 10
I observed, that the two who swam were yet more than
twice as long swimming over the creek as the fellow was
that fled from them. It came now very warmly upon
my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was my
time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or as-15 sistant, and that I was called plainly by Providence to
save this poor creature's life. I immediately run down
the ladders with all possible expedition, fetched my two
guns, for they were both but at the foot of the ladders, as
I observed above, and getting up again, with the same 20
haste, to the top of the hill, I crossed toward the sea,
and having a very short cut, and all down hill, clapped
myself in the way between the pursuers and the pursued,
hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, looking back, was
at first perhaps as much frighted at me as at them; but25
I beckoned with my hand to him to come back; and, in
the meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that
followed; then rushing at once upon the foremost, I
knocked him down with the stock of my piece. I was
loath to fire, because I would not have the rest hear 130 though, at that distance, it would not have been easily
heard, and being out of sight of the smoke too, they
would not have easily known what to make of it. Hav-
ing knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued
with him stopped, as if he had been frighted, and I ad-
vanced apace towards him; but as I came nearer, I per-
ceived presently he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting
it to shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to shoot at
him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot.
5 The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he
saw both his enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet
was so frighted with the fire and noise of my piece that
he stood stock still, and neither came forward or went
backward, though he seemed rather inclined to fly still
10 than to come on. I hallooed again to him, and made
signs to come forward, which he easily understood, and
came a little way, then stopped again, and then a little
further, and stopped again; and I could then perceive
that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner,
15 and had just been to be killed, as his two enemies were.
I beckoned him again to come to me, and gave him all
the signs of encouragement that I could think of; and
he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or
twelve steps, in token of acknowledgment for my saving
20 his life. I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly, and
beckoned to him to come still nearer. At length he came
close to me, and then he kneeled down again, kissed the
ground, and laid his head upon the ground, and taking
me by the foot, set my foot upon his head. This, it seems,
25 was in token of swearing to be my slave forever. I took
him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him all I
could. But there was more work to do yet; for I per-
ceived the savage whom I knocked down was not killed,
but stunned with the blow, and began to come to him-
30self; so I pointed to him, and showing him the savage,
that he was not dead, upon this he spoke some words to
me; and though I could not understand them, yet I
thought they were pleasant to hear; for they were the
first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my own ex-
cepted, for above twenty-five years.
But there was no time for such reflections now. The
savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far
as to sit up upon the ground, and I perceived that my
savage began to be afraid; but when I saw that, I pre-
sented my other piece at the man, as if I would shoot 5
him. Upon this my savage, for so I call him now, made
a motion to me to lend him my sword, which hung
naked in a belt by my side; so I did. He no sooner
had it but he runs to his enemy, and, at one blow, cut
off his head as cleverly, no executioner in Germany could 10
have done it sooner or better; which I thought very
strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never saw
a sword in his life before, except their own wooden
swords. However, it seems, as I learned afterwards,
they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and 15
the wood is so hard, that they will cut off heads even
with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow too.
When he had done this, he comes laughing to me in sign
of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and with
abundance of gestures, which I did not understand, laid 20
it down, with the head of the savage that he had killed,
just before me.
But that which astonished him most was to know how
I had killed the other Indian so far off; so pointing to
him, he made signs to me to let him go to him; so I25
bade him go, as well as I could. When he came to
him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him, turned
him first on one side, then on t' other, looked at the
wound the bullet had made, which, it seems, was just
in his breast, where it had made a hole, and no great 30
quantity of blood had followed; but he had bled in-
wardly, for he was quite dead. He took up his bow
and arrows, and came back; so I turned to go away, and
beckoned to him to follow me, making signs to him that
more might come after them.
Upon this he signed to me that he should bury them
with sand; that they might not be seen by the rest if they
followed; and so I made signs again to him to do so. He
fell to work, and in an instant he had scraped a hole in
5 the sand with his hands big enough to bury the first in,
and then dragged him into it, and covered him, and did
so also by the other. I believe he had buried them both
in a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away, I car-
ried him, not to my castle, but quite away to my cave,
10on the farther part of the island; so I did not let my
dream come to pass in that part, viz., that he came into
my grove for shelter.
Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat,
and a draught of water, which I found he was indeed in
15 great distress for, by his running; and having refreshed
him, I made signs for him to go lie down and sleep,
pointing to a place where I had laid a great parcel of
rice-straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep
upon myself sometimes; so the poor creature laid down,
20 and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight strong limbs, not too large, tall and
well-shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years
of age. He had a very good countenance, not a fierce
25 and surly aspect, but seemed to have something very
manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness and
softness of an European in his countenance too, especially
when he smiled. His hair was long and black, not
curled like wool; his forehead very high and large; and a
30 great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The
color of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny;
and yet not of an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the
Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of America
are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive color, that had
in it something very agreeable, though not very easy to
describe. His face was round and plump; his nose
small, not flat like the negroes; a very good mouth, thin
lips, and his fine teeth well set, and white as ivory.
After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half
an hour, he waked again, and comes out of the cave to 5
me, for I had been milking my goats, which I had in the
enclosure just by. When he espied me, he came running
to me, laying himself down again upon the ground, with
all the possib.e signs of an humble, thankful disposition,
making a many antic gestures to show it. At last he 10
lays his head flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and
sets my other foot upon his head, as he had done before,
and after this made all the signs to me of subjection,
servitude, and submission imaginable, to let me know how
he would serve me as long as he lived. I understood him 15
in many things, and let him know I was very well pleased
with him. In a little time I began to speak to him, and
teach him to speak to me; and, first, I made him know
his name should be Friday, which was the day I saved
his life. I called him so for the memory of the time. I 20
likewise taught him to say master, and then let him know
that was to be my name. I likewise taught him to say
Yes and No, and to know the meaning of them. I gave
him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me
drink it before him, and sop my bread in it; and I gave25
him a cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly com-
plied with, and made signs that it was very good for him.
I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as it
was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let
him know I would give him some clothes; at which he30
seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. As we went
by the place where he had buried the two men, he
pointed exactly to the place, and showed me the marks that
he had made to find them again, making signs to me
that we should dig them up again, and eat them. At
this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhorrence of
it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and
beckoned with my hand to him to come away; which he
did immediately, with great submission. I then led him
5 up to the top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone;
and pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the
place where they had been, but no appearance of them or
of their canoes; so that it was plain that they were gone,
and had left their two comrades behind them, without
10 any search after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; but hav-
ing now more courage, and consequently more curiosity,
I takes my man Friday with me, giving him the sword in
his hand, with the bow and arrows at his back, which I
15 found he could use very dexterously, making him carry
one gun for me, and I two for myself, and away we
marched to the place where these creatures had been; for
I had a mind now to get some fuller intelligence of them.
When I came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my
20 veins, and my heart sunk within me, at the horror of the
spectacle. Indeed, it was a dreadful sight, at least it
was so to me, though Friday made nothing of it. The
place was covered with human bones, the ground dyed
with their blood, great pieces of flesh left here and there,
25 half-eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the
tokens of the triumphant feast they had been making
there, after a victory over their enemies. I saw three
skulls, five hands, and the bones of three or four legs
and feet, and abundance of other parts of the bodies; and
30 Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they
brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that three of
them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself,
was the fourth; that there had been a great battle be-
tween them and their next king, whose subjects it seems
he had been one of, and that they had taken a great num-
her of prisoners; all which were carried to several places
by those that had taken them in the fight, in order to
feast upon them, as was done here by these wretches upon
those they brought hither.
I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, 5
and whatever remained, and lay them together on a heap,
and make a great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes.
I found Friday had still a hankering stomach after some
of the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature; but I
discovered so much abhorrence at the very thoughts of 10
it, and at the least appearance of it, that he durst not
discover it; for I had, by some means, let him know that
I would kill him if he offered it.
When we had done this we came back to our castle,
and there I fell to work for my man Friday; and, first 15
of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had
out of the poor gunner's chest I mentioned, and which I
found in the wreck; and which, with a little alteration,
fitted him very well. Then I made him a jerkin of
goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow, and I was 20
now grown a tolerable good tailor; and I gave him a
cap, which I had made of a hareskin, very convenient and
fashionable enough; and thus he was clothed for the
present tolerably well, and was mighty well pleased to
see himself almost as well clothed as his master. It is 25
true he went awkwardly in these things at first; wearing
the drawers was very awkward to him, and the sleeves
of the waistcoat galled his shoulders, and the inside of
his arms; but a little easing them where he complained
they hurt him, and using himself to them, at length he 30
took to them very well.
The next day after I came home to my hutch with him,
I began to consider where I should lodge him. And
that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly easy
myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant place
between my two fortifications, in the inside of the last
and in the outside of the first; and as there was a door
or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed
door-case, and a door to it of boards, and set it up in
5 the passage, a little within the entrance; and causing the
door to open on the inside, I barred it up in the night,
taking in my ladders too; so that Friday could no way
come at me in the inside of my innermost wall without
making so much noise in getting over that it must needs
10 waken me; for my first wall had now a complete roof
over it of long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning
up to the side of the hill, which was again laid cross with
smaller sticks instead of laths, and then thatched over a
great thickness with the rice-straw, which was strong,
15 like reeds; and at the hole or place which was left to go
in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap-door,
which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would not
have opened at all, but would have fallen down, and
made a great noise; and as to weapons, I took them
20 all into my side every night.
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than
Friday was to me; without passions, sullenness, or de-
signs, perfectly obliged and engaged; his very affections
25 were tied to me, like those of a child to a father; and I
dare say he would have sacrificed his life for the saving
mine, upon any occasion whatsoever. The many testi-
monies he gave me of this put it out of doubt, and soon
convinced me that I needed to use no precautions as to
30 my safety on his account.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and
that with wonder, that however it had pleased God,
in His Providence, and in the government of the works
of His hands, to take from so great a part of the world of
His creatures the best uses to which their faculties and
the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that He has
bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason,
the same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and
obligation, the same passions and resentments of wrongs,
the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the 5
capacities of doing good and receiving good, that He has
given to us; and that when He pleases to offer to them
occasions of exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more
ready, to apply them to the right uses for which they were
bestowed than we are. And this made me very melan-10
choly sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions
presented, how mean a use we make of all these, even
though we have these powers enlightened by the great
lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God, and by the knowl-
edge of His Word added to our understanding; and why it 15
has pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge from so
many millions of souls, who, if I might judge by this poor
savage, would make a much better use of it than we did.
From hence, I sometimes was led too far to invade the
sovereignty of Providence, and as it were arraign the 20
justice of so arbitrary a disposition of things, that should
hide that light from some, and reveal it to others, and
yet expect a like duty from both. But I shut it up, and
checked my thoughts with this conclusion: first, that we
did not know by what light and law these should be con-25
demned; but that as God was necessarily, and, by the na-
ture of His being, infinitely holy and just, so it could not
be but that if these creatures were all sentenced to ab-
sence from Himself, it was on account of sinning against
that light, which, as the Scripture says, was a law 1030
themselves, and by such rules as their consciences would
acknowledge to be just, though the foundation was not
discovered to us; and, second, that still, as we are all the
clay in the hand of the potter, no vessel could say to Him,
'' Why hast Thou formed me thus?"
But to return to my new companion. I was greatly
delighted with him, and made it my business to teach him
everything that was proper to make him useful, handy,
and helpful; but especially to make him speak, and un-
5 derstand me when I spake. And he was the aptest
scholar that ever was; and particularly was so merry, so
constantly diligent, and so pleased when he could but
understand me, or make me understand him, that it was
very pleasant to me to talk to him. And now my life
10 began to be so easy that I began to say to myself, that
could I but have been safe from more savages, I cared
not if I was never to remove from the place while I lived.
After I had been two or three days returned to my
castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday off from
15 his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of a can-
nibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other flesh; so I
took him out with me one morning to the woods. I
went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of my own flock,
and bring him home and dress it; but as I was going, I
20 saw a she goat lying down in the shade, and two young
kids sitting by her. I catched hold of Friday. "Hold,"
says I, "stand still," and made signs to him not to stir.
Immediately I presented my piece, shot and killed one
of the kids. The poor creature, who had, at a distance
25 indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not
know, or could imagine, how it was done, was sensibly
surprised, trembled and shook, and looked so amazed
that I thought he would have sunk down. He did not
see the kid I had shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but
30 ripped up his waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded;
and, as I found presently, thought I was resolved to kill
him; for he came and kneeled down to me, and embrac-
ing my knees, said a great many things I did not under-
stand; but I could easily see that the meaning was to
pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do
him no harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at
him, and pointing to the kid which I had killed, beck-
oned to him to run and fetch it, which he did; and while
he was wondering, and looking to see how the creature 5
was killed, I loaded my gun again; and by and by I saw
a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree, within shot;
so, to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I
called him to me again, pointing at the fowl, which was
indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been a hawk; 10
I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the
ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make it
fall, I made him understand that I would shoot and kill
that bird. Accordingly I fired, and bade him look, and
immediately he saw the parrot fall. He stood like one 15
frighted again, notwithstanding all I had said to him;
and I found he was the more amazed, because he did not
see me put anything into the gun, but thought that there
must be some wonderful fund of death and destruction
in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or anything 20
near or far off; and the astonishment this created in him
was such as could not wear off for a long time; and I be-
lieve, if I would have let him, he would have worshipped
me and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would not so
much as touch it for several days after; but would speak25
to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he
was by himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him,
was to desire it not to kill him.
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this,
I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, 30
which he did, but stayed some time; for the parrot, not
being quite dead, was fluttered a good way off from the
place where she fell. However, he found her, took her
up, and brought her to me; and as I had perceived his
ignorance about the gun before, I took this advantage to
charge the gun again, and not let him see me do it, that I
might be ready for any other mark that might present.
But nothing more offered at that time; so I brought
home the kid, and the same evening I took the skin off,
5 and cut it out as well as I could; and having a pot for
that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and
made some very good broth; and after I had begun to
eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad
of it, and liked it very well; but that which was strangest
10 to him was to see me eat salt with it. He made a sign
to me that the salt was not good to eat, and putting a
little into his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and
would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth with
fresh water after it. On the other hand, I took some
15 meat in my mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit
and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at
the salt. But it would not do; he would never care for
salt with his meat or in his broth; at least, not a great
while, and then but a very little.
so Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I
resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a piece
of the kid. This I did by hanging it before the fire in
a string, as I had seen many people do in England, set-
ting two poles up, one on each side of the fire, and one
25 cross on the top, and tying the string to the cross stick,
letting the meat turn continually. This Friday admired
very much. But when he came to taste the flesh, he
took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it, that
I could not but understand him; and at last he told me
30 he would never eat man's flesh any more, which I was
very glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some corn
out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I ob-
served before; and he soon understood how to do it as
well as I, especially after he had seen what the meaning
of it was, and that it was to make bread of; for after
that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it too;
and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work
for me, as well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider that, having two mouths to 5
feed instead of one, I must provide more ground for my
harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to
do; so I marked out a larger piece of land, and began the
fence in the same manner as before, in which Friday not
only worked very willingly and very hard, but did it very 10
cheerfully; and I told him what it was for; that it was
for corn to make more bread, because he was now with
me, and that I might have enough for him and myself
too. He appeared very sensible of that part, and let me
know that he thought I had much more labor upon me on 15
his account than I had for myself; and that he would
work the harder for me, if I would tell him what to do.
CONVERSATIONS WITH FRIDAY
THIS was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in
this place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and un-
derstand the names of almost everything I had occasion
to call for, and of every place I had to send him to, and
5 talk a great deal to me; so that, in short, I began now
to have some use for my tongue again, which, indeed,
I had very little occasion for before, that is to say, about
speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had
a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself. His simple,
10 unfeigned honesty appeared to me more and more every
day, and I began really to love the creature; and, on his
side, I believe he loved me more than it was possible for
him ever to love anything before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering in-
15clination to his own country again; and having learned
him English so well that he could answer me almost any
questions, I asked him whether the nation that he be-
longed to never conquered in battle? At which he
smiled, and said, "Yes, yes, we always fight the better;"
20 that is, he meant, always get the better in fight; and so we
began the following discourse: "You always fight the
better," said I. "How came you to be taken prisoner
then, Friday?"
Friday. My nation beat much for all that.
25 Master. How beat? If your nation beat them, how
came you to be taken?
350
Conversations with Friday 251
Friday. They more many than my nation in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me. My
nation overheat them in the yonder place, where me no
was; there my nation take one, two, great thousand.
Master. But why did not your side recover you 5
from the hands of your enemies then?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make
go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation
do with the men they take? Do they carry them away 10
and eat them, as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place where they think.
Master. Do they come hither? 15
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else
place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here. (Points to the N. W. side
of the island, which, it seems, was their side.) 20
By this I understood that my man Friday had for-
merly been among the savages who used to come on shore
on the farther part of the island, on the same man-
eating occasions that he was now brought for; and, some
time after, when I took the courage to carry him to that 25
side, being the same I formerly mentioned, he presently
knew the place, and told me he was there once when they
eat up twenty men, two women, and one child. He
could not tell twenty in English, but he numbered them
by laying so many stones on a row, and pointing to me 30
to tell them over.
I have told this passage, because it introduces what
follows; that after I had had this discourse with him, I
asked him how far it was from our island to the shore,
and whether the canoes were not often lost. He told
me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that,
after a little way out to the sea, there was a current and a
wind, always one way in the morning, the other in the
afternoon.
5 This I understood to be no more than the sets of
the tide, as going out or coming in; but I afterwards
understood it was occasioned by the great draught and
reflux of the mighty river Orinoco, in the mouth or the
gulf of which river, as I found afterwards, our island
10lay; and this land which I perceived to the W. and
N. W. was the great island Trinidad, on the north point
of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand
questions about the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the
coast, and what nation were near. He told me all he
15 knew, with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked
him the names of the several nations of his sort of people,
but could get no other name than Caribs; from whence I
easily understood that these were the Caribbees, which our
maps place on the part of America which reaches from
20 the mouth of the river Orinoco to Guiana, and onwards
to St. Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond
the moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon,
which must be W. from their country, there dwelt white-
bearded men, like me, and pointed to my great whiskers,
25 which I mentioned before; and that they had killed
much mans,—that was his word; by all which I un-
derstood he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in
America had been spread over the whole countries, and
was remembered by all the nations from father to
30 son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might come
from this island and get among those white men. He
told me, "Yes, yes, I might go in two canoe." I could
not understand what he meant, or make him describe to
me what he meant by two canoe; till at last, with great
difficulty, I found he meant it must be in a large great
boat, as big as two canoes.
This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me
very well; and from this time I entertained some hopes
that, one time or other, I might find an opportunity to 5
make my escape from this place, and that this poor sav-
age might be a means to help me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been with
me, and that he began to speak to me, and understand
me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of religious 10
knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked him one time,
Who made him? The poor creature did not understand
me at all, but thought I had asked who was his father.
But I took it by another handle, and asked him who
made the sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills and 15
woods? He told me it was one old Benamuckee, that
lived beyond all. He could describe nothing of this
great person, but that he was very old, much older, he
said, than the sea or the land, than the moon or the stars.
I asked him then, if this old person had made all things, 20
why did not all things worship him? He looked very
grave, and with a perfect look of innocence said, "All
things do say O to him." I asked him if the people
who die in his country went away anywhere? He said,
"Yes, they all went to Benamuckee." Then I asked 25
him whether these they eat up went thither too? He
said, "Yes."
From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him that the great
Maker of all things lived up there, pointing up towards 30
heaven; that He governs the world by the same power
and providence by which He had made it; that He was
omnipotent, could do everything for us, give everything
to us, take everything from us; and thus, by degrees, I
opened his eyes. He listened with great attention, and
received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being
sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making our
prayers to God, and His being able to hear us, even into
heaven. He told me one day that if our God could
5 hear us up beyond the sun, He must needs be a greater
God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a little way
off, and yet could not hear till they went up to the great
mountains where he dwelt to speak to him. I asked him
if he ever went thither to speak to him? He said, No;
10 they never went that were young men; none went thither
but the old men, whom he called their Oowokakee, that is,
as I made him explain it to me, their religious, or clergy;
and that they went to say O (so he called saying
prayers), and then came back, and told them what Bena-
15muckee said. By this I observed that there is priestcraft
even amongst the most blinded, ignorant pagans in the
world; and the policy of making a secret religion in order
to preserve the veneration of the people to the clergy is
not only to be found in the Roman, but perhaps among
20 all religions in the world, even among the most brutish
and barbarous savages.
I endeavored to clear up this fraud to my man Fri-
day, and told him that the pretence of their old men go-
ing up to the mountains to say O to their god Bena-
25 muckee was a cheat, and their bringing word from
thence what he said was much more so; that if they met
with any answer, or spoke with any one there, it must
be with an evil spirit; and then I entered into a long dis-
course with him about the devil, the original of him, his
30 rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the reason of
it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the world
to be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the
many stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to
their ruin; how he had a secret access to our passions and
to our affections, to adapt his snares so to our inclinations
as to cause us even to be our own tempters, and to run
upon our destruction by our own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in
his mind about the devil as it was about the being of a
God. Nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to 5
him even the necessity of a great First Cause and over-
ruling, governing Power, a secret directing Providence,
and of the equity and justice of paying homage to Him
that made us, and the like. But there appeared nothing
of all this in the notion of an evil spirit; of his original, 10
his being, his nature, and above all, of his inclination to
do evil, and to draw us in to do so too; and the poor
creature puzzled me once in such a manner by a question
merely natural and innocent, that I scarce knew what
to say to him. I had been talking a great deal to him 15
of the power of God, His omnipotence, His dreadful
aversion to sin, His being a consuming fire to the workers
of iniquity; how, as He had made us all, He could de-
stroy us and all the world in a moment; and he listened
with great seriousness to me all the while. 20
After this I had been telling him how the devil was
God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his malice
and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence, and
to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world, and the like.
"Well," says Friday, "but you say God is so strong, so 25
great; is He not much strong, much might as the devil?"
"Yes, yes," says I, "Friday, God is stronger than the
devil; God is above the devil, and therefore we pray to
God to tread him down under our feet, and enable us to
resist his temptations, and quench his fiery darts." 30
"But," says he again, "if God much strong, much might
as the devil, why God no kill the devil, so make him no
more do wicked?"
I was strangely surprised at this question; and after
all, though I was now an old man, yet I was but a young
doctor, and ill enough qualified for a casuist, or a solver
of difficulties; and at first I could not tell what to say;
so I pretended not to hear him, and asked him what he
said. But he was too earnest for an answer to forget
5 his question, so that he repeated it in the very same
broken words as above. By this time I had recovered
myself a little, and I said, "God will at last punish him
severely; he is reserved for the judgment, and is to be
cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with everlasting
10fire." This did not satisfy Friday; but he returns upon
me, repeating my words, "Reserve at last! me no under-
stand; but why not kill the devil now? not kill great
ago?" "You may as well ask me," said I, "why God
does not kill you and I when we do wicked things here
15 that offend Him; we are preserved to repent and be par-
doned." He muses awhile at this. "Well, well," says
he, mighty affectionately, "that well; so you, I, devil,
all wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all." Here
I was run down again by him to the last degree, and it
20 was a testimony to me how the mere notions of nature,
though they will guide reasonable creatures to the knowl-
edge of a God, and of a worship or homage due to the
supreme being of God, as the consequence of our na-
ture, yet nothing but Divine revelation can form the
25 knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of a redemption pur-
chased for us, of a Mediator of the new covenant, and of
an Intercessor at the footstool of God's throne; I say,
nothing but a revelation from heaven can form these in
the soul, and that therefore the Gospel of our Lord and
30 Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the Word of God, and
the Spirit of God, promised for the guide and sanctifier
of His people, are the absolutely necessary instructors
of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of God,
and the means of salvation.
I therefore diverted the present discourse between me
and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden oc-
casion of going out; then sending him for something a
good way off, I seriously prayed to God that He would
enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage, assisting,
by His Spirit, the heart of the poor ignorant creature5
to receive the light of the knowledge of God in Christ,
reconciling him to Himself, and would guide me to speak
so to him from the Word of God as his conscience might
be convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved. When
he came again to me, I entered into a long discourse with 10
him upon the subject of the redemption of man by the
Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel
preached from heaven, viz., of repentance towards God,
and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained
to him as well as I could why our blessed Redeemer took 15
not on Him the nature of angels, but the seed of Abra-
ham; and how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no
share in the redemption; that He came only to the lost
sheep of the house of Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in ao
all the methods I took for this poor creature's instruc-
tion, and must acknowledge, what I believe all that act
upon the same principle will find, that in laying things
open to him, I really informed and instructed myself in
many things that either I did not know, or had not fully 25
considered before, but which occurred naturally to my
mind upon my searching into them for the information
of this poor savage. And I had more affection in my
inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever I felt
before; so that whether this poor wild wretch was the30
better for me or no, I had great reason to be thankful
that ever he came to me. My grief set lighter upon me,
my habitation grew comfortable to me beyond measure;
and when I reflected, that in this solitary life which I
had been confined to, I had not only been moved my-
self to look up to heaven, and to seek to the Hand that
had brought me there, but was now to be made an in-
strument, under Providence, to save the life and, for
aught I know, the soul of a poor savage, and bring him
5 to the true knowledge of religion and of the Christian
doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus, to know whom
is life eternal;—I say, when I reflected upon all these
things, a secret joy run through every part of my soul,
and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was brought to this
10 place, which I had so often thought the most dreadful
of all afflictions that could possibly have befallen me.
In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of
my time, and the conversation which employed the hours
between Friday and I was such as made the three years
15 which we lived there together perfectly and completely
happy, if any such thing as complete happiness can be
found in a sublunary state. The savage was now a good
Christian, a much better than I; though I have reason to
hope, and bless God for it, that we were equally penitent,
20 and comforted, restored penitents. We had here the
Word of God to read, and no farther off from His
Spirit to instruct than if we had been in England.
I always applied myself to reading the Scripture, to
let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what I
25 read; and he again, by his serious inquiries and questions,
made me, as I said before, a much better scholar in the
Scripture knowledge than I should ever have been by my
own private mere reading. Another thing I cannot re-
frain from observing here also, from experience in this
30 retired part of my life, viz., how infinite and inexpressible
a blessing it is that the knowledge of God, and of the
doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid
down in the Word of God, so easy to be received and
understood; that as the bare reading the Scripture made
me capable of understanding enough of my duty to
carry me directly on to the great work of sincere re-
pentance for my sins, and laying hold of a Saviour for life
and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice, and
obedience to all God's commands, and this without any
teacher or instructor (I mean human); so the same plain5
instruction sufficiently served to the enlightening this
savage creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian
as I have known few equal to him in my life.
As to all the disputes, wranglings, strife, and conten-
tion which has happened in the world about religion, 10
whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes of church gov-
ernment, they were all perfectly useless to us; as, for
aught I can yet see, they have been to all the rest in the
world. We had the sure guide to heaven, viz., the
Word of God; and we had, blessed be God, comfortable 15
views of the Spirit of God teaching and instructing us
by His Word, leading us into all truth, and making us
both willing and obedient to the instruction of His
Word; and I cannot see the least use that the greatest
knowledge of the disputed points in religion, which have 20
made such confusions in the world, would have been to
us if we could have obtained it. But I must go on
with the historical part of things, and take every part in
its order.
OUR HANDSOME BOAT
AFTER Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all I
said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken Eng-
lish, to me, I acquainted him with my own story, or at
5 least so much of it as related to my coming into the place;
how I had lived there, and how long. I let him into
the mystery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder and
bullet, and taught him how to shoot; I gave him a knife,
which he was wonderfully delighted with, and I made
10 him a belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as in Eng-
land we wear hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a
hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as
good a weapon in some cases, but much more useful upon
other occasions.
15 I described to him the country of Europe, and par-
ticularly England, which I came from; how we lived,
how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one an-
other, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the
world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I had
20 been on board of, and showed him, as near as I could,
the place where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces
before, and gone.
I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost
when we escaped, and which I could not stir with my
25 whole strength then, but was now fallen almost all to
pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a
260
Our Handsome Boat 261
great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was
he studied upon. At last says he, "Me see such boat
like come to place at my nation."
I did not understand him a good while; but at last,
when I had examined further into it, I understood by him 5
that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore upon
the country where he lived; that is, as he explained it,
was driven thither by stress of weather. I presently
imagined that some European ship must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose and 10
drive ashore; but was so dull that I never once thought
of men making escape from a wreck thither, much less
whence they might come; so I only inquired after a de-
scription of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but 15
brought me better to understand him when he added
with some warmth, "We save the white mans from
drown." Then I presently asked him if there was any
white mans, as he called them, in the boat. "Yes," he
said, "the boat full of white mans." I asked him how20
many. He told upon his fingers seventeen. I asked
him then what became of them. He told me, "They
live, they dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently
imagined that these might be the men belonging to the 25
ship that was cast away in sight of my island, as I now
call it; and who, after the ship was struck on the rock,
and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves
in their boat, and were landed upon that wild shore
among the savages. 30
Upon this I inquired of him more critically what was
become of them. He assured me they lived still there;
that they had been there about four years; that the sav-
ages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live. I
asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them,
and eat them. He said, "No, they make brother with
them;" that is, as I understood him, a truce; and then
he added, "They no eat mans but when make the war
fight; " that is to say, they never eat any men but such as
5 come to fight with them and are taken in battle.
It was after this some considerable time that being
on the top of the hill, at the east side of the island
(from whence, as I have said, I had in a clear day dis-
covered the main or continent of America), Friday, the
10 weather being very serene, looks very earnestly towards
the mainland, and, in a kind of surprise, falls a-jumping
and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some
distance from him. I asked him what was the matter.
"O joy!" says he, "O glad! there see my country, there
15my nation!"
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared
in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance dis-
covered a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in
his own country again; and this observation of mine put
20 a great many thoughts into me, which made me at first
not so easy about my new man Friday as I was before;
and I made no doubt but that if Friday could get back to
his own nation again, he would not only forget all his
religion, but all his obligation to me; and would be for-
25 ward enough to give his countrymen an account of me,
and come back perhaps with a hundred or two of them,
and make a feast upon me, at which he might be as
merry as he used to be with those of his enemies, when
they were taken in war.
30 But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very sorry afterwards. However, as
my jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I was
a little more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind
to him as before; in which I was certainly in the wrong
too, the honest, grateful creature having no thought
about it but what consisted with the best principles,
both as a religious Christian and as a grateful friend, as
appeared afterwards to my full satisfaction.
While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I
was every day pumping him, to see if he would discovers
any of the new thoughts which I suspected were in him;
but I found everything he said was so honest and so in-
nocent that I could find nothing to nourish my suspicion;
and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at last
entirely his own again, nor did he in the least perceive 10
that I was uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him
of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the conti-
nent, I called to him, and said, "Friday, do not you wish 15
yourself in your own country, your own nation?"
"Yes," he said, "I be much O glad to be at my own
nation." "What would you do there?" said I. "Would
you turn wild again, eat men's flesh again, and be a
savage as you were before?" He looked full of con-20
cern, and shaking his head said, "No, no; Friday tell
them to live good; tell them to pray God; tell them to
eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no eat man again."
"Why then," said I to him, "they will kill you." He
looked grave at that, and then said, "No, they no kill 25
me, they willing love learn." He meant by this they
would be willing to learn. He added, they learned much
of the bearded mans that come in the boat. Then I
asked him if he would go back to them. He smiled at
that, and told me he could not swim so far. I told 30
him I would make a canoe for him. He told me he
would go if I would go with him. "I go!" says I;
"why, they will eat me if I come there." "No, no,"
says he, "me make they no eat you; me make they much
love you." He meant, he would tell them how I had
killed his enemies, and saved his life, and so he would
make them love me. Then he told me, as well as he
could, how kind they were to seventeen white men, or
bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore there
5 in distress.
From this time I confess I had a mind to venture
over, and see if I could possibly join with these bearded
men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Por-
tuguese; not doubting but, if I could, we might find
10 some method to escape from thence, being upon the con-
tinent, and a good company together, better than I could
from an island forty miles off the shore, and alone,
without help. So, after some days, I took Friday to
work again, by way of discourse, and told him I would
15 give him a boat to go back to his own nation; and ac-
cordingly I carried him to my frigate, which lay on the
other side of the island, and having cleared it of water,
for I always kept it sunk in the water, I brought it out,
showed it him, and we both went into it.
20 I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing
it, would make it go almost as swift and fast again as I
could. So when he was in I said to him, "Well now,
Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He looked very
dull at my saying so, which, it seems, was because he
25 thought the boat too small to go so far. I told him
then I had a bigger; so the next day I went to the place
where the first boat lay which I had made, but which I
could not get into water. He said that was big enough;
but then, as I had taken no care of it, and it had lain
30 two or three and twenty years there, the sun had split
and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten. Friday
told me such a boat would do very well, and would
carry "much enough victual, drink, bread;" that was his
way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my
design of going over with him to the continent, that I
told him we would go and make one as big as that, and
he should go home in it. He answered not one word,
but looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was
the matter with him? He asked me again thus, "Whys
you angry mad with Friday? what me done?" I asked
him what he meant. I told him I was not angry with
him at all. "No angry! no angry!" says he, repeating
the words several times. "Why send Friday home away
to my nation?" "Why," says I, "Friday, did you not1o
say you wished you were there?" "Yes, yes," says he,
"wish be both there; no wish Friday there no master
there." In a word, he would not think of going there
without me. "I go there, Friday!" says I; "what
shall I do there?" He turned very quick upon me at 15
this: "You do great deal much good," says he; "you
teach wild mans to be good, sober, tame mans; you tell
them know God, pray God, and live new life." '' Alas!
Friday," says I, "thou knowest not what thou sayest. I
am but an ignorant man myself." "Yes, yes," says he,20
"you teachee me good, you teachee them good." "No,
no, Friday," says I, "you shall go without me; leave
me here to live by myself, as I did before." He looked
confused again at that word, and running to one of the
hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, 25
comes and gives it me. "What must I do with this?"
says I to him. "You take kill Friday," says he. "What
must I kill you for?" said I again. He returns very
quick, "What you send Friday away for? Take kill
Friday, no send Friday away." This he spoke s030
earnestly that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word,
I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in him to me,
and a firm resolution in him, that I told him then, and
often after, that I would never send him away from me
if he was willing to stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a
settled affection to me, and that nothing should part
him from me, so I found all the foundation of his desire
to go to his own country was laid in his ardent affection
5 to the people, and his hopes of my doing them good; a
thing which, as I had no notion of myself, so I had not the
least thought or intention or desire of undertaking it.
But still I found a strong inclination to my attempting an
escape, as above, founded on the supposition gathered
10 from the discourse, viz., that there were seventeen
bearded men there; and, therefore, without any more
delay I went to work with Friday to find out a great
tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or canoe,
to undertake the voyage. There were trees enough in
15 the island to have built a little fleet, not of periaguas and
canoes, but even of good large vessels. But the main
thing I looked at was, to get one so near the water
that we might launch it when it was made, to avoid the
mistake I committed at first.
20 At last Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he
knew much better than I what kind of wood was fittest
for it; nor can I tell, to this day, what wood to call the
tree we cut down, except that it was very like the tree
we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua wood,
25 for it was much of the same color and smell. Friday
was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to
make it for a boat, but I showed him how rather to cut it
out with tools; which, after I had showed him how to
use, he did very handily; and in about a month's hard
30labor we finished it, and made it very handsome; espe-
cially when, with our axes, which I showed him how to
handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape
of a boat. After this, however, it cost us near a fort-
night's time to get her along, as it were inch by
inch, upon great rollers into the water; but when she
was in, she would have carried twenty men with great
ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was so
big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity and how
swift my man Friday would manage her, turn her, and 5
paddle her along. So I asked him if he would, and if
we might venture over in her. "Yes," he said, "he ven-
ture over in her very well, though great blow wind."
However, I had a farther design that he knew nothing
of, and that was to make a mast and sail, and to fit her 10
with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy
enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight young cedar-
tree, which I found near the place, and which there was
great plenty of in the island; and I set Friday to work to
cut it down, and gave him directions how to shape and 15
order it. But as to the sail, that was my particular care.
I knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of old sails
enough; but as I had had them now twenty-six years by
me, and had not been very careful to preserve them, not
imagining that I should ever have this kind of use for 20
them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten, and, in-
deed, most of them were so. However, I found two
pieces which appeared pretty good, and with these I
went to work, and with a great deal of pains, and awk-
ward, tedious stitching (you may be sure) for want of 25
needles, I at length made a three-cornered ugly thing,
like what we call in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail,
to go with a boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at
the top, such as usually our ships' long-boats sail with,
and such as I best knew how to manage; because it was30
such a one as I had to the boat in which I made my
escape from Barbary, as related in the first part of my
story.
I was near two months performing this last work, viz.,
rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished
them very complete, making a small stay, and a sail, or
foresail, to it, to assist, if we should turn to windward;
and, which was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the
stern of her to steer with; and though I was but a
5 bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the usefulness, and
even necessity, of such a thing, I applied myself with so
much pains to do it that at last I brought it to pass;
though, considering the many dull contrivances I had for
it that failed, I think it cost me almost as much labor
10 as making the boat.
After all this was done, too, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat;
for though he knew very well how to paddle a canoe, he
knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a rudder; and
15 was the most amazed when he saw me work the boat to
and again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail
jibbed, and filled this way, or that way, as the course we
sailed changed; I say, when he saw this, he stood like one
astonished and amazed. However, with a little use I
20 made all these things familiar to him, and he became an
expert sailor, except that as to the compass I could make
him understand very little of that. On the other hand,
as there was very little cloudy weather, and seldom or
never any fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion
25 for a compass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by
night, and the shore by day, except in the rainy seasons,
and then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land or
sea.
I was now entered on the seven and twentieth year of
30my captivity in this place; though the three last years
that I had this creature with me ought rather to be left
out of the account, my habitation being quite of another
kind than in all the rest of the time. I kept the anni-
versary of my landing here with the same thankfulness
to God for His mercies as at first; and if I had such
cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more so
now, having such additional testimonies of the care of
Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of being
effectually and speedily delivered; for I had an invincible
impression upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at 5
hand, and that I should not be another year in this place.
However, I went on with my husbandry, digging, plant-
ing, fencing, as usual. I gathered and cured my grapes,
and did every necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was, in the meantime, upon me, when 10
I kept more within doors than at other times; so I had
stowed our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing
her up into the creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I
landed my rafts from the ship; and hauling her up to
the shore at high-water mark, I made my man Friday dig 15
a little dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep
enough to give her water enough to float in; and then,
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam cross the
end of it, to keep the water out; and so she lay dry, as
to the tide from the sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid 20
a great many boughs of trees, so thick that she was as well
thatched as a house; and thus we waited for the month
of November and December, in which I designed to make
my adventure.
DESPERATE ENCOUNTER WITH CANNIBALS
WHEN the settled season began to come in, as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather, I
was preparing daily for the voyage; and the first thing I
did was to lay by a certain quantity of provisions, being
5 the stores for our voyage; and intended, in a week or a
fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our
boat. I was busy one morning upon something of this
kind, when I called to Friday, and bid him go to the sea-
shore and see if he could find a turtle, or tortoise, a
10 thing which we generally got once a week, for the sake of
the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long
gone when he came running back, and flew over my outer
wall, or fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the
steps he set his feet on; and before I had time to speak to
15him, he cries out to me, "O master! O master! O sor-
row! O bad!" "What 's the matter, Friday?" says I.
"O yonder, there," says he, "one, two, three canoe! one,
two, three!" By his way of speaking, I concluded there
were six; but, on inquiry, I found it was but three.
20"Well, Friday," says I, "do not be frighted." So I
heartened him up as well as I could. However, I saw
the poor fellow was most terribly scared; for nothing ran
in his head but that they were come to look for him, and
would cut him in pieces, and eat him; and the poor fellow
25 trembled so that I scarce knew what to do with him. I
comforted him as well as I could, and told him I was in
270
Desperate Encounter with Cannibals 271
as much danger as he, and that they would eat me as well
as him. "But," says I, "Friday, we must resolve to
fight them. Can you fight, Friday?" "Me shoot,"
says he; "but there come many great number." "No
matter for that," said I again; "our guns will fright5
them that we do not kill." So I asked him whether, if I
resolved to defend him, he would defend me, and stand
by me, and do just as I bid him. He said, "Me die
when you bid die, master." So I went and fetched a
good dram of rum, and gave him; for I had been so good 10
a husband of my rum that I had a great deal left. When
he had drank it, I made him take the two fowling-
pieces, which we always carried, and load them with
large swan-shot, as big as small pistol-bullets. Then I
took four muskets, and loaded them with two slugs and 15
five small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with
a brace of bullets each. I hung my great sword, as
usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my prospec-
tive glass, and went up to the side of the hill to see 20
what I could discover; and I found quickly, by my glass,
that there were one and twenty savages, three prisoners,
and three canoes, and that their whole business seemed
to be the triumphant banquet upon these three human
bodies; a barbarous feast indeed, but nothing more than, 25
as I had observed, was usual with them.
I observed also that they were landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer
to my creek, where the shore was low, and where a
thick wood came close almost down to the sea. This, 30
with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches
came about, filled me with such indignation that I came
down again to Friday, and told him I was resolved to
go down to them, and kill them all, and asked him if he
would stand by me. He was now gotten over his fright,
and his spirits being a little raised with the dram I had
given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before,
he would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms
5 which I had charged, as before, between us. I gave Fri-
day one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon
his shoulder; and I took one pistol, and the other three
myself, and in this posture we marched out. I took a
small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a
10 large bag with more powder and bullet; and as to orders,
I charged him to keep close behind me, and not to stir,
or shoot, or do anything, till I bid him, and in the mean-
time not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched a
compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get
15 over the creek as to get into the wood, so that I might
come within shot of them before I should be discovered,
which I had seen, by my glass, it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, my former thoughts
returning, I began to abate my resolution. I do not
20 mean that I entertained any fear of their number; for as
they were naked, unarmed wretches, 't is certain I was
superior to them; nay, though I had been alone. But it
occurred to my thoughts what call, what occasion, much
less what necessity, I was in to go and dip my hands in
25 blood, to attack people who had neither done or intended
me any wrong; who, as to me, were innocent, and whose
barbarous customs were their own disaster; being in
them a token indeed of God's having left them, with the
other nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity,
30 and to such inhuman courses; but did not call me to take
upon me to be a judge of their actions, much less an ex-
ecutioner of His justice; that whenever He thought fit,
He would take the cause into His own hands, and by
national vengeance punish them, as a people, for na-
tional crimes; but that, in the meantime, it was none of
my business; that, it was true, Friday might justify it,
because he was a declared enemy, and in a state of war
with those very particular people, and it was lawful
for him to attack them; but I could not say the same with
respect to me. These things were so warmly pressed 5
upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved
I would only go and place myself near them, that I
might observe their barbarous feast, and that I would act
then as God should direct; but that, unless something
offered that was more a call to me than yet I knew of, I10
would not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood, and with all
possible wariness and silence, Friday following close at
my heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood,
on the side which was next to them; only that one cor-15
ner of the wood lay between me and them. Here I
called softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree,
which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade him
go to the tree and bring me word if he could see there
plainly what they were doing. He did so, and came im-2o
mediately back to me, and told me they might be plainly
viewed there; that they were all about their fire, eating
the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that another lay
bound upon the sand, a little from them, which, he said,
they would kill next; and, which fired all the very soul25
within me, he told me it was not one of their nation, but
one of the bearded men, whom he had told me of, that
came to their country in the boat. I was filled with
horror at the very naming the white, bearded man; and
going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a white 30
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his hands
and his feet tied with flags, or things like rushes, and
that he was an European, and had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it,
about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I
was, which, by going a little way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then I should be within half shot of them; so I withheld my passion, though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going 5 back about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the way till I came to the other tree; and then I came to a little rising ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about eighty yards. I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the
10 dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled
together, and had just sent the other two to butcher the
poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to
their fire; and they were stooped down to untie the bands
at his feet. I turned to Friday: " Now, Friday," said I,
15" do as I bid thee." Friday said he would. "Then,
Friday," says I, "do exactly as you see me do; fail in
nothing." So I set down one of the muskets and the
fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did the like by
his; and with the other musket I took my aim at the sav-
20 ages, bidding him do the like. Then asking him if he
v-as ready, he said, "Yes." "Then fire at them," said I;
and the same moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I that on
the side that he shot he killed two of them, and wounded
25 three more; and on my side I killed one, and wounded
two. They were, you may be sure, in a dreadful con-
sternation; and all of them who were not hurt jumped
up upon their feet, but did not immediately know which
way to run, or which way to look, for they knew not
30 from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his
eyes close upon me that, as I had bid him, he might ob-
serve what I did; so as soon as the first shot was made I
threw down the piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and
Friday did the like. He sees me cock and present; he
did the same again. "Are you ready, Friday?" said I.
"Yes," says he. "Let fly, then," says I, "in the name
of God!" and with that I fired again among the amazed
wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now
loaded with what I called swan-shot, or small pistol-
bullets, we found only two drop, but so many were 5
wounded that they ran about yelling and screaming like
mad creatures, all bloody, and miserably wounded most
of them; whereof three more fell quickly after, though
not quite dead.
"Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged 10
pieces, and taking up the musket which was yet loaded,
"follow me," says I, which he did with a great deal of
courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood, and
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon
as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, 15
and bade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I
could, which, by the way, was not very fast, being
loaden with arms as I was, I made directly towards the
poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or
shore, between the place where they sat and the sea. The 20
two butchers, who were just going to work with him,
had left him at the surprise of our first fire, and fled in
a terrible fright to the seaside, and had jumped into a
canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way. I
turned to Friday, and bid him step forwards and fire 25
at them. He understood me immediately, and running
arout forty yards, to be near them, he shot at them, and I
thought he had killed them all, for I saw them all fall
of a heap into the boat; though I saw two of them up
again quickly. However, he killed two of them, and 30
wounded the third, so that he lay down in the bottom of
the boat as if he had been dead.
While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my
knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and
loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked
him in the Portuguese tongue what he was. He an-
swered in Latin, "Christianus;" but was so weak and
faint that he could scarce stand or speak. I took my
bottle out of my pocket and gave it him, making signs
5 that he should drink, which he did; and I gave him a
piece of bread, which he eat. Then I asked him what
countryman he was, and he said, "Espagniole;" and be-
ing a little recovered, let me know, by all the signs he
could possibly make, how much he was in my debt for his
10 deliverance. "Seignior," said I, with as much Spanish
as I could make up, "we will talk afterwards, but we
must fight now. If you have any strength left, take this
pistol and sword, and lay about you." He took them
very thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms in his
15 hands but, as if they had put new vigor into him, he flew
upon his murderers like a fury, and had cut two of them
in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole
was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so
much frighted with the noise of our pieces that they fell
20 down for mere amazement and fear, and had no more
power to attempt their own escape than their flesh had
to resist our shot; and that was the case of those five
that Friday shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell
with the hurt they received, so the other two fell with
25 the fright.
I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
Spaniard my pistol and sword. So I called to Friday,
and bade him run up to the tree from whence we first
30 fired, and fetch the arms which lay there that had been
discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and then
giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load all the
rest again, and bade them come to me when they wanted.
While I was loading these pieces, there happened a
fierce engagement between the Spaniard and one of the
savages, who made at him with one of their great wooden
swords, the same weapon that was to have killed him be-
fore if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as
bold and as brave as could be imagined, though weak, had
fought this Indian a good while, and had cut him two 5
great wounds on his head; but the savage being a stout,
lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him down,
being faint, and was wringing my sword out of his
hand, when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quit-
ting the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the 10 savage through the body, and killed him upon the spot,
before I, who was running to help him, could come near
him.
Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches with no weapon in his hand but his 15
hatchet; and with that he despatched those three who,
as I said before, were wounded at first, and fallen, and
all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling-
pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and 20
wounded them both; but as he was not able to run,
they both got from him into the wood, where Friday
pursued them, and killed one of them; but the other was
too nimble for him, and though he was wounded, yet
had plunged himself into the sea, and swam with all 25
his might off to those two who were left in the canoe;
which three in the canoe, with one wounded, who we
know not whether he died or no, were all that escaped
our hands of one and twenty. The account of the rest
is as follows:— 30
3 killed at our first shot from the tree.
2 killed at the next shot.
2 killed by Friday in the boat.
2 killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.
1 killed by ditto in the wood.
3 killed by the Spaniard.
4 killed, being found dropped here and there of
their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase
of them. ( 4 escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if
not dead.
21 in all.
FRIDAY AND HIS FATHER
THOSE that were in the canoe worked hard to get out
of gun-shot; and though Friday made two or three shots
at them, I did not find that he hit any of them. Fri-
day would fain have had me take one of their canoes, and
pursued them; and, indeed, I was very anxious about 5
their escape, lest carrying the news home to their people
they should come back perhaps with two or three hun-
dred of their canoes, and devour us by mere multitude.
So I consented to pursue them by sea, and running to one
of their canoes I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me. 10
But when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find
another poor creature lie there alive, bound hand and
foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost
dead with fear, not knowing what the matter was; for
he had not been able to look up over the side of the boat, 15
he was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had been tied
so long that he had really but little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him up;
but he could not stand or speak, but groaned most 20
piteously, believing, it seems, still that he was only un-
bound in order to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my bottle,
made him give the poor wretch a dram; which, with the25
news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat up
279
in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him speak,
and look in his face, it would have moved any one to
tears to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced
him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
5 danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands, beat
his own face and head, and then sung and jumped about
again, like a distracted creature. It was a good while
before I could make him speak to me, or tell me what
was the matter; but when he came a little to himself, he
10 told me that it was his father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to
see what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this
poor savage at the sight of his father, and of his being
delivered from death; nor, indeed, can I describe half the
15 extravagancies of his affection after this; for he went
into the boat, and out of the boat, a great many times.
When he went in to him, he would sit down by him,
open his breast, and hold his father's head close to his
bosom, half an hour together, to nourish it; then he took
20 his arms and ankles, which were numbed and stiff with
the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his hands;
and I, perceiving what the case was, gave him some rum
out of my bottle to rub them with, which did them a
great deal of good.
25 This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now gotten almost out
of sight; and it was happy for us that we did not, for it
blew so hard within two hours after, and before they
could be gotten a quarter of their way, and continued
30 blowing so hard all night, and that from the northwest,
which was against them, that I could not suppose their
boat could live, or that they ever reached to their own
coast.
But to return to Friday. He was so busy about his
father that I could not find in my heart to take him
Friday and His Father 281
off for some time; but after I thought he could leave
him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping
and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme. Then
I asked him if he had given his father any bread. He
shook his head, and said, "None; ugly dog eat all up5
self." So I gave him a cake of bread out of a little
pouch I carried on purpose. I also gave him a dram
for himself, but he would not taste it, but carried it to
his father. I had in my pocket also two or three
bunches of my raisins, so I gave him a handful of1o
them for his father. He had no sooner given his father
these raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat and
run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such a
rate; for he was the swiftest fellow of his foot that ever
I saw. I say, he run at such a rate that he was out of 15
sight, as it were, in an instant; and though I called, and
hallooed too, after him, it was all one, away he went;
and in a quarter of an hour I saw him come back again,
though not so fast as he went; and as he came nearer I
found his pace was slacker, because he had something in 20
his hand.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father some
fresh water, and that he had got two more cakes or
loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, but the water 25
he carried to his father. However, as I was very thirsty
too, I took a little sup of it. This water revived his
father more than all the rum or spirits I had given
him, for he was just fainting with thirst.
When his father had drank, I called to him to know 30
if there was any water left. He said, "Yes;" and I
bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as
much want of it as his father; and I sent one of the
cakes, that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who
was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upon
a green place under the shade of a tree; and whose limbs
were also very stiff, and very much swelled with the
rude bandage he had been tied with. When I saw that
upon Friday's coming to him with the water he sat up and
5 drank, and took the bread, and began to eat, I went to
him, and gave him a handful of raisins. He looked up
in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankful-
ness that could appear in any countenance; but was so
weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted himself in the
10 fight, that he could not stand up upon his feet. He tried
to do it two or three times, but was really not able, his
ankles were so swelled and so painful to him; so I bade
him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and
bathe them with rum, as he had done his father's.
15 I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here,
turned his head about to see if his father was in the same
place and posture as he left him sitting; and at last he
found he was not to be seen; at which he started up,
20 and, without speaking a word, flew with that swiftness
to him that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch
the ground as he went. But when he came, he only
found he had laid himself down to ease his limbs; so
Friday came back to me presently, and I then spoke to
25 the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could,
and lead him to the boat, and then he should
carry him to our dwelling, where I would take care of
him. But Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the
Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him away
30 to the boat, and set him down softly upon the side or
gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it, and
then lifted him quite in, and set him close to his father;
and presently, stepping out again, launched the boat off,
and paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk,
though the wind blew pretty hard too. So he brought
them both safe into our creek, and leaving them in the
boat, runs away to fetch the other canoe. As he passed
me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went. He
told me, "Go fetch more boat." So away he went like
the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like him; and 5
he had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I
got to it by land; so he wafted me over, and then went
to help our new guests out of the boat, which he did; but
they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor Fri-
day knew not what to do. 10
To remedy this I went to work in my thought, and
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while
he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay
them on, and Friday and I carried them up both to-
gether upon it between us. But when we got them to 15
the outside of our wall, or fortification, we were at a
worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them
over, and I was resolved not to break it down. So I set
to work again; and Friday and I, in about two hours'
time, made a very handsome tent, covered with old sails, 20
and above that with boughs of trees, being in the space
without our outward fence, and between that and the
grove of young wood which I had planted; and here we
made them two beds of such things as I had, viz., of
good rice-straw, with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and 25
another to cover them, on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself
very rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection, which
I frequently made, how like a king I looked. First of
all, the whole country was my own mere property, so 30
that I had an undoubted right of dominion. Secondly,
my people were perfectly subjected. I was absolute lord
and lawgiver; they all owed their lives to me, and were
ready to lay down their lives, if there had been occasion
of it, for me. It was remarkable, too, we had but three
subjects, and they were of three different religions. My
man Friday was a Protestant, his father was a Pagan
and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist. How-
ever, I allowed liberty of conscience throughout my
5 dominions. But this is by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued pris-
oners, and given them shelter and a place to rest them
upon, I began to think of making some provision for
them; and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday to
10 take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of
my particular flock, to be killed; when I cut off the
hinder-quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set
Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them
a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth, hav-
15 ing put some barley and rice also into the broth; and as
I cooked it without doors, for I made no fire within my
inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and
having set a table there for them, I sat down and ate my
own dinner also with them, and as well as I could
20cheered them, and encouraged them; Friday being my in-
terpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to the
Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language of
the savages pretty well.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Fri-
25 day to take one of the canoes and go and fetch our
muskets and other firearms, which, for want of time, we
had left upon the place of battle; and the next day I
ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages,
which lay open to the sun, and would presently be of-
30 fensive; and I also ordered him to bury the horrid re-
mains of their barbarous feast, which I knew were pretty
much, and which I could not think of doing myself; nay,
I could not bear to see them, if I went that way. All
which he punctually performed, and defaced the very
appearance of the savages being there; so that when I
went again I could scarce know where it was, otherwise
than by the corner of the wood pointing to the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my
two new subjects; and first, I set Friday to inquire of
his father what he thought of the escape of the savages 5
in that canoe, and whether we might expect a return of
them, with a power too great for us to resist. His first
opinion was, that the savages in the boat never could live
out the storm which blew that night they went off, but
must, of necessity, be drowned, or driven south to those 10
other shores, where they were as sure to be devoured as
they were to be drowned if they were cast away. But
as to what they would do if they came safe on shore, he
said he knew not; but it was his opinion that they were
so dreadfully frighted with the manner of their being at-15
tacked, the noise, and the fire, that he believed they
would tell their people they were all killed by thunder
and lightning, not by the hand of man; and that the two
which appeared, viz., Friday and me, were two heav-
enly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy them, and 20
not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew, because
he heard them all cry out so in their language to one an-
other; for it was impossible to them to conceive that a
man could dart fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a
distance without lifting up the hand, as was done now. 25
And this old savage was in the right; for, as I under-
stood since by other hands, the savages never attempted
to go over to the island afterwards. They were so ter-
rified with the accounts given by those four men (for, it
seems, they did escape the sea), that they believed who-30
ever went to that enchanted island would be destroyed
with fire from the gods. This, however, I knew not, and
therefore was under continual apprehensions for a good
while, and kept always upon my guard, me and all my
army; for as we were now four of us, I would have
ventured upon a hundred of them, fairly in the open
field, at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of their coming wore off, and I began to take my 5 former thoughts of a voyage to the main into considera-
tion; being likewise assured, by Friday's father, that I
might depend upon good usage from their nation, on his
account, if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a
10 serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I under-
stood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and
Portuguese, who, having been cast away, and made their
escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with
the savages, but were very sore put to it for necessaries,
15 and indeed for life. I asked him all the particulars
of their voyage, and found they were a Spanish ship
bound from the Rio de la Plata to the Havana, being
directed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly
hides and silver, and to bring back what European goods
20they could meet with there; that they had five Por-
tuguese seamen on board, whom they took out of an-
other wreck; that five of their own men were drowned
when the first ship was lost, and that these escaped,
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost
25 starved, on the cannibal coast, where they expected to
have been devoured every moment.
He told me they had some arms with them, but they
were perfectly useless, for that they had neither powder
or ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their
30 powder but a little, which they used, at their first land-
ing, to provide themselves some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them
there, and if they had formed no design of making any
escape. He said they had many consultations about it;
but that having neither vessel, or tools to build one, or
provisions of any kind, their councils always ended in
tears and despair.
I asked him how he thought they would receive a
proposal from me, which might tend towards an escape;
and whether, if they were all here, it might not be done. 5
I told him with freedom, I feared mostly their treachery
and ill usage of me if I put my life in their hands; for
that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of
man, nor did men always square their dealings by the
obligations they had received, so much as they did by the 10
advantages they expected. I told him it would be very
hard that I should be the instrument of their deliver-
ance, and that they should afterwards make me their pris-
oner in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to
be made a sacrifice, what necessity or what accident so-15
ever brought him thither; and that I had rather be deliv-
ered up to the savages, and be devoured alive, than fall
into the merciless claws of the priests, and be carried into
the Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I was persuaded,
if they were all here, we might, with so many hands, build 20
a bark large enough to carry us all away, either to the
Brazils, southward, or to the islands or Spanish coast,
northward; but that if, in requital, they should, when I
had put weapons into their hands, carry me by force
among their own people, I might be ill used for my 25
kindness to them, and make my case worse than it was be-
fore.
He answered, with a great deal of candor and ingenu-
ity, that their condition was so miserable, and they were
so sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the 30
thought of using any man unkindly that should con-
tribute to their deliverance; and that, if I pleased, he
would go to them with the old man, and discourse with
them about it, and return again, and bring me their an-
swer; that he would make conditions with them upon
their solemn oath that they should be absolutely under
my leading, as their commander and captain; and that
they should swear upon the holy sacraments and the gos-
pel to be true to me, and to go to such Christian country
5 as that I should agree to, and no other, and to be directed
wholly and absolutely by my orders till they were landed
safely in such country as I intended; and that he would
bring a contract from them, under their hands, for that
purpose.
10 Then he told me he would first swear to me himself,
that he would never stir from me as long as he lived till I
gave him orders; and that he would take my side to the
last drop of his blood, if there should happen the least
breach of faith among his countrymen.
15 He told me they were all of them very civil, honest
men, and they were under the greatest distress imaginable,
having neither weapons or clothes, or any food, but at the
mercy and discretion of the savages; out of all hopes of
ever returning to their own country; and that he was
20 sure, if I would undertake their relief, they would live
and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve
them, if possible, and to send the old savage and this
Spaniard over to them to treat. But when we had gotten
25 all things in a readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started
an objection, which had so much prudence in it on one
hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that I
could not but be very well satisfied in it, and by his ad-
vice put off the deliverance of his comrades for at least
30 half a year. The case was thus.
He had been with us now about a month, during
which time I had let him see in what manner I had pro-
vided, with the assistance of Providence, for my sup-
port; and he saw evidently what stock of corn and rice
I had laid up; which, as it was more than sufficient for
myself, so it was not sufficient, at least without good hus-
bandry, for my family, now it was increased to number
four; but much less would it be sufficient if his country-
men, who were, as he said, fourteen, still alive, should
come over; and least of all would it be sufficient to vict-5
ual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage to
any of the Christian colonies of America. So he told
me he thought it would be more advisable to let him
and the two others dig and cultivate some more land, as
much as I could spare seed to sow; and that we should 10
wait another harvest, that we might have a supply of
corn for his countrymen when they should come; for
want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not
to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one
difficulty into another. "You know," says he, "the 15
children of Israel, though they rejoiced at first for their
being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even against
God Himself, that delivered them, when they came to
want bread in the wilderness."
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, 20
that I could not but be very well pleased with his pro-
posal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity. So we
fell to digging all four of us, as well as the wooden tools
we were furnished with permitted; and in about a
month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we 25
had gotten as much land cured and trimmed up as we
sowed twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of
rice; which was, in short, all the seed we had to spare;
nor, indeed, did we leave ourselves barley sufficient
for our own food for the six months that we had 30
to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning from the
time we set our seed aside for sowing; for it is not
to be supposed it is six months in the ground in that
country.
Having now society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had
come, unless their number had been very great, we went
freely all over the island, wherever we found occasion;
and as here we had our escape or deliverance upon our
5 thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me, to have the
means of it out of mine. To th's purpose I marked out
several trees which I thought fit for our work, and I set
Friday and his father to cutting them down; and then
I caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thought
10 on that affair, to oversee and direct their work. I showed
them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large
tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the like,
till they had made about a dozen large planks of good
oak, near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from
15 two inches to four inches thick. What prodigious labor
it took up, any one may imagine.
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and to this pur-
pose I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one day,
20 and myself with Friday the next day, for we took our
turns, and by this means we got above twenty young
kids to breed up with the rest; for whenever we shot
the dam, we saved the kids, and added them to our flock.
But above all, the season for curing the grapes coming on,
25I caused such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in
the sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicant, where
the raisins of the sun are cured, we could have filled sixty
or eighty barrels; and these, with our bread, was a great
part of our food, and very good living too, I assure you;
30 for it is an exceeding nourishing food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order. It
was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enough to answer our end;
for from our twenty-two bushels of barley we brought
in and thrashed out above two hundred and twenty bush-
els, and the like in proportion of the rice; which was
store enough for our food to the next harvest, though all
the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or if
we had been ready for a voyage, it would very plenti-
fully have victualled our ship to have carried us to any 5
part of the world, that is to say, of America.
When we had thus housed and secured our magazine
of corn, we fell to work to make more wicker work, viz.,
great baskets, in which we kept it; and the Spaniard was
very handy and dexterous at this part, and often blamed 10
me that I did not make some things for defence of this
kind of work; but I saw no need of it.
And now having a full supply of food for all the
guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over
to the main, to see what he could do with those he had 15
left behind him there. I gave him a strict charge in
writing not to bring any man with him who would not
first swear, in the presence of himself and of the old
savage, that he would no way injure, fight with, or at-
tack the person he should find in the island, who was so 20
kind to send for them in order to their deliverance; but
that they would stand by and defend him against all such
attempts, and wherever they went would be entirely un-
der and subjected to his commands; and that this should
be put in writing, and signed with their hands. How 25
we were to have this done, when I knew they had
neither pen or ink, that indeed was a question which we
never asked.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old
savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the 30
canoes which they might be said to come in, or rather
were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be de-
voured by the savages.
I gave each of them a musket, with a firelock on it,
and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging
them to be very good husbands of both, and not to use
either of them but upon urgent occasion.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-
5 seven years and some days. I gave them provisions of
bread and of dried grapes sufficient for themselves for
many days, and sufficient for all their countrymen for
about eight days' time; and wishing them a good voyage,
I see them go, agreeing with them about a signal they
10 should hang out at their return, by which I should know
them again, when they came back, at a distance, before
they came on shore.
They went away with a fair gale on the day that the
moon was at full, by my account in the month of Oc-
15tober; but as for an exact reckoning of days, after I had
once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor had I
kept even the number of years so punctually as to be
sure that I was right, though as it proved, when I after-
wards examined my account, I found I had kept a true
reckoning of years.
AN ENGLISH SHIP SIGHTED
IT was no less than eight days I had waited for
them, when a strange and unforeseen accident inter-
vened, of which the like has not perhaps been heard of in
history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning,
when my man Friday came running in to me, and called 5
aloud, "Master, master, they are come, they are come!"
I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as
soon as I could get my clothes on, through my little
grove, which, by the way, was by this time grown to be
a very thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went 10
without my arms, which was not my custom to do; but I
was surprised when, turning my eyes to the sea, I pres-
ently saw a boat at about a league and half's distance
standing in for the shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail,
as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring 15
them in; also I observed presently that they did not come
from that side which the shore lay on, but from the
southernmost end of the island. Upon this I called Fri-
day in, and bid him lie close, for these were not the peo-
ple we looked for, and that we might not know yet 20
whether they were friends or enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my prospective
glass, to see what I could make of them; and having taken
the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I
used to do when I was apprehensive of anything, and to 25
take my view the plainer, without being discovered.
293
I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor at about two
leagues and an half's distance from me, south-southeast,
but not above a league and an half from the shore. By
5 my observation, it appeared plainly to be an English ship,
and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in; though the
joy of seeing a ship, and one who I had reason to be-
lieve was manned by my own countrymen, and conse-
zoquently friends, was such as I cannot describe. But yet
I had some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell
from whence they came, bidding me keep upon my
guard. In the first place, it occurred to me to consider
what business an English ship could have in that part of
15 the world, since it was not the way to or from any part
of the world where the English had any traffic; and I
knew there had been no storms to drive them in there, as
in distress; and that if they were English really, it was
most probable that they were here upon no good design;
20 and that I had better continue as I was than fall into the
hands of thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger which sometimes are given him when he may
think there is no possibility of its bein~ real. That such
25 hints and notices are given us, I believe few that have
made any observations of things can deny; that they are
certain discoveries of an invisible world, and a converse
of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the tendency of
them seems to be to warn us of danger, why should we
30 not suppose they are from some friendly agent,—whether
supreme, or inferior and subordinate, is not the ques-
tion,—and that they are given for our good? The
present question abundantly confirms me in the justice of
this reasoning; for had I not been made cautious by this
secret admonition, come it from whence it will, I had
An English Ship Sighted 295
been undone inevitably, and in a far worse condition than
before, as you will see presently.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I saw
the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a
creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing. 5
However, as they did not come quite far enough, they
did not see the little inlet where I formerly landed my
rafts; but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at
about half a mile from me, which was very happy for me;
for otherwise they would have landed just, as I may say, 10
at my door, and would soon have beaten me out of my
castle, and perhaps have plundered me of all I had.
When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied that
they were Englishmen, at least most of them; one or
two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so. 15
There were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I
found were unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and when
the first four or five of them were jumped on shore, they
took those three out of the boat, as prisoners. One of
the three I could perceive using the most passionate 20
gestures of entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind
of extravagance; the other two, I could perceive, lifted
up their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned in-
deed, but not to such a degree as the first.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not 25
what the meaning of it should be. Friday called out to
me in English as well as he could, "O master! you see
English mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans."
"Why," says I, "Friday, do you think they are a-going
to eat them then?" "Yes," says Friday, "they will eat 30
them." "No, no," says I, "Friday, I am afraid they
will murder them indeed, but you may be sure they will
not eat them."
All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight, expecting every moment when the three prisoners
should be killed; nay, once I saw one of the villains lift
up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it, or
sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I expected to
5 see him fall every moment, at which all the blood in my
body seemed to run chill in my veins.
I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage
that was gone with him; or that I had any way to
have come undiscovered within shot of them, that I
10 might have rescued the three men, for I saw no fire-
arms they had among them; but it fell out to my mind
another way.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the
three men by the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows
15 lun scattering about the land, as if they wanted to see
the country. I observed that the three other men had
liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat down
all three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked like
men in despair.
20 This put me in mind of the first time when I came
on shore, and began to look about me; how I gave my-
self over for lost; how wildly I looked round me; what
dreadful apprehensions I had; and how I lodged in the
tree all night, for fear of being devoured by wild beasts.
25 As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was to
receive by the providential driving of the ship nearer the
land by the storms and tide, by which I have since been
so long nourished and supported; so these three poor
desolate men knew nothing how certain of deliverance
30 and supply they were, how near it was to them, and how
effectually and really they were in a condition of safety,
at the same time that they thought themselves lost, and
their case desperate.
So little do we see before us in the world, and so
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the
great Maker of the world, that He does not leave His
creatures so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst
circumstances, they have always something to be thankful
for, and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they
imagine; nay, are even brought to their deliverance by5
the means by which they seem to be brought to their de-
struction.
It was just at the top of high-water when these peo-
ple came on shore; and while partly they stood parley-
ing with the prisoners they brought, and partly while they 10
rambled about to see what kind of a place they were in,
they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent, and
the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their
boat aground.
They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found 15
afterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, fell
asleep. However, one of them waking sooner than the
other, and finding the boat too fast aground for him to
stir it, hallooed for the rest, who were straggling about,
upon which they all soon came to the boat; but it was20
past all their strength to launch her, the boat being very
heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand,
almost like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps
the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave 25
it over, and away they strolled about the country again;
and I heard one of them say aloud to another, calling
them off from the boat, "Why, let her alone, Jack, can't
ye? she will float next tide; " by which I was fully con-
firmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they 30
were.
All this while I kept myself very close, not once daring
to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place
of observation near the top of the hill; and very glad I
was to think how well it was fortified. I knew it was
no less than ten hours before the boat could be on float
again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might
be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear their
discourse, if they had any. 5 In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as
before, though with more caution, knowing I had to
do with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I
ordered Friday also, whom I had made an excellent
marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms. I
10 took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three
muskets. My figure, indeed, was very fierce. I had my
formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I have
mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my
belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
15 It was my design, as I said above, not to have made
any attempt till it was dark; but about two o'clock, be-
ing the heat of the day, I found that, in short, they were
all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I thought,
were laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed men,
20 too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were,
however, set down under the shelter of a great tree, at
about a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I thought,
out of sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and
25 learn something of their condition. Immediately I
marched in the figure as above, my man Friday at a
good distance behind me, as formidable for his arms as I,
but not making quite so staring a spectre-like figure as I
did.
30 I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then,
before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in
Spanish, "What are ye, gentlemen?"
They started up at the noise, but were ten times more
confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure
that I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought
I perceived them just going to fly from me, when I
spoke to them in English. "Gentlemen," said I, "do
not be surprised at me; perhaps you may have a friend
near you, when you did not expect it." "He must be
sent directly from heaven then," said one of them very 5
gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time
to me, "for our condition is past the help of man."
"All help is from heaven, sir," said I. "But can you
put a stranger in the way how to help you, for you seem
to me to be in some great distress? I saw you when 10
you landed; and when you seemed to make applications
to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift
up his sword to kill you."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, "Am I15
talking to God, or man? Is it a real man, or an
angel?" "Be in no fear about that, sir," said I. "If
God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come
better clothed, and armed after another manner than you
see me in. Pray lay aside your fears; I am a man, an20
Englishman, and disposed to assist you, you see. I have
one servant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell us
freely, can we serve you? What is your case?"
"Our case," said he "sir, is too long to tell you
while our murderers are so near; but in short, sir, I was25
commander of that ship; my men have mutinied against
me, they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder
me; and at last have set me on shore in this desolate
place, with these two men with me, one my mate, the
other a passenger, where we expected to perish, believing 30
the place to be uninhabited, and know not yet what to
think of it."
"Where are those brutes, your enemies? " said I. "Do
you know where they are gone?" "There they lie, sir,"
said he, pointing to a thicket of trees. "My heart trem-
bles for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak. If
they have, they will certainly murder us all."
"Have they any firearms?" said I. He answered,
they had only two pieces, and one which they left in the
5 boat. "Well then," said I, "leave the rest to me, I
see they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to kill them
all; but shall we rather take them prisoners?" He told
me there were two desperate villains among them that it
was scarce safe to show any mercy to; but if they were
10 secured, he believed all the rest would return to their
duty. I asked him which they were. He told me he
could not at that distance describe them, but he would
obey my orders in anything I would direct. "Well,"
says I, "let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest
15 they awake, and we will resolve further." So they will-
ingly went back with me, till the woods covered us from
them.
"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your de-
liverance, are you willing to make two conditions with
20me?" He anticipated my proposals, by telling me that
both he and the ship, if recovered, should be wholly di-
rected and commanded by me in everything; and if the
ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me
in what part of the world soever I would send him; and
25 the two other men said the same.
"Well," says I, "my conditions are but two. 1. That while you stay on this island with me, you will
not pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms into
yours hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them up
30 to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this
island; and in the meantime, be governed by my orders.
2. That if the ship is, or may be, recovered, you will
carry me and my man to England, passage free."
He gave me all the assurances that the invention and
faith of man could devise that he would comply with
these most reasonable demands; and, besides, would owe
his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions, as
long as he lived.
"Well then," said I, "here are three muskets for
you, with powder and ball; tell me next what you think5
is proper to be done." He showed all the testimony of his
gratitude that he was able, but offered to be wholly
guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard ven-
turing anything; but the best method I could think of
was to fire upon them at once, as they lay; and if any 10
was not killed at the first volley, and offered to submit,
we might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's
providence to direct the shot.
He said very modestly that he was loath to kill them,
if he could help it; but that those two were incorrigible 15
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in
the ship, and if they escaped, we should be undone still;
for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's
company, and destroy us all. "Well then," says I,
"necessity legitimates my advice, for it is the only way 20
to save our lives." However, seeing him still cautious of
shedding blood, I told him they should go themselves,
and manage as they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them on their 25
feet. I asked him if either of them were of the men who
he had said were the heads of the mutiny. He said,
"No." "Well then," said I, "you may let them
escape; and Providence seems to have wakened them on
purpose to save themselves. Now," says I, "if the rest30
escape you, it is your fault."
Animated with this, he took the musket I had given
him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two
comrades with him, with each man a piece in his hand.
The two men who were with him going first made some
noise, at which one of the seamen who was awake
turned about, and seeing them coming cried out to the
rest; but it was too late then, for the moment he cried
out they fired; I mean the two men, the captain wisely
5 reserving his own piece. They had so well aimed their
shot at the men they knew that one of them was killed
on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but not
being dead, he started up upon his feet, and called eagerly
for help to the other. But the captain stepping to him,
10 told him 't was too late to cry for help, he should call
upon God to forgive his villainy; and with that word
knocked him down with the stock of his musket, so that
he never spoke more. There were three more in the com-
pany, and one of them was also slightly wounded. By
15 this time I was come; and when they saw their danger,
and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy.
The captain told them he would spare their lives if they
would give him any assurance of their abhorrence of the
treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear to
20 be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards
in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they
came. They gave him all the protestations of their sin-
cerity that could be desired, and he was willing to be-
lieve them, and spare their lives, which I was not against,
25 only I obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot
while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring
away the oars and sail, which they did; and by and by
30 three straggling men, that were (happily for them)
parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns
fired; and seeing their captain, who before was their pris-
oner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound
also, and so our victory was complete.
RECOVERY OF THE SHIP FROM MUTINEERS
IT now remained that the captain and I should inquire
into one another's circumstances. I began first, and
told him my whole history, which he heard with an at-
tention even to amazement; and particularly at the won-
derful manner of my being furnished with provisions and 5
ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a whole collec-
tion of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when he
reflected from thence upon himself, and how I seemed
to have been preserved there on purpose to save his life,
the tears ran down his face, and he could not speak a1o
word more.
After this communication was at an end, I carried him
and his two men into my apartment, leading them in just
where I came out, viz., at the top of the house, where I
refreshed them with such provisions as I had, and showed 15
them all the contrivances I had made during my long,
long inhabiting that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but above all, the captain admired my fortifica-
tion, and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat with 20
a grove of trees, which, having been now planted near
twenty years, and the trees growing much faster than in
England, was become a little wood, and so thick that it
was unpassable in any part of it but at that one side
where I had reserved my little winding passage into it. 25
I told him this was my castle and my residence, but that
303
I had a seat in the country, as most princes have,
whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show
him that, too, another time; but at present our business
was to consider how to recover the ship. He agreed
5 with me as to that, but told me he was perfectly at a loss
what measures to take, for that there were still six and
twenty hands on board, who having entered into a cursed
conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to
the law, would be hardened in it now by desperation, and
10 would carry it on, knowing that if they were reduced,
they should be brought to the gallows as soon as they
came to England, or to any of the English colonies; and
that therefore there would be no attacking them with so
small a number as we were.
15 I mused for some time upon what he said, and found
it was a very rational conclusion, and that therefore some-
thing was to be resolved on very speedily, as well to
draw the men on board into some snare for their surprise,
as to prevent their landing upon us, and destroying us.
20 Upon this it presently occurred to me that in a little
while the ship's crew, wondering what was become of
their comrades, and of the boat, would certainly come
on shore in their other boat to see for them; and that
then, perhaps, they might come armed, and be too strong
25 for us. This he allowed was rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do
was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that
they might not carry her off; and taking everything out
of her, leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim.
30 Accordingly we went on board, took the arms which were
left on board out of her, and whatever else we found
there, which was a bottle of brandy, and another of rum,
a few biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump
of sugar in a piece of canvas—the sugar was five or six
pounds; all which was very welcome to me, especially
the brandy and sugar, of which I had had none left for
many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were carried
away before, as above), we knocked a great hole in her5
bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master
us, yet they could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was
not much in my thoughts that we could be able to re-
cover the ship; but my view was, that if they went away
without the boat, I did not much question to make heno
fit again to carry us away to the Leeward Islands, and
call upon our friends the Spaniards in my way; for I had
them still in my thoughts.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had
first, by main strength, heaved the boat up upon the 15
beach so high that the tide would not fleet her off at
high-water mark; and besides, had broke a hole in her
bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were sat down
musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire a gun,
and saw her make a waft with her ancient as a signal for20
the boat to come on board. But no boat stirred; and
they fired several times, making other signals for the
boat.
At last, when all their signals and firings proved fruit-
less, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, 25
by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out, and
row towards the shore; and we found, as they approached,
that there was no less than ten men in her, and that they
had firearms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we 30
had a full view of them as they came, and a plain sight of
the men, even of their faces; because the tide having set
them a little to the east of the other boat, they rowed up
under shore, to come to the same place where the other
had landed, and where the boat lay.
By this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and
the captain knew the persons and characters of all the
men in the boat, of whom he said that there were three
very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this
5 conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frighted;
but that as for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief
officer among them, and all the rest, they were as out-
rageous as any of the ship's crew, and were no doubt
made desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly ap-
10 prehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him that men in our circum-
stances were past the operation of fear; that seeing almost
every condition that could be was better than that which
we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the
15 consequence, whether death or life, would be sure to be
a deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the cir-
cumstances of my life, and whether a deliverance were
not worth venturing for. "And where, sir," said I, "is
your belief of my being preserved here on purpose to save
20your life, which elevated you a little while ago? For
my part," said I, "there seems to be but one thing amiss
in all the prospect of it." "What 's that?" says he.
"Why," said I, "'t is that, as you say, there are three
or four honest fellows among them, which should be
25 spared; had they been all of the wicked part of the crew
I should have thought God's providence had singled them
out to deliver them into your hands; for depend upon it,
every man of them that comes ashore are our own, and
shall die or live as they behave to us."
30 As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful
countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so we
set vigorously to our business. We had, upon the first
appearance of the boat's coming from the ship, consid-
ered of separating our prisoners, and had, indeed, secured
them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured
than ordinary, I sent with Friday and one of the three
delivered men to my cave, where they were remote
enough, and out of danger of being heard or discov-
ered, or of finding their way out of the woods if they 5
could have delivered themselves. Here they left them
bound, but gave them provisions, and promised them, if
they continued there quietly, to give them their liberty
in a day or two; but that if they attempted their escape,
they should be put to death without mercy. They prom-10
ised faithfully to bear their confinement with patience,
and were very thankful that they had such good usage
as to have provisions and a light left them; for Friday
gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their
comfort; and they did not know but that he stood sen-15
tinel over them at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage. Two of them
were kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not
free to trust them; but the other two were taken into
my service, upon their captain's recommendation, and 20
upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us; so
with them and the three honest men we were seven men
well armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to
deal well enough with the ten that were a-coming, con-
sidering that the captain had said there were three or 25
four honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other boat
lay they ran their boat into the beach, and came all on
shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I was glad
to see; for I was afraid they would rather have left the30
boat at an anchor some distance from the shore, with
some hands in her to guard her, and so we should not be
able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they did they ran all to
their other boat; and it was easy to see that they were
under a great surprise to find her stripped, as above,
of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.
After they had mused a while upon this, they set up two
or three great shouts, hallooing with all their might, to
5 try if they could make their companions hear, but all
was to no purpose. Then they came all close in a ring,
and fired a volley of their small arms, which, indeed,
we heard, and the echoes made the woods ring. But it
was all one; those in the cave we were sure could not
10 hear, and those in our keeping, though they heard it
well enough, yet durst give no answer to them.
They were so astonished at the surprise of this that,
as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on
board again, to their ship, and let them know there that
15 the men were all murdered, and the long-boat staved.
Accordingly, they immediately launched their boat again,
and gat all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded
at this, believing they would go on board the ship again,
20 and set sail, giving their comrades for lost, and so he
should still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we
should have recovered; but he was quickly as much
frighted the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat but we
25 perceived them all coming on shore again; but with this
new measure in their conduct, which it seems they con-
sulted together upon, viz., to leave three men in the
boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the coun-
try to look for their fellows.
30 This was a great disappointment to us, for now we
were at a loss what to do; for our seizing those seven
men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the
boat escape, because they would then row away to the
ship, and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh
and set sail, and so our recovering the ship would be lost.
However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what
the issue of things might present. The seven men came
on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put her
off to a good distance from the shore, and came to an
anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible for us5
to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together, marching
towards the top of the little hill under which my hab-
itation lay; and we could see them plainly, though they
could not perceive us. We could have been very glad 10
they would have come nearer to us, so that we might have
fired at them, or that they would have gone farther off,
that we might have come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow of the hill,
where they could see a great way into the valleys and 15
woods which lay towards the northeast part, and where
the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till they
were weary; and not caring, it seems, to venture far from
the shore, nor far from one another, they sat down to-
gether under a tree, to consider of it. Had they thought 20
fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other party of them
had done, they had done the job for us; but they were
too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to
sleep, though they could not tell what the danger was
they had to fear neither. 25
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this
consultation of theirs, viz., that perhaps they would all
fire a volley again, to endeavor to make their fellows hear,
and that we should all sally upon them, just at the junc-
ture when their pieces were all discharged, and they 30
would certainly yield, and we should have them without
bloodshed. I liked the proposal, provided it was done
while we were near enough to come up to them before
they could load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long
time, very irresolute what course to take. At length I
told them there would be nothing to be done, in my
opinion, till night; and then, if they did not return to the
boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them
5 and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with
them in the boat to get them on shore.
We waited a great while, though very impatient for
their removing; and were very uneasy when, after long
consultations, we saw them start all up, and march down
10 toward the sea. It seems they had such dreadful appre-
hensions upon them of the danger of the place that they
resolved to go on board the ship again, give their com-
panions over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship.
15 As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I
imagined it to be, as it really was, that they had given
over their search, and were for going back again; and
the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was
ready to sink at the apprehensions of it; but I presently
20 thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and
which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the
little creek westward, towards the place where the sav-
ages came on shore when Friday was rescued, and as
25 soon as they came to a little rising ground, at about half
a mile distance, I bade them halloo as loud as they could,
and wait till they found the seamen heard them; that as
soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them, they
should return it again; and then keeping out of sight,
30 take a round, always answering when the other hallooed,
to draw them as far into the island, and among the
woods, as possible, and then wheel about again to me
by such ways as I directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and
the mate hallooed; and they presently heard them, and
answering, run along the shore westward, towards the
voice they heard, when they were presently stopped by
the creek, where the water being up, they could not get
over, and called for the boat to come up and set them
over, as, indeed, I expected. 5
When they had set themselves over, I observed that
the boat being gone up a good way into the creek, and,
as it were, in a harbor within the land, they took one
of the three men out of her to go along with them, and
left only two in the boat, having fastened her to the1o
stump of a little tree on the shore.
This was what I wished for; and immediately leav-
ing Friday and the captain's mate to their business, I took
the rest with me, and crossing the creek out of their
sight, we surprised the two men before they were aware 515
one of them lying on shore, and the other being in the
boat. The fellow on shore was between sleeping and
waking, and going to start up. The captain, who was
foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down, and
then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a 20
dead man.
There needed very few arguments to persuade a single
man to yield when he saw five men upon him, and his
comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one
of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as 25
the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded
not only to yield, but afterwards to join very sincerely
with us.
In the meantime, Friday and the captain's mate so well
managed their business with the rest that they drew 30
them, by hallooing and answering, from one hill to an-
other, and from one wood to another, till they not only
heartily tired them, but left them where they were very
sure they could not reach back to the boat before it was
dark; and, indeed, they were heartily tired themselves
also by the time they came back to us. We had nothing
now to do but to watch for them in the dark, and to
fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them. It was several hours after Friday came back to me
5 before they came back to their boat; and we could hear
the foremost of them, long before they came quite up,
calling to those behind to come along, and could also
hear them answer and complain how lame and tired
they were, and not able to come any faster; which was
lovery welcome news to us.
At length they came up to the boat; but 't is im-
possible to express their confusion when they found the
boat fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and
their two men gone. We could hear them call to one
15 another in a most lamentable manner, telling one an-
other they were gotten into an enchanted island; that
either there were inhabitants in it, and they should all be
murdered, or else there were devils and spirits in it, and
they should be all carried away and devoured.
20 They hallooed again, and called their two comrades
by their names a great many times; but no answer.
After some time we could see them, by the little light
there was, run about, wringing their hands like men in
despair, and that sometimes they would go and sit down
25 in the boat to rest themselves; then come ashore again,
and walk about again, and so the same thing over again.
My men would fain have me give them leave to fall
upon them at once in the dark; but I was willing to take
them at some advantage, so to spare them, and kill as
30 few of them as I could; and especially I was unwilling
to hazard the killing any of our own men, knowing the
other were very well armed. I resolved to wait, to see
if they did not separate; and, therefore, to make sure of
them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Fri-
day and the captain to creep upon their hands and feet,
as close to the ground as they could, that they might not
be discovered, and get as near them as they could pos-
sibly, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture but that the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the 5
mutiny, and had now shown himself the most rejected
and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards them,
with two more of their crew. The captain was so eager,
as having this principal rogue so much in his power,
that he could hardly have patience to let him come so 10
near as to be sure of him, for they only heard his tongue
before; but when they came nearer, the captain and
Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them.
The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next
man was shot into the body, and fell just by him, though 15
he did not die till an hour or two after; and the third
ran for it.
At the noise of the fire I immediately advanced with
my whole army, which was now eight men, viz., myself,
generalissimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general; the captain20
and his two men, and the three prisoners of war, whom
we had trusted with arms.
We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that
they could not see our number; and I made the man
we had left in the boat, who was now one of us, call 25
to them by name, to try if I could bring them to a parley,
and so might perhaps reduce them to terms, which fell
out just as we desired; for indeed it was easy to think,
as their condition then was, they would be very willing to
capitulate. So he calls out as loud as he could to one 30
of them, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith
answered immediately, "Who's that? Robinson?"—for
it seems he knew his voice. The other answered, "Ay,
ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms
and yield, or you are all dead men this moment."
"Who must we yield to? Where are they?" says
Smith again. "Here they are," says he; "here 's our
captain, and fifty men with him, have been hunting you
this two hours; the boatswain is killed, Will Frye is
5wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if you do not yield,
you are all lost."
"Will they give us quarter then," says Tom Smith,
"an we will yield?" "I'll go and ask, if you promise
to yield," says Robinson. So he asked the captain, and 10the captain then calls himself out, "You, Smith, you
know my voice, if you lay down your arms immediately,
and submit, you shall have your lives, all but Will At-
kins."
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, 15captain, give me quarter; what have I done? They
have been all as bad as I;" which, by the way, was not
true neither; for, it seems, this Will Atkins was the first
man that laid hold of the captain when they first
mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying his hands, 20 and giving him injurious language. However, the cap-
tain told him he must lay down his arms at discretion,
and trust to the governor's mercy; by which he meant
me, for they all called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged 25 their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with
them and two more, who bound them all; and then my
great army of fifty men, which, particularly with those
three, were all but eight, came up, and seized upon them
all, and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and one 30 more out of sight for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of
seizing the ship; and as for the captain, now he had
leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them
upon the villainy of their practices with him, and at
length upon the farther wickedness of their design, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for
their lives. As for that, he told them they were none
of his prisoners, but the commander of the island; that 5
they thought they had set him on shore in a barren un-
inhabited island; but it had pleased God so to direct
them that the island was inhabited, and that the gov-
ernor was an Englishman; that he might hang them all
there, if he pleased; but as he had given them all quar-10
ter, he supposed he would send them to England, to be
dealt with there as justice required, except Atkins, whom
he was :ommanded by the governor to advise to prepare
for death, for that he would be hanged in the morning.
Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had 15
its desired effect. Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the
captain to intercede with the governor for his life; and
all the rest begged of him, for God's sake, that they
might not be sent to England.
It now occurred to me that the time of our deliver-20
ance was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to
bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession
of the ship; so I retired in the dark from them, that
they might not see what kind of a governor they had, and
called the captain to me. When I called, as at a good 25
distance, one of the men was ordered to speak again, and
say to the captain, "Captain, the commander calls for
you." And presently the captain replied, "Tell his
excellency I am just a-coming." This more perfectly
amused them, and they all believed that the commander 30
was just by with his fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my
project for seizing the ship, which he liked of wonder-
fully well, and resolved to put it in execution the next
morning. But in order to execute it with more art, and
secure of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners,
and that he should go and take Atkins and two more
of the worst of them, and send them pinioned to the
cave where the others lay. This was committed to Fri-
5 day and the two men who came on shore with the
captain.
They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison. And
it was indeed a dismal place, especially to men in their
condition. The others I ordered to my bower, as I
10called it, of which I l.ave given a full description; and as
it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure
enough, considering they were upon their behavior.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was
to enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try them,
15 and tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or
no to go on board and surprise the ship. He talked to
them of the injury done him, of the condition they were
brought to; and that though the governor had given
them quarter for their lives as to the present action, yet
20 that if they were sent to England they would all be
hanged in chains, to be sure; but that if they would join
in so just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would
have the governor's engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would
25 be accepted by men in their condition. They fell down
on their knees to the captain, and promised, with the
deepest imprecations, that they would be faithful to him
to the last drop, and that they should owe their lives to
him, and would go with him all over the world; that
30 they would own him for a father to them as long as they
lived.
"Well," says the captain, "I must go and tell the
governor what you say, and see what I can do to bring
him to consent to it." So he brought me an account of
the temper he found them in, and that he verily believed
they would be faithful. However, that we might be very
secure, I told him he should go back again and choose
out five of them, and tell them they might see that he
did not want men, that he would take out those five to
be his assistants, and that the governor would keep the 5
other two and the three that were sent prisoners to the
castle (my cave), as hostages for the fidelity of those five;
and that if they proved unfaithful in the execution, the
five hostages should be hanged in chains alive upon the
shore. 10
This looked severe, and convinced them that the gov-
ernor was in earnest. However, they had no way left
them but to accept it; and it was now the business of the
prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade the other
five to do their duty. 15
Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition:
1. The captain, his mate, and passenger. 2. Then the
two prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having their
characters from the captain, I had given their liberty, and
trusted them with arms. 3. The other two who I had 20
kept till now in my bower, pinioned, but upon the cap-
tain's motion had now released. 4. These five released at
last; so that they were twelve in all, besides five we kept
prisoners in the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with 25
these hands on board the ship; for as for me and my man
Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to stir, having
seven men left behind, and it was employment enough
for us to keep them asunder and supply them with
victuals. 30
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them
fast; but Friday went in twice a day to them, to supply
them with necessaries, and I made the other two carry
provisions to a certain distance, where Friday was to
take it.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the person the
governor had ordered to look after them, and that it was
the governor's pleasure they should not stir anywhere 5but by my direction; that if they did, they should be
fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons; so that as
we never suffered them to see me as governor, so I now
appeared as another person, and spoke of the governor,
the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all occasions.
10 The captain now had no difficulty before him but to
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man
them. He made his passenger captain of one, with four
other men; and himself, and his mate, and five more
went in the other; and they contrived their business very
15 well, for they came up to the ship about midnight. As
soon as they came within call of the ship, he made Rob-
inson hail them, and tell them they had brought off the
men and the boat, but that it was a long time before they
had found them, and the like, holding them in a chat till
20they came to the ship's side; when the captain and the
mate entering first, with their arms, immediately knocked
down the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end of
their muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their
men. They secured all the rest that were upon the main
25 and quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches to keep
them down who were below; when the other boat and
their men entering at the fore-chains, secured the fore-
castle of the ship, and the scuttle which went down into
the cook-room, making three men they found there pris-
30 oners.
When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the cap-
tain ordered the mate, with three men, to break into the
round-house, where the new rebel captain lay, and hav-
ing taken the alarm was gotten up, and with two men and
a boy had gotten firearms in their hands; and when the
mate with a crow split open the door, the new captain
and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the
mate with a musket-ball, which broke his arm, and
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody.
The mate, calling for help, rushed however into the 5
round-house, wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot
the new captain through the head, the bullet entering
at his mouth and came out again behind one of his ears,
so that he never spoke a word; upon which the rest
yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, without any 10
more lives lost.
As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain or-
dered seven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed
upon with me to give me notice of his success, which you
may be sure I was very glad to hear, having sat watch-15
ing upon the shore for it till near two of the clock in
the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down;
and it having been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept
very sound, till I was something surprised with the noise 20
of a gun; and presently starting up, I heard a man call
me by the name of "Governor," "Governor," and pres-
ently I knew the captain's voice; when climbing up to
the top of the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the
ship, he embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend and 25
deliverer," says he, "there's your ship, for she is all
yours, and so are we, and all that belong to her." I
cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode within little
more than half a mile of the shore; for they had
weighed her anchor, as soon as they were masters of her, 30
and, the weather being fair, had brought her to an anchor
just against the mouth of the little creek, and the tide
being up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near the
place where I at first landed my rafts and so landed just
at my door.
I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise;
for I saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my
hands, all things easy, and a large ship just ready to
carry me away whither I pleased to go. At first, for
5 some time, I was not able to answer him one word; but
as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him, or I
should have fallen to the ground.
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a bot-
tle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial,
10 which he had brought on purpose for me. After I had
drank it, I sat down upon the ground; and though it
brought me to myself, yet it was a good while before I
could speak a word to him.
All this while the poor man was in as great an ecstasy
15 as I, only not under any surprise, as I was; and he
said a thousand kind, tender things to me, to compose me
and bring me to myself. But such was the flood of joy
in my breast that it put all my spirits into confusion. At
last it broke out into tears, and in a little while after I
20 recovered my speech.
Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my de-
liverer, and we rejoiced together. I told him I looked
upon him as a man sent from heaven to deliver me, and
that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain of won-
25ders; that such things as these were the testimonies we
had of a secret hand of Providence governing the world,
and an evidence that the eyes of an infinite Power could
search into the remotest corner of the world, and send
help to the miserable whenever He pleased.
30 I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to
heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless Him, who
had not only in a miraculous manner provided for one in
such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condition, but
from whom every deliverance must always be acknowl-
edged to proceed?
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he
had brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship
afforded, and such as the wretches that had been so long
his masters had not plundered him of. Upon this he
called aloud to the boat, and bid his men bring the 5
things ashore that were for the governor; and, indeed,
it was a present as if I had been one, not that was to be
carried away along with them, but as if I had been to
dwell upon the island still, and they were to go without
me. 10
First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of ex-
cellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira wine
(the bottles held two quarts apiece), two pounds of
excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's
beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas and 15
about a hundred-weight of biscuit.
He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour,
a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and
abundance of other things; but besides these, and what
was a thousand times more useful to me, he brought me 20
six clean new shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair of
gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings,
and a very good suit of clothes of his own, which had
been worn but very little; in a word, he clothed me from
head to foot. 25
It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one may
imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was any-
thing in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward,
and uneasy as it was to me to wear such clothes at their
first putting on. 30
After these ceremonies passed, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment, we began
to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we had;
for it was worth considering whether we might venture
to take them away with us or no, especially two of them,
whom we knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the
last degree; and the captain said he knew they were such
rogues that there was no obliging them; and if he did
carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to
5 be delivered over to justice at the first English colony
he could come at; and I found that the captain himself
was very anxious about it.
Upon this I told him that, if he desired it, I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it
10 their own request that he should leave them upon the
island. "I should be very glad of that," says the cap-
tain, " with all my heart."
"Well," says I, "I will send for them up, and talk
with them for you." So I caused Friday and the two
15 hostages, for they were now discharged, their comrades
having performed their promise; I say, I caused them
to go to the cave and bring up the five men, pinioned
as they were, to the bower, and keep them there till I
came.
20 After some time I came thither, dressed in my new
habit; and now I was called governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to be
brought before me, and I told them I had had a full ac-
count of their villainous behavior to the captain, and
25 how they had run away with the ship, and were pre-
paring to commit farther robberies, but that Provi-
dence had ensnared them in their own ways, and that
they were fallen into the pit which they had digged for
others.
30 I let them know that by my direction the ship had
been seized, that she lay now in the road, and they might
see, by and by, that their new captain had received the
reward of his villainy, for that they might see him hanging
at the yard-arm; that as to them, I wanted to know what
they had to say why I should not execute them as pirates,
taken in the fact, as by my commission they could not
doubt I had authority to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest that
they had nothing to say but this, that when they were
taken the captain promised them their lives, and they 5
humbly implored my mercy. But I told them I knew
not what mercy to show them; for as for myself, I had
resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken passage with the captain to go for England. And
as for the captain, he could not carry them to England 10
other than as prisoners in irons, to be tried for mutiny,
and running away with the ship; the consequence of
which, they must needs know, would be the gallows; so
that I could not tell which was best for them, unless they
had a mind to take their fate in the island. If they de-15
sired that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave it. I
had some inclination to give them their lives, if they
thought they could shift on shore.
They seemed very thankful for it, said they would
much rather venture to stay there than to be carried to 20
England to be hanged; so I left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty
of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this I
seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him that
they were my prisoners, not his; and that seeing I had25
offered them so much favor, I would be as good as my
word; and that if he did not think fit to consent to it, I
would set them at liberty, as I found them; and if he
did not like it, he might take them again if he could
catch them. 30
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accord-
ingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire into the
woods to the place whence they came, and I would leave
them some firearms, some ammunition, and some direc-
tions how they should live very well, if they thought fit.
Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship, but told
the captain that I would stay that night to prepare my
things, and desired him to go on board in the meantime,
and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat on shore
5 the next day for me; ordering him, in the meantime, to
cause the new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at
the yard-arm, that these men might see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up
to me to my apartment, and entered seriously into dis-
10 course with them of their circumstances. I told them I
thought they had made a right choice; that if the captain
carried them away, they would certainly be hanged. I
showed them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm
of the ship, and told them they had nothing less to ex-
15 pect.
When they had all declared their willingness to stay,
I then told them I would let them into the story of my
living there, and put them into the way of making it
easy to them. Accordingly I gave them the whole his-
aotory of the place, and of my coming to it, showed them
my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted my
corn, cured my grapes; and in a word, all that was
necessary to make them easy. I told them the story also
of the sixteen Spaniards that were to be expected, for
25 whom I left a letter, and made them promise to treat
them in common with themselves.
I left them my firearms, viz., five muskets, three fowl-
ing-pieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel and
half of powder left; for after the first year or two I
30 used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a descrip-
tion of the way I managed the goats, and directions to
milk and fatten them, and to make both butter and
cheese.
In a word, I gave them every part of my own story,
and told them I would prevail with the captain to leave
them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden
seeds, which I told them I would have been very glad of.
Also I gave them the bag of peas which the captain had
brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and
increase them. 5
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on board the ship. We prepared immediately to
sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning
early two of the five men came swimming to the ship's
side, and, making a most lamentable complaint of the1o
other three, begged to be taken into the ship for God's
sake, for they should be murdered, and begged the cap-
tain to take them on board, though he hanged them
immediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no power 15
without me; but after some difficulty, and after their
solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on
board, and were some time after soundly whipped and
pickled, after which they proved very honest and quiet
fellows. 20
Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the men,
to which the captain, at my intercession, caused their
chests and clothes to be added, which they took, and were
very thankful for. I also encouraged them by telling 25
them that if it lay in my way to send any vessel to take
them in, I would not forget them.
I LEAVE THE ISLAND
WHEN I took leave of this island, I carried on board,
for relics, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my um-
brella, and my parrot; also I forgot not to take the
money I formerly mentioned, which had lain by me so
5 long useless that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and
could hardly pass for silver till it had been a little
rubbed and handled; as also the money I found in the
wreck of the Spanish ship.
And thus I left the island, the 1gth of December,
10 as I found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after
I had been upon it eight and twenty years, two months,
and nineteen days, being delivered from this second cap-
tivity the same day of the month that I first made my
escape in the barco-longo, from among the Moors of
15 Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in Eng-
land, the nth of June, in the year 1687, having been
thirty and five years absent.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger
20 to all the world as if I had never been known there.
My benefactor and faithful steward, whom I had left in
trust with my money, was alive, but had had great mis-
fortunes in the world, was become a widow the second
time, and very low in the world. I made her easy as to
25 what she owed me, assuring her I would give her no
trouble; but on the contrary, in gratitude to her former
326
I Leave the Island 327
care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my little
stock would afford; which, at that time, would indeed
allow me to do but little for her; but I assured her I
would never forget her former kindness to me, nor did I
forget her when I had sufficient to help her, as shall be 5
observed in its place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my
father was dead, and my mother and all the family ex-
tinct, except that I found two sisters, and two of the
children of one of my brothers; and as I had been long1o
ago given over for dead, there had been no provision
made for me; so that, in a word, I found nothing to re-
lieve or assist me; and that little money I had would not
do much for me as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did 15
not expect; and this was, that the master of the ship
whom I had so happily delivered, and by the same means
saved the ship and cargo, having given a very handsome
account to the owners of the manner how I had saved
the lives of the men, and the ship, they invited me to 20
meet them and some other merchants concerned, and all
together made me a very handsome compliment upon the
subject, and a present of almost £200 sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the circum-
stances of my life, and how little way this would go 25
towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go to
Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some information
of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and of what
was become of my partner, who I had reason to suppose
had some years now given me over for dead. 30
With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I
arrived in April following; my man Friday accompany-
ing me very honestly in all these ramblings, and proving
a most faithful servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and
to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the captain
of the ship who first took me up at sea off of the shore
of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left off the
sea, having put his son, who was far from a young man,
5 into his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The
old man did not know me; and, indeed, I hardly knew
him; but I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as
soon brought myself to his remembrance when I told him
who I was.
10 After some passionate expressions of the old ac-
quaintance, I inquired, you may be sure, after my planta-
tion and my partner. The old man told me he had not
been in the Brazils for about nine years; but that he
could assure me that, when he came away, my partner
15 was living; but the trustees, whom I had joined with him
to take cognizance of my part, were both dead. That,
however, he believed that I would have a very good ac-
count of the improvement of the plantation; for that
upon the general belief of my being cast away and
20 drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the
produce of my part of the plantation to the procurator-
fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case I never came to
claim it, one third to the king, and two thirds to the
monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended for the
25 benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the Indi-
ans to the Catholic faith; but that if I appeared, or anyone for me, to claim the inheritance, it should be restored;
only that the improvement, or annual production, being
distributed to charitable uses, could not be restored.
30 But he assured me that the steward of the king's revenue
from lands, and the provedidore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all along that the incum-
bent, that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faith-
ful account of the produce, of which they received duly
my moiety.
Iasked him if he knew to what height of improvement
he had brought the plantation, and whether he thought it
might be worth looking after; or whether, on my going
thither, I should meet with no obstruction to my pos-
sessing my just right in the moiety. 5
He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree
the plantation was improved; but this he knew, that my
partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying but
one half of it; and that, to the best of his remembrance,
he had heard that the king's third of my part, which was, 10
it seems, granted away to some other monastery or
religious house, amounted to above two hundred
moidores a year. That as to my being restored to a quiet
possession of it, there was no question to be made of that,
my partner being alive to witness my title, and my name 15
being also enrolled in the register of the country. Also
he told me that the survivors of my two trustees were
very fair, honest people, and very wealthy; and he be-
lieved I would not only have their assistance for putting
me in possession, but would find a very considerable sum 20
of money in their hands for my account, being the produce
of the farm while their fathers held the trust, and before
it was given up, as above; which, as he remembered, was
for about twelve years.
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this 25
account, and inquired of the old captain how it came to
pass that the trustees should thus dispose my effects,
when he knew that I had made my will, and had made
him, the Portuguese captain, my universal heir, etc.
He told me, that was true; but that as there was no30
proof of my being dead, he could not act as executor un-
til some certain account should come of my death; and
that besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with a
thing so remote; that it was true he had registered my
will, and put in his claim; and could he have given any
account of my being dead or alive, he would have acted
by procuration, and taken possession of the ingenio, so
they called the sugar-house, and had given his son, who
was now at the Brazils, order to do it.
5 "But," says the old man, "I have one piece of news
to tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable to
you as the rest; and that is, that believing you were lost,
and all the world believing so also, your partner and
trustees did offer to account to me, in your name, for six
10 or eight of the first years of profits, which I received;
but there being at that time," says he, "great disburse-
ments for increasing the works, building an ingenio, and
buying slaves, it did not amount to near so much as after-
wards it produced. However," says the old man, "I
15 shall give you a true account of what I have received in
all, and how I have disposed of it."
After a few days' farther conference with this ancient
friend, he brought me an account of the six first years'
income of my plantation, signed by my partner and the
20 merchant-trustees, being always delivered in goods, viz.,
tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum, mo-
lasses, etc., which is the consequence of a sugar-work;
and I found, by this account, that every year the income
considerably increased; but, as above, the disbursement
25 being large, the sum at first was small. However, the
old man let me see that he was debtor to me four hun-
dred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of
sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost
in his ship, he having been shipwrecked coming home
30 to Lisbon, about eleven years after my leaving the
place.
The good man then began to complain of his misfor-
tunes, and how he had been obliged to make use of my
money to recover his losses, and buy him a share in a new
ship. "However, my old friend," says he, "you shall
not want a supply in your necessity; and as soon as my
son returns, you shall be fully satisfied."
Upon this he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me one
hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in gold; and giving
me the writing of his title to the ship, which his son 5
was gone to the Brazils in, of which he was a quarter-part
owner, and his son another, he puts them both into my
hands for security of the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness
of the poor man to be able to bear this; and remember-10
ing what he had done for me, how he had taken me up
at sea, and how generously he had used me on all occa-
sions, and particularly how sincere a friend he was now
to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what he said to
me; therefore first I asked him if his circumstances ad-15
mitted him to spare so much money at that time, and if
it would not straiten him. He told me he could not say
but it might straiten him a little; but, however, it was my
money, and I might want it more than he.
Everything the good man said was full of affection, and 20
I could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in
short, I took a hundred of the moidores, and called for
a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them. Then I re-
turned him the rest, and told him if ever I had pos-
session of the plantation, I would return the other to him 25
also, as, indeed, I afterwards did; and that as to the
bill of sale of his part in his son's ship, I would not take
it by any means; but that if I wanted the money, I
found he was honest enough to pay me; and if I did not,
but came to receive what he gave me reason to expect, I 30
would never have a penny more from him.
When this was passed, the old man began to ask me
if he should put me into a method to make my claim to
my plantation. I told him I thought to go over to it
myself. He said I might do so if I pleased; but that if I
did not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and
immediately to appropriate the profits to my use; and as
there were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready to go
away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public
5 register, with his affidavit, affirming, upon oath, that I
was alive, and that I was the same person who took
up the land for the planting the said plantation at
first.
This being regularly attested by a notary, and a
10procuration affixed, he directed me to send it, with a let-
ter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at
the place, and then proposed my staying with him till an
account came of the return.
Never anything was more honorable than the pro-
15ceedings upon this procuration; for in less than seven
months I received a large packet from the survivors of
my trustees, the merchants, for whose account I went to
sea, in which were the following particular letters and
papers enclosed.
20 First, there was the account-current of the produce
of my farm or plantation from the year when their
fathers had balanced with my old Portugal captain, be-
ing for six years; the balance appeared to be 1174 moi-
dores in my favor.
25 Secondly, there was the account of four years more,
while they kept the effects in their hands, before the gov-
ernment claimed the administration, as being the effects
of a person not to be found, which they called civil death;
and the balance of this, the value of the plantation in-
30 creasing, amounted to 38,892 crusadoes, which made 3241
moidores.
Thirdly, there was the prior of the Augustines' ac-
count, who had received the profits for above fourteen
years; but not being to account for what was disposed
to the hospital, very honestly declared he had 872 moi-
dores not distributed, which he acknowledged to my ac-
count; as to the king's part, that refunded nothing.
There was a letter of my partner's congratulating me
very affectionately upon my being alive, giving me an ac-
count how the estate was improved, and what it produced 5
a year, with a particular of the number of squares or
acres that it contained; how planted, how many slaves
there were upon it, and making two and twenty crosses
for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave Marias
to thank the Blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me 10
very passionately to come over and take possession of my
own; and in the meantime, to give him orders to whom
he should deliver my effects, if I did not come myself;
concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship, and
that of his family; and sent me as a present seven fine 15
leopards' skins, which he had, it seems, received from
Africa by some other ship which he had sent thither, and
who, it seems, had made a better voyage than I. He
sent me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a
hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as 20
moidores. By the same fleet, my two merchant-trustees
shipped me twelve hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred
rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in
gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of 25
Job was better than the beginning. It is impossible to
express the flutterings of my very heart when I looked
over these letters, and especially when I found all my
wealth about me; for as the Brazil ships come all in
fleets, the same ships which brought my letters brought 30
my goods, and the effects were safe in the river before
the letters came to my hand. In a word, I turned pale,
and grew sick; and had not the old man run and fetched
me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had
overset Nature, and I had died upon the spot.
Nay, after that I continued very ill, and was so some
hours, till a physician being sent for, and something of
the real cause of my illness being known, he ordered me
to be let blood, after which I had relief, and grew well;
5 but I verily believe, if it had not been eased by a vent
given in that manner to the spirits, I should have died.
I was now master, all on a sudden, of above five thou-
sand pounds sterling in money, and had an estate, as I
might well call it, in the Brazils of above a thousand
10pounds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in England;
and in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew
how to understand, or how to compose myself for the en-
joyment of it.
The first thing I did was to recompense my original
15 benefactor, my good old captain, who had been first
charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in my be-
ginning, and honest to me at the end. I showed him all
that was sent me. I told him that, next to the provi-
dence of Heaven, which disposes all things, it was owing
20 to him; and that it now lay on me to reward him,
which I would do a hundredfold. So I first returned to
him the hundred moidores I had received of him; then
I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw up a gen-
eral release or discharge for the four hundred and sev-
25 enty moidores which he had acknowledged he owed me
in the fullest and firmest manner possible; after which I
caused a procuration to be drawn, empowering him to
be my receiver of the annual profits of my plantation, and
appointing my partner to account to him, and make the
30 returns by the usual fleets to him in my name; and a
clause in the end, being a grant of one hundred moidores
a year to him, during his life, out of the effects, and fifty
moidores a year to his son after him, for his life; and
thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence had
thus put into my hands; and, indeed, I had more care
upon my head now than I had in my silent state of life
in the island, where I wanted nothing but what I had,
and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas I had now 5
a great charge upon me, and my business was how to
secure it. I had ne'er a cave now to hide my money in,
or a place where it might lie without lock or key till it
grew mouldy and tarnished before anybody would meddle
with it. On the contrary, I knew not where to put it, or 10
whom to trust with it. My old patron, the captain, in-
deed, was honest, and that was the only refuge I had.
In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed
to summon me thither; but now I could not tell how to
think of going thither till I had settled my affairs, and 15
left my effects in some safe hands behind me. At first I
thought of my old friend the widow, who I knew was
honest, and would be just to me; but then she was in
years, and but poor, and for aught I knew, might be in
debt; so that, in a word, I had no way but to go back to to
England myself, and take my effects with me.
It was some months, however, before I resolved upon
this; and therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain
fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my former
benefactor, so I began to think of my poor widow, whose 25
husband had been my first benefactor, and she, while it
was in her power, my faithful steward and instructor.
So the first thing I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to
write to his correspondent in London, not only to pay a
bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in money an 30
hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her, and com-
fort her in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I
lived, have a further supply. At the same time I sent
my two sisters in the country each of them an hundred
pounds, they being, though not in want, yet not in very
good circumstances; one having been married, and left a
widow; and the other having a husband not so kind to
her as he should be.
But among all my relations or acquaintances, I could
5 not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst commit the gross
of my stock, that I might go away to the Brazils, and
leave things safe behind me; and this greatly per-
plexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils and
10 have settled myself there, for I was, as it were, natural-
ized to the place. But I had some little scruple in my
mind about religion, which insensibly drew me back, of
which I shall say more presently. However, it was not
religion that kept me from going there for the present;
15 and as I had made no scruple of being openly of the
religion of the country all the while I was among them,
so neither did I yet, only that, now and then, having
of late thought more of it than formerly, when I began
to think of living and dying among them, I began to
20 regret my having professed myself a Papist, and thought
it might not be the best religion to die with.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Brazils, but that really I did
not know with whom to leave my effects behind me; so I
25 resolved, at last, to go to England with it, where, if I ar-
rived, I concluded I should make some acquaintance, or
find some relations, that would be faithful to me; and
accordingly I prepared to go for England with all my
wealth.
30 In order to prepare things for my going home, I first,
the Brazil fleet being just going away, resolved to give
answers suitable to the just and faithful account of
things I had from thence. And first, to the prior of St.
Augustine I wrote a letter full of thanks for their just
dealings, and the offer of the 872 moidores which was un-
disposed of, which I desired might be given, 500 to the
monastery, and 372 to the poor, as the prior should direct,
desiring the good padre's prayers for me, and the like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees,
with all the acknowledgment that so much justice and 5
honesty called for. As for sending them any present,
they were far above having any occasion of it.
Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his in-
dustry in the improving the plantation, and his integrity
in increasing the stock of the works, giving him instruc-10
tions for his future government of my part, according
to the powers I had left with my old patron, to whom I
desired him to send whatever became due to me till he
should hear from me more particularly; assuring him that
it was my intention not only to come to him, but to settle 15
myself there for the remainder of my life. To this I
added a very handsome present of some Italian silks for
his wife and two daughters, for such the captain's son in-
formed me he had, with two pieces of fine English broad-
cloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, five pieces of black 20
baize, and some Flanders lace of a good value.
JOURNEY THROUGH SPAIN AND FRANCE
HAVING thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my effects into good bills of exchange, my next
difficulty was which way to go to England. I had been
accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had a strange
5 aversion to going to England by sea at that time; and
though I could give no reason for it, yet the difficulty in-
creased upon me so much that though I had once shipped
my baggage in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and
that not once, but two or three times.
10 It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this
might be some of the reason; but let no man slight the
strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases of such mo-
ment. Two of the ships which I had singled out to
go in, I mean more particularly singled out than any
15 other, that is to say, so as in one of them to put my
things on board, and in the other to have agreed with
the captain; I say, two of these ships miscarried, viz.,
one was taken by the Algerines, and the other was cast
away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the people
20drowned except three; so that in either of those vessels I
had been made miserable; and in which most, it was
hard to say.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old
pilot, to whom I communicated everything, pressed me
25 earnestly not to go by sea, but either to go by land to
the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle,
338
Journey Through Spain and France 339
from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by land
to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or to go up to
Madrid, and so all the way by land through France.
In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going by
sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I resolved 5
to travel all the way by land; which, as I was not in
haste, and did not value the charge, was by much the
pleasanter way. And to make it more so, my old cap-
tain brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant
in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me; after which 10
we picked up two more English merchants also, and
two young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to Paris
only; so that we were in all six of us, and five servants;
the two merchants and the two Portuguese contenting
themselves with one servant between two, to save the 15
charge; and as for me, I got an English sailor to travel
with me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was
too much a stranger to be capable of supplying the place
of a servant on the road.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our com- 20
pany being all very well mounted and armed, we made a
little troop, whereof they did me the honor to call me cap-
tain, as well because I was the oldest man, as because I
had two servants, and indeed was the original of the
whole journey. 25
As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals,
so I shall trouble you now with none of my land jour-
nal; but some adventures that happened to us in this
tedious and difficult journey I must not omit.
When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers 30
to Spain, were willing to stay some time to see the court
of Spain, and to see what was worth observing; but it
being the latter part of the summer we hastened away,
and set out from Madrid about the middle of October;
but when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were
alarmed at several towns on the way with an account that
so much snow was fallen on the French side of the
mountains, that several travellers were obliged to come
back to Pampeluna, after having attempted, at an ex-
5 treme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so in-
deed; and to me, that had been always used to a hot
climate, and indeed to countries where we could scarce
bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable; nor in-
10 deed was it more painful than it was surprising to come
but ten days before out of the Old Castile, where the
weather was not only warm, but very hot, and im-
mediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains so
very keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to
15 endanger benumbing and perishing of our fingers and
toes. Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold weather,
which he had never seen or felt before in his life.
To mend the matter, when we came to Pampeluna it
20 continued snowing with so much violence and so long,
that the people said winter was come before its time; and
the roads, which were difficult before, were now quite
impassable; for, in a word, the snow lay in some places
too thick for us to travel, and being not hard frozen, as
25 is the case in northern countries, there was no going
without being in danger of being buried alive every step.
We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when
seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its be-
ing better, for it was the severest winter all over Europe
30 that had been known in the memory of man, I proposed
that we should all go away to Fontarabia, and there take
shipping for Bordeaux, which was a very little voyage.
But while we were considering this, there came in four
French gentlemen, who having been stopped on the
French side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish,
had found out a guide who, traversing the country near
the head of Languedoc, had brought them over the
mountains by such ways that they were not much incom-
moded with the snow; and where they met with snow in
any quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to bear5
them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us he would under-
take to carry us the same way with no hazard from the
snow, provided we were armed sufficiently to protect our-
selves from wild beasts; for he said, upon these great 10
snows it was frequent for some wolves to show themselves
at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for
want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We
told him we were well enough prepared for such creatures
as they were, if he would ensure us from a kind of two-15
legged wolves, which, we were told, we were in most
danger from, especially on the French side of the moun-
tains.
He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind in the
way that we were to go; so we readily agreed to follow20
him, as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their
servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had
attempted to go, and were obliged to come back again.
Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna, with
our guide, on the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was25
surprised when, instead of going forward, he came di-
rectly back with us on the same road that we came from
Madrid, above twenty miles; when being passed two
rivers, and come into the plain country, we found our-
selves in a warm climate again, where the country was 30
pleasant, and no snow to be seen; but on a sudden, turn-
ing to his left, he approached the mountains another
way; and though it is true the hills and precipices looked
dreadful, yet he made so many tours, such meanders, and
led us by such winding ways, that we were insensibly
passed the height of the mountains without being much
encumbered with the snow; and all on a sudden he
showed us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc
and Gascoign, all green and flourishing, though, indeed,
5 it was at a great distance, and we had some rough way
to pass yet.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it
snowed one whole day and a night so fast that we could
not travel; but he bid us be easy, we should soon be past
10 it all. We found, indeed, that we began to descend every
day, and to come more north than before; and so, depend-
ing upon our guide, we went on.
It was about two hours before night when, our guide
being something before us, and not just in sight, out
15 rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear,
out of a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood. Two of
the wolves flew upon the guide, and had he been half a
mile before us he had been devoured indeed before we
could have helped him. One of them fastened upon his
20 horse, and the other attacked the man with that violence
that he had not time, or not presence of mind enough, to
draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most
lustily. My man Friday being next to me, I bid him
ride up, and see what was the matter. As soon as Friday
25 came in sight of the man, he hallooed as loud as t' other,
"O master! O master!" but, like a bold fellow, rode
directly up to the poor man, and with his pistol shot the
wolf that attacked him into the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
30 Friday, for he, having been used to that kind of creature
in his country, had no fear upon him, but went close up
to him and shot him, as above; whereas any of us would
have fired at a farther distance, and have perhaps either
missed the wolf, or endangered shooting the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than
I; and, indeed, it alarmed all our company, when, with
the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the
dismallest howling of wolves; and the noise, redoubled
by the echo of the mountains, that it was to us as if
there had been a prodigious multitude of them; and per- 5
haps, indeed, there was not such a few as that we had
no cause of apprehensions.
However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other
that had fastened upon the horse left him immediately
and fled, having happily fastened upon his head, where 10
the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that he
had not done him much hurt. The man indeed was
most hurt; for the raging creature had bit him twice,
once on the arm, and the other time a little above his
knees; and he was just as it were tumbling down by the 15
disorder of his horse, when Friday came up and shot the
wolf.
It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol
we all mended our pace, and rid up as fast as the way,
which was very difficult, would give us leave, to see what 20
was the matter. As soon as we came clear of the trees,
which blinded us before, we saw clearly what had been
the case, and how Friday had disengaged the poor guide,
though we did not presently discern what kind of creature
it was he had killed. 25
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such
a surprising manner, as that which followed between
Friday and the bear, which gave us all, though at first
we were surprised and afraid for him, the greatest diver-
sion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy creature 30
and does not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift and
light, so he has two particular qualities, which generally
are the rule of his actions: first, as to men, who are
not his proper prey; I say, not his proper prey, because,
though I cannot say what excessive hunger might do,
which was now their case, the ground being all covered
with snow; but as to men, he does not usually attempt
them, unless they first attack him. On the contrary, if
you meet him in the woods, if you don't meddle with
5 him, he won't meddle with you; but then you must take
care to be very civil to him, and give him the road, for
he is a very nice gentleman. He won't go a step out
of his way for a prince; nay, if you are really afraid,
your best way is to look another way, and keep going on;
10 for sometimes if you stop, and stand still, and look
steadily at him, he takes it for an affront; but if you
throw or toss anything at him, and it hits him, though
it were but a bit of a stick as big as your finger, he takes
it for an affront, and sets all his other business aside to
15 pursue his revenge; for he will have satisfaction in
point of honor. That is his first quality; the next is,
that if he be once affronted, he will never leave you,
night or day, till he has his revenge, but follows, at a
good round rate, till he overtakes you.
20 My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when
we came up to him he was helping him off from his
horse; for the man was both hurt and frighted, and in-
deed the last more than the first; when, on the sudden,
we spied the bear come out of the wood, and a vast
25 monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw.
We were all a little surprised when we saw him; but
when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage
in the fellow's countenance. "O! O! O!" says Friday,
three times pointing to him. "Oh, master! you give
30 me te leave; me shakee te hand with him; me make you
good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. "You fool
you," says I, "he will eat you up." "Eatee me up!
eatee me up!" says Friday, twice over again; "me eatee
him up; me make you good laugh; you all stay here, me
show you good laugh." So down he sits, and gets his
boots off in a moment, and put on a pair of pumps, as
we call the flat shoes they wear, and which he had in his
pocket, gives my other servant his horse, and with his
gun away he flew, swift like the wind. 5
The bear was walking softly on, and offered to
meddle with nobody till Friday, coming pretty near, calls
to him, as if the bear could understand him. "Hark ye,
hark ye," says Friday, "me speakee wit you." We fol-
lowed at a distance; for now being come down on the1o
Gascoign side of the mountains, we were entered
a vast great forest, where the country was plain and
pretty open, though many trees in it scattered here and
there.
Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, 15
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great stone and
throws at him, and hit him just on the head, but did him
no more harm than if he had thrown it against a wall.
But it answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so void
of fear that he did it purely to make the bear follow him, 20
and show us some laugh, as he called it.
As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he
turns about, and comes after him, taking devilish long
strides, and shuffling along at a strange rate, so as would
have put a horse to a middling gallop. Away runs Fri-25 day, and takes his course as if he run towards us for help;
so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and de-
liver my man; though I was angry at him heartily for
bringing the bear back upon us, when he was going
about his own business another way; and especially I was30
angry that he had turned the bear upon us, and then run
away; and I called out, "You dog," said I, " is this your
making us laugh? Come away, and take your horse,
that we may shoot the creature." He hears me, and
cries out, "No shoot, no shoot; stand still, you get much
laugh." And as the nimble creature run two feet for
the beast's one, he turned on a sudden, on one side of us,
and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his purpose, he beckoned
to us to follow; and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up
5 the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at about
five or six yards from the bottom of the tree.
The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a
distance. The first thing he did, he stopped at the gun,
smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the
10 tree, climbing like a cat, though so monstrously heavy.
I was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of my man,
and could not for my life see anything to laugh at yet,
till seeing the bear get up the tree, we all rode nearer
to him.
15 When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out
to the small end of a large limb of the tree, and the bear
got about halfway to him. As soon as the bear got out to
that part where the limb of the tree was weaker, " Ha!"
says he to us, "now you see me teachee the bear dance."
20 So he falls a-jumping and shaking the bough, at which
the bear began to totter, but stood still, and began to look
behind him, to see how he should get back. Then, in-
deed, we did laugh heartily. But Friday had not done
with him by a great deal. When he sees him stand still,
25 he calls out to him again, as if he had supposed the bear
could speak English, "What, you no come farther? pray
you come farther;" so he left jumping and shaking the
tree; and the bear, just as if he had understood what he
said, did come a little farther; then he fell a-jumping
30 again, and the bear stopped again.
We thought now was a good time to knock him on
the head, and I called to Friday to stand still, and we
would shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, "O
pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by and then;" he
would have said by and by. However, to shorten the
story, Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so tick-
lish, that we had laughing enough indeed, but still could
not imagine what the fellow would do; for first we
thought he depended upon shaking the bear off; and we
found the bear was too cunning for that too; for he would 5
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast
with his great broad claws and feet, so that we could not
imagine what would be the end of it, and where the
jest would be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for seeing the 10
bear cling fast to the bough, and that he would not be
persuaded to come any farther, "Well, well," says Fri-
day, "you no come farther, me go, me go; you no come
to me, me go come to you;" and upon this he goes out
to the smallest end of the bough, where it would bend 15
with his weight, and gently lets himself down by it, slid-
ing down the bough till he came near enough to jump
down on his feet, and away he ran to his gun, takes it up,
and stands still.
"Well," said I to him, "Friday, what will you do 20
now? Why don't you shoot him?" "No shoot," says
Friday, "no yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give
you one more laugh." And, indeed, so he did, as you will
see presently; for when the bear sees his enemy gone, he
comes back from the bough where he stood, but did it 25
mighty leisurely, looking behind him every step, and com-
ing backward till he got into the body of the tree; then
with the same hinder end foremost he came down the
tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot at
a time, very leisurely. At this juncture, and just before 30
he could set his hind feet upon the ground, Friday
stepped up close to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece
into his ear, and shot him dead as a stone.
Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not
laugh; and when he saw we were pleased by our looks,
he falls a-laughing himself very loud. "So we kill
bear in my country," says Friday. "So you kill them?"
says I; "why, you have no guns." "No," says he, "no
gun, but shoot great much long arrow."
5 This was indeed a good diversion to us; but we were
still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt,
and what to do we hardly knew. The howling of
wolves ran much in my head; and indeed, except the
noise I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which I
10 have said something already, I never heard anything that
filled me with so much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us off,
or else, as Friday would have had us, we should certainly
have taken the skin of this monstrous creature off, which
15was worth saving; but we had three leagues to go, and
our guide hastened us; so we left him, and went for-
ward on our journey.
The ground was still covered with snow, though not
so deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and the
20 ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come
down into the forest and plain country, pressed by hunger
to seek for food, and had done a great deal of mischief in
the villages, where they surprised the country people,
killed a great many of their sheep and horses, and some
25 people too.
We had one dangerous place to pass, which our guide
told us if there were any more wolves in the country we
should find them there; and this was in a small plain,
surrounded with woods on every side, and a long narrow
30 defile, or lane, which we were to pass to get through the
wood, and then we should come to the village where we
were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered
the first wood, and a little after sunset when we came
into the plain. We met with nothing in the first wood,
except that, in a little plain within the wood, which was
not above two furlongs over, we saw five great wolves
cross the road, full speed, one after another, as if they
had been in chase of some prey, and had it in view;
they took no notice of us, and were gone and out of our5
sight in a few moments. Upon this our guide, who, by
the way, was a wretched faint-hearted fellow, bid us
keep in a ready posture, for he believed there were
more wolves a-coming.
We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us; but 10
we saw no more wolves till we came through that wood,
which was near half a league, and entered the plain. As
soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion enough
to look about us. The first object we met with was a
dead horse, that is to say, a poor horse which the wolves 15
had killed, and at least a dozen of them at work—we
could not say eating of him, but picking of his bones
rather, for they had eaten up all the flesh before.
We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast,
neither did they take much notice of us. Friday would 20
have let fly at them, but I would not suffer him by any
means, for I found we were like to have more business
upon our hands than we were aware of. We were not
gone half over the plain, but we began to hear the
wolves howl in the wood on our left in a frightful man- 25
ner, and presently after we saw about a hundred coming
on directly towards us, all in a body, and most of them in
a line, as regularly as an army drawn up by experienced
officers. I scarce knew in what manner to receive them,
but found to draw ourselves in a close line was the only 30
way; so we formed in a moment; but that we might not
have too much interval, I ordered that only every other
man should fire, and that the others who had not fired
should stand ready to give them a second volley immedi-
ately, if they continued to advance upon us; and that
then those who had fired at first should not pretend to
load their fusees again, but stand ready with every one a
pistol, for we were all armed with a fusee and a pair of
pistols each man; so we were, by this method, able to fire
5 six volleys, half of us at a time. However, at present
we had no necessity; for upon firing the first volley the
enemy made a full stop, being terrified as well with the
noise as with the fire. Four of them, being shot into the
head, dropped; several others were wounded, and went
10 bleeding off, as we could see by the snow. I found they
stopped, but did not immediately retreat; whereupon, re-
membering that I had been told that the fiercest creatures
were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused all our com-
pany to halloo as loud as we could; and I found the
15 notion not altogether mistaken, for upon our shout they
began to retire and turn about. Then I ordered a second
volley to be fired in their rear, which put them to the
gallop, and away they went to the woods.
This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again; and
20 that we might lose no time, we kept going. But we had
but little more than loaded our fusees, and put our-
selves into a readiness, when we heard a terrible noise
in the same wood, on our left, only that it was farther
onward, the same way we were to go.
25 The night was coming on, and the light began to be
dusky, which made it worse on our side; but the noise
increasing, we could easily perceive that it was the howl-
ing and yelling of those hellish creatures; and on a sud-
den, we perceived two or three troops of wolves, one on
30 our left, one behind us, and one on our front, so that we
seemed to be surrounded with them. However, as they
did not fall upon us, we kept our way forward as fast as
we could make our horses go, which, the way being very
rough, was only a good large trot, and in this manner we
came in view of the entrance of a wood, through which
we were to pass, at the farther side of the plain; but we
were greatly surprised when, coming nearer the lane, or
pass, we saw a confused number of wolves standing just
at the entrance.
On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we 5
heard the noise of a gun, and, looking that way, out
rushed a horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, flying
like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him,
full speed; indeed, the horse had the heels of them; but as we supposed that he could not hold it at that rate, we 10
doubted not but they would get up with him at last, and
no question but they did.
But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding
up to the entrance where the horse came out, we found
the carcass of another horse and of two men devoured by 15
the ravenous creatures; and one of the men was no doubt
the same whom we heard fire the gun, for there lay a gun
just by him fired off; but as to the man, his head and
the upper part of his body was eaten up.
This filled us with horror, and we knew not what 20
course to take; but the creatures resolved us soon, for
they gathered about us presently in hopes of prey, and
I verily believe there were three hundred of them. It
happened very much to our advantage that, at the en-
trance into the wood, but a little way from it, there lay 25
some large timber-trees, which had been cut down the
summer before, and I suppose lay there for carriage. I
drew my little troop in among those trees, and placing
ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised them
all to light, and keeping that tree before us for a breast- 30
work, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, enclosing
our horses in the centre.
We did so, and it was well we did; for never was a
more furious charge than the creatures made upon us in
the place. They came on us with a growling kind of a
noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as I said,
was our breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon
their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was
principally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind
5 us, which was the prey they aimed at. I ordered our men
to fire as before, every other man; and they took their
aim so sure that indeed they killed several of the wolves
at the first volley; but there was a necessity to keep a
continual firing, for they came on like devils, those be-
10 hind pushing on those before.
When we had fired our second volley of our fusees, we
thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they would
have gone off; but it was but a moment, for others came
forward again; so we fired two volleys of our pistols;
15 and I believe in these four firings we had killed seventeen
or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many, yet they
came on again.
I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily; so I
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better
20 employed, for with the greatest dexterity imaginable he
had charged my fusee and his own while we were en-
gaged; but as I said, I called my other man, and giving
him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all along
the piece of timber, and let it be a large train. He did
25 so, and had but just time to get away when the wolves
came up to it, and some were got up upon it, when I,
snapping an uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it
on fire. Those that were upon the timber were scorched
with it, and six or seven of them fell, or rather jumped,
30 in among us with the force and fright of the fire. We
despatched these in an instant, and the rest were so
frighted with the light, which the night, for it was now
very near dark, made more terrible, that they drew back
a little; upon which I ordered our last pistol to be fired
off in one volley, and after that we gave a shout. Upon
this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately
upon near twenty lame ones, whom we found struggling
on the ground, and fell a-cutting them with our swords,
which answered our expectation; for the crying and
howling they made was better understood by their fel- 5
lows, so that they all fled and left us.
We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them,
and had it been daylight we had killed many more. The
field of battle being thus cleared, we made forward
again, for we had still near a league to go. We heard 10
the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the woods as we
went several times, and sometimes we fancied we saw
some of them, but the snow dazzling our eyes, we were
not certain. So in about an hour more we came to the
town where we were to lodge, which we found in a ter-15
rible fright, and all in arms; for it seems that the night
before the wolves and some bears had broke into the vil-
lage in the night, and put them in a terrible fright; and
they were obliged to keep guard night and day, but espe-
cially in the night to preserve their cattle, and, indeed, 20
their people.
The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs
swelled with the rankling of his two wounds, that he
could go no farther; so we were obliged to take a new
guide there, and go to Toulouse, where we found a 25
warm climate, a fruitful, pleasant country, and no snow,
no wolves, or anything like them. But when we told our
story at Toulouse, they told us it was nothing but what
was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the moun-
tains, especially when the snow lay on the ground; but30
they inquired much what kind of a guide we had gotten
that would venture to bring us that way in such a
severe season, and told us it was very much we were not
all devoured. When we told them how we placed our-
selves, and the horses in the middle, they blamed us ex-
ceedingly, and told us it was fifty to one but we had been
all destroyed; for it was the sight of the horses which
made the wolves so furious, seeing their prey; and that,
at other times, they are really afraid of a gun; but the
5 being excessive hungry, and raging on that account, the
eagerness to come at the horses had made them senseless of
danger; and that if we had not, by the continued fire, and
at last by the stratagem of the train of powder, mastered
them, it had been great odds but that we had been
10 torn to pieces; whereas had we been content to have sat
still on horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would not
have taken the horses for so much their own, when men
were on their backs, as otherwise; and withal they told
us that, at last, if we had stood all together, and left
15 our horses, they would have been so eager to have de-
voured them that we might have come off safe, especially
having our firearms in our hands, and being so many in
number.
For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in
20my life; for seeing above three hundred devils come roar-
ing and open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing
to shelter us or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost;
and as it was, I believe I shall never care to cross those
mountains again. I think I would much rather go a
25 thousand leagues by sea, though I were sure to meet with
a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my
passage through France; nothing but what other trav-
ellers have given an account of with much more ad-
30 vantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse to Paris,
and without any considerable stay came to Calais, and
landed safe at Dover, the I4th of January, after having
had a severe cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had
in a little time all my new-discovered estate safe about
me, the bills of exchange which I brought with me
having been very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy councillor was my good
ancient widow; who, in gratitude for the money I had
sent her, thought'no pains too much, or care too great, to 5
employ for me; and I trusted her so entirely with every-
thing that I was perfectly easy as to the security of my
effects; and indeed I was very happy from my beginning,
and now to the end, in the unspotted integrity of this
good gentlewoman. 10
And now I began to think of leaving my effects with
this woman and setting out for Lisbon, and so to the
Brazils. But now another scruple came in my way, and
that was religion; for as I had entertained some doubts
about the Roman religion even while I was abroad, espe-15
cially in my state of solitude, so I knew there was no go-
ing to the Brazils for me, much less going to settle there,
unless I resolved to embrace the Roman Catholic religion
without any reserve; unless on the other hand I resolved
to be a sacrifice to my principles, be a martyr for religion, 20
and die in the Inquisition. So I resolved to stay at
home, and if I could find means for it, to dispose of
my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon,
who in return gave me notice that he could easily dispose 25
of it there; but that if I thought fit to give him leave to
offer it in my name to the two merchants, the survivors
of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, who must fully
understand the value of it, who lived just upon the spot,
and who I knew were very rich, so that he believed they 30
would be fond of buying it, he did not doubt but I
should make four or five thousand pieces of eight the
more of it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him order to offer it to
them, and he did so; and in about eight months more,
the ship being then returned, he sent me an account that
they had accepted the offer, and had remitted 33,000
pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon to
pay for it. 5 In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form
which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man,
who sent me bills of exchange for 32,800 pieces of eight
to me, for the estate; reserving the payment of a hundred
moidores a year to him, the old man, during his life, and
10 fifty moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which I
had promised them, which the plantation was to make
good as a rent-change. And thus I have given the first
part of a life of fortune and adventure, a life of Provi-
dence's chequer-work, and of a variety which the world
15 will seldom be able to show the like of; beginning fool-
ishly, but closing much more happily than any part of it
ever gave me leave so much as to hope for.
Any one would think that in this state of compli-
cated good fortune I was past running any more hazards;
20 and so indeed I had been, if other circumstances had con-
curred. But I was inured to a wandering life, had no
family, not many relations, nor, however rich, had I con-
tracted much acquaintance; and though I had sold my
estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep the country out
25 of my head, and had a great mind to be upon the wing
again; especially I could not resist the strong inclination
I had to see my island, and to know if the poor Spaniards
were in being there, and how the rogues I left there had
used them.
30 My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me
from it, and so far prevailed with me, that for almost
seven years she prevented my running abroad, during
which time I took my two nephews, the children of one
of my brothers, into my care. The eldest, having some-
thing of his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him
a settlement of some addition to his estate after my de-
cease. The other I put out to a captain of a ship, and
after five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising
young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him to
sea; and this young fellow afterwards drew me in, ass
old as I was, to farther adventures myself.
In the meantime, I in part settled myself here; for,
first of all, I married, and that not either to my disad-
vantage or dissatisfaction, and had three children, two
sons and one daughter; but my wife dying, and my 10
nephew coming home with good success from a voyage to
Spain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importunity,
prevailed, and engaged me to go in his ship as a private
trader to the East Indies. This was in the year 1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island, 15
saw my successors the Spaniards, had the whole story of
their lives, and of the villains I left there; how at first
they insulted the poor Spaniards, how they afterwards
agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at last the
Spaniards were obliged to use violence with them; how20
they were subjected to the Spaniards; how honestly the
Spaniards used them; a history, if it were entered into, as
full of variety and wonderful accidents as my own part;
particularly also as to their battles with the Caribbeans,
who landed several times upon the island, and as to the 25
improvement they made upon the island itself; and how
five of them made an attempt upon the mainland, and
brought away eleven men and five women prisoners, by
which, at my coming, I found about twenty young chil-
dren on the island. 3o
Here I stayed about twenty days, left them supplies
of all necessary things, and particularly of arms, powder,
shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I brought
from England with me, viz., a carpenter and a smith.
Besides this I shared the island into parts with them,
reserved to myself the property of the whole, but gave
them such parts respectively as they agreed on; and having
settled all things with them, and engaged them not to
leave the place, I left them there. 5 From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I
sent a bark, which I bought there, with more people, to
the island; and in it, besides other supplies, I sent seven
women, being such as I found proper for service, or for
wives to such as would take them. As to the English-
10 men, I promised them to send them some women from
England, with a good cargo of necessaries if they would
apply themselves to planting; which I afterwards per-
formed; and the fellows proved very honest and diligent
after they were mastered, and had their properties set
15 apart for them. I sent them also from the Brazils five
cows, three of them being big with calf, some sheep, and
some hogs, which, when I came again, were considerably
increased.
But all these things, with an account how three hun-
20 dred Caribbees came and invaded them, and ruined their
plantations, and how they fought with that whole num-
ber twice, and were at first defeated and three of them
killed; but at last a storm destroying their enemies'
canoes, they famished or destroyed almost all the rest and
25 renewed and recovered the possession of their plantation,
and still lived upon the island.
All these things, with some very surprising incidents in
some new adventures of my own, for ten years more, I
may perhaps give a farther account of hereafter.
FINIS.
COMMENT
Map of Robinson
Cnaoe't Voyage
r THE French philosopher, Rousseau, in his romance called
Emile, permitted his hero to read only one book in boyhood;
and that one book was Robinson Crusoe. "The surest means,"
said Rousseau, "of rising above prejudices, and of ordering
our judgments in accordance with the true relations of things,
is to put ourselves in the place of an isolated man, and to
judge of everything as this man must judge of it, having
regard to its proper utility." Without going so far as Rousseau,
one may say that Robinson Crusoe is a book which everybody,
especially in youth, may well live with for a few weeks.
Here as nowhere else we may gain a point of vantage for
viewing the world and its various activities. Here for once
life is reduced to its lowest terms and made none the less
interesting. All things, it will be seen, assume towards one
another new relative values when man is made dependent
upon his own resources for life and comfort. A rusty nail,
for example, is prized by Crusoe more than a bag of gold.
That reader will derive the most profit from the romance
who imagines for the time that he is really Robinson Crusoe,
who follows him day by day from the shipwreck through his
experiments in agriculture and the handicrafts on to the morning
of his deliverance from the island. Nor will he fail to note
in the process the order of the incidents, their bearing upon
one another, and the emotions that arise out of them, extending
over nearly the entire range of natural human feeling from
despair to genuine happiness.
To be more specific, an attentive reader will ask himself
questions like these:
How did Crusoe save himself from the wreck? What
weapons or food, if any, had he when he reached shore?
What was the state of his mind on first looking round him?
How did he pass his first night on the island? What did
he take from the ship in the successive voyages to the wreck?
How did he contrive to bring away the stores, and how did
361
362 Comment
he protect them? What did he choose first, what did he leave
until last, and what were the reasons for his choice? How
did he secure himself against the fear of attack? What was
the site of his first habitation, and what was his manner of
building it? What aid did he receive from the Bible in
reconciling himself to his isolation? What animals did he
have for companions? How did he care for himself in severe
illness? What natural resources of the island did he discover
one by one? What was his manner of trapping goats and of
curing raisins? How did he make his inclosures and prepare
the ground for rice and barley? What were his contrivances
for protecting his crops against birds and hares, his manner
of baking bread, of making baskets and earthenware, of cloth-
ing himself after his old clothes were worn out? What were
his experiences in boat-building? What use did he make of
his second habitation and of the natural cave that he dis-
covered? What were his reflections on seeing a footprint in
the sand? What changes in his mode of life resulted from
this discovery? What further changes were wrought by the
arrival of Friday, his father, and the Spaniard? What natural
traits of character were possessed by Friday? and how were
they improved by instruction? How was the ship recovered?
In what enterprises did Robinson Crusoe fail? What effect
did failure have upon him? What qualities of character led
to ultimate success?
Incidentally one may contrast the way in which Defoe
employed the Selkirk story with Cowper's Ode to Solitude,
occasioned by the same unhappy adventure. A generation or
two ago, every schoolboy knew the lines:
I am monarch of all I survey;
My right there is none to dispute;
From the center all round to the sea
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.
0 Solitude! where are the charms
That sages have seen in thy face?
Better dwell in the midst of alarms
Than reign in this horrible place.
1 am out of humanity's reach,
I must finish my journey alone,
Never hear the sweet music of speech;
I start at the sound of my own.
Comment 363
The beasts that roam over the plain
My form with indifference see;
They are so unacquainted with man,
Their tameness is shocking to me.
Society, Friendship, and Love
Divinely bestow'd upon man,
O had I the wings of a dove
How soon would I taste you again!
My sorrows I then might assuage
In the ways of religion and truth,
Might learn from the wisdom of age
And be cheer'd by the sallies of youth.
Ye winds that have made me your sport,
Convey to this desolate shore
Some cordial endearing report
Of a land I shall visit no more:
My friends, do they now and then send
A wish or a thought after me?
O tell me I yet have a friend,
Though a friend I am never to see.
How fleet is a glance of the mind!
Compared with the speed of its flight,
The tempest itself lags behind,
And the swift-winged arrows of light.
When I think of my own native land
In a moment I seem to be there;
But alas! recollection at hand
Soon hurries me back to despair.
But the seafowl is gone to her nest,
The beast is laid down in his lair;
Even here is a season of rest,
And I to my cabin repair.
There's mercy in every place,
And mercy, encouraging thought!
Gives even affliction a grace
And reconciles man to his lot.
What is the prevailing tone of this lyric? Do you
find the same tone anywhere in Robinson Crusoef
Defoe sought to lay great stress on the moral and religious
application of his romance, which was intended as a warning
to boys not to run away to sea. From the author's point of
view, all of Crusoe's misfortunes resulted from disobedience
to his father. "That boy," said the father in prophecy, "might
be happy if he would stay at home, but if he goes abroad, he
will be the miserablest wretch that was ever born." Defoe,
of course, failed in his aim because he made Crusoe's career
too attractive to the imagination. It is nevertheless interesting
to observe how Defoe attempted to work out his moral in
accordance with beliefs or superstitions once very common.
Like others of the religious sect to which he belonged, he be-
lieved that people are prompted to good and bad actions
by good and evil spirits which surround them. It was, for
example, an evil spirit that led Crusoe to disobey his parents
and to make those first voyages which ended in captivity among
the Moors. Likewise the same or a similar spirit got control
of him when he decided to leave his plantation in Brazil and
to undertake that disastrous voyage to Guinea in quest of
slaves. During his life on the island, while he was paying
the penalty for disobedience, Crusoe was mostly under the
influence of a good spirit, which directed him in the right
way by means of "secret hints or pressings of the mind,"
which he never failed to heed. (See, for example, page 204.)
And Crusoe's life as a whole, Defoe would have us under-
stand, was guided through good and evil fortune by an over-
seeing power. How can we otherwise explain, it is intimated,
that whenever Crusoe in distress opens the Bible, his eye at
once falls upon a passage which brings comfort to his heart?
(See, for example, pages 182-183.) Again, how can we other-
wise explain the strange fact that the great events in his
life fell upon the same day of the year? Crusoe was born
on September 30, 1632; and just twenty-seven years later,
on September 30, 1659, he was wrecked on a desolate island;
so that for some reason, said Crusoe, "my wicked life and
my solitary life began on the same day." The first of Septem-
ber he regarded as his fatal day, for on that day in 1651
he ran away to sea, and just two years later he was captured
by a Turkish rover. On the same day six years afterwards
he set out from Brazil on the unhappy voyage to Guinea
which was cut short by shipwreck. Finally, his day of deliver-
ance was December 19, for on that day he escaped from the
wreck at Yarmouth, from Sallee, and from his island. (See
especially page 154.) These well-ordered coincidences cannot
be quite set aside as mere fiction, for similar coincidences seem
to have marked Defoe's own career. At least try to gain
Defoe's point of view, if only out of curiosity.
It seems almost superfluous, after what has been said in
the Introduction, to call attention to the charm of Defoe's
style; but we may ask, Wherein lies the secret of the charm?
Why does Defoe's narrative absorb our attention? To this
end consider any single passage, like the description of Crusoe's
first habitation, where every detail is so clear, simple, and
graphic. In the first place, Defoe knew just how a stockade
should be built, just where one should begin and just where
one should end. That order once settled in his mind, he
draws a half-circle, drives his stakes, and thus proceeds to
erect the stockade before our very eyes. When the structure
is completed, it stands out as clearly before us as if it had
been the work of our own hands. We know that habitation,
with all its wonderful recesses, as well as we know our own
homes. Compare this description with some other that you
may meet with in your reading. You will likely notice in
contrast that Defoe's passage is all alive with words expressing
action, like drew, took, pitched, drove, sharpened, and lifted.
Therein lies in part the secret. It is just the same in Crusoe's
making a board, building a boat, or baking his earthenware.
We always see him at his labor and seem to bear a hand in it.
Similarly, if Defoe wishes to tell us what is contained in a
pirate's chest, he opens the chest, and takes the things out one
by one, holding them up, as it were, to our sight: pots of
sweetmeats, linen handkerchiefs, colored neckcloths, etc., and
at the bottom—what we are all waiting breathlessly for—
bars of gold. Note well how Defoe thus attains to a style which
charms us by its simplicity and perfect clarity; and then heed
the lesson.
Robinson Crusoe is in the main easy reading. It contains
only one historical reference outside the Bible, and not a
single classical allusion. The English Bible was to Defoe
what Homer and Vergil were to Pope and Milton. The
Scriptural words, phrases, and sentences permeating Defoe's
style, made an instant appeal to the great middle class for
whom he especially composed his romances. These expres-
sions doubtless no longer awaken as vivid associations in the
minds of readers as they did once; but Robinson Crusoe for-
tunately remains still a good story; and the Biblical allusions,
when not understood, may be looked up in a Concordance to
the Bible. An author, of course, writes in the speech of his
own time, which undergoes change in subsequent periods.
Though we are distant only two centuries from Defoe, it will
be observed that he sometimes uses catched for caught, neither—
or for neither—nor, learn for teach, laid for lay, who for whom,
which for <who or whom, I for me, rid for rode or ridden, and
the colloquial says I for say I. These forms, no longer in good
usage, and an occasional want of strict agreement between
subject and predicate, will present no difficulty. Not so,
however, certain words and phrases which have changed their
meaning either in whole or in part since Defoe's time. These
expressions, along with some others not likely to be familiar
to young readers, are explained in the Glossary. Crusoe's
voyage may likewise be followed on the map accompanying
this volume. His imaginary island lay southeast of Trinidad,
near the mouth of the Orinoco.
GLOSSARY
The heavy numerals refer to page, and the others to line.
Acted, actuated; 198, 12.
Ad infinitum, "to infinity";
215. i.
Algerines, pirates of Algiers; 338, 18.
Amused, beguiled; 315, 30.
Amusement, musing or rev-
erie; 180, 2; 185, 27.
An, if; 314, 8; and elsewhere.
Ancient, ensign, or flag of
a ship; 35, 24; 305, 20.
Ave Maria, "Hail Mary," a
prayer to the Virgin Mary;
333, 9.
Barco-longo, "long boat";326, 14. Brand goose, wild goose;
109, 3.
By, because of; 120, 2.
Calenture, a severe tropical
fever to which seamen are
subject. During his delir-
ium, the patient, it is said,
often dreams of scenes at
home; 18, 17.
Cassava root, 112, 31. See
a dictionary or an encyclo-
pedia.
Casually, by chance; 6, 14.
Casuist, one versed in nice
questions of conduct; 256, 1.
Chark, charcoal; 206, 4.
Chopped, come suddenly;
203, 13.
Cockpit, pit for cock-fighting;
191, 32.
Conceits, fancies; 16, 26. Contrived, planned in fancy;
196, 3. Conversation, association;
101, 2.
Convey it, pass the title to
one's heirs; 114, 13. Corn, grain, like barley or
rice; 88, 32; and elsewhere. Coup de grace, "stroke of
mercy," death; 49, 15. Crusadoes. The Crusado was
an old Portuguese coin one-
twelfth of a moidore; 332,
30. Currently, with currency;
355, 2.
Defaced, effaced; 284, 34. Den wild zee, "the wild
sea"; 48, 23. Discover, explore; 26, 17;
and elsewhere. Doctor, instructor, especially
in religion; 256, 1. Elopement, escape; 6, 15.
Engrossed in the public,
purchased openly (not se-
cretly) in a mass, so as to
control the market and keep
up the price; 43, 20.
Equinox, equator; 174, 24.
367
368
Glossary
Espagniole, "Spaniard ";
276, 7; and elsewhere.
Excursion, flight; 15, 21.
Expect, await; 289, 31. Like-
wise expecting (n, 24)
means awaiting.
Filthy, mean or contemptible;
167, 15.
First Cause, God as the
source of all things; 255, 6.
Flags, plants growing in
moist places, with large
leaves shaped like a sword;
85, 19.
Fleet, float; 305, 16.
"For sudden joys," etc., a
modification of the English
proverb, "Sudden joy kills
sooner than excessive
grief"; 51, 28.
Foundered, swallowed up by
the sea; 10, 25; and else-
where.
Frighted, frightened; 8, 12;
and elsewhere.
Fuzees, light muskets; 22,
25; and elsewhere.
Groyne, The, old English
name for La Corunna, a
town and a province in
Spain; 338, 26.
Gudgeons, pivots fixed into
ends of the axis; 84, 28.
Guinea grains, pepper grains
from Guinea, employed for
spicing wine and cordials;
43, 13.
Gusts, tastes or inclinations;
129, 25. Habit, dress; 17, 6.
Indigested, ill-considered; 16,
24.
Ingenio, short for ingenio de azucar, "sugar-mill"; 38, 6; and elsewhere.
Inquisition, a tribunal of the Roman Catholic Church;287, 19.
Jealous, suspicious or fear-
ful; 87, 8.
Jealousy, suspicion; 262, 32.
Ladder, steps to the gallows; 163, 11. Languedoc and Gascoigne, old provinces of southern France; 342, 3.
Leadenhall Market, still a large market in London, named from the street;
125, 3.
Learned, taught; 137, 3; 250,
15- Let him blood, bleed him;
S1, 25.
Line, equator; 18, 19.
Loaden, loaded; 10, 23; and
elsewhere.
Lockhart. Sir William Lock-
hart (1621-1676) took Dun-
kirk from the French in
1658; I, 14.
Lord of a manor, a large
landowner in England; 114,
H.
Maresco, Morisco, a Moor
born or living in Spain; 21,
9- Mechanic part of mankind,
artisans; 2, 32.
Mend the matter, to make
matters worse; 340, 19.
Mere, absolute or perfect;
141, 20; sole; 283, 30.
Glossary
369
Moiclores. The moidore was
a Portuguese gold coin
equivalent to $6.50; 228, 4;
and elsewhere.
Moiety, half share; 329, 5.
Motions, impulses; 16, 3;
and elsewhere.
Navarre, a northern province
of Spain bordering on the
Pyrenees; 339, 35.
New Spain, Spanish posses-
sions north of Brazil, includ-
ing the Spanish West Indies
and Central America; 287,
14.
Obliged and engaged, bound
by love and gratitude; 244,
24.
Obliging, binding by obliga-
tion; 322, 3.
Offing, the sea off shore; 34, 27; and elsewhere.
Old Castile, old kingdom in
central Spain; 340, n.
Penguins, 125, 25. See an
encyclopedia.
Perspective glasses, spy-
glass; 35, 20; and else-
where.
Physical, good for preserving
health; 178, n.
Pickled, rubbed with salt and
vinegar on the back; 325,
19.
Pico of Teneriffe, Peak of Teneriffe; 29, 24.
Pieces of eight, the old Spanish silver dollar bear-
ing the numeral 8 and
worth eight reals or royals;
37, 9; and elsewhere.
Posture, condition; 197, 18;
235, '4.
Procuration, power or letter
of attorney for transacting
another person's business;
40, 18; 328, 21; and else-
where.
Procurator-fiscal, a collector
of revenues; 328, 21.
Prospective glass, spy-glass;
same as perspective glass;
191, 1; and elsewhere.
Prudential, prudential con-
sideration; 200, 28.
Rack, rack punch, a strong
liquor flavored with fruit
and spices; 56, 34.
Road, or roads, place of an-
chor off shore; 9, 13; and
elsewhere.
Scots, Scotch; 36, 7.
Shift me, clothe myself anew;
52, 14.
Signals, signs; 218, 23.
Stoic, a stern philosopher of a
Greek sect supposed to be
unmoved by joy or grief;
172, 8.
Strait, narrow passage; 208,
1.
Supercargo, a merchant who
manages the cargo of a ship,
buying or selling; 44, 3.
Tarpaulin, canvas coated
with tar; 68, 15.
Terra firma, "firm land," i.e.,
the mainland, meaning Bra-
zil; 159, 2.
That, so that; 52, 24.
Thriving circumstance, good
fortune in business; 45, 5.
Tinder-box, a contrivance for
obtaining a spark; 207, 27. See a dictionary.
Twist, under the; that is, between the legs; 24,
25- Universal heir, heir to his entire estate, real and per-
sonal; 44, 30.
Unhabitable, uninhabitable; 153, 8-
Value the charge, consider
the matter as important;
339. 7-
Vapors, depressed spirits; the
blues; 184, 22.
Vesting, investing; 40, 31.
Vulgarly, commonly; 16, 31.
Whelming down, throwing
over upside down so as to
cover the loaves; 141, 15.
lRea&fn0s for Scbools
WILBUR L. CROSS, Yale University, General Editor
Addison: Sir Roger de Coverley Papers.
Edited by NATHANIEL E. GRIFFIN, Princeton University.
Arnold: Sohrab and Rustum, and Other Poems.
Edited by WALTER S. HINCHMAN, Groton School.
Browning: Selections.
Edited by CHARLES W. HODELL, Goucher College, Baltimore.
Bunyan: Pilgrim's Progress, Part I.
Edited by JOHN H. GARDINER, Harvard University.
Burke: On Conciliation.
Edited by DANIEL V. THOMPSON, Lawrenceville School.
Byron: Prisoner of Chillon and Other Poems.
Edited by HARDIN CRAIG, University of Minnesota.
Defoe: Robinson Crusoe.
Edited by WILBUR L. CROSS, Yale University.
Dickens: Tale of Two Cities.
Edited by E. H. KEMPER McCoMB, Manual Training High
School, Indianapolis, Ind.
Eliot: Silas Marner.
Edited by ELLEN E. GARRIGUES, De Witt Clinton High
School, New York City.
Franklin: Autobiography.
Edited by FRANK W. PINE, Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.
Gray: Elegy and Other Poems, with Goldsmith: The
Deserted Village and Other Poems. Edited by MORRIS
W. CROLL, Princeton University.
Huxley: Selections.
Edited by CHARLES ALPHONSO SMITH, University of Virginia.
Irving: Sketch Book.
Edited by ARTHUR W. LEONARD, Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.
Lincoln: Selections.
Edited by WILLIAM D. ARMES, University of California.
Macaulay: Life of Johnson.
Edited by CHESTER N. GREENOUGH, Harvard University.
Macaulay: Lord Clive and Warren Hastings.
Edited by FREDERICK E. PIERCE, Yale University, and
SAMUEL THURBER, Jr., Technical High School, Newton, Mass.
English IReaftings tor Schools—Continued
Milton: Lyric and Dramatic Poems.
Edited by MARTIN W. SAMPSON, Cornell University.
Old Testament Narratives.
Edited by GEORGE H. NETTLETON, Yale University.
Scott: Quentin Durward.
Edited by THOMAS H. BRIGGS, Eastern Illinois State Normal
School, Charleston, 111.
Scott: Ivanhoe.
Edited by ALFRED A. MAY, Shattuck School, Faribault, Minn.
Scott: Lady of the Lake.
Edited by ALFRED M. HITCHCOCK, Public High School, Hart-
ford, Conn.
Shakespeare: Macbeth.
Edited by FELIX E. SCHELLING, University of Pennsylvania.
Shakespeare: Merchant of Venice.
Edited by FREDERICK E. PIERCE, Yale University.
Shakespeare: Julius Caesar.
Edited by ASHLEY H. THORNDIKE, Columbia University.
Shakespeare: As You Like It.
Edited by JOHN W. CUNLIFFE and GEORGE ROY ELLIOTT,
University of Wisconsin.
Stevenson: Inland Voyage and Travels with a Donkey.
Edited by EDWIN MIMS, University of North Carolina.
Stevenson: Treasure Island.
Edited by STUART P. SHERMAN, University of Illinois.
Tennyson: Idylls of the King.
Edited by JOHN ERSKINE, Columbia University.
Thackeray: English Humorists.
Edited by WILLIAM LYON PHELPS, Yale University.
Washington: Farewell Address, with Webster: First
Bunker Hill Oration. Edited by WILLIAM E. SIMONDS, Knox
College, Galesburg, 111.
Wordsworth: Selections. Also from Coleridge, Shelley,
and Keats. Edited by JAMES W. LINN, University of
Chicago.
HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY,
SCHOOL'S]
ENGLISH
READING5-FOR
"Reading
maketh a full
man, conference
a ready man,
and writing an
exact man.'

ENGLISH
SCHO
READING5-FOR
Tis the
good reader
that makes
the good
book.
Emerson.

