THE ADVENTURES OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE


McLOUGHLIN BROTHERS, Inc.
New York
 i " y
,. i .j .f 7?' • J '."I 'i' *'
ROBINSON CRUSOE
CHAPTER I
HOW ROBINSON FIRST WENT' TO SEA, AND HOW
HE WAS SHIPWRECKED
Long, long ago, before even your grandfather's father was born, there
lived in the town of York a boy whose name.was Robinson Crusoe.
Though he never even saw the-sea till he was quite a big boy, he had
always wanted to be a sailor, and to go away in a ship to visit strange,
foreign, far-off lands; and he thought that if he could only do that, he
would be quite happy.
But his father wanted him to be a lawyer, and he often talked to
Robinson, and told him if he went away, terrible things might happen
to him, and how people who staid at home were always happiest. He
told him, too, how Robinson's brother had gone away and had been
killed*in the wars.
So Robinson promised at'last that he would give up wanting to be a
sailor. But in a few days, the longing came back as bad as ever, and he
asked his mother to try to coax his father to let him go just one voyage.
But his mother was very angry, and his father said, "If he goes abroad
he will be the most miserable wretch in the world. I can give no consent
to it."
Robinson staid at home for another year, till he was nineteen years
old, all the time thinking and thinking of the sea. But one day when
he had gone on a visit to Hull, a big town by the sea, to say good-bye to
one of his friends who was going to London, he could not resist the dhance.
Without even sending a message to his father and mother, he went on
board his friend's ship, and sailed away.
But as soon as the wind began to blow and the waves to rise, poor
Robinson was very frightened and sea-sick, and he said to himself that
if ever he got on shore he? would go straight home and never leave it
again.
He was very solemn till the wind stopped blowing. His friends and
4 ROBINSON CRUSOE
the sailors laughed at him, and called him a fool, and he very soon for-
got, when the weather was fine and the sun shining, all he had thought
about going back to his father and mother.
But in a few days, when the ship had sailed as far as Yarmouth Roads
on her way to London, they had to anchor, and wait for a fair wind.
In those days there were no steamers, and vessels had only their sails
to help them along; so if it was calm, or the wind blew the wrong way,
they had just to wait till a fair wind blew.
Whilst they lay at Yarmouth the weather became very bad, and there
was a great storm. The sea was so heavy and Robinson's ship was in
such danger, that at last they had to cut away the masts in order to
ease her and to stop her from rolling so terribly. The captain fired
guns to show that his ship was in need of help. So a boat from another
ship was lowered, and came with much difficulty and took off Robinson
and all the crew, just before the vessel sank; and they got ashore at last,
very wet and miserable, having lost all their clothes except what they
had on.
But Robinson had some money in his pocket, and he went on to Lon-
don by land, thinking that if he returned home now, people would laugh
at him.
In London he made friends with a ship's captain, who had not long
before come home from a voyage to the Guinea Coast, as that part of
Africa was then called; and the Captain was so pleased with the money
he had made there, that he easily persuaded Robinson to go with him
on his next voyage.""
So Robinson took with him toys, and beads, and other things, to seW
to the natives in Africa, and he got there, in exchange for these things, so
much gold dust that he thought he was soon going in that way to make
his fortune.
And therefore, he went on a second voyage.
But this time he was not so lucky, for before they reached the Afri-
can coast, onq morning, very early, they sighted another ship, which
they were sure was a pirate ship. So fast did this other vessel sail that
before night she had come up to Robinson's ship, which did not carry
nearly so many men nor so many guns as the Pirate, and which, there-
fore, did not want to fight; and the pirates took prisoner Robinson and
all the crew of his ship who were not killed, and made slaves of them.
The pirate captain took Robinson as his own slave, and made him
dig in his garden and work in his house. Sometimes, too, he made him
look after his ship when she was in port, but he never took him away
on a "voyage.
For two years Robinson lived like this, very unhappy, and always
thinking how he might escape.

THE ATTACK OF THE PIRATE SHIP
At last, when the captain happened one time to be at home longer
than usual, he began to go out fishing in a boat two or three times a
week, taking Robinson, who was a very good fisher, and a black boy
named Xury, with him.
One day he gave Robinson orders to put food and water and some
guns and powder and shot, on a big boat that the pirates had taken out
of an English ship, and to be ready to go with him and some of his
friends on a fishing trip.
But at the last moment the Captain's friends could not come, and so
6
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Robinson was told to go out in the boat with one of the Captain's ser-
vants who was not a slave, and with Xury to catch fish for supper.
Then Robinson thought that his chance had come. He spoke to the
servant, who was not very clever, and persuaded him to put more food
and water on the boat, "for," said Robinson, "we'must not take what

ROBINSON A SLAVE
was meant for our master." And then he got the servant to bring some
more powder and shot, because, Robinson said they might as well kill
some birds to eat.
When they had gone out about a mile, they hauled down the sail and
began to fish. But Robinson pretended that he could not catch any-
thing there, and he said that they ought to go further out. When they
had gone so far that nobody on shore could see what they were doing,
Robinson again pretended to fish. But this time he watched his chance,

ROBINSON ESCAPES WITH XURT
and when the servant was not looking, came behind him and threw him
overboard, knowing that the man could swim so well that he could easi-
ly reach the land.
Then Robinson sailed away with Xury down the coast to the south.
He did not know to what country he was steering, but cared only to get
away from the pirates, and to be free once more.
Long days and nights they sailed, sometimes running in close to the
land, but they were afraid to go ashore very often because of the wild
beasts, and the natives. Many times they saw great lions come roaring
down on to the beach, and once Robinson shot one that he saw lying
asleep, and took its skin to make a bed for himself on the boat.
At last, after some weeks, when they had got south as far as the great
cape that is called Cape de Verde, they saw a Portuguese vessel, which
took them on board. It was not easy for Robinson to tell who he was,
because he could not talk Portuguese, but everybody was very kind
8
ROBINSON CRUSOE

ROBINSON 8 NEIGHBORS ASK HIM TO GO TO THE GUINEA COAST
to him, and they bought his boat and his guns and everything that he
had. They even bought poor Xury, who, being a black slave, could be
sold just like a horse or a dog.
So when they got to Brazil, where the vessel was bound, Robinson had
enough money to buy a plantation there for four years, and was very
happy and contented for a time, and made money.
But he could never be contented for very long. So when some of his
neighbors asked him if he would go in a ship to the Guinea Coast to get
slaves for them, he went, only making a bargain that he was to be paid
for his trouble, and to get some of the slaves to work on his plantation
when he came back.
"N
Twelve days after the ship sailed, a terrible storm blew, and they
were driven far from where they wanted to go. This storm was fol-
lowed by another, even worse.
Then early one morning land was dimly seen through the driving
rain, but almost at once the vessel struck on a sand-bank. In a minute
the sails were blown to bits, and flapped with such an uproar that no
one could hear the Captain's orders.
With great difficulty the only boat left on the ship was put in the
water, and everybody got into her. They rowed for the shore, but
before they could reach the land, a huge wave, big like the side of a
house, came foaming and thundering up behind them, and before any
one could even cry out, it upset the boat, and they were all left strug-
gling in the water.
Robinson was a very good swimmer, but no man could swim in such
a sea, and it was only good fortune that brought him at last safely to
land. Big wave after big wave washed him further and further up the
beach, rolling him over and over, once leaving him helpless and more
than half-drowned, beside a rock.
But before the next wave could come up, perhaps to drag him back
with it into the sea, he was able to jump out and run for his life.
And so he got safely out of the reach of the water, and lay down upon
the grass. But of all on board the ship, Robinson was the only one who
was not drowned.
CHAPTER II
ROBINSON WORKS HARD AT MAKING HIMSELF A HOME
When he had rested a little, Robinson got up and began to walk
about very sadly, for darkness was coming on; he was wet and cold and
hungry, and he did not know where to sleep, because he was afraid of
wild beasts coming out of the woods and killing him during the night.
. But he found that he still had his knife in his pocket, so he cut a big
stick to protect himself with. Then he climbed into a tree which had
very thick leaves, and there he fixed himself among the branches as
well as he could, and fell sound asleep.
In the morning when he awoke, the storm was past, and the sea
quieter. To his surprise, he saw that the ship had been carried in the
night, by the great seas, much nearer to the shore than she had been
when the boat left her, and was now lying not far from the rock where
Robinson had first been washed up.
By midday the sea was quite calm, and the tide had gone so far out
that he could walk very near to the ship. So he took off his clothes
and swam the rest of the way to her. But it was not easy to get on
board, because the ship was resting on the sand, and lay so high out of
the water that Robinson could not reach anything by which he could
pull himself up.
At last, after swimming twice round the vessel, he saw a rope hanging
over, near the bow, and by its help he climbed on board.
Everything in the stern of the ship was dry, and in pretty good order,
and the water had not hurt the provisions much. So he took some
biscuits, and ate them as he looked about. The food made him feel
better and stronger and more fit to work.
First of all, he took a few large spars of wood, and a spare top-mast
or two, that were on the deck. These he pushed overboard, tying each
with a rope to keep it from drifting away. Then he went over the side
of the ship, and tied all the spars together so as to make a raft, and on
top he put pieces of plank across.
At last, after much hard work, he got on to it three of the seamen's
chests, which had been broken open and emptied, and he filled these
with bread, rice, and cheese, and whatever he could find to eat, and with
all sorts of things that he thought he might need. He found, too, the
carpenter's tool chest, and put it on the raft. Guns and pistols also, he
took and powder, shot, and two old, rusty cutlasses.
Now the trouble was to reach land, for the raft had no mast nor, sail,
nor rudder, and was too heavy and clumsy to be pulled by Robinson
with the broken oars that he had iound. But the tide was rising, and
slowly she drifted nearer and nearer, and at last was carried up the
mouth of the little river which Robinson had not seen when he was on
shore. Robinson was able to push her into a little bay where the water
was shallow, and when the tide went out there she was left high and dry,
and he got everything safely ashore.
The next thing that Robinson did was to climb a hill, that he might
see what sort of country he was in. But when he got to the top, he saw
to his sorrow that he was on an island, with no other land in sight
11

ROBINSON LOADING HIS BAFT
except some rocks, and two smaller islands far over the sea. There
were no signs of any people, and he saw nothing living except great
numbers of birds.
\ /
After this, with the chests and boards that he had brought on shore,
he made a kind of tent to sleep in that night, and he lay there on the sand
very comfortably.
Day by day now, for some time, Robinson swam out to the ship, and
made fresh rafts, loading them with many stores, powder and shot, and
lead for bullets, seven muskets, a great barrel of bread, three casks of
rum, a quantity of flour, some grain, a box of sugar, sails and ropes and
twine, bags of nails, and many hatchets. With one of the sans he made
himself a good tent in which he put everything that could be spoiled
by rain or sun. Around it he piled all the casks and other heavy things,
so that no wild beast could very easily get at him.
In about a fortnight the weather changed; it blew hard one night,
and in the morning the ship had broken up, and was no more to be seen.
Now Robinson thought it time to find some better place for his tent.
Looking about, he found a little plain, about a hundred yards across,
on the side of a hill, and at the end of the plain was a great rock partly
hollowed out, but not so as quite to make a cave. There he pitched
his tent, close to the hollow place in the rock. Round in front of the
tent he drove two rows of strong stakes, about eighteen inches apart,
sharpened at top; and he made this fence so strong that when it was
finished he was sure that nothing could get in at him, for he left no door,
but climbed in and out by a ladder, which he always hauled up after
him.
Before closing up the end, Robinson hauled inside this fence all his
stores, his food and his guns, his powder and shot. Then he began to
dig into the rock, which was not very hard, and soon behind his tent he
had a cave in which he thought it wise to stow his gunpowder.
Robinson was now very comfortable, and as he had saved from the
wreck two cats and a dog, he did not feel quite so lonely. He had also,
ink, and pens, and paper, so that he could keep a diary; and he set up
a large wooden cross, on which he cut with his knife the date of his land-
ing on the island—3uth September, 1659; and every day he cut a notch
on the post, with a much longer one for Sunday, so that he might know
always how the months and years passed.
As for food, he found that there were goats on the island, and num-
bers of pigeons and he easily shot as many as he needed.
But now he saw that his tent and cave were too small for all the many
things he had stowed in them, so he began to make the cave bigger,

CRUSOE MAKES A LITTLE TENT WITH A SAIL
14
ROBINSON CRUSOE
bringing out all the rock and soil that he cut down, and making with it
a kind of terrace round the inside of his stockade. And as he was sure
that there were no wild beasts on the island to harm him, he went on
tunnelling to the right hand till he broke through the rock outside his
fence.

BOBINSON WRITING HIS DIARY
Then he began to hang things up against the side of the cave, and he
even made shelves, and a door for the outside entrance. This was a very
difficult job, and took him a long time; for, to make a board, he was
forced to cut down a whole tree, and chop away with his axe till one
side was flat, and then cut at the other side till the board was thin
enough, when he smoothed it with his adze. He made for himself also
X
15

ROBINSON DISCOVERS THE BARLEY GROWING
a table and a chair, and finally got his castle, as he called it, in very good
order.
Every day, all this time, he used to climb up the hill and look around
over the lonely waters, hoping, always hoping, that some morning he
might see. the sails of a ship that would take him home. But none
ever came, and sometimes the tears ran down his cheeks because of the
sorrow he felt at being so utterly alone. By and by, however, he grew
less unhappy, for he had plenty of work to do.
When Robinson had been some months on the island, heavy and con-
stant rain began to fall, and sometimes weeks would pass without a
single dry day. He found that instead of there being Spring, Summer,
Autumn, and Winter, the seasons in his island were divided into wet
and dry. There was no cold weather, no winter. It chanced that just
before this first rain began, Robinson had emptied out some refuse from
ROBINSON CRUSOE
bags wnich had once held rice, and other grain, and he had forgotten
all about having emptied them. So he was very much astonished to
find, sometime afterwards, both barley and rice growing near his tent,
in the shade of the rock. The ears, when ripe, he kept to sow again,
and from this very small beginning, in the course of a few seasons, he
had a great quantity of grain, both for food and for sowing. But this

ROUI.NSON FINDS A TURTLE
meant every year much hard work, for he had no plough nor harrow,
and all the ground had to be dug with a clumsy spade, made from a very
hard, heavy wood that grew on the island.
At first Robinson could not grind the grain that he grew nor make
bread from it. If he could have found a large stone, slightly hollow on
top, he might, by pounding the grain on it with another stone, have
made very good meal. But all the stones he could find were too soft,
and in the end he had to make a sort of mill of hard wood in which he
CRUSOE ILL, ItEASUTO THE BIBLE
burnt a hollow place, and on that he pounded the grain into meal with
a heavy stick.
One day, when he was walking along the shore, he came on a large
turtle, which he killed, and this gave him plenty of good food, for in
addition to the flesh, there were, inside the animal, many eggs, which
she had come to the shore to lay in the sand, as is the habit of turtles,
and which Robinson thought were even better than hen's eggs.
CHAPTER III
i
HOW ROBINSON WAS ILL, AND HOW HE BUILT TWO BOATS
Before the first rainy season was over, Robinson got wet in the heavy
rain, and though the weather was hot, he felt very cold and shivery,
and had pains all over his body and at night he dreamed terrible dreams.
The following day, and many days, he lay very ill with fever and ague,
and hardly knew what he was doing. So weak was he, that he believed
he was dying, and there was no one to give him water to quench his
thirst, nor to help him in any way. His only medicine was rum, in
which he had soaked tobacco. It was very nasty, and made him sick,
but it also made him sleep for more than a whole day and a night, and
he awoke much better, and able to walk about a little, though for a fort-
night he was too weak to work.
This illness caused Robinson to reflect much on his past life, which in
many ways had not been that of a good man. He saw that his misfor-
tunes were an exact fulfilment of what his father had said when he left
home against his parents' wishes. He prayed to God for pardon, and
found much comfort in reading a Bible which was amongst the things
he had saved from the wreck.
When he was quite strong, Robinson started to explore the island
better than he had yet done, and he found many things growing, of
which he made great use afterwards, tobacco, sugar-cane, and all man-
ner of fruits, amongst them grapes, which he used to dry to raisins in
the sun in great quantities.
Near the spot where the most fruit grew, he built a hut, or bower, and
round it, for safety, he put a double fence made of stakes cut from some
of the trees near at hand. During the next rainy season these stakes
CRDSOE IN HIS BOWEB
«0
ROBINSON CRUSOE
took root, and grew so fast that soon nothing of the hut could be seen
from the outside of the hedge, and it made so good a hiding place that
Robinson cut more stakes of the same kind, and planted them outside
the fence around his first dwelling; and in a year or two that also was

ROBINSON MAKING BASKETS
quite hidden from view. The ..wigs of this tree, too, were good for
making baskets, of which he had been in great need.
When he had finished all this work, he started again to go over the
rest of the island, and on his way across, from a hill, the day being very
clear, he saw high land a great way off over the water, but whether it
was another island, or the coast of America, he could not be sure.
During the journey back to his castle he caught a young parrot, which
after a long time, he taught to speak and to call him by name. It was
21

ROBINSON TEACHES HI9 PARROT TO TALK
so long since he had heard any voice, that it was a comfort to listen
even to a parrot talking.
Now the sight which Robinson had had of the far distant land raised
in him again the great longing to get away from this island where he
had been so long alone, and he wished greatly for a boat. He went
over to the remains of the boat in which he and the others had tried to
come ashore when their ship struck on the sand bank, and which had
been flung far up on the beach by the sea, and he worked for weeks try-
ing to repair her and to get her into the water. But it was all of no
use; he could not move her.
Then he thought, "I'll cut down a tree, and make a new boat." He
y

CRUSOE MAKES A BOAT
23

ROBINSON MAKING A COAT.
fancied this would be easy, for he had heard how the Indians make
canoes by felling a tree and burning out the inside. So he looked about
and chose a huge tree which stood about a hundred yards from the
water, and with great labor in about three weeks he had it cut down.
Four months Robinson worked at this boat, and very proud he was
when it was finished and lay there on the ground, big enough to carry
twenty men. Then he started to get her into the water. But that
was quite another thing. By no means in his power could he move her
an inch, try as he might. She was far too big. So he gave it up, and
left her to lie and rot in the sun and the rain—a great grief to him.
By the time Robinson had been four years on the island, all his
Clothes had become very ragged, and he had hardly anything that he
could call a hat. Clothes he must have, for he could not go naked with-
out getting his skin blistered by the hot sun, and he was afraid of get-
ting a sunstroke if he went about without a hat.
<24
ROBINSON CRUSOE

ROBINSON CRUISING IN HIS BOAT.
Now he had kept all the skins of the goats and other animals, such as
hares and foxes, that he had shot; and from these, after many failures,
at last he made a hat and coat of goatskin, and a pair of short trousers,
all with the hair outside, so as to shoot off the wet when it rained. He
also, with much trouble, made of the skins an umbrella which he could
open and shut; and if his clothes and his umbrella, and especially his
hat, were not very good to look at, they were useful, and he could now
go about in any weather.
CRUSOB AT DINNEB
u
BOBINSON CRUSOE

BOB1N ON M LKINQ 1118 GOATS.
During the next five years nothing out of the common happened, and
Robinson's time was mostly taken up with the getting of food, the year-
ly sowing and reaping of his crops, and the curing of his raisins. But
towards the end of that time he made another attempt to build a boat,
and this time he made one much smaller than the first, and though it
took him nearly two years to finish, in the end he got her into the sea.
She was not big enough for him to try to sail in to the far-off land that
he had seen, and he used her only for cruising about the shores of his
own island, and for fishing.
For about a year after this, Robinson kept on his own side of the
island, and employed his time chiefly in working on his land, and in
making dishes and pots of clay. These he had now learned to burn
properly. And, as he feared lest his powder might begin to run short,
he thought much over ways whereby he could trap goats for food, in
place of shooting them. After many trials, the best plan, he decided,
was to dig holes, which he covered with branches and leaves, on which
he sprinkled earth, so that when anything heavy passed over, it must
fall into the pit. By'this means he caught many, and the kids he kept
and tamed, so that in no great time he had quite a large herd of goats.
These he kept in various small fields, round which from time to time he
had put fences.
I Robinson had now not only goat's flesh to feed on, but milk too, for
he set up a dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk a day.
In a place where he saw nothing at first but to perish from hunger, he
now dined at a plentiful table, where the want of human society was
relieved to some extent by the company of his parrot and his animal
friends.
CHAPTER IV
ROBINSON FINDS A FOOTPRINT ON THE SAND, AND
SEES A CANNIBAL FEAST
One day when Robinson was walking along the sand towards his
boat, suddenly, close to the water, he stopped as if he had been shot,
and, with thumping heart, stood staring in wonder and fear at some-
thing that he saw. The mark of a naked foot on the sand! It could
not be his own, he knew, for the shape was quite different. Whose
could it be?"
He listened, he looked about, but nothing could he hear or see. To
the top of a rising ground he ran, and looked around. There was noth-
ing to be seen. And although he searched everywhere on the beach for
more footmarks, he found none.
Whose footprint could it be? That of some man, perhaps, he thought
who might come stealing on him out from the trees, or murder him
whilst he slept.
Back to the house he hurried, all the way in a state of terror, starting
every now and again and facing round, thinking he was being followed,
and fancying often that a stump or bush was a man, waiting to spring
on him. That night he slept not at all, and so shaken was his nerve
that every cry of a night bird, even every sound made by an insect or a
frog, caused him to start with fear, so that the perspiration ran down
his brow.
As day followed day, however, and nothing happened, Robinson
began to be less uneasy in his mind, and went about his usual work once
more. But he strengthened the fence round his castle, and cut in it
seven small loop-holes in which, fixed on frames, he placed loaded mus-
kets, all ready to fire if he should be attacked. And at some distance
from the outside of the fence he planted a thick belt of small stakes, so
that in a few years' time a perfect thicket of trees and bushes hid all
trace of his dwelling.
Years passed quietly, and nothing further happened to disturb Rob-
inson, or to make him think more of the footprint that had frightened
him so much. One day it chanced, however, that he had gone further
to the west of the island than he had ever done before, and, looking over
the sea, iie fancied he saw, at a great distance, something like a boat or
a long canoe, but it was so far off that he could not be sure what it was.
This made him determine that always in future he would bring with
him to his look-out place the telescope which he had saved from the
wreck.
i The sight of this supposed boat brought back his uneasiness to some
extent, but he went on down to the beach, and there he saw a sight that
filled him with horror. All about the shore were scattered men's bones
and skulls, and bits of burnt flesh, and in one place the remains of a big
fire. Robinson stood aghast, feeling sick. It was easy for him to know
the meaning of the terrible sight. It meant that cannibals had been
there, killing and eating their prisoners.
Full of horror, Robinson hurried back to his house, and for almost
two years he never again came near that part of the island where the
bones lay, nor ever visited his boat. But all the time he kept thinking
how he might some day kill those cannibals whilst they were at their
feast, and perhaps save some of the poor men whom they had not yet
killed. For a time he could think of little else, and every day he would
walk three miles to his look-out hill, and watch through his telescope
for signs of canoes coming over the sea towards the island. But after
CBUSOE SEES A. FOOTPRINT IN THE SAND
30
ROBINSON CRUSOE

ROBINSON ON HIS LOOK-OUT HILL.
two or three months without result, he grew tired of it. Perhaps, too,
he thought it was no business of his; the savages did not know any bet-
ter, and were only doing what their fathers had taught tham to do. He
argued also that if he did attack, and it chanced that he did not kill them
all, that even only one got away, for certain that man would tell his
tribe as soon as he got home, and they would come over in hundreds to
murder Robinson in revenge.
On the whole, therefore, it seemed to him wisest to keep away alto-
gether from that part of the beach, and to hide as well as he could all
traces of any one living on the island. So, except to take away and
conceal his boat, for more than another year, he never went back to
that spot. The boat he took to the farthest east end of the island. He
was sure the savages would never come there in their canoes, because of
the strong current that usually swept past the rocks.
More than ever now, Robinson kept to his two houses, and seldom
left them, except to go to a deep valley he had found, through which
ran a little stream of water as clear as crystal, and in which he now
kept most of his goats, secured by a fence built all round the valley.
He almost gave up firing his gun, lest it should bring the savages to find
out the cause of the noise and for the same reason he feared even to
chop wood or drive a nail.
Now one day, when Robinson was down in the bottom of the valley,
cutting thick branches to burn, he cleared away some undergrowth at
the foot of a great rock, in which, near the ground, there was a sort of
hole, or opening. Into this hole Robinson squeezed, not very easily,
and found himself in a cave of good size. The floors were perfectly dry
and level, and even on the walls there was no damp. Robinson was
delighted with his discovery. Its only drawback was the low entrance;
but, as he decided to use the cave chiefly as a place to retreat to if he
should be attacked, that was in reality an advantage, because one man,
if he had firearms, could easily defend it against hundreds. At once
Robinson set about storing in it all his powder, except three or four
pounds, all his lead for making bullets and his spare guns and muskets.
For more than two and twenty years Robinson had now been on the
island, and he had grown quite used to it and to his manner of living.
If he could only have been sure that no savages would come near him,
he felt almost that he would be content to spend all the rest of his days
there, to die at last of old age.
It was near the end of the month of December, his harvest time, and
Robinson used then to be much out in his fields even before daylight.
One morning, being anxious to finish cutting the crop, he had left his
house even earlier than usual, long before the first flush of dawn had
showed in the sky, and it chanced that he glanced in the direction of
the sea.
There, on the shore, to his great horror on his own side of the island,
32
ROBINSON CRUSOE

ROBINSON IN HIS FORT
he saw a fire burning, and he knew that this could only have been lit by
the cannibals, who had once more landed.
Straight back to his castle he ran and climbed hurriedly over the
fence, pulling the ladder up after him. Quickly he loaded all his mus-
kets and pistols, ready to defend himself to the last gasp. Taking the
telescope, he put his ladder against the rock where there was a flat ledge,
and climbing up to this, pulled the ladder after him, and again resting it
there, so climbed to the top of the rock, where he lay down and looked
eagerly through the glass.
There were no less than nine savages, he saw, all sitting round the
fire, cooking something, but what it was that they cooked he could not
tell, though it was not difficult to guess.
The cannibals had two canoes, which were hauled up on the shore,
and as.it was then low water, he fancied they must be waiting for the
tide to rise again. And so it turned out, for when the tide had been
flowing for a time, they shoved off, jumped on board, and paddled away.
As soon as Robinson was sure that they were really gone, he went
down to the shore, where he saw a dreadful sight. Skulls, bits of flesh,
and bones lay about, and fresh blood was everywhere. This awful
sight so horrified and roused Robinson that once more he determined,
whenever the next chance came, to attack the cannibals, however many
there might be, and kill all that he could. But always, for a long time
after, he lived in great uneasiness, never sure that at any moment he
might not be taken by surprise.
But many months went by, and no savages were seen, and nothing
disturbed Robinson except dreadful nlreams from which in the night he
often started out of his sleep, crying out and struggling, thinking the
savages were trying to kill him.
About the middle of the following May, one day there came a very
great storm, with much thunder and lightning and rain, and during the
night the wind blew a perfect hurricane. Robinson was suddenly star-
tled by a kind of dull thud that seemed to shake the very air. And
this noise was followed in about a minute by another thud. This time
he could hear plainer, and he knew that the sounds were those of a big
gun fired at sea, and that they must come from some ship in danger.
Robinson ran out, and climbing up his ladder, got to the top of the
rock in time to see the flash of the gun, away towards the reef of rocks
at the end of the island. When daylight came, he thought he could
see, away to the east, something which looked like a ship.
Later in the day, when the weather had cleared, he could plainly see
that there was a vessel, but, to his sorrow, that she was a wreck. With-
out doubt the crew must have perished. And it filled Robinson with
sadness and great grief to think how near he had been perhaps to fellow
countrymen, and how not even one had been spared to come ashore.
When the weather had again become calm and settled, Robinson was
greatly tempted to venture out in his boat to the wreck, and he made up
his mind to risk it. He put a compass in the boat, and a great store of
food and water, as much as she could well carry, and pushed off. In a
little more than two hours, he safely reached the wreck, without any
trouble.
She was a pitiful sight—Spanish, he judged, from her build. She
was lying on the reef, jammed fast between two rocks, the after part of
her all stove in by the sea.
Robinson boarded the wreck, and the first thing he saw was two men
lying in the cook's galley, dead, held fast in each other's arms. Beyond
this, there was no trace of any human being, and the cargo, whatever it
might have been, had mostly been washed out of the wreck by the sea.
Some chests there were in the forecastle, which most likely had been
owned by some of the crew. Two of these Robinson got into his boat,
along with a small cask of liquor, and other things. In the chests were
many things that he prized, such as linen shirts, handkerchiefs, and col-
ored neck-cloths, pots of sweetmeats, a case of bottles of cordial waters,
very handsomely mounted with silver, and, what then was of less value
to him, three great bags of gold pieces, besides bars of gold. However,
he stowed all the money and gold in his cave, along with the other nice
things, and then returned and worked his boat along shore to the har-
bor where he had kept her so long.
CHAPTER V
ROBINSON RESCUES A PRISONER FROM THE CANNIBALS,
WHOM HE NAMES FRIDAY
Robinson, if he had had a boat as good as the one in which he had
escaped from the pirates, would have waited no longer on the island,
but would have put to sea in her, and taken his chance of reaching some
land where white men dwelt. With the frail craft that he had, however,
such a plan was not possible, and he had no choice but to go on living as
he had already lived so long, always in fear of a raid by the savages.
And yet, at times, when his spirits were more than usually low, when
the burden of the lonely years pressed most heavily upon him, Robin-
son used to think that surely if the savages could come to his island, he
could get to where they came from. And so eager to go was he some-
times, that he forgot to think of what would become of him if he fell
into the hands of the savages, or what he would do when he got to the
far-off land. His mind was utterly taken up with the one thought of
getting to the mainland, and even when he slept his, dreams were of
little else.
One night he dreamed, not as he had usually done of late, that he was
sailing to the mainland, but that as he was leaving his castle in the morn-
ing, he saw on the shore two canoes and eleven savages landing, and
that they had with them another man, whom they were just about to
kill and eat, when suddenly he jumped up and ran for his life. And in
his dream Robinson fancied that the man came running to hide in the
thicket round the castle, and that thereupon he went out to help him.
Then in the dream, the savage kneeled down, as if begging for mercy,
and Robinson took him over the ladder into the castle, saying to him-
self, "Now that I've got this fellow, I can certainly go to the main-
land, for he will show me how to steer there, and where to go when we
land." And he awoke with the joyful feeling that now at last all was
well. But when he was wide awake and knew that it was only a dream
after all, poor Robinson was more cast down than ever.
The dream had, however, this result; that he saw his only plan to get
away was, if possible, to rescue some day one of the prisoners whom the
cannibals were about to kill, and in time get the man to help him navi-
gate his canoe across the sea.
With this idea, he set himself to watch, more closely than ever he had
done before, for the savages to land, and during more than a year and
a half he went nearly every day to his lookout place and swept the sea
with his telescope, in the hope of seeing canoes coming. But none
came, and Robinson was getting terribly tired of the constant watch.
Still he did not give up hope, for he knew that sooner or later the savages
would land again.
Yet many months passed, and still they did not come, till one morn-
ing, very early, almost to his surprise, he saw no fewer than five canoes
hauled up on the shore on his own side of the island. The savages who
had come in them were nowhere to be seen. Now, he knew that always
*
from four to six men came in each canoe, which meant that at least
twenty men had landed.
This was a greater number than he had expected or cared to face, so
he kept inside his castle. When he had waited a long time and still
could hear nothing of the savages, he climbed up his ladder and got to
the top of the rock, taking great care not to show himself against the
sky line. Looking through his glass, he saw that there were at least
thirty savages dancing wildly round a fire.
As he looked, some of the men left the others, and, going over to the
canoes, dragged from them two prisoners. One of these almost at once
fell forward on his face, knocked down from behind, as it seemed to
Robinson, with a wooden club, and two or three of the cannibals at
once cut him open to be ready for cooking, whilst for a moment or two
they left the other prisoner standing by himself.
Seeing a chance to escape, the man made a dash for his life, running
with tremendous speed along the sands straight for that part of the
beach near Robinson's castle.
Now this alarmed Robinson very much, for it seemed to him that the
whole of the savages started after the prisoner. As he watched the
poor man racing for life, however, he was relieved to see that he ran
much faster than his pursuers, of whom only three continued to run
after him. If he could only hold out for another mile or two there was
little doubt that he would escape. Between the castle and the runners
was the creek up which Robinson used to run his rafts from the wreck,
and when the escaped prisoner came to that, he plunged in, and though
the tide was full, with less than thirty powerful strokes he reached the
other side, and with long, easy strides continued his run. Of the men in
pursuit, two also plunged in and swam through. The third man stopped
altogether, and went back the way he came.
Seeing the turn things were taking, it seemed to Robinson that now
had come his chance to get a servant, and he resolved to try to save the
life of the man who was fleeing from the cannibals. At once he hurried
down the ladder, snatched up his two guns, and running as fast as he
could, got between the man and his pursuers, calling out to him to stop.
Then, rushing at the foremost of the pursuers, he knocked him senseless
with the butt of his gun, for it seemed to him safer not to fire lest the
noise should bring the other cannibals around.
The second man, seeing his comrade fall, hesitated and stopped, but
CRUSOE AND FRIDAY
Robinson saw when nearer to him that the savage had in his hands a
bow and arrow with which he was just about to shoot. There was then
no choice but to fire on the spot.
Thereupon the man who had been chased by the others was so terri-
fied by the flash and noise of the gun and at seeing his enemy fall dead,
that he stood stock still, trembling, and it was with great difficulty that
Robinson coaxed him to come nearer. This at last he did, stopping
every few paces and kneeling down. At length, coming close to Robin-
son, he again knelt, kissed the ground, and taking hold of Robinson's
foot, set it on his head as it rested on the sand.
Whilst this was going on, Robinson noticed that the savage whom he
had knocked down had begun to move and to come to his senses. To
this he drew the attention of the man whom he had rescued, who said
some words that Robinson could not understand, but they sounded
very pleasant to an ear that had heard no other voice for more than
twenty-five years. Next he made a motion with his hand, as if asking
for the cutlass that hung at Robinson's belt, and when the weapon was
given to him, ran at his enemy and with one clean blow cut off his head.
Then, laughing, he brought the head and laid it with the cutlass at Rob-
inson's feet.
But what caused most wonder to the man was how the savage whom
Robinson shot had been killed at so great a distance, and he went to
look, at the body, turning it over and over, and looking long at the
wound in the breast that the bullet had made, evidently much puzzled.
Robinson then turned to go away, beckoning to the savage to follow,
but the man made signs that he would bury the two bodies in the sand,
so that the others might not find them if they followed. With his bare
hands he soon scraped holes deep enough to cover the bodies, and in
less than a quarter of an hour there was hardly a trace left of what had
happened. y
Calling him away, Robinson now took him, not to his castle, but to
the cave, where he gave him food and water; and then he made signs for
him to lie down to rest, pointing to a bundle of rice straw.
Soon the man was sound asleep. He was, Robinson thought, a well-
made, handsome man; the muscles of his arms and back and legs showed
great strength, and all his limbs were beautifully formed. As near as
Robinson could guess, he was about twenty-six years of age.
Whilst the man slept, Robinson went out to milk his goats, at which
39
work the savage, having waked in about half an hour, found him, and,
running up, threw himself on the ground near Robinson's feet, one oi
which he again raised as before, and placed on his head. At the same
time he made every kind of sign of gratitude and submission.
In a little while Robinson began to speak to him, and to try to teach
him things. First, he made him understand that his name was to be
Friday (that being the day of the week when Robinson had saved him

FRIDAY BUSTING THE DEAD
from a horrible death). Then he taught him to call him Master, and
also taught him the meaning of "yes an^ "no."
Friday showed great quickness in learning. He seemed to be happy
and contented, and free from trouble, except that the clothes which
Robinson made him wear gave him at first great discomfort, for in that
warm part of the world, the natives are not used to clothes, but always
go about naked.
For some time Robinson did not trust Friday, and did not allow him
to sleep in the same part of his castle with himself, but kept him at
night in a little tent outside the fence. Every night he drew up the
ladder, so that if Friday ever should attempt to get over, he would be
sure to make noise enough to wake Robinson. Other precautions also
he took, but soon he found that they were not needed. Friday was
quite faithful.
At first when they went out in the woods together, Friday was ter-
rified every time that Robinson's gun was fired. He had never seen
anything put into it, and it was more than he could understand how
things could be killed merely by the noise and the flash of fire. It
seemed to him that the gun was some sort of evil spirit that might do
him harm, and it was long before he could be brought to touch one of
them.
Robinson asked Friday if his tribe ever came to this island, and Fri-
said they did, and that he himself had often come over; and he told
Robinson that on one visit he and his friends had eaten more than twen-
ty men.
It troubled Robinson's mind greatly to hear what Eriday had to say
about this custom, but by little and little, as the weeks went past, he got
him to see how horrible a thing it was to eat human flesh. From this
beginning, Friday gradually came to be in his habits more like a white
man, and teaching him was the greatest pleasure to Robinson, who
found the years, after Friday's arrival, the happiest of all that he had
lived on the island. Now, not only he had help in his work, but had
some one to talk to, for want of which, during the weary years when he
was alone, he had almost forgotten his own tongue.
When they began easily to understand each other, Robinson asked
Friday how far it was from the island to his country, and if the canoes
were not often lost whilst crossing. Friday said there was no danger,
and that no canoes were ever wrecked, and that always in the morning
the wind and the current set one way, and the other in the afternoon.
Friday told Robinson much about his country, and about his people,
who he said were Caribs. And a great way "beyond the moon," by
which he meant to the west, he said that white men lived who had
beards such as Robinson wore. These white men, he said, had killed
very many natives, from.which Robinson fancied that they must be
Spaniards, who about that time were very cruel to the people whose
countries they had taken.
Robinson asked Friday if he could tell him how he might get over to
where the white men lived, and Friday said it would be very easy, if

ROBINSON INSTRUCTING FRIDAY
they had a big canoe. And again Robinson began to make plans and to
hope to escape from the island. He showed Friday the boat in which he
and the crew had tried to escape from the wreck, the remains of which
still lay high up on the shore, out of reach of the waves of any but a very
high tide, or of a storm worse than common. Friday looked long at it
without speaking, till Robinson asked'what he was thinking of.
Then he said that he had once before seen such a boat, but for some
time he could not make Robinson understand where or when he had
seen it. Robinson thought he meant that a ship had been driven ashore
on the coast, and that the boat, perhaps, had come from her. But
presently Friday spoke of the men who had been in the boat, and whom
he and his people had pulled out of the sea. He counted on his fingers
to make Robinson understand that there had been seventeen of them.
"Where are they now?" Robinson asked; and Friday said they still
lived with his tribe.
"Why did they not kill and eat them?" asked Robinson; and again
Friday assured him that they ate only those men whom they took in war.
It was some time after this that Robinson and Friday chanced to be
on the high hill at the east end of the island. The day was cloudless and
very clear, with a light breeze rippling the water, just such a day as that
on which, years ago, Robinson had seen land far over the sea. Friday
gazed long in that direction, and then began to jump and dance, point-
ing to the dim blue coast. "There my country! See! There my peo-
ple live!" he said, his eyes sparkling with joy.
After this, for a time, Robinson was not easy in his mind about Fri-
day. He had little doubt that if he could get back to his tribe, he would
soon forget all he had been taught, all that Robinson had done for him,
and might even return, perhaps with a hundred or two of his friends,
and kill and eat his master. But in this Robinson was very unjust to
Friday, who had no such thoughts in his mind.
And this Robinson soon found out. One day, as they walked up the
same hill, he asked if Friday would not be glad to be once more in his
own land.
"Yes," said Friday, "very glad."
"Would you eat men's flesh again?"
"No, never," said Friday, shaking his head very much.
Then Robinson asked why he did not go back. Friday said it was too
far to swim. Robinson said he would give him a boat, and Friday said
very well, he would go if Robinson came along too. „
"But your people will eat me," said Robinson.
"No, no," answered Friday; "you good to me. They good to you."
Robinson took Friday to the place where he kept the small canoe he
had made, and asked if they might try to go over in that boat. Fri-
day's face fell. She was too small, he said. Robinson then showed
him the first boat he had built, and which had been lying on the sand
for more than twenty-two years. That, Friday said, would be large
enough; but the heat of the sun had by this time so warped and cracked
her that, even if they had been able to get her into the sea, she would
not have floated.
CHAPTER VI
ROBINSON AND FRIDAY BUILD A LARGE BOAT; THEY RESCUE
TWO PRISONERS FROM THE CANNIBALS
But still the wish to leave the island was as strong as ever, and Rob-
inson and Friday went to work to fell a tree from which to build a boat
good enough for their voyage to the mainland. Friday soon showed
that he knew far better than Robinson the kind of tree best suited for
boat making, though he knew less about hollowing it out; for he had
^ever seen tools suitable for such work.
It took the two of them little more than a month to finish the boat.
Very handsome she looked, and very proud of her they were. But it cost
them quite a fortnight of very hard work to get her into the water.
Below her they had to put large wooden rollers, and then with strong
sticks, inch by inch, they levered and pushed her into the sea, where she
floated, veiy trim and ship-shape, big enough to carry a dozen men.
Robinson did not mean to depend only on paddling. He made Fri-
day cut down a straight young pine tree for a mast, and among the old
ship's sails that he had kept so long, he found at last two pieces that
were not rotten. From these he made what is called a shoulder of mut-
ton sail and a small foresail.
As the rainy season was nearly due, he made Friday dig near the
creek a kind of dock in the sand for the new boat just deep enough for
her to float in. Then they covered the boat over very thickly with the
boughs of trees; and there she lay, quite dry and snug, till the end of the
wet weather, when it was Robinson's plan to start for the mainland. .
A week or two before the dry season again came, Robinson meant to
open the dock and get the boat afloat once more. And to be ready in

ROBINSON AND FRIDAY ON THE HILL
plenty of time he began to lay by a lot of food and other stores for use
on the voyage.
One morning, when he was very busy over his work, he told Friday
to go down to the beach to see if he could find a turtle. Off went Fri-
day, but before he had been gone many minutes, back he came running
in a great hurry, crying out, "Master! Master! O sorrow! 0 bad!"
"What's the matter, Friday?" asked Robinson.
"Over yonder," said Friday, pointing to the west, and very much
scared; "over yonder, one, two, three canoe."
Robinson cheered him as well as he could.
"Well, Friday," he said, "we must fight them. Will you fight?"
Friday promised to stand by him to the end, and to do just as he was
bid.
Then Robinson loaded two guns and gave them to Friday, and him-
self took four muskets, which he loaded carefully, and in each of his pis-
tols he put two bullets. Then he hung his cutlass by his side, and gave
Friday a hatchet.
When all was ready he went up the hill with his telescope, and saw
that there were in all twenty-one savages, with three prisoners. They
had landed not far beyond the creek, near a spot where thick bushes
grew almost down to the sea.
. Giving Friday one of the pistols to stick in his belt, and one of the
muskets to carry, they set off, each of them now armed with a pistol
and three guns, besides Robinson's cutlass and Friday's hatchet. In
his pocket Robinson put a small bottle of rum, and gave Friday a bag
with more powder and bullets. He told him to keep very quiet, and to
be sure not to fire till he gave the word.
To get at the savages without being seen they had to go nearly a mile
out of their way, and being heavily laden, they could not go very fast.
When he and Friday got near the place where the savages had lit their
fire, Robinson sent Friday forward to see what was going on, and to
come back and tell him.
» Friday crept on, and returned very, quickly, saying that the cannibals
had already killed one of their prisoners, and were eating him, and that
very soon they would kill the second prisoner, who was lying near to
them. The second prisoner, Friday said, was a white man.
Creeping forward, Robinson saw plainly through his glass the white
man lying bound hand a^id foot on the sand. There was another tree,
Robinson noticed, with a clump of bushes round it, at some distance
nearer to the savages, and within very easy shot of them. To that he
and Friday now crawled.
There was no time to lose, for when they had reached the tree, two of
the savages had gone to the white man, and were untying his ankles.
The other cannibals were all sitting close together. Turning to Friday,
Robinson said in a low voice, "Now do exactly as I tell you." They
both took aim at the crowd of savages.
"Are you ready, Friday?" whispered Robinson.
"Ready," said Friday.
"Then fire."
Robinson's first shot killed one and wounded two, but Friday's killed
two and wounded three. Snatching up fresh guns, both fired again
before the savages who were not hurt could get on their feet, for they
were so taken by surprise and frightened by the noise that the poor
wretches hardly knew what was happening. This time only two of
them dropped, but many more were wounded, and ran about yelling
till they fell from loss of blood.
"Now, Friday," said Robinson, taking up one of the remaining
loaded muskets, "follow me." He rushed out of the wood, with Friday
close behind, and charged down on the cannibals as fast as he could run.
The two men who had gone to kill the white prisoner no sooner saw
this than they fled to the canoes, and three of the others followed and
jumped into the same canoe. -
Robinson bade Friday shoot at them, and Friday, running forward,
fired. All the men in the canoe fell, two of them dead, and one wounded.
The others seemed to fall from fear, for they soon jumped up and pad-
dled away with all their might.
Whilst Friday kept on firing, Robinson ran to the white prisoner and
cut his bonds, helping him on to his feet, and giving him some rum out
of the bottle he had brought. The man, on being asked what country
he was from, answered that he was a Spaniard, and he began to thank
Robinson for what he had done. But Robinson stopped him, saying,
"Sir, we will talk afterwards. At present we must fight." And he
gave the Spaniard the cutlass from his belt and a pistol, telling him, if
he had strength left, to go and do what he could against the savages,
Robinson now sent Friday for the muskets which he had left under
the tree, and began quickly to reload them, giving Friday the musket
which he himself had been carrying, but which he had not fired.
Meantime the Spaniard had attacked a very big, powerful savage
who was armed with a club, and though with his cutlass he had twice
wounded the cannibal in the head, yet from being bound so long the
white man was weak, and now looked like getting the worst of it. For
the savage, making a rush, closed with him and threw him, and in the
struggle had nearly wrenched the cutlass out of his hand, when the
Spaniard suddenly quitting his hold, drew his pistol and shot the man
through the body, killing him on the spot.
The other natives were now scattered in every direction, and Friday,
running after them with his hatchet, killed all of them except one who
had been wounded by the Spaniard, and who, in spite of his wounds,
jumped into the sea and swam out to the canoe in which were the two
others who had got away.
Friday advised Robinson to take another of the canoes and go after
him. Robinson agreed, for he thought that if any escaped they would
be certain to come back, bringing hundreds of others to avenge the
death of their friends. So the two ran to the beach and began to shove
off a canoe. But to their surprise, on the bottom of the canoe lay anoth-
er prisoner, an old man, tied so hard, neck and heels, that even when his
bonds were cut he could not move for a while.
No sooner did Friday look at him, than he began to dance and shout
and laugh, and then, kneeling down, rubbed noses with the savage
(which is what these folks do instead of kissing each other), and he was
so excited that for some time he could not explain what was the matter.
As soon as he could speak, he told Robinson that the man was his old
father.
The Spaniard was so worn out with fighting, that Friday had to carry
him on his back to the canoe. Then he paddled the two men along to
the creek, whilst Robinson walked. But both men had to be carried
up to the castle, and Robinson was forced to rig up a tent for them out-
side, because it was not possible for him and Friday to lift them over
the fence.
The next day Robinson made Friday ask his father if he thought the
savages were likely to come back. The man said that he thought they
were so frightened by the way they had been attacked and by the noise
of the guns, that they would probably never return. He said he had
heard them call out that two evil spirits were attacking them. And it
turned out that the old man was right, for no cannibals ever again were
known to visit the island.
CHAPTER VII
ARRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH SHIP; ROBINSON SAILS FOR" HOME
Soon after this Robinson had a long talk with the Spaniard, who
said that he and his comrades had been wrecked four years since on that
part of the coast where Friday's tribe lived. He said that they were
well treated by the natives, but were put to very great straits now for
want of clothes, that their powder was finished, and that they had lost
all hope of ever getting back to their own country. He himself, he said,
had been captured in one of the many small wars that are always taking
place anong the various tribes.
It struck Robinson that it might be possible for him to get these men
over to his island, provided that he could be sure of their good faith,
and that when they came, they did not take the island from him by
treachery. It was a risk, he thought, but then, if he got so many men,
"it would not be difficult to build a small ship that could carry them all
to England. k
So he asked the Spaniard if he would promise, and if he thought he
could get his comrades to take an oath that, if Robinson helped them,
they would look upon him as their captain, and would swear to obey
him in all things. The Spaniard readily promised for himself, and said
that he was sure his comrades would keep faith.
It was arranged, therefore, that in about six months, when the harvest
was reaped and there would be food for so many extra men, the Spaniard
and Friday's father should go over to the mainland in one of the canoes
which had been taken from the savages.
Meantime, all hands set about the curing of a very large quantity
of raisins and much other work was done to be in readiness for the
coming of these men.
When the harvest was reaped, Robinson gave the Spaniard and Fri-
day's father each a musket and a supply of powder and bullets, and
loaded the canoe with food, enough to last them and the others about a
fortnight, and the two men set off for the mainland in fine weather, and
with a fair wind.

ROBINSON TALKING WITH THE SPANIARD
It was about eight days after this, and when Robinson had begun to
look out for their return, that one morning very early, when he was
asleep, Friday came running in, shouting, "Master! master! They
come!" Up jumped Robinson, and hurrying on his clothes, ran out.
Looking toward the sea, he soon made out a sailing boat making for
the shore, coming from the south end of the island, but still some miles
away. This was not the direction from which the Spaniard and his
comrades would come, nor were they likely to be in a sailing boat. So
Robinson took his telescope and went to the top of the hill to see if he
could make out who were on board, before they landed.
Hardly had he got to the top of the hill, when he noticed a ship at
anchor some distance from the shore. She looked like an English ves-
sel, he thought, and the boat like an English long-boat.
This was a wonderful sight to Robinson, but yet he was not easy in
mind. It was not a part of the world where an English ship was likely
to come, because in those days they were nearly all Spanish vessels that
traded in these seas, and the English and Spaniards were bitter enemies.
What could an English ship be doing here? There had been no storm
to drive her out of her course.
Robinson feared that if she was English there must be something
wrong about her. Perhaps she was a Pirate. So he was careful not
to show himself or Friday.
Presently, as he watched, he saw the men in the boat run her ashore
and draw her up on the beach, about half a mile from his castle. When
they had landed, he could easily see through his glass that they were
Englishmen.
There were eleven men in all, but three of them had their hands tied
behind their backs, and were evidently prisoners. WThen the first four
or five men had jumped ashore, they brought out these three, all the
while ill treating them, and behaving as if they meant to kill them. Fri-
day was sure that they meant to kill them and eat them.
Soon, without further harming the three men, the others scattered
about amongst the trees near the shore, leaving the three sitting on the
ground, very sad looking, but with their hands now untied.
At the time the boat was run aground, it was just high water, and the
two sailors who had been left in charge of her, and who had evidently
been drinking too much rum, went to sleep, and never noticed that the
tide was going out. When they awoke, the boat was high and dry, and
with all the strength of the whole crew they could not move her, because
the sand at that part of the beach was very soft. This did not seem
to trouble any of them very much, for Robinson heard one of the sailors
shout, "Let her alone, Jack, can't ye? She'll float next tide."
All forenoon Robinson watched, and when the hottest time of the
day had come, he noticed the sailors throw themselves under the trees
and go to sleep some distance away from the three prisoners.
Robinson and Friday, taking their muskets and pistols, then stole
down cautiously behind the three men, to try to speak to them without
the others knowing.
Robinson had put on his goatskin coat and the great hairy hat he had
made for himself; and with his cutlass and pistols in his belt, ahd a gun
over each shoulder, he looked very fierce.
The men did not see him till he spoke, and they were so startled by

THE MUTINEERS ILL TREATING THEIR FRISONEBS
his wild look, and by the sight of two men armed to the teeth, that they
nearly ran away. Robinson told them not to be alarmed; he was an
Englishman, and a friend, and would help them if they would show him
how it could be done.
Then they explained to him what had happened. One of the three
was captain of the ship that lay at anchor off the island. Of the others,
one was mate of the ship, and the third man was a passenger. The
crew had mutinied, the captain told Robinson, and had put him in
irons, and the ringleaders in the mutiny had proposed to kill them.
Now they meant to leave them on the island to perish.
The captain was so astonished at finding anybody there who proposed
to help him that he said, in his wonder, "Am I talking to a man or to an
angel sent from heaven?"
"If the Lord had sent an angel," sir," said Robinson, "he would
probably have come better clothed."
Then he asked if the boat's crew had any firearms, and was told that
they had only two muskets, one of which was left in the boat.
"The rest should be easy, then," said Robinson; "we can either kill
them all or take them prisoners."
The captain was unwilling to see the men killed, for he said if two of
the worst of them were got rid of, he believed the rest would return to
their duty.
Robinson made a bargain that if he saved the captain from the muti-
neers, and recovered the ship, he and Friday were to be taken home to
England in her, free of cost; and to this the Captain and the others
agreed.
Then Robinson gave each of them a musket, with powder and ball,
after which the captain and the mate and the passenger marched off
towards the spot where the mutinous sailors lay asleep. One of the
men heard them coming, and turning round, saw them, and cried out to
his companions. But it was too late, the mate and the passenger fired,
and one of the ringleaders fell dead. A second man also fell, but jumped
up immediately and called to the others to help him.< But the captain
knocked him down with the butt of his musket, and the rest of the men,
seeing Robinson and Friday coming, and knowing that they had no
chance against five armed men, begged for mercy. Three others who
had been straying about among the trees came back on hearing the
shots, and were also taken, and thus the whole crew of the boat was
captured.
The captain and Robinson now began to think how they might recov-
er the ship. There were on board, the captain said, several men on
whom he thought he could depend, and who had been forced into the
mutiny against their wills. But it would be no easy thing to retake
the ship, for there were still twenty-six men on board, and as they were
guilty of mutiny, all of them, if taken back to England, would most
likely be hanged. Thus they were certain to make a fight for it.
The first thing that Robinson and the others now did was to take
everything out of the boat—oars, mast, sail, and rudder; then they
knocked a hole in her bottom, so that she could not float. As they
were doing this, and drawing her still further up on the beach, they
heard first one gun and then another fired by the ship as signals to the
boat to return.
As she of course did not move, Robinson saw through his glass anoth-
er boat with ten men on board, armed with muskets, leave the ship,
coming to bring the others back. This was serious enough, for now he
had to make plans whereby he and his party might capture this fresh
boat's crew also.
Accordingly they tied the hands of all the men they had first taken,
and sent the worst of them to the cave under the charge of Friday and
one of the men the captain said was to be trusted, with orders to shoot
any who tried to give an alarm or to escape. Then Robinson took his
party and the rest of the prisoners into the castle, where, from the rock,
they watched for the landing of the second boat.
The captain and mate were very nervous, and despaired of taking
this fresh body of men, but Robinson was quite confident of success, and
put heart into them by his cheerfulness.
Of the prisoners in his castle, there were two whom the captain said
were honest men, and on their promising solemnly to keep faith, and to
fight for him, Robinson released them.
The crew of the second boat, when they landed, were terribly sur-
prised to find the first boat empty and stove in, and they were seen anx-
iously consulting what to do. Then they hallooed and fired volleys.
Getting no reply, they were evidently alarmed, for they all jumped into
their boat and began to pull for the ship. In a few minutes, however,
they seemed to change their minds,, for again they landed, this time
leaving three men in charge of the boat, and keeping her in the water.
The other seven came ashore, and started in a body across the island
to look for their lost comrades. But they did not care to go far, and
soon stopped, again firing volleys and hallooing. Getting no reply,
they began to march back to the sea. Whereupon Robinson ordered
Friday and the mate to go over the creek to the west and halloo loudly,
and wait till the sailors answered. Then Friday and the mate were to
go further away and halloo again, thus gradually getting the men to
follow them away from the shore.
This plan succeeded very well, for when the sailors, thinking they
heard their missing friends hail, ran to find them, their way was stopped
by the creek over which they had to get the boat to carry them. They
took with them, then, one of the three men whom they had left in the
boat, and ordered the others to moor the boat to a tree and remain
there.
This was just what Robinson wanted. And moreover, one of the
men played still further into his hands, for he left the boat and lay down
under a tree to sleep. On him the captain rushed and knocked him
down as he tried to rise to his feet, whereupon the sailor left in the boat
yielded the more readily saying that he had joined the mutineers very
unwillingly, and was now glad of a chance to rejoin his captain.
Meantime Friday and the mate, by hallooing and answering, drew
the rest of the boat's crew from hill to hill through the woods, till at last
they had got them so far astray that it was not possible for them to
find their way back before dark. When they did get back to where the
boat had been left, and found the men whom they had left in her gone,
they were in a terrible fright.
It was not difficult for Robinson and his men to surround them, and
it chanced that the boatswain of the ship, who was the greatest villain
of the lot, and the chief cause of all the trouble, walked in the darkness
close to the captain, who jumped up and shot him dead. The others
then surrendered, believing what they were told, that they were sur-
rounded by fifty armed men. All begged hard for their lives, and a few
whom the captain said he could trust were set at liberty on promising
to help retake the ship. The others were bound and put in the cave.
Robinson and Friday remained on shore to look after the prisoners,
whilst the captain and the mate and the passenger, with those of the
crew who were trustworthy, having patched up the damaged boat,
pulled off in her and in the other to the ship, which they reached about
midnight. When they were a short distance off, the captain made one
of the crew hail the ship and say they had brought off the boat and the
men they had gone in search of. The boats ran alongside at once, one
on each side of the vessel, and before the mutineers knew what was hap-
pening, they were overpowered, one or two of them being killed. Only
one ot the captain's party was hurt, the mate, whose arm was broken
by a musket ball.
As soon as the ship was secured, the captain ordered seven guns to be
t
fired, that being the signal he had agreed to make to let Robinson know
if he succeeded in taking the ship.
Robinson's stay in the island had now come to an end, after more
than twenty-eight years, for in a few days he and Friday sailed for Eng-
land in the ship. Five of the mutineers were left on the island, and
Robinson left a letter with them to be delivered to the Spaniard when
he returned with his comrades.
Robinson did not forget, when he left, to take with him the money
and gold bars he had got from the wreck of the Spanish ship, and he
took also, as a memento, the goatskin coat and great hairy hat. But
the captain was able, before the ship sailed, to give him proper clothing,
the wearing of which at first put him to dreadful discomfort.
The voyage was a long one, but they sighted the English coast at last.
It was thirty-five years since Robinson had set foot in England.
That morning, when at last, after the weary years of exile, he again saw
his native land, he laid his head down on his arms and cried like a child.
He went to York, where he had lived as a boy, but found that all of
his family were dead, except two sisters and two sons of one of his
brothers. He learned that his father's property had been divided
without any provision being made for him, as it was supposed that he
had long been dead. He was, therefore, rather poor, for the money he
had brought from the island would not go far toward settling him in
the world.
This being the case, Robinson thought the wisest thing he could do
would be to look after the plantation he had left in Brazil, when he
had gone on the voyage which ended in shipwreck. He did not like to
undertake the long voyage to Brazil, so he decided to go to Lisbon, the
capital city of Portugal, which country then governed Brazil. In
Lisbon he hoped to find, amongst those engaged in the trade with Bra-
zil, some one who could give him news of his property. He was not
disappointed, for he found the captain of the vessel which had picked
him up when he escaped with Xury, and had taken him to Brazil.
Through this captain Robinson learned that the trustees in whose
charge he had left his plantation had proved to be very fair, honest
men; that the profits had not been wasted; and that the land itself had
increased greatly in value. The trustees stood ready to turn over his
property as soon as they knew that he was still living.
The old captain put Robinson in the way of making his claim to his

ROBINSON' MARRIED
plantation without going to Brazil himself. As he had no desire to
live there, he authorized his trustees to sell his land, which they did for
a good price, and in the course of a few months he received a sum of
money large enough to make him quite a rich man.
Robinson returned to England, and in a short time married, bought
a farm in the county of Bedford, and settled down to the life of a country
gentleman. His thoughts were entirely taken up in managing his
servants, cultivating the soil, enclosing, planting, and so forth, and in
enjoying the society of his wife, who proved to be a very agreeable,
worthy, and loving helpmate.
For several years he was very happy, but at length his good wife died,
and the blow so upset him that he lost all relish for his placid life and
rural enjoyments. A great desire took possession of him to get away
from familiar scenes, and enjoy the excitement of travel and adventure
again. He longed, in particular, to make a visit to his old island
home, to see what had become of the people there.
Just after acquiring his wealth, he had taken under his care the two
sons of one of his dead brothers that have been mentioned; and as one
of them had an inclination for the sea, he had had him trained for an
officer, and in due time provided him with a ship. This young man at
this very time returned from his first voyage as captain, and came to
him, telling him that some merchants had engaged him to go on a voy-
age to the East Indies, and asking him if he would not like to go with
him.
On Robinson's mentioning his desire to revisit his island, the nephew
told him that they would pass near it, and could make a stop there, if
he wished to do so.
The scheme hit Robinson's desires so exactly that he adopted it
without hesitation, and began making preparations for the voyage at
once. He put on board a considerable cargo of all kinds of things use-
ful for a colony, and engaged several workingmen to go along and settle
in the island; among them, two carpenters, a smith, a tailor, and a gen-
eral mechanic whom he called a Jack-of-all-Trades.
They set sail, and had a fine voyage. When they came in sight of
the island, the ship was brought to anchor near the little river. Robin-
son called Friday, whom he had of course brought with him, and
asked him if he knew where they were. Friday looked about a little,
and presently, clapping his hands cried, "Oh, yes; oh yes, oh there!"
and fell dancing round and capering like a mad fellow.
As they caught sight of some men at the top of the hill, Robinson
gave orders to fire three guns, to let them know that friends had come,
and soon smoke was seen coming from the side of the river. Robinson
then went ashore in a small boat, taking Friday with him, and hanging
out a white flag of peace. The first man Robinson's eye fell upon was
the Spaniard whose life he had saved. He ordered that nobody should
leave the boat at first, but himself; but there was no keeping Fri-
day aboard, for he had spied his father at a distance. The poor fel-
low's joy when he reached his father was very touching. He kissed
him, took him up in his arms, set him down by a tree, then stood and

ROBINSON RECEIVES A WELCOME FROM THE SPANIARD
m
looked at him as one would look at a picture; and all the while he was
talking and telling him one story after another of his travels.
Robinson's friend, the Spaniard, came attended by one other, carry-
ing a flag of truce also. He had no notion that it was Robinson until
he spoke to him, and asked him if he did not know him. Then he came
forward and embraced him, and led him to his old dwelling. Robin-
son could no more have found the place than if he had never been there;
for they had planted so many trees, and they had grown so big, that the
place was accessible only by such winding ways that they alone who had
made them could find them.
Robinson inquired the reason for all these fortifications, and the
Spaniard told him that he was sure he would see there was need enough
of them when he had given him an account of how they had passed
their time since their arrival in the island.
He had sent the man who attended him to call his comrades, and
this man now came back with eleven more. Robinson's friend, point-
ing to them, said, "These gentlemen, sir, all owe their lives to you;"
upon which they all came up to Robinson, one by one, not as if they
had been sailors and the like; but as if they had been nobles, and he
a king receiving their homage.
Then they had a long story to tell of all that had been done in the
island since Robinson had gone from it. At first the five mutineers
who had been left there insulted the poor Spaniards, when they arrived
from the mainland*, then came to an agreement with them; quarrelled
again, and made peace a second time; but at last the Spaniards had to
use violence upon them, and bring them under subjection. Then
there were fierce battles with the savages, who had landed more than
once in great numbers, but had always been defeated after consider-
able hard fighting. At one time three of the reprobate sailors had gone
on an expedition to the mainland. The rest were glad to have them go,
and expected never to see them again; but at the end of twenty-two
days they returned with sixteen prisoners, eleven men savages, and
five women. The men they kept as slaves to do the harder kinds of
work; the women they and the other two sailors took as wives.
For some time previous to the coming of Robinson, the islanders
had been enjoying tranquillity, the necessity for uniting to resist the
savages having produced a more friendly feeling amongst them. After
hearing his friend's account of all these occurrences, Robinson told
them he had not come to take them from the island, but to establish
them there more comfortably; that he had brought a supply of all
things necessary for their convenience, and that the workmen who had
come with him to remain there could assist them to do many things
which had been impossible for them to do hitherto.
The next day Robinson and all his friends had a grand feast, which
the cook of the ship came ashore to prepare. Then the cargo of goods
was unloaded and divided equally. There were tools of all sorts, fire
arms, powder, shot, and cloth for coats and shirts.
Robinson made quite a long stay on the island, arranging all matters
so that there might be as little cause for disputes amongst the islanders
as possible. He divided the island into parts and appointed to each
his share. The extreme east end was to be left uninhabited, so that if
savages should land upon it they might come and go without disturb-
ing anybody.
At length, thinking he had settled everything to the best advantage
Robinson went aboard his ship, and they set sail, giving the islanders
a salute of five guns at parting.
When the ship reached the Bay of Bengal, Robinson parted from it,
and remained on land for a while. He made the acquaintance of some
merchants, and was induced by them to join as partner in the pur-
chase of a ship to go on a trading voyage to the Spice Islands and China.
This voyage turned out very profitably, and others were made, on which
Robinson had a variety of interesting experiences, and some very nar-
row escapes from serious peril.
It was ten years before he returned to his native land, having then
reached the age of seventy-two years. His appetite for wandering was
at last appeased, and the rest of his life was spent in devout prepara-
tion for a peaceful end.
X
- %

.
ROBINSON CRUSOE


McLOUGHLIN BROTHERS, Inc.
New York
ROBINSON CRUSOE
CHAPTER I
HOW ROBINSON FIRST WENT' TO SEA, AND HOW
HE WAS SHIPWRECKED
Long, long ago, before even your grandfather's father was born, there
lived in the town of York a boy whose name.was Robinson Crusoe.
Though he never even saw the-sea till he was quite a big boy, he had
always wanted to be a sailor, and to go away in a ship to visit strange,
foreign, far-off lands; and he thought that if he could only do that, he
would be quite happy.
But his father wanted him to be a lawyer, and he often talked to
Robinson, and told him if he went away, terrible things might happen
to him, and how people who staid at home were always happiest. He
told him, too, how Robinson's brother had gone away and had been
killed*in the wars.
So Robinson promised at'last that he would give up wanting to be a
sailor. But in a few days, the longing came back as bad as ever, and he
asked his mother to try to coax his father to let him go just one voyage.
But his mother was very angry, and his father said, "If he goes abroad
he will be the most miserable wretch in the world. I can give no consent
to it."
Robinson staid at home for another year, till he was nineteen years
old, all the time thinking and thinking of the sea. But one day when
he had gone on a visit to Hull, a big town by the sea, to say good-bye to
one of his friends who was going to London, he could not resist the dhance.
Without even sending a message to his father and mother, he went on
board his friend's ship, and sailed away.
But as soon as the wind began to blow and the waves to rise, poor
Robinson was very frightened and sea-sick, and he said to himself that
if ever he got on shore he? would go straight home and never leave it
again.
He was very solemn till the wind stopped blowing. His friends and
the sailors laughed at him, and called him a fool, and he very soon for-
got, when the weather was fine and the sun shining, all he had thought
about going back to his father and mother.
But in a few days, when the ship had sailed as far as Yarmouth Roads
on her way to London, they had to anchor, and wait for a fair wind.
In those days there were no steamers, and vessels had only their sails
to help them along; so if it was calm, or the wind blew the wrong way,
they had just to wait till a fair wind blew.
Whilst they lay at Yarmouth the weather became very bad, and there
was a great storm. The sea was so heavy and Robinson's ship was in
such danger, that at last they had to cut away the masts in order to
ease her and to stop her from rolling so terribly. The captain fired
guns to show that his ship was in need of help. So a boat from another
ship was lowered, and came with much difficulty and took off Robinson
and all the crew, just before the vessel sank; and they got ashore at last,
very wet and miserable, having lost all their clothes except what they
had on.
But Robinson had some money in his pocket, and he went on to Lon-
don by land, thinking that if he returned home now, people would laugh
at him.
In London he made friends with a ship's captain, who had not long
before come home from a voyage to the Guinea Coast, as that part of
Africa was then called; and the Captain was so pleased with the money
he had made there, that he easily persuaded Robinson to go with him
on his next voyage.""
So Robinson took with him toys, and beads, and other things, to seW
to the natives in Africa, and he got there, in exchange for these things, so
much gold dust that he thought he was soon going in that way to make
his fortune.
And therefore, he went on a second voyage.
But this time he was not so lucky, for before they reached the Afri-
can coast, onq morning, very early, they sighted another ship, which
they were sure was a pirate ship. So fast did this other vessel sail that
before night she had come up to Robinson's ship, which did not carry
nearly so many men nor so many guns as the Pirate, and which, there-
fore, did not want to fight; and the pirates took prisoner Robinson and
all the crew of his ship who were not killed, and made slaves of them.
The pirate captain took Robinson as his own slave, and made him
dig in his garden and work in his house. Sometimes, too, he made him
look after his ship when she was in port, but he never took him away
on a "voyage.
For two years Robinson lived like this, very unhappy, and always
thinking how he might escape.

THE ATTACK OF THE PIRATE SHIP
At last, when the captain happened one time to be at home longer
than usual, he began to go out fishing in a boat two or three times a
week, taking Robinson, who was a very good fisher, and a black boy
named Xury, with him.
One day he gave Robinson orders to put food and water and some
guns and powder and shot, on a big boat that the pirates had taken out
of an English ship, and to be ready to go with him and some of his
friends on a fishing trip.
But at the last moment the Captain's friends could not come, and so
ROBINSON CRUSOE
Robinson was told to go out in the boat with one of the Captain's ser-
vants who was not a slave, and with Xury to catch fish for supper.
Then Robinson thought that his chance had come. He spoke to the
servant, who was not very clever, and persuaded him to put more food
and water on the boat, "for," said Robinson, "we'must not take what

ROBINSON A SLAVE
was meant for our master." And then he got the servant to bring some
more powder and shot, because, Robinson said they might as well kill
some birds to eat.
When they had gone out about a mile, they hauled down the sail and
began to fish. But Robinson pretended that he could not catch any-
thing there, and he said that they ought to go further out. When they
had gone so far that nobody on shore could see what they were doing,
Robinson again pretended to fish. But this time he watched his chance,

ROBINSON ESCAPES WITH XURT
and when the servant was not looking, came behind him and threw him
overboard, knowing that the man could swim so well that he could easi-
ly reach the land.
Then Robinson sailed away with Xury down the coast to the south.
He did not know to what country he was steering, but cared only to get
away from the pirates, and to be free once more.
Long days and nights they sailed, sometimes running in close to the
land, but they were afraid to go ashore very often because of the wild
beasts, and the natives. Many times they saw great lions come roaring
down on to the beach, and once Robinson shot one that he saw lying
asleep, and took its skin to make a bed for himself on the boat.
At last, after some weeks, when they had got south as far as the great
cape that is called Cape de Verde, they saw a Portuguese vessel, which
took them on board. It was not easy for Robinson to tell who he was,
because he could not talk Portuguese, but everybody was very kind
ROBINSON CRUSOE

ROBINSON 8 NEIGHBORS ASK HIM TO GO TO THE GUINEA COAST
to him, and they bought his boat and his guns and everything that he
had. They even bought poor Xury, who, being a black slave, could be
sold just like a horse or a dog.
So when they got to Brazil, where the vessel was bound, Robinson had
enough money to buy a plantation there for four years, and was very
happy and contented for a time, and made money.
But he could never be contented for very long. So when some of his
neighbors asked him if he would go in a ship to the Guinea Coast to get
slaves for them, he went, only making a bargain that he was to be paid
for his trouble, and to get some of the slaves to work on his plantation
when he came back.
"N
Twelve days after the ship sailed, a terrible storm blew, and they
were driven far from where they wanted to go. This storm was fol-
lowed by another, even worse.
Then early one morning land was dimly seen through the driving
rain, but almost at once the vessel struck on a sand-bank. In a minute
the sails were blown to bits, and flapped with such an uproar that no
one could hear the Captain's orders.
With great difficulty the only boat left on the ship was put in the
water, and everybody got into her. They rowed for the shore, but
before they could reach the land, a huge wave, big like the side of a
house, came foaming and thundering up behind them, and before any
one could even cry out, it upset the boat, and they were all left strug-
gling in the water.
Robinson was a very good swimmer, but no man could swim in such
a sea, and it was only good fortune that brought him at last safely to
land. Big wave after big wave washed him further and further up the
beach, rolling him over and over, once leaving him helpless and more
than half-drowned, beside a rock.
But before the next wave could come up, perhaps to drag him back
with it into the sea, he was able to jump out and run for his life.
And so he got safely out of the reach of the water, and lay down upon
the grass. But of all on board the ship, Robinson was the only one who
was not drowned.
CHAPTER II
ROBINSON WORKS HARD AT MAKING HIMSELF A HOME
When he had rested a little, Robinson got up and began to walk
about very sadly, for darkness was coming on; he was wet and cold and
hungry, and he did not know where to sleep, because he was afraid of
wild beasts coming out of the woods and killing him during the night.
. But he found that he still had his knife in his pocket, so he cut a big
stick to protect himself with. Then he climbed into a tree which had
very thick leaves, and there he fixed himself among the branches as
well as he could, and fell sound asleep.
In the morning when he awoke, the storm was past, and the sea
quieter. To his surprise, he saw that the ship had been carried in the
night, by the great seas, much nearer to the shore than she had been
when the boat left her, and was now lying not far from the rock where
Robinson had first been washed up.
By midday the sea was quite calm, and the tide had gone so far out
that he could walk very near to the ship. So he took off his clothes
and swam the rest of the way to her. But it was not easy to get on
board, because the ship was resting on the sand, and lay so high out of
the water that Robinson could not reach anything by which he could
pull himself up.
At last, after swimming twice round the vessel, he saw a rope hanging
over, near the bow, and by its help he climbed on board.
Everything in the stern of the ship was dry, and in pretty good order,
and the water had not hurt the provisions much. So he took some
biscuits, and ate them as he looked about. The food made him feel
better and stronger and more fit to work.
First of all, he took a few large spars of wood, and a spare top-mast
or two, that were on the deck. These he pushed overboard, tying each
with a rope to keep it from drifting away. Then he went over the side
of the ship, and tied all the spars together so as to make a raft, and on
top he put pieces of plank across.
At last, after much hard work, he got on to it three of the seamen's
chests, which had been broken open and emptied, and he filled these
with bread, rice, and cheese, and whatever he could find to eat, and with
all sorts of things that he thought he might need. He found, too, the
carpenter's tool chest, and put it on the raft. Guns and pistols also, he
took and powder, shot, and two old, rusty cutlasses.
Now the trouble was to reach land, for the raft had no mast nor, sail,
nor rudder, and was too heavy and clumsy to be pulled by Robinson
with the broken oars that he had iound. But the tide was rising, and
slowly she drifted nearer and nearer, and at last was carried up the
mouth of the little river which Robinson had not seen when he was on
shore. Robinson was able to push her into a little bay where the water
was shallow, and when the tide went out there she was left high and dry,
and he got everything safely ashore.
The next thing that Robinson did was to climb a hill, that he might
see what sort of country he was in. But when he got to the top, he saw
to his sorrow that he was on an island, with no other land in sight
11

ROBINSON LOADING HIS BAFT
except some rocks, and two smaller islands far over the sea. There
were no signs of any people, and he saw nothing living except great
numbers of birds.
\ /
After this, with the chests and boards that he had brought on shore,
he made a kind of tent to sleep in that night, and he lay there on the sand
very comfortably.
Day by day now, for some time, Robinson swam out to the ship, and
made fresh rafts, loading them with many stores, powder and shot, and
lead for bullets, seven muskets, a great barrel of bread, three casks of
rum, a quantity of flour, some grain, a box of sugar, sails and ropes and
twine, bags of nails, and many hatchets. With one of the sans he made
himself a good tent in which he put everything that could be spoiled
by rain or sun. Around it he piled all the casks and other heavy things,
so that no wild beast could very easily get at him.
In about a fortnight the weather changed; it blew hard one night,
and in the morning the ship had broken up, and was no more to be seen.
Now Robinson thought it time to find some better place for his tent.
Looking about, he found a little plain, about a hundred yards across,
on the side of a hill, and at the end of the plain was a great rock partly
hollowed out, but not so as quite to make a cave. There he pitched
his tent, close to the hollow place in the rock. Round in front of the
tent he drove two rows of strong stakes, about eighteen inches apart,
sharpened at top; and he made this fence so strong that when it was
finished he was sure that nothing could get in at him, for he left no door,
but climbed in and out by a ladder, which he always hauled up after
him.
Before closing up the end, Robinson hauled inside this fence all his
stores, his food and his guns, his powder and shot. Then he began to
dig into the rock, which was not very hard, and soon behind his tent he
had a cave in which he thought it wise to stow his gunpowder.
Robinson was now very comfortable, and as he had saved from the
wreck two cats and a dog, he did not feel quite so lonely. He had also,
ink, and pens, and paper, so that he could keep a diary; and he set up
a large wooden cross, on which he cut with his knife the date of his land-
ing on the island—3uth September, 1659; and every day he cut a notch
on the post, with a much longer one for Sunday, so that he might know
always how the months and years passed.
As for food, he found that there were goats on the island, and num-
bers of pigeons and he easily shot as many as he needed.
But now he saw that his tent and cave were too small for all the many
things he had stowed in them, so he began to make the cave bigger,
CRUSOE MAKES A LITTLE TENT WITH A SAIL
ROBINSON CRUSOE
bringing out all the rock and soil that he cut down, and making with it
a kind of terrace round the inside of his stockade. And as he was sure
that there were no wild beasts on the island to harm him, he went on
tunnelling to the right hand till he broke through the rock outside his
fence.

BOBINSON WRITING HIS DIARY
Then he began to hang things up against the side of the cave, and he
even made shelves, and a door for the outside entrance. This was a very
difficult job, and took him a long time; for, to make a board, he was
forced to cut down a whole tree, and chop away with his axe till one
side was flat, and then cut at the other side till the board was thin
enough, when he smoothed it with his adze. He made for himself also
X
15

ROBINSON DISCOVERS THE BARLEY GROWING
a table and a chair, and finally got his castle, as he called it, in very good
order.
Every day, all this time, he used to climb up the hill and look around
over the lonely waters, hoping, always hoping, that some morning he
might see. the sails of a ship that would take him home. But none
ever came, and sometimes the tears ran down his cheeks because of the
sorrow he felt at being so utterly alone. By and by, however, he grew
less unhappy, for he had plenty of work to do.
When Robinson had been some months on the island, heavy and con-
stant rain began to fall, and sometimes weeks would pass without a
single dry day. He found that instead of there being Spring, Summer,
Autumn, and Winter, the seasons in his island were divided into wet
and dry. There was no cold weather, no winter. It chanced that just
before this first rain began, Robinson had emptied out some refuse from
ROBINSON CRUSOE
bags wnich had once held rice, and other grain, and he had forgotten
all about having emptied them. So he was very much astonished to
find, sometime afterwards, both barley and rice growing near his tent,
in the shade of the rock. The ears, when ripe, he kept to sow again,
and from this very small beginning, in the course of a few seasons, he
had a great quantity of grain, both for food and for sowing. But this

ROUI.NSON FINDS A TURTLE
meant every year much hard work, for he had no plough nor harrow,
and all the ground had to be dug with a clumsy spade, made from a very
hard, heavy wood that grew on the island.
At first Robinson could not grind the grain that he grew nor make
bread from it. If he could have found a large stone, slightly hollow on
top, he might, by pounding the grain on it with another stone, have
made very good meal. But all the stones he could find were too soft,
and in the end he had to make a sort of mill of hard wood in which he
CRUSOE ILL, ItEASUTO THE BIBLE
burnt a hollow place, and on that he pounded the grain into meal with
a heavy stick.
One day, when he was walking along the shore, he came on a large
turtle, which he killed, and this gave him plenty of good food, for in
addition to the flesh, there were, inside the animal, many eggs, which
she had come to the shore to lay in the sand, as is the habit of turtles,
and which Robinson thought were even better than hen's eggs.
CHAPTER III
i
HOW ROBINSON WAS ILL, AND HOW HE BUILT TWO BOATS
Before the first rainy season was over, Robinson got wet in the heavy
rain, and though the weather was hot, he felt very cold and shivery,
and had pains all over his body and at night he dreamed terrible dreams.
The following day, and many days, he lay very ill with fever and ague,
and hardly knew what he was doing. So weak was he, that he believed
he was dying, and there was no one to give him water to quench his
thirst, nor to help him in any way. His only medicine was rum, in
which he had soaked tobacco. It was very nasty, and made him sick,
but it also made him sleep for more than a whole day and a night, and
he awoke much better, and able to walk about a little, though for a fort-
night he was too weak to work.
This illness caused Robinson to reflect much on his past life, which in
many ways had not been that of a good man. He saw that his misfor-
tunes were an exact fulfilment of what his father had said when he left
home against his parents' wishes. He prayed to God for pardon, and
found much comfort in reading a Bible which was amongst the things
he had saved from the wreck.
When he was quite strong, Robinson started to explore the island
better than he had yet done, and he found many things growing, of
which he made great use afterwards, tobacco, sugar-cane, and all man-
ner of fruits, amongst them grapes, which he used to dry to raisins in
the sun in great quantities.
Near the spot where the most fruit grew, he built a hut, or bower, and
round it, for safety, he put a double fence made of stakes cut from some
of the trees near at hand. During the next rainy season these stakes
CRDSOE IN HIS BOWEB
ROBINSON CRUSOE
took root, and grew so fast that soon nothing of the hut could be seen
from the outside of the hedge, and it made so good a hiding place that
Robinson cut more stakes of the same kind, and planted them outside
the fence around his first dwelling; and in a year or two that also was

ROBINSON MAKING BASKETS
quite hidden from view. The ..wigs of this tree, too, were good for
making baskets, of which he had been in great need.
When he had finished all this work, he started again to go over the
rest of the island, and on his way across, from a hill, the day being very
clear, he saw high land a great way off over the water, but whether it
was another island, or the coast of America, he could not be sure.
During the journey back to his castle he caught a young parrot, which
after a long time, he taught to speak and to call him by name. It was
21

ROBINSON TEACHES HI9 PARROT TO TALK
so long since he had heard any voice, that it was a comfort to listen
even to a parrot talking.
Now the sight which Robinson had had of the far distant land raised
in him again the great longing to get away from this island where he
had been so long alone, and he wished greatly for a boat. He went
over to the remains of the boat in which he and the others had tried to
come ashore when their ship struck on the sand bank, and which had
been flung far up on the beach by the sea, and he worked for weeks try-
ing to repair her and to get her into the water. But it was all of no
use; he could not move her.
Then he thought, "I'll cut down a tree, and make a new boat." He

CRUSOE MAKES A BOAT
23

ROBINSON MAKING A COAT.
fancied this would be easy, for he had heard how the Indians make
canoes by felling a tree and burning out the inside. So he looked about
and chose a huge tree which stood about a hundred yards from the
water, and with great labor in about three weeks he had it cut down.
Four months Robinson worked at this boat, and very proud he was
when it was finished and lay there on the ground, big enough to carry
twenty men. Then he started to get her into the water. But that
was quite another thing. By no means in his power could he move her
an inch, try as he might. She was far too big. So he gave it up, and
left her to lie and rot in the sun and the rain—a great grief to him.
By the time Robinson had been four years on the island, all his
Clothes had become very ragged, and he had hardly anything that he
could call a hat. Clothes he must have, for he could not go naked with-
out getting his skin blistered by the hot sun, and he was afraid of get-
ting a sunstroke if he went about without a hat.
ROBINSON CRUSOE

ROBINSON CRUISING IN HIS BOAT.
Now he had kept all the skins of the goats and other animals, such as
hares and foxes, that he had shot; and from these, after many failures,
at last he made a hat and coat of goatskin, and a pair of short trousers,
all with the hair outside, so as to shoot off the wet when it rained. He
also, with much trouble, made of the skins an umbrella which he could
open and shut; and if his clothes and his umbrella, and especially his
hat, were not very good to look at, they were useful, and he could now
go about in any weather.
CRUSOB AT DINNEB
BOBINSON CRUSOE

BOB1N ON M LKINQ 1118 GOATS.
During the next five years nothing out of the common happened, and
Robinson's time was mostly taken up with the getting of food, the year-
ly sowing and reaping of his crops, and the curing of his raisins. But
towards the end of that time he made another attempt to build a boat,
and this time he made one much smaller than the first, and though it
took him nearly two years to finish, in the end he got her into the sea.
She was not big enough for him to try to sail in to the far-off land that
he had seen, and he used her only for cruising about the shores of his
own island, and for fishing.
For about a year after this, Robinson kept on his own side of the
island, and employed his time chiefly in working on his land, and in
making dishes and pots of clay. These he had now learned to burn
properly. And, as he feared lest his powder might begin to run short,
he thought much over ways whereby he could trap goats for food, in
place of shooting them. After many trials, the best plan, he decided,
was to dig holes, which he covered with branches and leaves, on which
he sprinkled earth, so that when anything heavy passed over, it must
fall into the pit. By'this means he caught many, and the kids he kept
and tamed, so that in no great time he had quite a large herd of goats.
These he kept in various small fields, round which from time to time he
had put fences.
I Robinson had now not only goat's flesh to feed on, but milk too, for
he set up a dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk a day.
In a place where he saw nothing at first but to perish from hunger, he
now dined at a plentiful table, where the want of human society was
relieved to some extent by the company of his parrot and his animal
friends.
CHAPTER IV
ROBINSON FINDS A FOOTPRINT ON THE SAND, AND
SEES A CANNIBAL FEAST
One day when Robinson was walking along the sand towards his
boat, suddenly, close to the water, he stopped as if he had been shot,
and, with thumping heart, stood staring in wonder and fear at some-
thing that he saw. The mark of a naked foot on the sand! It could
not be his own, he knew, for the shape was quite different. Whose
could it be?"
He listened, he looked about, but nothing could he hear or see. To
the top of a rising ground he ran, and looked around. There was noth-
ing to be seen. And although he searched everywhere on the beach for
more footmarks, he found none.
Whose footprint could it be? That of some man, perhaps, he thought
who might come stealing on him out from the trees, or murder him
whilst he slept.
Back to the house he hurried, all the way in a state of terror, starting
every now and again and facing round, thinking he was being followed,
and fancying often that a stump or bush was a man, waiting to spring
on him. That night he slept not at all, and so shaken was his nerve
that every cry of a night bird, even every sound made by an insect or a
frog, caused him to start with fear, so that the perspiration ran down
his brow.
As day followed day, however, and nothing happened, Robinson
began to be less uneasy in his mind, and went about his usual work once
more. But he strengthened the fence round his castle, and cut in it
seven small loop-holes in which, fixed on frames, he placed loaded mus-
kets, all ready to fire if he should be attacked. And at some distance
from the outside of the fence he planted a thick belt of small stakes, so
that in a few years' time a perfect thicket of trees and bushes hid all
trace of his dwelling.
Years passed quietly, and nothing further happened to disturb Rob-
inson, or to make him think more of the footprint that had frightened
him so much. One day it chanced, however, that he had gone further
to the west of the island than he had ever done before, and, looking over
the sea, iie fancied he saw, at a great distance, something like a boat or
a long canoe, but it was so far off that he could not be sure what it was.
This made him determine that always in future he would bring with
him to his look-out place the telescope which he had saved from the
wreck.
i The sight of this supposed boat brought back his uneasiness to some
extent, but he went on down to the beach, and there he saw a sight that
filled him with horror. All about the shore were scattered men's bones
and skulls, and bits of burnt flesh, and in one place the remains of a big
fire. Robinson stood aghast, feeling sick. It was easy for him to know
the meaning of the terrible sight. It meant that cannibals had been
there, killing and eating their prisoners.
Full of horror, Robinson hurried back to his house, and for almost
two years he never again came near that part of the island where the
bones lay, nor ever visited his boat. But all the time he kept thinking
how he might some day kill those cannibals whilst they were at their
feast, and perhaps save some of the poor men whom they had not yet
killed. For a time he could think of little else, and every day he would
walk three miles to his look-out hill, and watch through his telescope
for signs of canoes coming over the sea towards the island. But after
CBUSOE SEES A. FOOTPRINT IN THE SAND
ROBINSON CRUSOE

ROBINSON ON HIS LOOK-OUT HILL.
two or three months without result, he grew tired of it. Perhaps, too,
he thought it was no business of his; the savages did not know any bet-
ter, and were only doing what their fathers had taught tham to do. He
argued also that if he did attack, and it chanced that he did not kill them
all, that even only one got away, for certain that man would tell his
tribe as soon as he got home, and they would come over in hundreds to
murder Robinson in revenge.
On the whole, therefore, it seemed to him wisest to keep away alto-
gether from that part of the beach, and to hide as well as he could all
traces of any one living on the island. So, except to take away and
conceal his boat, for more than another year, he never went back to
that spot. The boat he took to the farthest east end of the island. He
was sure the savages would never come there in their canoes, because of
the strong current that usually swept past the rocks.
More than ever now, Robinson kept to his two houses, and seldom
left them, except to go to a deep valley he had found, through which
ran a little stream of water as clear as crystal, and in which he now
kept most of his goats, secured by a fence built all round the valley.
He almost gave up firing his gun, lest it should bring the savages to find
out the cause of the noise and for the same reason he feared even to
chop wood or drive a nail.
Now one day, when Robinson was down in the bottom of the valley,
cutting thick branches to burn, he cleared away some undergrowth at
the foot of a great rock, in which, near the ground, there was a sort of
hole, or opening. Into this hole Robinson squeezed, not very easily,
and found himself in a cave of good size. The floors were perfectly dry
and level, and even on the walls there was no damp. Robinson was
delighted with his discovery. Its only drawback was the low entrance;
but, as he decided to use the cave chiefly as a place to retreat to if he
should be attacked, that was in reality an advantage, because one man,
if he had firearms, could easily defend it against hundreds. At once
Robinson set about storing in it all his powder, except three or four
pounds, all his lead for making bullets and his spare guns and muskets.
For more than two and twenty years Robinson had now been on the
island, and he had grown quite used to it and to his manner of living.
If he could only have been sure that no savages would come near him,
he felt almost that he would be content to spend all the rest of his days
there, to die at last of old age.
It was near the end of the month of December, his harvest time, and
Robinson used then to be much out in his fields even before daylight.
One morning, being anxious to finish cutting the crop, he had left his
house even earlier than usual, long before the first flush of dawn had
showed in the sky, and it chanced that he glanced in the direction of
the sea.
There, on the shore, to his great horror on his own side of the island,
ROBINSON CRUSOE

ROBINSON IN HIS FORT
he saw a fire burning, and he knew that this could only have been lit by
the cannibals, who had once more landed.
Straight back to his castle he ran and climbed hurriedly over the
fence, pulling the ladder up after him. Quickly he loaded all his mus-
kets and pistols, ready to defend himself to the last gasp. Taking the
telescope, he put his ladder against the rock where there was a flat ledge,
and climbing up to this, pulled the ladder after him, and again resting it
there, so climbed to the top of the rock, where he lay down and looked
eagerly through the glass.
There were no less than nine savages, he saw, all sitting round the
fire, cooking something, but what it was that they cooked he could not
tell, though it was not difficult to guess.
The cannibals had two canoes, which were hauled up on the shore,
and as.it was then low water, he fancied they must be waiting for the
tide to rise again. And so it turned out, for when the tide had been
flowing for a time, they shoved off, jumped on board, and paddled away.
As soon as Robinson was sure that they were really gone, he went
down to the shore, where he saw a dreadful sight. Skulls, bits of flesh,
and bones lay about, and fresh blood was everywhere. This awful
sight so horrified and roused Robinson that once more he determined,
whenever the next chance came, to attack the cannibals, however many
there might be, and kill all that he could. But always, for a long time
after, he lived in great uneasiness, never sure that at any moment he
might not be taken by surprise.
But many months went by, and no savages were seen, and nothing
disturbed Robinson except dreadful nlreams from which in the night he
often started out of his sleep, crying out and struggling, thinking the
savages were trying to kill him.
About the middle of the following May, one day there came a very
great storm, with much thunder and lightning and rain, and during the
night the wind blew a perfect hurricane. Robinson was suddenly star-
tled by a kind of dull thud that seemed to shake the very air. And
this noise was followed in about a minute by another thud. This time
he could hear plainer, and he knew that the sounds were those of a big
gun fired at sea, and that they must come from some ship in danger.
Robinson ran out, and climbing up his ladder, got to the top of the
rock in time to see the flash of the gun, away towards the reef of rocks
at the end of the island. When daylight came, he thought he could
see, away to the east, something which looked like a ship.
Later in the day, when the weather had cleared, he could plainly see
that there was a vessel, but, to his sorrow, that she was a wreck. With-
out doubt the crew must have perished. And it filled Robinson with
sadness and great grief to think how near he had been perhaps to fellow
countrymen, and how not even one had been spared to come ashore.
When the weather had again become calm and settled, Robinson was
greatly tempted to venture out in his boat to the wreck, and he made up
his mind to risk it. He put a compass in the boat, and a great store of
food and water, as much as she could well carry, and pushed off. In a
little more than two hours, he safely reached the wreck, without any
trouble.
She was a pitiful sight—Spanish, he judged, from her build. She
was lying on the reef, jammed fast between two rocks, the after part of
her all stove in by the sea.
Robinson boarded the wreck, and the first thing he saw was two men
lying in the cook's galley, dead, held fast in each other's arms. Beyond
this, there was no trace of any human being, and the cargo, whatever it
might have been, had mostly been washed out of the wreck by the sea.
Some chests there were in the forecastle, which most likely had been
owned by some of the crew. Two of these Robinson got into his boat,
along with a small cask of liquor, and other things. In the chests were
many things that he prized, such as linen shirts, handkerchiefs, and col-
ored neck-cloths, pots of sweetmeats, a case of bottles of cordial waters,
very handsomely mounted with silver, and, what then was of less value
to him, three great bags of gold pieces, besides bars of gold. However,
he stowed all the money and gold in his cave, along with the other nice
things, and then returned and worked his boat along shore to the har-
bor where he had kept her so long.
CHAPTER V
ROBINSON RESCUES A PRISONER FROM THE CANNIBALS,
WHOM HE NAMES FRIDAY
Robinson, if he had had a boat as good as the one in which he had
escaped from the pirates, would have waited no longer on the island,
but would have put to sea in her, and taken his chance of reaching some
land where white men dwelt. With the frail craft that he had, however,
such a plan was not possible, and he had no choice but to go on living as
he had already lived so long, always in fear of a raid by the savages.
And yet, at times, when his spirits were more than usually low, when
the burden of the lonely years pressed most heavily upon him, Robin-
son used to think that surely if the savages could come to his island, he
could get to where they came from. And so eager to go was he some-
times, that he forgot to think of what would become of him if he fell
into the hands of the savages, or what he would do when he got to the
far-off land. His mind was utterly taken up with the one thought of
getting to the mainland, and even when he slept his, dreams were of
little else.
One night he dreamed, not as he had usually done of late, that he was
sailing to the mainland, but that as he was leaving his castle in the morn-
ing, he saw on the shore two canoes and eleven savages landing, and
that they had with them another man, whom they were just about to
kill and eat, when suddenly he jumped up and ran for his life. And in
his dream Robinson fancied that the man came running to hide in the
thicket round the castle, and that thereupon he went out to help him.
Then in the dream, the savage kneeled down, as if begging for mercy,
and Robinson took him over the ladder into the castle, saying to him-
self, "Now that I've got this fellow, I can certainly go to the main-
land, for he will show me how to steer there, and where to go when we
land." And he awoke with the joyful feeling that now at last all was
well. But when he was wide awake and knew that it was only a dream
after all, poor Robinson was more cast down than ever.
The dream had, however, this result; that he saw his only plan to get
away was, if possible, to rescue some day one of the prisoners whom the
cannibals were about to kill, and in time get the man to help him navi-
gate his canoe across the sea.
With this idea, he set himself to watch, more closely than ever he had
done before, for the savages to land, and during more than a year and
a half he went nearly every day to his lookout place and swept the sea
with his telescope, in the hope of seeing canoes coming. But none
came, and Robinson was getting terribly tired of the constant watch.
Still he did not give up hope, for he knew that sooner or later the savages
would land again.
Yet many months passed, and still they did not come, till one morn-
ing, very early, almost to his surprise, he saw no fewer than five canoes
hauled up on the shore on his own side of the island. The savages who
had come in them were nowhere to be seen. Now, he knew that always
*
from four to six men came in each canoe, which meant that at least
twenty men had landed.
This was a greater number than he had expected or cared to face, so
he kept inside his castle. When he had waited a long time and still
could hear nothing of the savages, he climbed up his ladder and got to
the top of the rock, taking great care not to show himself against the
sky line. Looking through his glass, he saw that there were at least
thirty savages dancing wildly round a fire.
As he looked, some of the men left the others, and, going over to the
canoes, dragged from them two prisoners. One of these almost at once
fell forward on his face, knocked down from behind, as it seemed to
Robinson, with a wooden club, and two or three of the cannibals at
once cut him open to be ready for cooking, whilst for a moment or two
they left the other prisoner standing by himself.
Seeing a chance to escape, the man made a dash for his life, running
with tremendous speed along the sands straight for that part of the
beach near Robinson's castle.
Now this alarmed Robinson very much, for it seemed to him that the
whole of the savages started after the prisoner. As he watched the
poor man racing for life, however, he was relieved to see that he ran
much faster than his pursuers, of whom only three continued to run
after him. If he could only hold out for another mile or two there was
little doubt that he would escape. Between the castle and the runners
was the creek up which Robinson used to run his rafts from the wreck,
and when the escaped prisoner came to that, he plunged in, and though
the tide was full, with less than thirty powerful strokes he reached the
other side, and with long, easy strides continued his run. Of the men in
pursuit, two also plunged in and swam through. The third man stopped
altogether, and went back the way he came.
Seeing the turn things were taking, it seemed to Robinson that now
had come his chance to get a servant, and he resolved to try to save the
life of the man who was fleeing from the cannibals. At once he hurried
down the ladder, snatched up his two guns, and running as fast as he
could, got between the man and his pursuers, calling out to him to stop.
Then, rushing at the foremost of the pursuers, he knocked him senseless
with the butt of his gun, for it seemed to him safer not to fire lest the
noise should bring the other cannibals around.
The second man, seeing his comrade fall, hesitated and stopped, but
CRUSOE AND FRIDAY
Robinson saw when nearer to him that the savage had in his hands a
bow and arrow with which he was just about to shoot. There was then
no choice but to fire on the spot.
Thereupon the man who had been chased by the others was so terri-
fied by the flash and noise of the gun and at seeing his enemy fall dead,
that he stood stock still, trembling, and it was with great difficulty that
Robinson coaxed him to come nearer. This at last he did, stopping
every few paces and kneeling down. At length, coming close to Robin-
son, he again knelt, kissed the ground, and taking hold of Robinson's
foot, set it on his head as it rested on the sand.
Whilst this was going on, Robinson noticed that the savage whom he
had knocked down had begun to move and to come to his senses. To
this he drew the attention of the man whom he had rescued, who said
some words that Robinson could not understand, but they sounded
very pleasant to an ear that had heard no other voice for more than
twenty-five years. Next he made a motion with his hand, as if asking
for the cutlass that hung at Robinson's belt, and when the weapon was
given to him, ran at his enemy and with one clean blow cut off his head.
Then, laughing, he brought the head and laid it with the cutlass at Rob-
inson's feet.
But what caused most wonder to the man was how the savage whom
Robinson shot had been killed at so great a distance, and he went to
look, at the body, turning it over and over, and looking long at the
wound in the breast that the bullet had made, evidently much puzzled.
Robinson then turned to go away, beckoning to the savage to follow,
but the man made signs that he would bury the two bodies in the sand,
so that the others might not find them if they followed. With his bare
hands he soon scraped holes deep enough to cover the bodies, and in
less than a quarter of an hour there was hardly a trace left of what had
happened. y
Calling him away, Robinson now took him, not to his castle, but to
the cave, where he gave him food and water; and then he made signs for
him to lie down to rest, pointing to a bundle of rice straw.
Soon the man was sound asleep. He was, Robinson thought, a well-
made, handsome man; the muscles of his arms and back and legs showed
great strength, and all his limbs were beautifully formed. As near as
Robinson could guess, he was about twenty-six years of age.
Whilst the man slept, Robinson went out to milk his goats, at which
39
work the savage, having waked in about half an hour, found him, and,
running up, threw himself on the ground near Robinson's feet, one oi
which he again raised as before, and placed on his head. At the same
time he made every kind of sign of gratitude and submission.
In a little while Robinson began to speak to him, and to try to teach
him things. First, he made him understand that his name was to be
Friday (that being the day of the week when Robinson had saved him

FRIDAY BUSTING THE DEAD
from a horrible death). Then he taught him to call him Master, and
also taught him the meaning of "yes an^ "no."
Friday showed great quickness in learning. He seemed to be happy
and contented, and free from trouble, except that the clothes which
Robinson made him wear gave him at first great discomfort, for in that
warm part of the world, the natives are not used to clothes, but always
go about naked.
For some time Robinson did not trust Friday, and did not allow him
to sleep in the same part of his castle with himself, but kept him at
night in a little tent outside the fence. Every night he drew up the
ladder, so that if Friday ever should attempt to get over, he would be
sure to make noise enough to wake Robinson. Other precautions also
he took, but soon he found that they were not needed. Friday was
quite faithful.
At first when they went out in the woods together, Friday was ter-
rified every time that Robinson's gun was fired. He had never seen
anything put into it, and it was more than he could understand how
things could be killed merely by the noise and the flash of fire. It
seemed to him that the gun was some sort of evil spirit that might do
him harm, and it was long before he could be brought to touch one of
them.
Robinson asked Friday if his tribe ever came to this island, and Fri-
said they did, and that he himself had often come over; and he told
Robinson that on one visit he and his friends had eaten more than twen-
ty men.
It troubled Robinson's mind greatly to hear what Eriday had to say
about this custom, but by little and little, as the weeks went past, he got
him to see how horrible a thing it was to eat human flesh. From this
beginning, Friday gradually came to be in his habits more like a white
man, and teaching him was the greatest pleasure to Robinson, who
found the years, after Friday's arrival, the happiest of all that he had
lived on the island. Now, not only he had help in his work, but had
some one to talk to, for want of which, during the weary years when he
was alone, he had almost forgotten his own tongue.
When they began easily to understand each other, Robinson asked
Friday how far it was from the island to his country, and if the canoes
were not often lost whilst crossing. Friday said there was no danger,
and that no canoes were ever wrecked, and that always in the morning
the wind and the current set one way, and the other in the afternoon.
Friday told Robinson much about his country, and about his people,
who he said were Caribs. And a great way "beyond the moon," by
which he meant to the west, he said that white men lived who had
beards such as Robinson wore. These white men, he said, had killed
very many natives, from.which Robinson fancied that they must be
Spaniards, who about that time were very cruel to the people whose
countries they had taken.
Robinson asked Friday if he could tell him how he might get over to
where the white men lived, and Friday said it would be very easy, if

ROBINSON INSTRUCTING FRIDAY
they had a big canoe. And again Robinson began to make plans and to
hope to escape from the island. He showed Friday the boat in which he
and the crew had tried to escape from the wreck, the remains of which
still lay high up on the shore, out of reach of the waves of any but a very
high tide, or of a storm worse than common. Friday looked long at it
without speaking, till Robinson asked'what he was thinking of.
Then he said that he had once before seen such a boat, but for some
time he could not make Robinson understand where or when he had
seen it. Robinson thought he meant that a ship had been driven ashore
on the coast, and that the boat, perhaps, had come from her. But
presently Friday spoke of the men who had been in the boat, and whom
he and his people had pulled out of the sea. He counted on his fingers
to make Robinson understand that there had been seventeen of them.
"Where are they now?" Robinson asked; and Friday said they still
lived with his tribe.
"Why did they not kill and eat them?" asked Robinson; and again
Friday assured him that they ate only those men whom they took in war.
It was some time after this that Robinson and Friday chanced to be
on the high hill at the east end of the island. The day was cloudless and
very clear, with a light breeze rippling the water, just such a day as that
on which, years ago, Robinson had seen land far over the sea. Friday
gazed long in that direction, and then began to jump and dance, point-
ing to the dim blue coast. "There my country! See! There my peo-
ple live!" he said, his eyes sparkling with joy.
After this, for a time, Robinson was not easy in his mind about Fri-
day. He had little doubt that if he could get back to his tribe, he would
soon forget all he had been taught, all that Robinson had done for him,
and might even return, perhaps with a hundred or two of his friends,
and kill and eat his master. But in this Robinson was very unjust to
Friday, who had no such thoughts in his mind.
And this Robinson soon found out. One day, as they walked up the
same hill, he asked if Friday would not be glad to be once more in his
own land.
"Yes," said Friday, "very glad."
"Would you eat men's flesh again?"
"No, never," said Friday, shaking his head very much.
Then Robinson asked why he did not go back. Friday said it was too
far to swim. Robinson said he would give him a boat, and Friday said
very well, he would go if Robinson came along too. „
"But your people will eat me," said Robinson.
"No, no," answered Friday; "you good to me. They good to you."
Robinson took Friday to the place where he kept the small canoe he
had made, and asked if they might try to go over in that boat. Fri-
day's face fell. She was too small, he said. Robinson then showed
him the first boat he had built, and which had been lying on the sand
for more than twenty-two years. That, Friday said, would be large
enough; but the heat of the sun had by this time so warped and cracked
her that, even if they had been able to get her into the sea, she would
not have floated.
CHAPTER VI
ROBINSON AND FRIDAY BUILD A LARGE BOAT; THEY RESCUE
TWO PRISONERS FROM THE CANNIBALS
But still the wish to leave the island was as strong as ever, and Rob-
inson and Friday went to work to fell a tree from which to build a boat
good enough for their voyage to the mainland. Friday soon showed
that he knew far better than Robinson the kind of tree best suited for
boat making, though he knew less about hollowing it out; for he had
^ever seen tools suitable for such work.
It took the two of them little more than a month to finish the boat.
Very handsome she looked, and very proud of her they were. But it cost
them quite a fortnight of very hard work to get her into the water.
Below her they had to put large wooden rollers, and then with strong
sticks, inch by inch, they levered and pushed her into the sea, where she
floated, veiy trim and ship-shape, big enough to carry a dozen men.
Robinson did not mean to depend only on paddling. He made Fri-
day cut down a straight young pine tree for a mast, and among the old
ship's sails that he had kept so long, he found at last two pieces that
were not rotten. From these he made what is called a shoulder of mut-
ton sail and a small foresail.
As the rainy season was nearly due, he made Friday dig near the
creek a kind of dock in the sand for the new boat just deep enough for
her to float in. Then they covered the boat over very thickly with the
boughs of trees; and there she lay, quite dry and snug, till the end of the
wet weather, when it was Robinson's plan to start for the mainland. .
A week or two before the dry season again came, Robinson meant to
open the dock and get the boat afloat once more. And to be ready in

ROBINSON AND FRIDAY ON THE HILL
plenty of time he began to lay by a lot of food and other stores for use
on the voyage.
One morning, when he was very busy over his work, he told Friday
to go down to the beach to see if he could find a turtle. Off went Fri-
day, but before he had been gone many minutes, back he came running
in a great hurry, crying out, "Master! Master! O sorrow! 0 bad!"
"What's the matter, Friday?" asked Robinson.
"Over yonder," said Friday, pointing to the west, and very much
scared; "over yonder, one, two, three canoe."
Robinson cheered him as well as he could.
"Well, Friday," he said, "we must fight them. Will you fight?"
Friday promised to stand by him to the end, and to do just as he was
bid.
Then Robinson loaded two guns and gave them to Friday, and him-
self took four muskets, which he loaded carefully, and in each of his pis-
tols he put two bullets. Then he hung his cutlass by his side, and gave
Friday a hatchet.
When all was ready he went up the hill with his telescope, and saw
that there were in all twenty-one savages, with three prisoners. They
had landed not far beyond the creek, near a spot where thick bushes
grew almost down to the sea.
. Giving Friday one of the pistols to stick in his belt, and one of the
muskets to carry, they set off, each of them now armed with a pistol
and three guns, besides Robinson's cutlass and Friday's hatchet. In
his pocket Robinson put a small bottle of rum, and gave Friday a bag
with more powder and bullets. He told him to keep very quiet, and to
be sure not to fire till he gave the word.
To get at the savages without being seen they had to go nearly a mile
out of their way, and being heavily laden, they could not go very fast.
When he and Friday got near the place where the savages had lit their
fire, Robinson sent Friday forward to see what was going on, and to
come back and tell him.
» Friday crept on, and returned very, quickly, saying that the cannibals
had already killed one of their prisoners, and were eating him, and that
very soon they would kill the second prisoner, who was lying near to
them. The second prisoner, Friday said, was a white man.
Creeping forward, Robinson saw plainly through his glass the white
man lying bound hand a^id foot on the sand. There was another tree,
Robinson noticed, with a clump of bushes round it, at some distance
nearer to the savages, and within very easy shot of them. To that he
and Friday now crawled.
There was no time to lose, for when they had reached the tree, two of
the savages had gone to the white man, and were untying his ankles.
The other cannibals were all sitting close together. Turning to Friday,
Robinson said in a low voice, "Now do exactly as I tell you." They
both took aim at the crowd of savages.
"Are you ready, Friday?" whispered Robinson.
"Ready," said Friday.
"Then fire."
Robinson's first shot killed one and wounded two, but Friday's killed
two and wounded three. Snatching up fresh guns, both fired again
before the savages who were not hurt could get on their feet, for they
were so taken by surprise and frightened by the noise that the poor
wretches hardly knew what was happening. This time only two of
them dropped, but many more were wounded, and ran about yelling
till they fell from loss of blood.
"Now, Friday," said Robinson, taking up one of the remaining
loaded muskets, "follow me." He rushed out of the wood, with Friday
close behind, and charged down on the cannibals as fast as he could run.
The two men who had gone to kill the white prisoner no sooner saw
this than they fled to the canoes, and three of the others followed and
jumped into the same canoe. -
Robinson bade Friday shoot at them, and Friday, running forward,
fired. All the men in the canoe fell, two of them dead, and one wounded.
The others seemed to fall from fear, for they soon jumped up and pad-
dled away with all their might.
Whilst Friday kept on firing, Robinson ran to the white prisoner and
cut his bonds, helping him on to his feet, and giving him some rum out
of the bottle he had brought. The man, on being asked what country
he was from, answered that he was a Spaniard, and he began to thank
Robinson for what he had done. But Robinson stopped him, saying,
"Sir, we will talk afterwards. At present we must fight." And he
gave the Spaniard the cutlass from his belt and a pistol, telling him, if
he had strength left, to go and do what he could against the savages,
Robinson now sent Friday for the muskets which he had left under
the tree, and began quickly to reload them, giving Friday the musket
which he himself had been carrying, but which he had not fired.
Meantime the Spaniard had attacked a very big, powerful savage
who was armed with a club, and though with his cutlass he had twice
wounded the cannibal in the head, yet from being bound so long the
white man was weak, and now looked like getting the worst of it. For
the savage, making a rush, closed with him and threw him, and in the
struggle had nearly wrenched the cutlass out of his hand, when the
Spaniard suddenly quitting his hold, drew his pistol and shot the man
through the body, killing him on the spot.
The other natives were now scattered in every direction, and Friday,
running after them with his hatchet, killed all of them except one who
had been wounded by the Spaniard, and who, in spite of his wounds,
jumped into the sea and swam out to the canoe in which were the two
others who had got away.
Friday advised Robinson to take another of the canoes and go after
him. Robinson agreed, for he thought that if any escaped they would
be certain to come back, bringing hundreds of others to avenge the
death of their friends. So the two ran to the beach and began to shove
off a canoe. But to their surprise, on the bottom of the canoe lay anoth-
er prisoner, an old man, tied so hard, neck and heels, that even when his
bonds were cut he could not move for a while.
No sooner did Friday look at him, than he began to dance and shout
and laugh, and then, kneeling down, rubbed noses with the savage
(which is what these folks do instead of kissing each other), and he was
so excited that for some time he could not explain what was the matter.
As soon as he could speak, he told Robinson that the man was his old
father.
The Spaniard was so worn out with fighting, that Friday had to carry
him on his back to the canoe. Then he paddled the two men along to
the creek, whilst Robinson walked. But both men had to be carried
up to the castle, and Robinson was forced to rig up a tent for them out-
side, because it was not possible for him and Friday to lift them over
the fence.
The next day Robinson made Friday ask his father if he thought the
savages were likely to come back. The man said that he thought they
were so frightened by the way they had been attacked and by the noise
of the guns, that they would probably never return. He said he had
heard them call out that two evil spirits were attacking them. And it
turned out that the old man was right, for no cannibals ever again were
known to visit the island.
CHAPTER VII
ARRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH SHIP; ROBINSON SAILS FOR" HOME
Soon after this Robinson had a long talk with the Spaniard, who
said that he and his comrades had been wrecked four years since on that
part of the coast where Friday's tribe lived. He said that they were
well treated by the natives, but were put to very great straits now for
want of clothes, that their powder was finished, and that they had lost
all hope of ever getting back to their own country. He himself, he said,
had been captured in one of the many small wars that are always taking
place anong the various tribes.
It struck Robinson that it might be possible for him to get these men
over to his island, provided that he could be sure of their good faith,
and that when they came, they did not take the island from him by
treachery. It was a risk, he thought, but then, if he got so many men,
"it would not be difficult to build a small ship that could carry them all
to England. k
So he asked the Spaniard if he would promise, and if he thought he
could get his comrades to take an oath that, if Robinson helped them,
they would look upon him as their captain, and would swear to obey
him in all things. The Spaniard readily promised for himself, and said
that he was sure his comrades would keep faith.
It was arranged, therefore, that in about six months, when the harvest
was reaped and there would be food for so many extra men, the Spaniard
and Friday's father should go over to the mainland in one of the canoes
which had been taken from the savages.
Meantime, all hands set about the curing of a very large quantity
of raisins and much other work was done to be in readiness for the
coming of these men.
When the harvest was reaped, Robinson gave the Spaniard and Fri-
day's father each a musket and a supply of powder and bullets, and
loaded the canoe with food, enough to last them and the others about a
fortnight, and the two men set off for the mainland in fine weather, and
with a fair wind.

ROBINSON TALKING WITH THE SPANIARD
It was about eight days after this, and when Robinson had begun to
look out for their return, that one morning very early, when he was
asleep, Friday came running in, shouting, "Master! master! They
come!" Up jumped Robinson, and hurrying on his clothes, ran out.
Looking toward the sea, he soon made out a sailing boat making for
the shore, coming from the south end of the island, but still some miles
away. This was not the direction from which the Spaniard and his
comrades would come, nor were they likely to be in a sailing boat. So
Robinson took his telescope and went to the top of the hill to see if he
could make out who were on board, before they landed.
Hardly had he got to the top of the hill, when he noticed a ship at
anchor some distance from the shore. She looked like an English ves-
sel, he thought, and the boat like an English long-boat.
This was a wonderful sight to Robinson, but yet he was not easy in
mind. It was not a part of the world where an English ship was likely
to come, because in those days they were nearly all Spanish vessels that
traded in these seas, and the English and Spaniards were bitter enemies.
What could an English ship be doing here? There had been no storm
to drive her out of her course.
Robinson feared that if she was English there must be something
wrong about her. Perhaps she was a Pirate. So he was careful not
to show himself or Friday.
Presently, as he watched, he saw the men in the boat run her ashore
and draw her up on the beach, about half a mile from his castle. When
they had landed, he could easily see through his glass that they were
Englishmen.
There were eleven men in all, but three of them had their hands tied
behind their backs, and were evidently prisoners. WThen the first four
or five men had jumped ashore, they brought out these three, all the
while ill treating them, and behaving as if they meant to kill them. Fri-
day was sure that they meant to kill them and eat them.
Soon, without further harming the three men, the others scattered
about amongst the trees near the shore, leaving the three sitting on the
ground, very sad looking, but with their hands now untied.
At the time the boat was run aground, it was just high water, and the
two sailors who had been left in charge of her, and who had evidently
been drinking too much rum, went to sleep, and never noticed that the
tide was going out. When they awoke, the boat was high and dry, and
with all the strength of the whole crew they could not move her, because
the sand at that part of the beach was very soft. This did not seem
to trouble any of them very much, for Robinson heard one of the sailors
shout, "Let her alone, Jack, can't ye? She'll float next tide."
All forenoon Robinson watched, and when the hottest time of the
day had come, he noticed the sailors throw themselves under the trees
and go to sleep some distance away from the three prisoners.
Robinson and Friday, taking their muskets and pistols, then stole
down cautiously behind the three men, to try to speak to them without
the others knowing.
Robinson had put on his goatskin coat and the great hairy hat he had
made for himself; and with his cutlass and pistols in his belt, ahd a gun
over each shoulder, he looked very fierce.
The men did not see him till he spoke, and they were so startled by

THE MUTINEERS ILL TREATING THEIR FRISONEBS
his wild look, and by the sight of two men armed to the teeth, that they
nearly ran away. Robinson told them not to be alarmed; he was an
Englishman, and a friend, and would help them if they would show him
how it could be done.
Then they explained to him what had happened. One of the three
was captain of the ship that lay at anchor off the island. Of the others,
one was mate of the ship, and the third man was a passenger. The
crew had mutinied, the captain told Robinson, and had put him in
irons, and the ringleaders in the mutiny had proposed to kill them.
Now they meant to leave them on the island to perish.
The captain was so astonished at finding anybody there who proposed
to help him that he said, in his wonder, "Am I talking to a man or to an
angel sent from heaven?"
"If the Lord had sent an angel," sir," said Robinson, "he would
probably have come better clothed."
Then he asked if the boat's crew had any firearms, and was told that
they had only two muskets, one of which was left in the boat.
"The rest should be easy, then," said Robinson; "we can either kill
them all or take them prisoners."
The captain was unwilling to see the men killed, for he said if two of
the worst of them were got rid of, he believed the rest would return to
their duty.
Robinson made a bargain that if he saved the captain from the muti-
neers, and recovered the ship, he and Friday were to be taken home to
England in her, free of cost; and to this the Captain and the others
agreed.
Then Robinson gave each of them a musket, with powder and ball,
after which the captain and the mate and the passenger marched off
towards the spot where the mutinous sailors lay asleep. One of the
men heard them coming, and turning round, saw them, and cried out to
his companions. But it was too late, the mate and the passenger fired,
and one of the ringleaders fell dead. A second man also fell, but jumped
up immediately and called to the others to help him.< But the captain
knocked him down with the butt of his musket, and the rest of the men,
seeing Robinson and Friday coming, and knowing that they had no
chance against five armed men, begged for mercy. Three others who
had been straying about among the trees came back on hearing the
shots, and were also taken, and thus the whole crew of the boat was
captured.
The captain and Robinson now began to think how they might recov-
er the ship. There were on board, the captain said, several men on
whom he thought he could depend, and who had been forced into the
mutiny against their wills. But it would be no easy thing to retake
the ship, for there were still twenty-six men on board, and as they were
guilty of mutiny, all of them, if taken back to England, would most
likely be hanged. Thus they were certain to make a fight for it.
The first thing that Robinson and the others now did was to take
everything out of the boat—oars, mast, sail, and rudder; then they
knocked a hole in her bottom, so that she could not float. As they
were doing this, and drawing her still further up on the beach, they
heard first one gun and then another fired by the ship as signals to the
boat to return.
As she of course did not move, Robinson saw through his glass anoth-
er boat with ten men on board, armed with muskets, leave the ship,
coming to bring the others back. This was serious enough, for now he
had to make plans whereby he and his party might capture this fresh
boat's crew also.
Accordingly they tied the hands of all the men they had first taken,
and sent the worst of them to the cave under the charge of Friday and
one of the men the captain said was to be trusted, with orders to shoot
any who tried to give an alarm or to escape. Then Robinson took his
party and the rest of the prisoners into the castle, where, from the rock,
they watched for the landing of the second boat.
The captain and mate were very nervous, and despaired of taking
this fresh body of men, but Robinson was quite confident of success, and
put heart into them by his cheerfulness.
Of the prisoners in his castle, there were two whom the captain said
were honest men, and on their promising solemnly to keep faith, and to
fight for him, Robinson released them.
The crew of the second boat, when they landed, were terribly sur-
prised to find the first boat empty and stove in, and they were seen anx-
iously consulting what to do. Then they hallooed and fired volleys.
Getting no reply, they were evidently alarmed, for they all jumped into
their boat and began to pull for the ship. In a few minutes, however,
they seemed to change their minds,, for again they landed, this time
leaving three men in charge of the boat, and keeping her in the water.
The other seven came ashore, and started in a body across the island
to look for their lost comrades. But they did not care to go far, and
soon stopped, again firing volleys and hallooing. Getting no reply,
they began to march back to the sea. Whereupon Robinson ordered
Friday and the mate to go over the creek to the west and halloo loudly,
and wait till the sailors answered. Then Friday and the mate were to
go further away and halloo again, thus gradually getting the men to
follow them away from the shore.
This plan succeeded very well, for when the sailors, thinking they
heard their missing friends hail, ran to find them, their way was stopped
by the creek over which they had to get the boat to carry them. They
took with them, then, one of the three men whom they had left in the
boat, and ordered the others to moor the boat to a tree and remain
there.
This was just what Robinson wanted. And moreover, one of the
men played still further into his hands, for he left the boat and lay down
under a tree to sleep. On him the captain rushed and knocked him
down as he tried to rise to his feet, whereupon the sailor left in the boat
yielded the more readily saying that he had joined the mutineers very
unwillingly, and was now glad of a chance to rejoin his captain.
Meantime Friday and the mate, by hallooing and answering, drew
the rest of the boat's crew from hill to hill through the woods, till at last
they had got them so far astray that it was not possible for them to
find their way back before dark. When they did get back to where the
boat had been left, and found the men whom they had left in her gone,
they were in a terrible fright.
It was not difficult for Robinson and his men to surround them, and
it chanced that the boatswain of the ship, who was the greatest villain
of the lot, and the chief cause of all the trouble, walked in the darkness
close to the captain, who jumped up and shot him dead. The others
then surrendered, believing what they were told, that they were sur-
rounded by fifty armed men. All begged hard for their lives, and a few
whom the captain said he could trust were set at liberty on promising
to help retake the ship. The others were bound and put in the cave.
Robinson and Friday remained on shore to look after the prisoners,
whilst the captain and the mate and the passenger, with those of the
crew who were trustworthy, having patched up the damaged boat,
pulled off in her and in the other to the ship, which they reached about
midnight. When they were a short distance off, the captain made one
of the crew hail the ship and say they had brought off the boat and the
men they had gone in search of. The boats ran alongside at once, one
on each side of the vessel, and before the mutineers knew what was hap-
pening, they were overpowered, one or two of them being killed. Only
one ot the captain's party was hurt, the mate, whose arm was broken
by a musket ball.
As soon as the ship was secured, the captain ordered seven guns to be
t
fired, that being the signal he had agreed to make to let Robinson know
if he succeeded in taking the ship.
Robinson's stay in the island had now come to an end, after more
than twenty-eight years, for in a few days he and Friday sailed for Eng-
land in the ship. Five of the mutineers were left on the island, and
Robinson left a letter with them to be delivered to the Spaniard when
he returned with his comrades.
Robinson did not forget, when he left, to take with him the money
and gold bars he had got from the wreck of the Spanish ship, and he
took also, as a memento, the goatskin coat and great hairy hat. But
the captain was able, before the ship sailed, to give him proper clothing,
the wearing of which at first put him to dreadful discomfort.
The voyage was a long one, but they sighted the English coast at last.
It was thirty-five years since Robinson had set foot in England.
That morning, when at last, after the weary years of exile, he again saw
his native land, he laid his head down on his arms and cried like a child.
He went to York, where he had lived as a boy, but found that all of
his family were dead, except two sisters and two sons of one of his
brothers. He learned that his father's property had been divided
without any provision being made for him, as it was supposed that he
had long been dead. He was, therefore, rather poor, for the money he
had brought from the island would not go far toward settling him in
the world.
This being the case, Robinson thought the wisest thing he could do
would be to look after the plantation he had left in Brazil, when he
had gone on the voyage which ended in shipwreck. He did not like to
undertake the long voyage to Brazil, so he decided to go to Lisbon, the
capital city of Portugal, which country then governed Brazil. In
Lisbon he hoped to find, amongst those engaged in the trade with Bra-
zil, some one who could give him news of his property. He was not
disappointed, for he found the captain of the vessel which had picked
him up when he escaped with Xury, and had taken him to Brazil.
Through this captain Robinson learned that the trustees in whose
charge he had left his plantation had proved to be very fair, honest
men; that the profits had not been wasted; and that the land itself had
increased greatly in value. The trustees stood ready to turn over his
property as soon as they knew that he was still living.
The old captain put Robinson in the way of making his claim to his

ROBINSON' MARRIED
plantation without going to Brazil himself. As he had no desire to
live there, he authorized his trustees to sell his land, which they did for
a good price, and in the course of a few months he received a sum of
money large enough to make him quite a rich man.
Robinson returned to England, and in a short time married, bought
a farm in the county of Bedford, and settled down to the life of a country
gentleman. His thoughts were entirely taken up in managing his
servants, cultivating the soil, enclosing, planting, and so forth, and in
enjoying the society of his wife, who proved to be a very agreeable,
worthy, and loving helpmate.
For several years he was very happy, but at length his good wife died,
and the blow so upset him that he lost all relish for his placid life and
rural enjoyments. A great desire took possession of him to get away
from familiar scenes, and enjoy the excitement of travel and adventure
again. He longed, in particular, to make a visit to his old island
home, to see what had become of the people there.
Just after acquiring his wealth, he had taken under his care the two
sons of one of his dead brothers that have been mentioned; and as one
of them had an inclination for the sea, he had had him trained for an
officer, and in due time provided him with a ship. This young man at
this very time returned from his first voyage as captain, and came to
him, telling him that some merchants had engaged him to go on a voy-
age to the East Indies, and asking him if he would not like to go with
him.
On Robinson's mentioning his desire to revisit his island, the nephew
told him that they would pass near it, and could make a stop there, if
he wished to do so.
The scheme hit Robinson's desires so exactly that he adopted it
without hesitation, and began making preparations for the voyage at
once. He put on board a considerable cargo of all kinds of things use-
ful for a colony, and engaged several workingmen to go along and settle
in the island; among them, two carpenters, a smith, a tailor, and a gen-
eral mechanic whom he called a Jack-of-all-Trades.
They set sail, and had a fine voyage. When they came in sight of
the island, the ship was brought to anchor near the little river. Robin-
son called Friday, whom he had of course brought with him, and
asked him if he knew where they were. Friday looked about a little,
and presently, clapping his hands cried, "Oh, yes; oh yes, oh there!"
and fell dancing round and capering like a mad fellow.
As they caught sight of some men at the top of the hill, Robinson
gave orders to fire three guns, to let them know that friends had come,
and soon smoke was seen coming from the side of the river. Robinson
then went ashore in a small boat, taking Friday with him, and hanging
out a white flag of peace. The first man Robinson's eye fell upon was
the Spaniard whose life he had saved. He ordered that nobody should
leave the boat at first, but himself; but there was no keeping Fri-
day aboard, for he had spied his father at a distance. The poor fel-
low's joy when he reached his father was very touching. He kissed
him, took him up in his arms, set him down by a tree, then stood and

ROBINSON RECEIVES A WELCOME FROM THE SPANIARD
m
looked at him as one would look at a picture; and all the while he was
talking and telling him one story after another of his travels.
Robinson's friend, the Spaniard, came attended by one other, carry-
ing a flag of truce also. He had no notion that it was Robinson until
he spoke to him, and asked him if he did not know him. Then he came
forward and embraced him, and led him to his old dwelling. Robin-
son could no more have found the place than if he had never been there;
for they had planted so many trees, and they had grown so big, that the
place was accessible only by such winding ways that they alone who had
made them could find them.
Robinson inquired the reason for all these fortifications, and the
Spaniard told him that he was sure he would see there was need enough
of them when he had given him an account of how they had passed
their time since their arrival in the island.
He had sent the man who attended him to call his comrades, and
this man now came back with eleven more. Robinson's friend, point-
ing to them, said, "These gentlemen, sir, all owe their lives to you;"
upon which they all came up to Robinson, one by one, not as if they
had been sailors and the like; but as if they had been nobles, and he
a king receiving their homage.
Then they had a long story to tell of all that had been done in the
island since Robinson had gone from it. At first the five mutineers
who had been left there insulted the poor Spaniards, when they arrived
from the mainland*, then came to an agreement with them; quarrelled
again, and made peace a second time; but at last the Spaniards had to
use violence upon them, and bring them under subjection. Then
there were fierce battles with the savages, who had landed more than
once in great numbers, but had always been defeated after consider-
able hard fighting. At one time three of the reprobate sailors had gone
on an expedition to the mainland. The rest were glad to have them go,
and expected never to see them again; but at the end of twenty-two
days they returned with sixteen prisoners, eleven men savages, and
five women. The men they kept as slaves to do the harder kinds of
work; the women they and the other two sailors took as wives.
For some time previous to the coming of Robinson, the islanders
had been enjoying tranquillity, the necessity for uniting to resist the
savages having produced a more friendly feeling amongst them. After
hearing his friend's account of all these occurrences, Robinson told
them he had not come to take them from the island, but to establish
them there more comfortably; that he had brought a supply of all
things necessary for their convenience, and that the workmen who had
come with him to remain there could assist them to do many things
which had been impossible for them to do hitherto.
The next day Robinson and all his friends had a grand feast, which
the cook of the ship came ashore to prepare. Then the cargo of goods
was unloaded and divided equally. There were tools of all sorts, fire
arms, powder, shot, and cloth for coats and shirts.
Robinson made quite a long stay on the island, arranging all matters
so that there might be as little cause for disputes amongst the islanders
as possible. He divided the island into parts and appointed to each
his share. The extreme east end was to be left uninhabited, so that if
savages should land upon it they might come and go without disturb-
ing anybody.
At length, thinking he had settled everything to the best advantage
Robinson went aboard his ship, and they set sail, giving the islanders
a salute of five guns at parting.
When the ship reached the Bay of Bengal, Robinson parted from it,
and remained on land for a while. He made the acquaintance of some
merchants, and was induced by them to join as partner in the pur-
chase of a ship to go on a trading voyage to the Spice Islands and China.
This voyage turned out very profitably, and others were made, on which
Robinson had a variety of interesting experiences, and some very nar-
row escapes from serious peril.
It was ten years before he returned to his native land, having then
reached the age of seventy-two years. His appetite for wandering was
at last appeased, and the rest of his life was spent in devout prepara-
tion for a peaceful end.

.
