
. At,

The Farther Adventures of
ROBINSON
CRUSOE

Being the Second and Last Part of his
Life, and the Strange Surprizing
Accounts of his Travels
Round three Parts of the
Globe
To which is added a Map of the World,
in which is Delineated the Voyages of
Robinson Crusoe
Oxford: Basil BlackWelL
Publisher to the ShakespeareHeadPress
of Stratford-upon-Avon
1927

Written by Himself
Volume III
SEVEN HUNDRED AND FIFTY COPIES
OF THIS EDITION HAVE BEEN PRINTED
B Y T H E S H A K E S P E A R E H E A D PRESS
STRATFORD-UPON-AVON OF WHICH
SEVEN HUNDREDANDTWENTYCOPIES
ARE FOR SALE f^n^J
Storage
"PR.
34^3
.A I
V.3

THE
FARTHER ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE, &c.
HAVING thus given an Account of the Colony in
general, and pretty much of my five Runagate Eng-
lishmen, I must say something of the Spaniards, who were
the main Body of the Family; and in whose Story there
are some Incidents also remarkable enough.
I had a great many Discourses with them about their
Circumstances when they were amongthe Savages :They .
told me readily, that they had no Instances to give of their
Application or Ingenuity in that Country; that they were
a poor miserable dejected Handful of People; that if
Means had been put into their Hands, they had yet so
abandon'd themselves to Despair, and so sunk under the
Weight of their Misfortunes, that they thought of no-
thing but Starving: One of them, a grave and very sensi-
ble Man, told me, he was convinc'd they were in the
wrong; that it was not the Part of wise Men to give up
themselves to their Misery, but always to take Hold of
the Helps which Reason offer'd, as well for present Sup-
port, as for future Deliverance. He told me that Grief
was the most senseless insignificantPassion in the World;
for that it regarded only Things past, which were generally
impossible to be recall'd, to or be remedy'd, but had no
View to Things to come, and had no Share in any Thing
that look'd like Deliverance, but rather added to the Af-
fliction, than propos'd a Remedy: And upon this, he re-
vol. in b
2 Farther Adventures of Robinson Crusoe
peated a Spanish Proverb; which tho' I cannot repeat in
just the same Words that he spoke in, yet I remember I
made it into an English Proverb of my own, thus:
In Trouble to be troubPd,
Is to have your Trouble doubl'd.
He ran on then in Remarks upon all the little Improve-
ments I had made in my Solitude; my unweary'd Appli-
cation, as he call'd it, and how I had made a Condition,
which, in its Circumstances, was at first much worse than
theirs a thousand Times, more happy than theirs was,
even now, when they were all together. He told me, it was
remarkable, that Englishmen had a greater Presence of
IV! ind in their Distress than any People that ever he met
with; that their unhappy Nation, and the Portuguese,were
the worst Men in the World to struggle with Misfor-
tunes; for that their first Step in Dangers, after the com-
mon Efforts are over, was always to despair, lie down
under it, and die, without rousing their Thoughts up to
proper Remedies for Escape.
I told him, their Case and mine differ'd exceedingly,
that they were cast upon the Shore without Necessaries,
without Supply of Food, or of present Sustenance, 'till
they could provide: That it is true, I had this Disadvan-
tage and Discomfort, that I was alone; but then the Sup-
plies I had providentially thrown into my Hands, by the
unexpected driving of the Ship on Shore, was such a Help
as would have encourag'd any Creature in the World to
have apply'd himself as I had done. Seignior, says the
Spaniard, had we poor Spaniards been in your Case, we
should never have gotten half those Things out of the
Ship, asyoudid: Nay, says he, we should never have found
Means to have gotten a Raft to carry them, or to have got-
ten the Raft on Shore without Boat or Sail; and how much
less should we have done, said he, if any of us had been
alone? Well, I desir'd him to abate his Compliment, and
go on with the History of their coming on Shore, where
they landed, he told me, they unhappily landed at a Place
where there were People without Provisions; whereas
had they had the common Sense to have put off to Sea
again, and gone to another Island a little farther, they
had found Provisions, tho' without People; there being
an Island that Way, as they had been told, where there
was Provisions, tho' no People; that is to say, That the
Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently been there, and had
fill'd the Island with Goats and Hogs at several Times;
where they have bred in such Multitudes, and where Tur-
tle and Sea-Fowls were in such Plenty, that they could
ha' been in no Want of Flesh, tho' they had found no
Bread; whereas here, they were only sustain'd with a few
Roots and Herbs, which they understood not, and which
had no Substance in them, and which the Inhabitants
gave them sparingly enough, and who could treat them
no better, unless they would turn Canibals, and eat Mens
Flesh, which was the great Dainty of their Country.
They gave me an Account how many Ways they strove
to civilize the Savages they were with, and to teach them
rational Customs in the ordinary Way of Living, but in
vain; and how they retorted it upon them, as unjust, that
they who came there for Assistance and Support, should
attempt to set up for Instructors of those that gave them
Bread; intimating, it seems, that none should set up for
the Instructors of others, but those who could live with-
out them.
They gave me dismal Accounts of theExtremities they
were driven to; how sometimes they were many Days
without any Food at all; the Island they were upon being
inhabited by a Sort of Savages that lived more indolent,
and for that Reason were less supplied with the Neces-
saries of Life, than they had Reason to believe others
were in the same Part of the World; and yet they found,
that these Savages were less ravenous and voracious, than
those who had better Supplies of Food.
Also they added, That they could not but see with
what Demonstrations of Wisdom and Goodness the go-
verning Providence of God directs the Events of Things
in the World; which, they said, appear'd in their Circum-
stances ; for if press'd by the Hardships they were under,
and the Barrenness of the Country where they were, they
had search'd after a better Place to live in; they had then
been out of the Way of the Relief that happen'd to them
by my Means.
Then they gave me an Account, how the Savages,
who they liv'd among, expected them to go out with
them into their Wars: And it was true, that, as they had
Fire-Arms with them, had they not had the Disaster to
lose their Ammunition, they should not have been ser-
viceable only to their Friends, but have made themselves
terrible both to Friends and Enemies; but being without
Powder and Shot, and yet in a Condition, that they could
not in Reason deny to go out with their Landlords to
their Wars; when they came into the Field of Battle, they
were in a worse Condition than the Savages themselves;
for they neither had Bows or Arrows, nor could they use
those the Savages gave them; so that they could do no-
thing but stand still, and be wounded with Arrows, till
they came up to the Teeth of their Enemy; and then in-
deed the three Halberds they had, were of Use to them;
and they would often drive a whole little Army before
them with those Halberds and sharpen'd Sticks put into
the Muzzles of their Muskets: But that for all this they
were sometimes surrounded with Multitudes, and in
great Danger from their Arrows, till at last they found
the Way to make themselves large Targets of Wood,
which they cover'd with Skins of wild Beasts, whose
Names they knew not; and these cover'd them from the
Arrows of the Savages; that notwithstanding these, they
were sometimes in great Danger, and were once five of
them knock'd down together with the Clubs of the Sa-
vages, which was the Time when one of them was taken
Prisoner; that is to say, the Spaniard, whom I had reliev-
'd, that at first they thought had been kill'd: But when
afterwards they heard he was taken Prisoner, they were
under the greatest Grief imaginable, and would willingly
have all ventur'd their Lives to have rescu'd him.
They told me, That when they were so knock'd down,
the rest of their Company rescu'd them, and stood over
them, fighting till they were come to themselves, all but
him who they thought had been dead; and then theymade
their Way with their Halberds and Pieces, standing close
together in a Line, thro' a Body of above a thousand Sa-
vages, beating down all that came in their Way, got the
Victory over their Enemies, but to their great Sorrow, be-
cause it was with the Loss of their Friend; who, the
other Party, finding him alive, carry'd off' with some
others, as I gave an Account in my former.
They describ'd most affectionately, how they were sur-
priz'd with Joy at the Return of their Friend and Com-
panion in Misery, who they thought had been devour'd
by wild Beasts of the worst Kind, (viz.) by wild Men; and
yet how more and more they were surpriz'd with the Ac-
count he gave them of his Errand, and that there was a
Christian in any Place near, much more one that was able,
and had Humanity enough to contribute to their De-
liverance.
They describ'd how they were aslxmish'd at the Sight
of the Relief I sent them, and at the Appearance of Loaves
of Bread, Things they had not seen since their coming to
that miserable Place; how often they cross'd it, and
bless'd it, as Bread sent from Heaven; and what a reviv-
ing Cordial it was to their Spirits to taste it; as also of the
other Things I had sent for their Supply. And after all,
they wouldhavetoldmesomethingof the Joy they werein,
at the Sight of a Boat and Pilots to carry them away to the
Person and Place from whence all these new Comforts
came; but they told me it was impossible to express it by
Words, for their excessive Joy, naturally driving them to
unbecoming Extravagancies, they had no way to describe
them, but by telling me that they border'd upon Lunacy,
having no way to give Vent to their Passion, suitable to
the Sense that was upon them; that in some it work'd one
Way, and in some another; and that some of them, thro' a
Surprize of Joy, would burst out into Tears; others be
£tark mad, and others immediately faint. This Discourse
extreamly affected me, and call'd to my Mind Friday's
Extasy, when he met his Father, and the poor People's
Extasy, when I took them up at Sea, after their Ship was
on Fire; the Mate of the Ship's Joy, when he found him-
self deliver'd in the Place where he expected to perish;
and my own Joy, when after 2 8 Years Captivity, I found
a good Ship ready to carry me to my own Country. All
these Things made me more sensible of the Relation of
those poor Men, and more affe&ed with it.
Having thus given a View of the State of Things, as I
found them, I must relate the Heads of what I did for
these People, and the Condition in which I left them. It
was their Opinion and mine too, that they would be trou-
bled no more with the Savages; or that if they were, they
would be able to cut them off, if they were twice as many
as before; so they had no Concern about that. Then I en-
tred into a serious Discourse with the Spaniard, whom I
call Governor, about their Stay in the Island; for as I was
not come to carry any of them off, so it would not be just
to carry off some, and leave others, who perhaps would be
unwilling to stay, if their Strength was diminished.
On the other hand, I told them, I came to establish
them there, not to remove them; and then I let them
know, that I had brought with me Relief of sundry Kinds
for them; That I had been at a great Charge to supply
them with all Things necessary, as well for their Con-
venience, as their Defence; and that I had such and such
particular Persons with me, as well to encrease and recru it
their Number, as by the particular necessary Employ-
ments which they were bred to, being Artificers, to assist
them in those things, in which, at present, they were to
seek.
They were all together when I talk'd thus to them; and
before I delivered to them the Stores I had brought, I
ask'd them one by one, If they had entirely forgot, and
bury'd the first Animosities that had been among them,
and would shake Hands with one another, and engage in
a strict Friendship and Union of Interest, that so there
might be no more Misunderstandings or Jealousies.
Will. Atkins, with Abundance of Frankness and good
Humour, said, They had met with Afflictions enough to
make them all sober, and Enemies enough to make them
all Friends; that for his Part, he would live and die with
them; and was so far from designing any Thing against
the Spaniards, that he own'd they had done nothing to
him, but what his own mad Humour made necessary,
and what he would have done, and perhaps much worse
in their Case; and that he would ask them Pardon, if I de-
sir'd it, for the foolish and brutish Things he had done to
them; and was very willing and desirous of living in
Terms of entire Friendship and Union with them; and
would do any thing that lay in hisPower to convince them
of it; and as for going to England, he car'd not if he did
not go thither these twenty Years.
The Spaniards said, They had indeed at first disarm'd
and excluded Will. Atkins and his two Countrymen for
their ill Conduct, as they had let me know; and they ap-
peal'd to me, for the Necessity they were under to do so:
But that Will. Atkins had behav'd himself so bravely in
the great Fight they had with the Savages, and on several
Occasions since; and had shew'd himself so faithful to,
and concern'd for, the general Interest of them all, that
they had forgotten all that was past, and thought he me-
rited as much to be trusted with Arms, and supply'd with
Necessaries as any of them; and that they had testify'd
their Satisfaction in him, by committing the Command
to him, next to the Governour himself. And as they had an
entire Confidence in him and all his Countrymen, so they
acknowledg'd they had merited that Confidence by all
the Methods that honest Men could merit to be valued,
and trusted; and they most heartily embrac'd the Occa-
sion of giving me this Assurance, that they would never
have any Interest separate from one another.
Upon these frank and open Declarations of Friend-
ship, we appointed the next Day to dine all together; and
indeed we made a splendid Feast: I caused the Ship's
Cook and his Mate to come on Shore, and dress our Din-
ner; and the old Cook's Mate we had on Shore, assisted.
We brought on Shore six Pieces of good Beef, and four
Pieces of Pork out of the Ship's Provision, with our
Punch-Bowl, and Materials to fill it; and in particular,
I gave them ten Bottles of French Claret,and ten Bottles of
English Beer; Things that neither the Spaniards, or the
English Men had tasked for many Years; and which, it
may be supposed, they were exceeding glad of.
The Spaniards added to our Feast five whole Kids,
which the Cooks roasted; and three of them were sent
cover'd up close on Board the Ship, to the Seamen, that
they might feast on fresh Meat from on Shore, as we did
with their Salt Meat from on Board.
After this FeasT;, at which we were very innocently
merry, I brought out my Cargo of Goods, wherein, that
there might be no Dispute about dividing, I shew'd them
that there was sufficient for them all; and desir'd that they
might all take an equal Quantity of the Goods that were
for wearing; that is to say, equal when made up; as first, I
distributed Linnen sufficient to make every one of them
four Shirts ;andatthe<S,/>««wri2'jRequestafterwards,made
them up six; these were exceeding comfortable to them,
having been what, as I may say, they had long since for-
got the Use of or what it was to wear them.
I allotted the thin English Stuffs, which I mention'd
before, to make every one a light Coat, like a Frock,which
I judged fittest for the Heat of the Season; cool and loose,
and order'd, that whenever they decay'd, they should
make more, as they thought fit: The like for Pumps,
Shoes, Stockings and Hats, &c.
I cannot express what Pleasure, what Satisfaction, sat
upon the Countenances of all these poor Men, when they
saw the Care I had taken of them, and how well I had fur-
nish'd them; they told me, I was a Father to them, and
that having such a Correspondent as I was, in so remote
a Part of the World, it would make them forget that they
were left in a desolate Place; and they all voluntarily en-
gag'd to me not to leave the Place without my Consent.
Then I presented to them the People I had brought
with me, particularly the Taylor, the Smith, and the two
Carpenters, all of them most necessary People; but above
all, my general Artificer, than whom they could not name
any thing that was more useful to them. And the Taylor,
to shew his Concern for them, went to work immediately,
and, with my Leave, made them every one a Shirt the first
Thing he did; and which was still more, he taught the
Women, not only how to sew and stitch, and use the
Needle, but made them assist to make the Shirts for
their Husbands, and for all the rest.
As to the Carpenters, I scarce need mention, how use-
ful they were, for they took in pieces all my clumsy un-
handy Things, and made them clever convenient Tables,
Stools, Bed-steads, Cup-boards, Lockers, Shelves, and
every thing they wanted of that kind.
But to let them see how Nature made Artificers at first,
I carried the Carpenters to see Will. Atkins's Basket-
house, as I call'd it, and they both own'd they never saw
an Instance of such natural Ingenuity before; nor any
thing so regular, and so handily built, at least of its Kind:
And one of them, when he saw it, after musing a good
while, turning about to me, I am sure, says he, that Man
has no need of us,you need do nothing but give himTools.
Then I brought them out all my Store of Tools, and
gave every Man a Digging-Spade, a Shovel, and a Rake,
for we had no Harrows or Plows; and to every separate
Place, a Pick-axe, a Crow, a broad Axe, and a Saw; always
appointing, that as often as any were broken, or worn out,
they should be supply'd without grudging, out of the
general Stores that I left behind.
Nails, Staples, Hinges, Hammers, Chissels, Knives,
Scissars, and all sorts of Tools, and Iron-work, they had
without Tale, as they requir'd, for no Man would care
to take more than they wanted, and he must be a Fool that
would wast or spoil them, on any Account whatever;
and for the Use of the Smith, I left two Ton of unwrought
Iron for a Supply.
My Magazine of Powder and Arms, which I brought
them, was such, even to Profusion, that they could not
but rejoice at them; for now they could march as I us'd to
do, with a Musket upon each Shoulder, if there was Oc-
casion, and were able to fight a thousand Savages, if they
had but some little Advantages of Situation, which also
they could not miss of if they had Occasion.
I carry'd on Shore with me the young Man, whose
Mother was slarv'd to Death, and the Maid also; she was
a sober well educated religious young Woman, and be-
hav'd so inoffensively, that every one gave her a good
Word; she had indeed an unhappy Life with us, there be-
ing no Woman in the Ship but herself; but she bore it
with Patience. After a while seeing Things so well or-
der'd, and in so fine a way of thriving upon my Island,
and considering that they had neither Business or Ac-
quaintance in the EaSl-Indies, or Reason for taking so
long a Voyage: I say, considering all this, both of them
came to me, and desir'd I would give them leave to remain
on the Island, and be enter'd among my Family, as they
call'dit.
I agreed to it readily, and they had a little Plat of
Ground allotted to them, where they had three Tents or
Houses set up, surrounded with a Basket-work, Pallisa-
do'dlike^//h'«.r's, adjoiningtohisPlantation:TheirTents
were contriv'd, so that they had each of them a Room
apart to lodge in, and a middle Tent like a great Store-
house to lay all their Goods in, and to eat and drink in;
and now the other two English Men remov'd their Ha-
bitation to the same Place, and so the Island was divided
into three Colonies, and no more, viz. the Spaniards with
old Friday, and the first Servants, at my old Habitation
under the Hill; which was, in a Word, the capital City;
and where they had soenlarg'dand extended their Works,
as well under as on the outside of the Hill, that they
liv'd, tho' perfectly conceal'd, yet full at large. Never was
there such a little City in a Wood, and so hid, I believe, in
in any Part of the World; for I verily believe, a thousand
Men might have rang'd the Island a Month, and if they
had not known there was such a Thing, and look'd on
purpose for it, they would not have found it; for the Trees
stood so thick and so close, and grew so fast matted into
one another, that nothing but cutting them down first
could discover the Place; except the only two narrow En-
trances, where they went in and out, could be found,
which was not very easy; one of them was just down at the
Water-edge of the Creek, and it was afterwards above
two hundred Yards to the Place; and the other was up the
Ladder at twice, as I have already formerly describ'd
it; and they had a large Wood thick planted, also, on the
Top of the Hill, which contain'd above an Acre, which
grew apace, and cover'd the Place from all Discovery
there, with only one narrow Place between two Trees,
not easy to be discover'd to enter on that Side.
The other Colony was that of W. Atkins's, where there
were four Families of English Men, I mean those I had
left there, with their Wives and Children; three Savages
that were Slaves; the Widow and Children of the English
Man that was kill'd; the young Man and the Maid; and
by the way, we made a Wife of her also, before we went
away: There were also the two Carpenters and the Tay-
lor, who I brought with me for them; also the Smith, who
was a very necessary Man to them, especially as a Gun-
smith, to take care of their Arms; and my other Man,
who I call'd, Jack of all Trades ;who was in himself as good,
almost, as 20 Men, for he was not only a very ingenious
Fellow, but a very merry Fellow, and before I went away,
we married him to the honest Maid that came with the
Youth in the Ship, I mention'd before.
And now I speak of Marrying, it brings me naturally
to say something of the French Ecclesiastic that I had
brought with me out of the Ship's Crew, who I took up
at Sea. It is true, this Man was a Roman, and perhaps it
may give Offence to some hereafter, if I leave any Thing
extraordinary upon Record, of a Man, who, before I be-
gin, I must, (to set him out in just Colours) represent in
Terms very much to his Disadvantage, in the Account of
Protestants; as firs!, that he was a Papist; secondly, a
popish Priest; and thirdly, a French Popish Priest.
But Justice demands of me to give him a due Charac-
ter ; and I must say, he was a grave, sober, pious, and most
religious Person; exact in his Life, extensive in his Chari-
ty, and exemplar in almost every Thing he did; what
then can any one say, against my being very sensible of
the Value of sucha Man, notwithstanding his Profession?
Tho' it may be my Opinion, perhaps, as well as the Opin-
ion of others, who shall read this, that he was mistaken.
The first Hour that I began to converse with him, after
he had agreed to go with me to the Easl-Indies, I found
Reason to delight exceedingly in his Conversation; and
he first began with me about Religion in the most oblig-
ing Manner imaginable.
Sir, says he, you have not only, under God, (and at that
he cross'd his Breast) sav'd my Life, but you have admit-
ted me to go this Voyage in your Ship, and by your oblig-
ing Civility have taken me into your Family, giving me
an Opportunity of free Conversation. Now Sir, says he,
you see by my Habit what my Profession is, and I guess
by your Nation what yours is: I may think it is my Duty,
and doubtless it is so, to use my utmost Endeavours, on
all Occasions, to bring all the Souls I can to the Know-
ledge of the Truth, and to embrace the Catholick Doc-
trine; but as I am here under your Permission, and in
your Family, I am bound in Justice to your Kindness, as
well as in Decency and good Manners, to be under your
Government; and therefore I shall not, without your
Leave, enter into any Debates on the Point of Religion, in
which we may not agree, farther than you shall give me
Leave.
I told him, his Carriage was so modest, that I could not
but acknowledge it; that it was true, we were such People
as they call'd Hereticks; but that he was not the first Ca-
tholick that I had convers'd with, without falling into any
Inconveniences, or carrying the Questions to any height
in Debate: Thathe shouldnot find himself the worse us'd
for being of a different Opinion from us, and if we did not
converse without any Dislike on either Side upon that
Score, it should be his Fault, not ours.
He reply'd, that he thought all our Conversation
might be easily separated from Disputes: That it was not
his Business to cap Principles with every Man he dis-
cours'd with; and that he rather desir'd me to converse
with him as a Gentleman, than as a Religieuse; that if I
would give himLeave at any time to discourse upon relig-
ious Subjects, he would readily comply with it; and that
then, he did not doubt but I would allow him also to de-
fend his own Opinions, as well as he could; but that
without my Leave he would not break in upon me with
any such thing.
He told me farther, that he would not cease to do all
that became him in his Office, as a Priest, as well as a pri-
vate Christian, to procure the Good of the Ship, and the
Safety of all that was in her ;and tho' perhapswewouldnot
join with him, and he could not pray with us, he hop'd he
might prayfor us, which he would do upon all Occasions.
In this Manner we convers'd, and as he was of a most ob-
liging Gentleman-like Behaviour; so he was, if I may be
allow'd to say so, a Man of good Sense, and as I believe,
of great Learning.
He gave me a most diverting Account of his Life, and
of the many extraordinary Events of it; of many Adven-
tures which had befallen him in the few Years that he
had been abroad in the world, and particularly this was
very remarkable, (viz.) That in the Voyage he was now
engag'd, he had had the Misfortune to be five times
ship'd and unship'd, and never to go to the Place whi-
ther any of the Ships hewasin, wereat first design'd: That
his first Intent was to have gone to Martinico, and that he
went on board a Ship bound thither, at St. Malo; but be-
ing forc'd into Lisbon by bad Weather, the Ship receiv'd
some Damage, by running a-ground in the Mouth of the
River Tagus, and was oblig'd to unload her Cargo there;
that finding a Portuguese Ship there bound to the Made-
ras, and ready to sail, and supposing he should easily meet
with a Vessel there bound to Martinico; he went on board*
in Order to sail to the Maderas ;but the Master of the Por-
tuguese Ship being but an indifferent Mariner, had been
out in his Reckoning, and they drove toFial; where, how-
ever, he happen'd to find a very good Market for his Car-
go, which was Corn, and therefore resolv'd not to go to
the Maderas, but to load Salt at the Isle of May, and go
away to Newfoundland: He had no Remedy in this Exi-
gence, but to go with the Ship, and had a pretty good Voy-
age as far as the Banks, so they call the Place where they
catch the Fish, where meeting with a French Ship, bound
from France to Quebeck in the River of Canada, and from
thence to Martinico, to carry Provisions, he thought he
should have an Opportunity to compleat his first Design:
But when he came to Quebeck, the Master of the Ship
dy'd, and the Ship proceeded no farther; so the next Voy-
age he shipp'd himself for France, in the Ship that was
burnt, when we took them up at Sea, and then shipp'd
with us for the Easl-Indies, as I have already said: Thus he
had been disappointed in five Voyages, all, as I may call
it, in one Voyage, besides what I shall have Occasion to
mention farther of the same Person.
But, I shall not make Digressions into other Men's
Stories, which have no Relation to my own. I return to
what concerns our Affair in the Island: He came to me
one Morning, for he lodg'd among us all the while we
were upon the Island; and it happen'd to be just when I
was going to visit the English Men's Colony, at the far-
thest Part of the Island, I say, he came to me, and told me,
with a very grave Countenance, that he had for two or
three Days desir'd an Opportunity of some Discourse
with me, which he hop'd should not be displeasing to me,
because he thought it might in someMeasure correspond
with my general Design, which was the Prosperity of my
new Colony, and perhaps might put it, at least more than
he yet thought it was, in the Way of God's Blessing.
I look'd a little surpriz'd at the last Part of his Dis-
course, and turning a little short, How Sir, said I, can it
be said, that we are not in the Way of God's Blessing, af-
ter such visible Assislances and wonderful Deliverances as
we have seen here, and of which I have given you a large
Account?
If you had pleas'd Sir, said he, with a world ofModesly,
and yet with great Readiness, to have heard me, you would
have found no room to have been displeas'd, much less
to think so hard of me, that I should suggest, that you
have not had wonderful Assistances and Deliverances;
and I hope, on your Behalf, that you are in the Way of
God's Blessing, and your Design is exceeding good, and
will prosper: But, Sir, tho' it were more so, than is even
possible to you, yet there may be some among you that
are not equally right in their Actions: And you know,
that in the Story of the Children of Israel, one Achan in
the Camp remov'd God's Blessing from them, and turn'd
his Hand so against them, that six and thirty of them,
tho' not concern'd in the Crime, were the Object of Di-
vine Vengeance, and bore the Weight of that Punish-
ment.
I was sensibly touch'd with his Discourse, and told
him, his Inference was so just, and the whole Design
seem'd so sincere, and was really so religious in its own
Nature, that I was very sorry I had interrupted him, and
begg'd him to go on; and in the mean Time, because it
seem'd, that what we had both to say might take up some
Time, I told him, I was going to the English Mens Plan-
tations, and ask'd him to go with me, and we might dis-
VOL. Ill c
course of it by the Way: He told me, he would more wil-
lingly wait on me thither, because there partly the Thing
was acted, which he desir'd to speak to me about, so we
walk'd on; and I press'd him to be free and plain with me,
in what he had to say.
Why then, Sir, says he, be pleased to give me Leave to
lay down a few Propositions, as the Foundation of what I
have to say, that we may not differ in the general Princi-
ples, tho' we may be of some differing Opinions in the
Practice of Particulars. First, Sir, tho' we differ in some
of the doctrinal Articles of Religion; and it is very unhap-
py that it is so, especially in the Case before us, as I shall
shew afterwards: Yet there are some general Principles
in which we both agree, (viz.) first, That there is a God;
and that this God having given us some stated general
Rules for our Service and Obedience, we ought not wil-
lingly and knowingly to offend him; either by neglecting
to do what he has commanded, or by doing what he has
expressly forbidden: And let our different Religious be
what they will, this general Principle is readily own'd by
us all, That the Blessing of God does not ordinarily fol-
low a presumptuous sinning against his Command; and
every good Christian will be affectionately concern'd to
prevent any that are under his Care, living in a total Neg-
lect of God and his Commands. It is not your Men being
Protestants, whatever my Opinion may be of such, that
discharges me from being concern'd for their Souls, and
from endeavouring, if it lies before me, that they should
live in as little Distance from and Enmity with their
Maker, as possible, especially if you give me Leave to
meddle so far in your Circuit.
I could not yet imagine what he aim'd at, and told him,
I granted all he had said, and thank'd him, that he would
so far concern himself for us; and begg'd he would ex-
plain the Particulars of what he had observ'd, that, like
Joshua, to take his own Parable, I might put away the ac-
cursed Thing from us.
Why then, Sir, says he, I will take the Liberty you give
me; and there are three Things,which, if I am right,must
stand in the Way of God's Blessing upon your Endea-
vours here, and which I should rejoice for your sake, and
their own, to see remov'd. And, Sir, says he, I promise
myself, that you will fully agree with me in them all, as
soon as I name them; especially because I shall convince
you, that every one of them may, with great Ease, and
very much to your Satisfaction, be remedy'd.
He gave me no Leave to put in any more Civilities, but
went on. FirsJ, Sir, says he, you have here four English
Men, who have fetch'd Women from among the Savages
and have taken them as their Wives, and have had many
Children by them all, and yet are not marry'd to them af-
ter any seated legal Manner, as the Laws of God and Man
require; and therefore are yet, in the Sense of both, no
less than Adulterers, and living in Adultery. To this, Sir,
says he, I know you will object, That there was no Clergy-
man or Priest of any Kind, or of any Profession, to per-
form the Ceremony; nor any Pen and Ink, or Paper, to
write down a Contract of Marriage, and have it sign'd
between them. And I know also, Sir, what the Spaniard
Governour has told you; I mean of the Agreement that he
oblig'd them to make,when they took theseWomen(w'z.)
That they should chuse them out by Consent, and keep
separately to them; which, by the way, is nothing of a
Marriage, no Agreement with the Women, as Wives,
but only an Agreement among themselves, to keep them
from quarrelling.
But, Sir, the Essence of the Sacrament of Matrimony
(so he call'd it, being a Roman) consists not only in the
mutual Consent of the Parties to take one another, as Man
and Wife, but in the formal and legal Obligation, that
there is in the Contract, to compel the Man and Woman
at all Times, to own and acknowledge each other, oblig-
ing the Men to abstain from all other Women, to engage
in no other Contract while these subsist; and on all Occa-
sions, as Ability allows, to provide honestly for them and
their Children, and to oblige the Women to the same, or
like Conditions, mutatis mutandis, on their Side.
Now, Sir, says he, these Men may, when they please,or
when Occasion presents, abandon these Women, disown
their Children, leave them to perish, and take other Wo-
men, and marry them whilst these are living. And here he
added, with some Warmth, How, Sir, is God honour'd
in this unlawful Liberty? And how shall a Blessing suc-
ceed your Endeavoursin this Placer* Howevergood in them-
selves, nndhoweversincereinyourDesign,'wh.iletheseNlen,
who at present are your Subjects, under your absolute
Government and Dominion, are allow'd by you to live in
open Adultery?
I confess, I was struck at the Thing itself, but much
more with the convincing Arguments he supported it
with; for it was certainly true, that tho' they had no Cler-
gyman upon theSpot,yeta formal Contradton both Sides,
made before Witnesses, and confirm'd by any Token,
which they had all agreed to be bound by, tho' it had been
but breaking a Stick between them, engaging the Men to
own these Women for their Wives, upon all Occasions,
and never to abandon them or their Children, and the
Women to the same with their Husbands, had been an
effectual lawful Marriage in the Sight of God; and it was
a great Neglect that it was not done.
But I thought to have gotten off with my young Priest,
by telling him, that all that Part was done when I was not
here, and they had liv'd so many Years with them now,
that if it was an Adultery, it was past Remedy, they could
do nothing in it now.
Sir, says he, asking your Pardonfor such Freedom, you are
right in this, that it being done in your Absence, you
could not be charg'd with that Part of the Crime: But I
beseech you, flatter not yourself, that you are not there-
fore under an Obligation to do your utmost now to put an
End to it. How can you think, but that, let the Time past
lie on who it will, all the Guilt, for the future, will lie en-
tirely upon you? Because it is certainly in your Power now
to put an End to it, and in no Body's Power but yours.
I was so dull still, that I did not take him right; but I
imagin'd, that by putting an End to it, he meant that I
should part them, and not surfer them to live together any
longer; And I said to him, I could not do that by any
Means, for that it would put the whole Island into Con-
fusion : He seem'd surpriz'd, that I should so far mis-
take him. No, Sir, says he, I do not mean, that you should
now separate them, but legally and effectuallymarry them
now; and as, Sir, my Way of marrying them may not be
so easy to reconcile them to, tho' it will be as effectual,
even by your own Laws, so your Way may be as well be-
fore God, and as valid among Men; I mean, by a written
Contract, sign'd by both Man and Woman, and byallthe
Witnesses present, which all the Laws of Europe would
decree to be valid.
I was amaz'd to see so much true Piety, and so much
Sincerity of Zeal, besides the unusual Impartiality in his
Discourse, as to his own Party or Church, and such true
Warmth for the preserving People that he had no Know-
ledge of, or Relation to; I say, for preserving them from
transgressing the Laws of God; the like of which I had
indeed not met with any where: But recollecting what he
had said, of marrying them by a written Contract, which
I knew would stand too; I return'd it back upon him, and
told him, I granted all that he had said to be just, and on
his Part very kind, that I would discourse with the Men
upon the Point now, when I came to them: And I knew
no Reason whythey shou'd scruple to let him marry them
all, which I knew well enough would be granted to be as
authentick and valid in England, as if they were marry'd
by one of our own Clergymen. What was afterwards done
in this Matter, I shall speak of by itself.
I then press'd him to tell me what was the second Com-
plaintwhich he had to make, acknowledging, that I was
very much his Debtor for the firsl, and thank'd him hear-
tily for it. He told me, he would use the same Freedom
and Plainness in the second, and hop'd I would take it as
well: And this was, that notwithstanding these English
Subjects of mine, as he call'd them, had lived with those
Women for almost seven Years, had taught them to speak
English, and even to read it; and that they were, as he per-
ceiv'd, Women of tolerable Understanding, and capable
of Instruction; yet they had not to this Hour taught them
any thing of the Christian Religion, no, not so much as to
know that there was a God, or a Worship, or in what Man-
ner God was to be served, or that their own Idolatry, and
worshipping they knew not who, was false and absurd.
This, he said,was an unaccountable Neglect, and what
God would certainly call them to Account for, and per-
haps at last take the Work out of their Hands. He spoke
this very affectionately and warmly. I am perswaded, says
he, had those Men lived in the Savage Country, whence
their Wives came, the Savages would have taken more
Pains to have brought them to be Idolaters, and to wor-
ship the Devil, than any of these Men, so far as he could
see, had taken with them to teach them the Knowledge of
the true God. Now,Sir,saidhe^ho' I do not acknowledge
your Religion, or you mine, yet we should be glad to see
the Devil's Servants, and the Subjects of his Kingdom,
taught to know the general Principles of the Christian
Religion; that they might, at least, hear of God, and of a
Redeemer, and of the Resurrection, and of a future State,
Things which we all believe; they had at least been so
much nearer coming into the Bosom of the true Church,
than they are now in the publick Profession of Idolatry
and Devil-Worship.
I could hold no longer; I took him in my Arms, and
embrac'd him with an Excess of Passion: How far, said I
to him, have I been from understanding the most essen-
tial Part of a Christian! (viz.) to love the Interest of the
Christian Church, and the good of other Mens Souls. I
scarce have known what belongs to being a Christian. O,
Sir, do not say so, reply'd he, this Thing is not your Fault.
No, says I, but why did I never lay it to Heart as well as
you? 'Tis not too late yet, said he, be not too forward to
condemn yourself: but what can be done now, said I, you
see I am going away? Will you give me Leave, said he, to
talk with those poor Men about it? Yes, with all my Hear
said I, and will oblige them to give heed to what you
say too: As to that, said he, we must leave them to the
Mercy of Christ; but 'tis our Business to assist them, en-
courage them, and instruct them; and if you will give me
Leave, and God his Blessing, I do not doubt but the poor
ignorant Souls shall be brought Home into the great Cir-
cle of Christianity, if not into the particular Faith that we
all embrace, andthat even while you stay here: Upon this,
I said, I shall not only give you Leave, but give you a
thousand Thanks for it. What follow'd on this Account,
I shall mention also again in its Place.
I now press'd him for the Third Article, in which we
were to blame. Why really, says he, it is of the same Na-
ture, and I will proceed, askingyour Leave, with the same
Plainness as before; it is about your poor Savages, who
are, as I may say, your conquer'd Subjects. It is a Maxim
Sir, that is or ought to be receiv'd among all Christians
of what Church or pretended Church soever, (viz.) The
Chrifiian Kno wledge ought to be propagated by all possible
Means, and on all possible Occasions: 'Tis on this Principle
that our Church sends Missionaries into Persia, India,
and China, and that our Clergy, even of the superior Sort,
willingly engage in the most hazardous Voyages, and the
most dangerous Residence among Murderers and Bar-
barians, to teach them the Knowledge of the true God,
and to bring them over to embrace the Christian Faith.
Now, Sir, you have such an Opportunity here, to have six
or seven and thirty poor Savages brought over from Ido-
latry to the Knowledge of God their Maker and Redeem-
er, that I wonder how you can pass such an Occasion of
doing Good, which is really worth the Expence of a Man's
whole life.
I was now struck dumb indeed, and had not one Word
to say. I had here a Spirit of true Christian Zeal for God
and Religion before me, let his particular Principles be
of what Kind soever; as for me, I had not so much as en-
tertain'd a Thought of this in my Heart before, and I be-
lieve should not have thoughtofit; fori look'd uponthese
Savages as Slaves, and People, who, had we had any
Work for them to do, we would ha'used as such, or would
ha' been glad to have transported them to any other Part
of the World; for our Business was to get ridof them, and
we would all have been satisfy'd, if they had been sent to
any Country, so they had never seen their own: But to the
Case, I say, I was confounded at his Discourse, and knew
not what Answer to make him. He look'd earnestly at
me, seeing me in some Disorder; Sir, says he, I shall be
very sorry, if what I have said gives you any Offence: No,
No, says I, I am offended with no Body but myself; but I
am perfectly confounded, not only to think that I should
never take any Notice of this before, but with reflecting-
what Notice I am able to take of it now. You know, Sir,
said I, what Circumstances I am in, I am bound to the
Easl-Indies, in a Ship freighted by Merchants, and to
whom it would be an unsufferable Piece of Injustice to
detain their Ship here, the Men lying all this while at Vic-
tuals and Wages upon the Owners Account. It is true, I
agreed to be allow'd twelve Days here, and if I stay more,
I must pay 3/. SterlingperDiem Demorage, nor can I stay
upon Demorage above eight Days more, and I have been
here thirteen Days already, so that I am perfectly unable
to engage in this Work, unless I would suffer my self to
be left behind here again, in which Case, if this single
Ship should miscarry in any Part of her Voyage, I should
be just in the same Condition that I wasleft inhere at first,
and from which I have been so wonderfully delivered.
He own'd the Case was very hard upon me, as to my
Voyage, but laid it home upon my Conscience, whether
the Blessing of saving seven and thirty Souls, was not
worth my venturing all I had in the World for? I was not
so sensible of that as he was. I return'd upon him thus,
why, Sir, it is a valuable Thing indeed, to be an Instru-
ment in God's Hand to convert seven and thirty Heathen
to the Knowledge of Christ, but as you are an Ecclesias-
tic, and are given over to the Work, so that it seems so
naturally to fall into the Way of your Profession; how is
it, that you do not rather offer your self to undertake it,
than press me to it?
Upon this he fac'd about, just before me, as we walk'd
along, and putting me to a full Stop, made me a very low
Bow; I most heartily thank God and you, Sir, says he, for
giving me so evident a Call to so blessed a Work; and if
you think your self discharg'd from it, and desire me to
undertake it, I will most readily do it, and think it a hap-
py Reward for all the Hazards and Difficulties of such a
broken disappointed Voyage as I have met with, that I
may be dropt at last into so glorious a Work.
I discover'd a kind of Rapture in his Face while he
spoke this to me; his Eyes sparkl'd like Fire, his Face
glow'd, and his Colour came and went, as if he had been
falling into Fits; in a Word, he was fir'd with the Joy of
being embark'd in such a Work. I paus'd a considerable
while before I could tell what to say to him, for I was real-
ly surpriz'd to find a Man of such Sincerity and Zeal, and
carry'd out in his Zeal beyond the ordinary Rate of Men,
not of his Profession only, but even of any Profession
whatsoever. But after I had consider'd it awhile, I ask'd
him seriously if he was in earnest, and that he would ven-
ture on the single Consideration of an Attempt on those
poor People, to be lock'd up in an unplanted Island for,
perhaps, his Life, and at last might not know whether he
should be able to do them any Good, or not?
He turn'd short upon me, and ask'd me what I call'd a
Venture? Pray, Sir, said he, what do you think I consented
to go in your Ship to the Easl-Indies for? Nay, said I, that
I know not, unless it was to preach to the Indians: Doubt-
less it was, said he; and do you think, if I can convert
these seven and thirty Men to the Faith of Christ, it is
not worth my time, tho' I should never be fetch'd off the
Island again; nay, is it not infinitely of more worth to
save so many Souls, than my life is, or the Life of twenty
more of the same Profession? Yes, Sir, says he, I would
give Christ and the blessed Virgin Thanks all my Days, if
I could be made the least happy Instrument of saving the
Souls of these poor Men, tho' I was never to set my Foot
off this Island, or see my native Country any more. But
since you will honour me, says he, with putting me into
this Work, for which I will pray for you all the Days of my
Life; I have one humble Petition to you, said he, besides.
What is that, said I? Why, says he, it is, that you will leave
your Man Friday with me, to be my Interpreter to them,
and to assist me; for without some Help I cannot speak
to them, or they to me.
I was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday, be-
cause I could not think of parting with him, and that for
many Reasons; he had been the Companion of my Tra-
vels; he was not only faithful to me, but sincerely affec-
tionate to the last Degree, and I had resolv'd to do some-
thing considerable for him, if he out-liv'd me, as it was
probable he would. Then I knew that, as I had bred Fri-
day up to be a Protestant, it would quite confound him to
bring him to embrace another Profession; and he would
never, while his Eyes were open,believe that his old Mas-
ter was a Heretick and would be damn'd; and this might
in the End ruin the poor Fellow's Principles, and so turn
him to his first Idolatry.
However, a sudden Thought reliev'd me in this Strait,
and it was this; I told him, I could not say that I was wil-
ling to part with Friday on any Account whatever, tho' a
Work that to him was of more Value than his Life, ought
to be to me of much less Value than the keeping or part-
ing with a Servant: But on the other hand, I was persuad-
ed that Friday would by no Means consent to part with
me, and I could not force him to it without his Consent,
without manifest Injustice, because I had promised I
would never put him away, and he had promis'd and
engag'dto me, that he would never leave me, unless I put
him away.
He seem'd very much concern'd at it, for he had no
rational Access to these poor People, seeing he did not
understand one Word of their Language, nor they one
Word of his: To remove this Difficulty, I told him, Fri-
day's Father had learn'd Spanish, which I found he also
understood, and he should serve him for an Interpreter;
so he was much better satisfied, and nothing could per-
suade him but he would stay to endeavour to convert
them; but Providence gave another, and very happy
Turn to all this.
I come back now to the first Part of his Objections.
When we came to the English Men, I sent for them all to-
gether, and after some Account given them of what I had
done for them, viz. what necessary Things I had provid-
ed for them, and how they were distributed, which they
were very sensible of, and very thankful for; I began to
talk to them of the scandalous Life they led, and gave
them a full Account of the Notice the Clergyman had al-
ready taken of it, and arguing how unchristian and irre-
ligiousaLifeitwas. I first ask'd them if they were married
Men or Batchelors? They soon explain'd their Condition
to me, and shew'd me that two of them were Widowers,
and the other three were single Men or Batchelors. I ask'd
them with what Consciences they could take these Wo-
men and lie with them, as they had done, call them their
Wives, and have so many Children by them, and not be
marry'd lawfully to them.
They all gave me the Answer that I expected, viz. that
there was no Body to marry them; that they agreed before
the Governor to keep them as their Wives; and to keep
them and own them as their Wives; and they thought as
Things £tood with them, they were as legally married as
if they had been married by a Parson, and with all the
Formalities in the World.
I told them, that no doubt they were married in the
Sightof God, and were bound in Conscience to keep them
as their Wives, but that the Laws of Men being other-
wise, they might pretend they were not married, and so
desert the poor Women and Children hereafter; and that
their Wives being poor desolate Women, friendless and
moneyless, would have no way to help themselves. I
therefore told them, that unless I was assur'd of their hon-
esl: Intent, I could do nothing for them; but would take
Care that what I did should be for the Women and their
Children without them, and that unless they would give
some Assurances that they would marry the Women, I
could not think it was convenient they should continue
togetheras Man and Wife, for that it was both scandalous
to Men, and offensive to God, who they could not think
would bless them, if they went on thus.
Allthiswent on as I expected, and they told me, especi-
ally Will. Atkins, who seem'd now to speak for the rest,
that they lov'd their Wives as well, as if they had been
born in their own Native Country, and would not leave
them upon any Account whatever; and they did verily
believe their "Wives were as virtuous and as modest, and
did, to the utmost of their Skill, as much for them, and for
their Children, as any Women could possibly do, and they
would not part with them on any Account: And Will. At-
kins for his own Particular added, if any Man would take
him away, and offer to carry him home to England, and
make him Captain of the best Man of War in the Navy,
he would not go with him, if he might not carry his Wife
and Children with him; and iftherewasaClergymaninthe
Ship, he would be married to her now with all his Heart.
This was just as I would have it; the Priest was not
with me at that Moment,but was not far off: So to try him
farther, I told him I had a Clergyman with me, and if he
was sincere, I would have him married the next Morning
and bid him consider of it, and talk wi th the rest; he said,
as for himself, he need not consider of it at all, for he was
very ready to do it, and was glad I had a Minister with
me, and he believ'd they would be all willing also. I then
told him that my Friend the Minister was a French Man,
and could not speak English, but that I would act the
Clerk between them: He never so much as ask'd me whe-
ther he was Papist or Protestant, which was indeed what
I was afraid of: But, I say, they never enquir'd about it.
So we parted, I went back to my Clergyman, and Will.
Atkins went in to talk with his Companions. I desir'd the
French Gentleman not to say anything to them, till the
Business was thorough ripe, and I told him what Answer
the Men had given me.
Before I went from their Quarter, they all came to me,
and told me, they had been considering what I had said,
that they were very glad to hear I had a Clergyman in my
Company,and they were very willing to giveme the Satis-
fadtion I desir'd, and to be formally Married as soon as I
pleas'd, for they were far from desiring to part with their
Wives, and that they meant nothing but what was very
honest when they chose them; so I appointed them to
meet me the next Morning, and that in the mean time
they should let their Wives know the meaning of the
Marriage-Law; and that it was not only to prevent any
Scandal, but also to oblige them, that they should not for-
sake them, whatever might happen.
The Women were easily made sensible of the Mean-
ing of the Thing, and were very well satisfied with it, as,
indeed, they had Reason to be; so they fail'd not to attend
all together at my Apartment the next Morning,where I
brought out my Clergyman; and tho' he had not on a
Minister's Gown, after the Manner of England, or the
Habit of a Priest, after the Manner of France ;yet havinga
black Vest something like a Cassock, with a Sash round
it, he did not look very unlike a Minister; and as for his
Language, I was his Interpreter.
But the Seriousness of his Behaviour to them, and the
Scruples he made of marrying the Women, because they
were not baptiz'd, and profess'd Christians, gave them an
exceeding Reverence for his Person; and there was no
need after that, to enquire whether he was a Clergyman
or no.
Indeed, I was afraid his Scruple would have been car-
ry'd so far, as that he would not have marry'd them at all;
nay, notwithstanding all I was able to say to him, he re-
sisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily, and at last
refusedabsolutelyto marry them,unlesshehad first talk'd
with the Men, and the Women too; and though at first I
was a little backward to it, yet at last I agreed to it with a
good Will, perceiving the Sincerity of his Design.
When he came to them, he let them know, that I had
acquainted him with their Circumstances, and with the
present Design: That he was very willing to perform that
Part of his Function, and marry them as I had desir'd;
but that before he could do it, he must take theLiberty to
talk with them. He told them, That in the Sight of all in-
different Men, and in the Sense of the Laws of Society,
they had liv'd all this while in an open Adultery; and that
it was true, that nothing but the consenting to marry, or
effectually separating them from one another now, could
put an End to it; but there was a Difficulty in it too, with
respect to the Laws of Chrislian Matrimony, which he
was not fully satisfy'd about, viz. That of marrying one
that is a profess'd Chrislian, to a Savage, an Idolator, and
a Heathen, one that is not baptiz'd; and yet that he did
not see that there was Time left for it toendeavourtoper-
suade the Women to be baptiz'd, or to profess the Name
of Chrisl, whom they had, he doubted, heard nothing of,
and without which they could not be baptiz'd.
He told them, He doubted they were but indifferent
Christians themselves; that they had but little Know-
ledge of God, or of his Ways; and therefore he could not
expect that they had said much to their Wives on that
Head yet; but that unless they would promise him to use
their Endeavour with their Wives, to persuade them to
become Christians, and would as well as they could in-
struct them in the Knowledge and Belief of God that
made them, and to worship Jesus Christ that redeem'd
them, he could not marry them; for he would have no
Hand in joining Christians with Savages; nor was it con-
sistent with the Principles of the Christian Religion; and
was indeed expressly forbidden in God's Law.
They heard all this very attentively, and I deliver'd it
very faithfully to them, from his Mouth, as near his own
Words as I could, only sometimes adding something of
my own to convince them how jusl: it was, and how I was
of his Mind; and I always very faithfully distinguish'd
between what I said from myself, and what were the Cler-
gyman's Words. They told me, it was very true, what the
Gentleman had said, that they were but very indifferent
Chrislians themselves, and that they had never talk'd to
their Wives about Religion. Lord, Sir I says Will. Atkins,
How should we teach them Religion? Why we know no-
thing our selves; and besides, Sir, said he, should we goto
talk to them of God, and Jesus Chris!', and Heaven and Hell,
'twould be to make them laugh at us, and ask us, What
we believe our selves? And if we should tell them we be-
lieve all the Things that we speak of to them, such as of
good People going to Heaven, and wicked People to the
Devil, they would ask us, Where we intend to go our sel-
ves, that believe all this, and are such wicked Fellows, as
we indeed are? Why, Sir, 'tis enough to give them a Sur-
feit of Religion at firsT: Hearing: Folks must have some
Religion themselves, before they pretend to teach other
People: Will Atkins, said I to him; though I am afraid.what
you say has too much Truth in it, yet can you not tell your
Wife that she's in the wrong? that there is a God, and a
Religion better than her own; that her Gods are Idols,
that they can neither hear nor speak; that there is a great
Being that made all Things, and that can destroy all that
he had made; that he rewards the Good, and punishes the
Bad; and that we are to be judg'd by him at last for all
we do here: You are not so ignorant, but even Nature it-
self will teach you that all this is true, and I am satisfy'd
you know it all to be true, and believe it yourself.
That's true, Sir, said Atkins; but with what Face can
vol. in d
I say any Thing to my Wife of all this, when she will tell
me immediately it cannot be true?
Not true, said I, What do you mean by that? Why, Sir,
said he, She will tell me it cannot be true, that this God I
shall tell her of can be just, or can punish, or reward, since
I am not punish'd, and sent to the Devil, that have been
such a wicked Creature as she knows I have been, even to
her, and to every Body else; and that I should be suffer'd
to live, that have been always acting so contrary to what I
must tell her is Good, and to what I ought to have done.
Why, truly, Atkins, said I, I am afraid thou speakest
too much Truth; and with that I let the Clergyman know
what Atkins had said, for he was impatient to know: O!
said the Pries!; tell him there is one Thing will make him
the best Minister in the World to his Wife, and that is,
Repentance', for none teach Repentance like true Peni-
tents: He wants nothing but to repent, and then he will
be so much the better qualify'd to instruct his Wife: He
will be then able to tell her, that there is not only a God,
and that he is the just Rewarder of Good and Evil, but
that he is a merciful Being, and with infinite Goodness
and Long-suffering forbears to punish those that offend,
waiting to be gracious, and willing not the Death of a Sin-
ner, but rather that he should return and live; that often-
times suffers wicked Men to go on a long Time, and even
reserves Damnation to the general Day of Retribution;
that it is a clear Evidence of God, and of a future State,
that righteous Men receive not their Reward, or wicked
Men their Punishment, 'till they come into another
World; and this will lead him to teach his Wife the Doc-
trine of the Resurrection, and of the last Judgment; let
him but repent for himself, he will be an excellent Prea-
cher of Repentance to his Wife.
I repeated all this to Atkins, who look'd very serious all
the while, and who, we could easily perceive, was more
than ordinarily affected with it: When being eager, and
hardly suffering me to make an End, I know all this, Mas-
ter, says he, and a great deal more; but I han't the Impu-
dence to talk thus to my Wife, when God, and my own
Conscience knows, and my Wife will be an undeniable
Evidence against me, that I have liv'd, as if I had never
heard of a God, or future State, or any Thing about it;
and to talk of my repenting, ALAS! And with that he
fetch'da deep Sigh; and I could see, that Tears stood in his
Eyes ;'Tispast all that with me. Past it! ATKINS, said
I, What do'st thou mean by that? I know well enough
what I mean, says he, / mean 'tis too late, and that is too
true.
I told my Clergyman Word for Word what he said;
the poor zealous Priest (I must call him so; for, be his
Opinion what it will, he had certainly a most singular Af-
fection for the Good of other Mens Souls; and it would
be hard to think he had not the like for his own) I say, this
zealous affectionate Man, could not refrain Tears also:
But, recovering himself, he said to me, ask him but one
Question, Is he easy that it is too late, or is he troubled,
and wishes it were not so? I put the Question fairly to At-
kins, and he answered with a great deal of Passion, How
could any Man be easy in a Condition that certainly must
end in eternal Destruction? that he was far from being
easy, but that, on the contrary, he believ'd it would one
Time or other ruin him.
What do you mean by that? said I. Why, he said he be-
liev'd he should, one Time or other, cut his Throat to put
an End to the Terror of it.
The Clergyman shook his Head with a great Concern
in his Face, when I told him all this: But turning quick to
me upon it, says he, If that be his Case, you may assure
him it is not too late; Christ will give him Repentance:
But pray, says he, explain this to him, That as no Man is
sav'd but by Christ and the Merit of his Passion, procur-
ing divine Mercy for him, how can it be too late for any
Man to receive Mercy? Does he think he is able to sin
beyond the Power or Reach of divine Mercy? Pray tell
him, there may be a Time when provok'd Mercy will no
longer strive, and when God may refuse to hear, but that
'tis never too late for Men to ask Mercy; and we that are
Christ's Servants are commanded to preach Mercy at all
Times, in the Name of Jesus Chris!to all those that sincerely
repent; so that 'tis never too late to repent.
I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great Ear-
nestness ; but it seem'd as if he turn'd off the Discourse to
the rest; for he said to me he would go and have some
Talk with his "Wife; so he went out a while, and we talk'd
to the rest. I perceiv'd they were all stupidly ignorant as
toMattersofReligion; muchaslwas when I went rambl-
ing away from my Father; and yet that there were none
of them backward to hear what had been said; and all of
them seriously promis'd that they would talk with their
Wives about it, and do their Endeavour to persuade them
to turn Christians.
TheClergymansmil'dupon me, when I reported what
Answer they gave, but said nothing a good while; but, at
lasl, shaking his Head, We that are Christ's Servants, says
he, can go no further than to exhort and instruct, and
when Men comply, submit to the Reproof, and promise
what we ask 'tis all we can do; we are bound to accept
their good Words: But believe me, Sir, said he, whatever
you may have known of the Life of that Man you call
Will. Atkins, I believeheistheonly sincere Convert among
them; I take that Man to be a true Penitent; I wont de-
spair of the rest; but that Man is apparently struck with
the Sense of his past Life; and I doubt not, but when he
comes to talk Religion to his Wife, he will talk himself
effectually into it; for attempting to teach others, is some-
times the best way of teaching our selves. I knew a Man,
who having nothing but a summary Notion of Religion
himself, and being wicked and profligate to the last De-
greein his Life, made a thorough Reformation in himself,
by labouring to convert a Jew. If that poor Atkins begins
but once to talk seriously of Jesus Christ to his Wife, my
Life for it, he talks himself into a thorough Convert, makes
himself a Penitent: And who knows what may follow?
Upon this Discourse however, andtheir promising,as
above, to endeavour to persuade their Wives to embrace
Christianity,hemarry'dtheother three Couple; but Will.
Atkins and his Wife were not yet come in. After this, my
Clergyman, waiting a while, was curious to know where
Atkins was gone; and, turning to me, says he, I entreatyou,
Sir, let us walk out of your Labyrinth here, and look; I
dare say, we shall find this poor Man somewhere or other
talking seriously to his Wife, and teaching her already
something of Religion. I began to be of the same Mind;
so we went out together, and I carry'd him a Way which
none knew but myself, and where the Trees were so
thickset, as that it was not easy to see thro' the Thicket of
Leaves,andfarhardertoin, than to see out; when, com-
ing to the Edge of the Wood, I saw Atkins and his tawny
Savage Wife sitting under the ShadeofaBush, very eager
in Discourse; I stopp'd short till my Clergyman came up
to me; and then having show'd him where they were, we
stood and look'd very steadily at them a good while.
We observ'd him very earnest with her, pointing up to
the Sun, and to every Quarter of the Heavens, then down
to the Earth, then out to the Sea, then to himself, then to
her, to the Woods, to the Trees. Now, says my Clergy-
man, you see my Words are made good, the Man preaches
to her; mark him now, he is telling her, that our God has
made him, and her, and the Heavens, the Earth, the Sea,
the Woods, the Trees, &c. I believe he is, said/; immedi-
ately we perceiv'd Will. Atkins start up upon his Feet, fall
down on his Knees, and lift up both his Hands: We sup-
pose he said something, but we could not hear him, it was
too far for that; he did not continue kneeling half a Min-
ute, but comes and sits down again by his Wife, and talks
to her again. We perceiv'd then the Woman very atten-
tive, but whether she said any thing or no we could not
tell; while the poor Fellow was upon his Knees, I could
see the Tears run plentifully down my Clergyman's
Cheeks, and I could hardly forbear my self; but it was a
great Affliction to us both that we were not near enough
to hear any Thing that pass'd between them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer for fear of
disturbing them, so we resolv'd to see an End of this
Piece of slill Conversation, and it spoke loud enough to us
without the Help of Voice. He sat down again, as I
have said, close by her, and talk'd again earnestly to her,
and two or three times we could seehim embrace her most
passionately; another time wesawhimtake out his Hand-
kerchief and wipe her Eyes, and then kiss her again with
a kind of Transport very unusual; and after several of
these Things we see him, on a sudden, jump up again
and lend her his Hand to help her up, when immediately,
leading her by the Hand a Step or two, they both kneel'd
down together, and continu'd so about two Minutes.
MyFriendcouldbearit no longer, but cries out aloud,
St. PAUL! St. PAUL 1 behold he prayeth; I was afraid
Atkinswould hear him, therefore I entreated him to with-
hold himself awhile, that we might see an End of the
Scene, which to me, I must confess, was the most affect-
ing, and yet the most agreeable that ever I saw in myLife:
Well, he strove with himself and contain'd himself for a
while, but was in such Raptures of Joy, to think that the
poor Heathen Woman was become a Christian, that he
was not able to contain himself; he wept several times,
then throwing up his Hands and crossinghis Breast, said
over several Things Ejaculatory and by way of giving
God Thanks for so miraculous a Testimony of the Suc-
cess of our Endeavours; some he spoke softly, and I could
not well hear, others audibly, some in Latin, some in
French; then two or three times the Tears of Joy would in-
terrupt him, that he could not speak at all: But I begg'd
that he would compose himself, and let us more narrowly
and fully observe what was before us, which he did for a
Time, and the Scene was not ended there yet; for after
the poor Man and his Wife were risen again from their
Knees, we observ'd he stood talking still eagerly to her;
and we observ'd by her Motion, that she was greatly af-
fected with what he said, by her frequent lifting up her
Hands, laying her Hand to her Breast, and such other
Postures, as usually express the greatest Seriousness and
Attention. This continu'd about half a Quarter of an
Hour, and then they walk'd away too; so that we could
see no more of them in that Situation.
I took this Interval to talk with my Clergyman: And
first, I told him, I was glad to see the Particulars we had
both been Witnesses to; that tho' I was hard enough of
Belief in such Cases, yet that I began to think it was all
very sincere here, both in the Man and his Wife, however
ignorant they might both be; and I hop'd such a Begin-
ning would have a yet more happy End; and who knows,
said I, but these two may in Time, by Instruction and
Example, work upon some of the others? Some of them!
said he, turning quick upon me, ay, upon all oj them ; depend
upon it, if those two Savages, for he has been but little
better, as you relate it, should embrace Jesus Christ, they
will never leave 'till they work upon all the rest; for true
Religion is naturally communicative, and he that is once
made a Christian, will never leave a Pagan behind him, if
he can help it. I own'd it was a most Christian Principle
to think so, and a Testimony of a true Zeal, as well as a
generous Heart in him: But, my Friend, said I, will you
give me Leave to start one Difficulty here? I cannot tell
how to object the least Thing against that affectionate
Concern, which you shew for the turning the poor Peo-
ple from their Paganism to the Christian Religion: But
how does this comfort you, while these People are in your
Account out of the Pale of the Catholick Church, without
whichyoubelievethere is no Salvation; so that youesteem
these but Hereticks, and for other Reasons as effectually
loft as the Pagans themselves.
To this he answer'd with abundance of Candor and
Christian Charity thus; Sir, I am a Catholick of the Ro-
man Church, and a Priest of the Order of St. BenedicJ, and
I embrace all the Principles of the Roman Faith: But yet
if you will believe me, and that I do not speak in Compli-
ment to you, or in respecl to my Circumslances and your Civili-
ties; I say, nevertheless, I do not look upon you, who call
your selves reform'd, without some Charity: I dare not
say, tbo' I know it is our Opinion in general; I say, I dare not
say, that you cannot be sav'd: I will by no means limit the
Mercy of Christ so far, as to think that he cannot receive
you into the Bosom of his Church in a Manner to us un-
perceivable, and which it is impossible for us to know,
and I hope you have the same Charity for us; I pray daily
for your being all restor'd to Christ's Church, by whatso-
ever Methods he, who is All-wise, is pleas'd to direct: In
the mean time, sure you will allow it to consist with me,as
a Roman, to distinguish far between a Protestant and a
Pagan; between one that calls on Jesus Christ, tho' in a
Way which I do not think is according to the true Faith,
and a Savage, a Barbarian, that knows no God, no Christ,
no Redeemer; and if you are not within the Pale of the
Catholick Church, we hope you are nearer being restor'd
to it than those that know nothing of God or his Church:
And I rejoice therefore when I see this poor Man, who
you say has been a Profligate, and almost a Murderer,
kneel down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we suppose he
did, tho' not fully enlighten'd; believing that God, from
whom every such Work proceeds, will sensibly touch his
Heart, and bring him to the further Knowledge of that
Truth in his own Time; and if God shall influence this
poor Man to convert and instruct the ignorant Savage his
Wife, I can never believe that he shall be cast away him-
self; and have I not Reason then to rejoyce, the nearer
any are brought to the Knowledge of Christ, tho' they
may not be brought quite home into the Bosom of the
Catholick Church, just at the time when I may desire it?
leaving it to the Goodness of Christ to perfect his Work
in his own Time, and his own Way. Certainly I would
rejoyce if all the Savages in America were brought like
this poor Woman to pray to God, tho' they were to be all
Protestants at first, rather than they should continue Pa-
gansandHeathens; firmly believing, that he that had be-
stow'd the first Light to them, would further illuminate
them with a Beam of his heavenly Grace, and bring them
into the Pale of his Church when he should see good.
I was astonish'd at the Sincerity and Temper of this
truly pious Papist, as much as I was oppress'd by the
Power of his Reasoning; and it presently occurr'd to my
Thoughts, that if such a Temper was universal, we might
be all Catholick Christians, whatever Church or particu-
lar Profession we join'd to, or join'd in; that a Spirit of
Charity would soon work us all up into right Principles;
and in a Word, as he thought that the like Charity would
make us all Catholicks, so I told him I believ'd, had all
the Members of his Church the like Moderation, they
would soon be all Protestants. Andthere we left thatPart,
for we never disputed at all.
However, I talk'd to him another way, and taking him
by the Hand, my Friend, says I, I wish all the Clergy of the
Roman Church were blest with such Moderation, and
had an equal Share of your Charity. I am entirely of your
Opinion; but I must tell you, that if you should preach
such Doctrine in Spain or Italy, they would put you into
the Inquisition.
It may be so, said he, I know not what they might do
in Spain or Italy, but I will not say they would be the bet-
ter Christians for that Severity, for I am sure there is no
Heresy in too much Charity.
Well, as Will. Atkins and his Wife were gone, our Busi-
ness there was over; so we went back our own Way; and
when we came back, we found them waiting to be call'd
in; observing this, I ask'd my Clergyman if we should
discover to him that we had seen him under the Bush, or
no; and it was his Opinion we should not; but that we
should talk to him first, and hear what he would say to us;
so we call'd him in alone, no Body being in the Place but
our selves; and I began with him thus:
Will. Atkins, said I, prithee what Education had you?
What was your Father?
W. A. A better Man than ever I shall be. Sir, my Father,
was a Clergyman.
R. C. What Education did he give you?
W. A. He would have taught me well, Sir; but I de-
spis'd all Education, Instruction, or Correction, like a
Beast as I was.
R. C. It's true, Solomon says, He that despises Reproof is
brutish.
W. A. Ay, Sir, I was brutish indeed, I murder'd my
Father: For God's sake, Sir, talk no more about that, Sir,
I murder'd my poor Father.
Pr. Ha! a Murderer!*
*Here the Pries! slarted (for I interpreted every Word
as he spoke it) and look'dpale. It seems he believ'd
that Will. had really kill d his own Father.
R. C. No, no, Sir, I do not understand him so. Will.
Atkins, explain yourself, you did not kill your Father, did
you, with your own Hands?
W. A. No, Sir, I did not cut his Throat, but I cut the
Thread of all his Comforts, and shorten'd his Days; I
broke his Heart by the most ungrateful unnatural Re-
turn, for the most tender affectionate Treatment that ever
Father gave, or Child could receive.
R. C. Well, I did not ask you about your Father, to ex-
tort this Confession; I pray God give you Repentance for
it, and forgive you that, and all your other Sins; but I ask'd
you, because I see, that tho' you have not much Learn-
ing, yet you are not so ignorant as some are in Things that
are Good; that you have known more of Religion a great
deal than you have practised.
W. A. Tho' you, Sir, did not extort the Confession that
I make about my Father, Conscience does; and whenever
we come to look back upon our Lives, the Sins against
our indulgentParentsare certainly the first that touch us;
the Wounds they make lie deepest, and the Weight they
leave will lie heaviest upon the Mind, of all the Sins we
can commit.
R. C. You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me Atkins;
I cannot bear it.
W. A. You bear it, Master! I dare say you know no-
thing of it.
R. C. Yes, Atkins, every Shore, every Hill, nay, I may
say, every Tree in this Island is witness to the Anguish
of my Soul, for my Ingratitude and base Usage of a good
tender Father; a Father much like yours, by your De-
scription ; and I murder'd my Father as well as you, Will.
Atkins, but I think for all that, my Repentance is short of
yours too* by a great deal.
*I would have said more, if I could have reslraind my
Passions; but I thought this poor Man's Repentance
was so much sincerer than mine, that I was going to
leave ofthe Discourse andretire, for 1was surpriz'd
with what he said; and thought, that inslead of my
going about to teach and inslruB him, the Man was
made a Teacher and Inslruclor to me, in a mosl sur-
prizing and unexpecled manner.
I laid all this before the young Clergyman, who was
greatly affected with it, and said to me; Did I not say, Sir,
that when this Man was converted, he would preach to us
all? I tell you, Sir, if this one Man be made a true Peni-
tent, here will be no need of me, he will make Christians
of all in the Island. But having a little compos'd my self,
I renew'd my Discourse with Will. Atkins.
But, WILL, said I, How comes the Sense of this
Matter to touch you just now?
W. A. Sir, you have set me about a Work that has
struck a Dart thro' my very Soul; I have been talking
about God and Religion to my Wife, in Order, as you di-
rected me, to make a Christian of her, and she has preach-
ed such a Sermon to me, as I shall never forget while I
live.
R. C. No, no, it is not your Wife has preach'd to you;
but when you were moving religious Arguments to her,
Conscience has flung them back upon you.
W. A. Ay, Sir, with such a Force as is not to be resisted.
R. C. Pray Will. let us know what pass'd between you
and your Wife, for I know something of it already.
W. A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a full Account of
it; I am too full to hold it, and yet have no Tongue to ex-
press ; but let her have said what she will, and tho' I can-
not give you an Account of it, this I can tell you of it, that
I resolve to amend and reform my Life.
R. C. But tell us some of it. How did you begin Will?
For this has been an extraordinary Case, that's certain.
She has preach'd a Sermon, indeed, if she has wrought
this upon you.
W. A. Why, I first told her the Nature of our Laws
about Marriage, and what the Reasons were, that Men
and Womenwereoblig'd to enter into such Compacts, as
it was neither in the Power of one or other to break; that
otherwise, Order and Justice could not be maintain'd,
and Men would run from their Wives, and abandon their
Children, mix confusedly with one another, and neither
Families be kept entire, or Inheritances be settled by legal
Descent.
R. C. You talk like a Civilian, Will; could you make
her understand what you meant by Inheritance and Fa-
milies? they know no such Thing among the Savages,but
marry any how, without regard to Relation, Consan-
guinity, or Family; Brother and Sister, nay, as I have
been told, even the Father and Daughter, and Son and
the Mother.
W. A. I believe, Sir, you are misinform'd, and my Wife
assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it; per-
haps, for any farther Relations they may not be so exact
as we are; but she tells me they never touch one another
in the near Relations you speak of.
R. C. Well, what did she say, to what you told her.
W. A. She said, she lik'd it very well, and it was much
better than in her Country.
R. C. But did you tell her what Marriage was?
W. A. Ay, ay, there began all our Dialogue. I ask'dher
if she would be marry'd to me our Way? She ask'd me
what Way that was? I told her Marriage was appointed
by God; and here we had a strange Talk together, indeed,
as ever Man and Wife had I believe.
N.B. This Dialogue between W. Atkins and his Wifey
as I took it down in Writing,jusl after he told it me>
was as follows.
Wife. Appointed by your God! Why have you a God
in your Country?
W. A. Yes, my Dear, God is in every Country.
Wife. No you God in my Country; my Country have
the great old Benamuckee God.
W. A. Child, I am very unfit to shew you who God is;
God is in Heaven, and made the Heaven and the Earth,
the Sea, and all that in them is.
Wife. No makee de Earth; no, you God makeall Earth,
no make my Country.*
*W. A. laugh'd a little at her Expression of God not
making her Country.
Wife. No Laugh, why Laugh me? This no Thing to
Laugh.*
*He wasjuslly reprov'd by his Wife, for she was more
serious than he atfirsl.
W. A. That's true indeed, I will not Laugh any more
my Dear.
Wife. Why you say, you God make all?
W. A. Yes, Child, our God made the whole World, and
you, and I, and all Things; for he is the only true God,
there is no God but him, he lives for ever in Heaven.
Wife. Why you no tell me long ago?
W. A. That's true indeed, but I have been a wicked
Wretch, andhave not onlyforgotten to acquaintthee with
any Thing before, but have lived without God in the
World my self.
Wife. What have you de great God in you Country,
you no kno' him? No say O to him? No do good Thing
for him? That no possible!
W. A. It is too true; tho' for all that, we live as if there
was no God in Heaven, or that he had no Power onEarth.
Wife. But why, God let you do so? Why he no makee
you good live.
W. A. It is all our own Fault.
Wife. But you say me, he is Great, much Great, have
much great Power; can makee kill, when he will; why he
no makee kill when you no serve him? No say O to him?
No be good Mans.
W. A. That is true; he might strike me Dead, and I
ought to expect it, for I have been a wicked Wretch, that
is true; but God is merciful, and does not deal with us as
we deserve.
Wife. But then, do not you tell God Tankee for that
too.
W. A. No, indeed, I have not thank'd God for his Mer-
cy, any more than I have fear'd God for his Power.
Wife. Than you God no God; me no think, believe, he
be such one, great much Power, Strong; no makee kill
you tho' you makee him much Angry.
W. A. What I Will my wicked Life hinder you from be-
lieving in God? what a dreadful Creature am I; and what
a sad Truth is it, that the horrid Lives of Christians hin-
ders the Conversion of Heathens?
Wife. How me tink you have great much God* up
there, and yet no do well, no do good Thing? can he tell?
Sure he no tell what you do.
* She points up to Heaven.
W. A. Yes, yes, he knows and sees all Things; he hears
us speak, sees what we do, knows what we think, tho' we
do not speak.
Wife. What! he no hear you swear, curse, speak the
great Damn.
W. A. Yes, yes, he hears it all.
Wife. Where be then the muchee great Power strong.
W. A. He is merciful, that's all we can say for it; and
this proves him to be the true God; he is God and not
Man; and therefore we are not consum'd.*
*Here Will. Atkins told us he was slruck with Horror,
to think how he could tell his Wife so clearly that God
sees, and hears, and knows the secret Thoughts of the
Heart, and all that we do; and yet that he had dar'd
to do all the vile Things he had done.
Wife. Merciful! what you call that?
W. A. He is our Father and Maker, and he pities and
spares us.
Wife. So then he never makee kill, never angry when
you do wicked; then he no good himself, or no great able.
W. A. Yes, yes, my Dear, he is infinitely good, and in-
finitely great, and able to punish too, and sometimes to
shew his Justice and Vengeance, he lets fly his Anger to
destroy Sinners, and make Examples; many are cut off in
their Sins.
Wife. But no make kill you yet, then he tell you may be
that he no make you kill, so you make de Bargain with
him, you do bad Thing, he no be angry at you, when he
be angry at other Mans.
W. A. No indeed, my Sins are all Presumptions upon
his Goodness; and he would be infinitely just if he de-
stroy'd me, as he has done other Men.
Wife. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead, what
you say to him for that, you no tell him Tankee for all that
too?
W. A. I am an unthankful, ungrateful Dog,that'strue.
Wife. Why? He no makee you much good better, you
say he makee you.
W. A. He made me as he made all the World; 'tis I
vol. in e
have deform'd my self, and abus'd his Goodness, and
made my self an abominable Wretch.
Wife. I wish you makee God know me, I no makee
him angry, I no do bad wicked Thing.
Here Will. Atkins said his Heart sunk within him, to
hear a poor untaught Creature desire to be taught to
know God, and he such a wicked Wretch, that he
could not say one Word to her about God, but what
the Reproach of his own Carriage would make mosl
irrational to her to believe; nay, that already she had
told him,that she could not believe in God, because he
that was so wicked was not deslroy'd.
W. A. My Dear, you mean, you wish I could teach you
to know God, not God to know you; for he knows you al-
ready, and every Thought in your Heart.
Wife. Why then he know what I say to you now? He
know me wish to know him; how shall me know who
makee me?
W. A. Poor Creature, he must teach thee, I cannot
teach thee; I'll pray to him to teach thee to know him,and
to forgive me that I am unworthy to teach thee.
'The poor Fellow was in such an Agony at her desiring
him to make her know God, and her wishing to know
him, that, he said, he fell down on his Knees before
her, and pray'd to God to enlighten her Mind with
the saving Knowledge of Jesus Chrisl, and to pardon
his Sins, and accept of his being the unworthy Inslru-
ment of inslrucling her in the Principles of Religion;
after which, he sat down by her again, and their Dia-
logue went on. N.B. This was the Time when we
saw him kneel down, and lift up his Hands.
Wife. What you put down the Knee for? What you
hold up the Hand for? What you say? Who you speak to?
What is all that?
W. A. My Dear, I bow my Knees in Token of my Sub-
mission to him that made me; I said O to him, as you call
it, and as you say, your old Men do to their Idol Bena-
mukee; that is, I pray'd to him.
Wife. What you say O to him for?
W. A. I pray'd to him to open your Eyes, and your
Understanding, that you may know him,andbe accepted
by him.
Wife. Can he do that too?
W. A. Yes, he can, he can do all Things.
Wife. But now he hear what you say?
W. A. Yes, he has bid us pray to him, and promis'd to
hear us.
Wife. Bid you pray? When he bid you? How he bid
you? What! you hear him speak?
W. A. No, we do not hear him speak, but he has re-
veal'd himself many Ways to us.
Here he was at a great Loss to make her understand,
that God has reveaf d himself to us by his Word, and
what his Word was: But at las! he told it her thus.
W. A. God has spoken to some good Men in former
Days, even from Heaven, by plain Words; and God has
inspir'd good Men by his Spirit; and they have written
all his Laws down in a Book.
Wife. Me no understand that, where is Book?
W. A. Alas, my poor Creature, I have not this Book;
but I hope I shall one Time or other get it for you, and
help you to read it.
Here he embraced her with great Affeftion; /»-
expressible Grief, that he had not a Bible.
Wife. But how you makee me know, that God teachee
them to write that Book?
W. A. By the same Rule that we know him to be God.
Wife. What Rule, what Way you know him?
W. A. Because he teaches and commands nothing but
what is good, righteous, and holy; and tends to make us
perfectly good, as well as perfectly happy; and because
he forbids and commands us to avoid all that is wicked,
that is evil in it self, or evil in its Consequences.
Wife. That me would understand, that me fain see; if
he teachee all good Thing, forbid all wicked Thing, he
reward all good Thing, punish all wicked Thing, he make
all Thing, he give all Thing, he hear me when I say O to
him, as you go do just now; he makee me good, if I wish
be good, he spare me, no makee kill me, when I no be
good; all this you say he do, yet he be great God; me take,
think, believe him be great God; me say O to him too
with you my Dear.
Here the poor Man could forbear no longer; but rais-
ing her up, made her kneel by him, and he pray'd to God
aloud to instruct her in the Knowledge of himself by his
Spirit, and that by some good Providence, if possible, she
might sometime or other come to have a Bible, that she
might read the Word of God, and be taught by it to know
him.
This was the Time that we saw him lift her up by the
Hand, and saw him kneel down by her, as above.
They had several other Discourses it seems after this,
too long to set down here; and particularly she made him
promise, that since he confest his own Life had been a
wicked abominable Course of Provocation against God,
that he would reform it, and not make God angry any
more, least he should make him dead, as she call'd it, and
then she should be left alone, and never be taught to know
this God better; and least he should be miserable, as he
had told her wicked Men should be after Death.
This was a strange Account, and very affecting to us
both, but particularly to the young Clergyman; he was
indeed wonderfully surpriz'd with it, but under the great-
est Affliction imaginable, that he could not talk to her,
that he could not speak English to make her understand
him; and as she spoke but very broken English, he could
not understand her; However he turn'd himself to me,
and told me, that he believed there must be more to do
with this Woman than to marry her: I did not understand
him at first, but at length he explain'd himself, (viz.) that
she ought to be Baptiz'd.
I agreed with him in that Part readily, and was for go-
ing about it presently: No, no, hold Sir, said he, tho' I
would have her be Baptiz'd by all Means, yet I must ob-
serve, that Will. Atkins, her Husband, has indeed brought
her in a wonderful Manner to be willing to embrace a re-
ligious Life, and has given her just Ideas of the Being of a
God, of his Power, Justice, Mercy; yet I desire to know
of him, if he has said any Thing to her of Jesus Christ, and
of the Salvation of Sinners, of the Nature of Faith in him,
and Redemption byhim, of the Holy Spirit, the Resurrec-
tion, the last Judgment, and a future State.
I call'd Will. Atkins again, and ask'd him; but the poor
Fellow fell immediately into Tears, and told us he had
said something to her of all those things, but that he was
himself so wicked a Creature, and his own Conscience so
reproach'd him with his horrid ungodly Life, that he
trembled at the Apprehensions, that her Knowledge of
him, should lessen the Attention she should give to those
Things, and make her rather contemn Religion than re-
ceive it: But he was assur'd, he said, that her Mind was so
dispos'd to receive due Impressions of all those Things,
that if I would but discourse with her, she would make it
appear to my Satisfaction, that my Labour would not be
lost upon her.
Accordingly I call'd her in, and placing my self as In-
terpreter between my religious Priest and the Woman, I
entreated him to begin with her; but sure such a Sermon
was never preach'd by a popish Priest in these latter Ages
of the World; and, as I told him, I thought he had all the
Zeal, all the Knowledge, all the Sincerity of a Christian,
without the Error of a Roman Catholick; and that I took
him to be such a Clergy-man, as the Roman Bishops were
before the Church of Rome assum'd spiritual Sovereignty
over the Consciences of Men.
In a Word, he brought the poor Woman to embrace
the Knowledge of Christ, and of Redemption by him, not
with Wonder and Astonishment only, as she did the first
Notions of a God, but with Joy and Faith, with an Affec-
tion and a surprizing Degree of Understanding, scarce
to be imagin'd, much less to be express'd; and at her own
Request she was Baptiz'd.
When he was preparing to Baptize her, I entreated
him that he would perform that Office with some Cau-
tion, that the Man might not perceive he was of the Ro-
man Church, if possible, because of other ill Consequen-
ces which might attend a Difference among us in that
very Religion, which wewere instructing the other in. He
told me, that as he had no consecrated Chapel, no proper
Things for the Office, I should see he would do it in a
Manner that I should not know by it, that he was a Ro-
man Catholickmy self, if I had not known it before: And
so he did; for saying only some Words over to himself in
Latin, which I could not understand, he pour'd a whole
Dish-ful of Water upon the Woman's Head, pronounc-
ing in French, very loud, MARY, which was the Name
her Husband desir d me to give her; for I was her Godfather,
I Baptize thee in the Name of the Father, and of the Son,
and of the Holy Ghost; so that none could know any
Thing by it, what Religion he was of: He gave the Bene-
diction afterwards in Latin; but either Will. Atkins did
not know but it was in French, or else did not take Notice
of it at that time.
As soon as this was over we married them; and after
the Marriage was over he turn'd himself to Will. Atkins,
and in a very affectionate Manner exhorted him, not only
to persevere in that good Disposition he was in, but to
support the Convictions that were upon him by a Resolu-
tion to reform his Life; told him it was in vain to say he
repented, if he did not forsake his Crimes: Represented
to him, how God had honoured him with being the In-
strument of bringing his Wife to the Knowledge of the
Christian Religion, and that he should be careful he did
not dishonour the Grace of God, and that if he did, he
would see the Heathen a better Christian than himself,
the Savage converted, and the Instrument cast away.
He said a great many good Things to them both, and
then recommending them in a few Words to God's Good-
ness, gavethem the Benediction again, I repeating every
Thing to them in English, and thus ended the Ceremony:
I think it was the most pleasant, agreeable Day to me
that ever I passed in my whole Life.
But my Clergy-man had not done yet; his Thoughts
hung continually upon the Conversion of the seven and
thirty Savages, and fain he would have stay'd upon the
Island to have undertaken it; but I convinc'd him, first,
that his Undertaking was impracticable in it self; and
secondly, that perhaps I would put it into a Way of being
done in his Absence to his Satisfaction; of which, by and
Having thus brought the Affair of the Island to a nar-
row Compass, I was preparing to go on board the Ship,
when the young Man who I had taken out of the fam-
ish'd Ship's Company, came to me, and told me, he un-
derstood I had a Clergyman with me, and that I had caused
the English Men to be married to the Savages, whom they
called Wives; that he had a Match too, which he desir'd
might be finish'd before I went, between two Christians,
which he hop'd would not be disagreeable to me.
I knew this must be the young Woman who was his
Mother's Servant, for there was no other Christian Wo-
man on the Island; so I began to persuade him not to do
any Thing of that Kind rashly, or because he found him-
self in this solitary Circumstance: I represented to him,
that he had some considerable Substance in the World,
and good Friends, as I understood by himself, and by his
Maid also; that the Maid was not only poor and a Ser-
vant, but was unequal to him, she being six or seven and
twenty Years old, and he not above seventeen or eigh-
teen; that he might very probably, with my Assistance,
make a remove from this Wilderness, and come into his
own Country again, and that then it would be a thousand
to one but he would repent his Choice; and the Dislike of
that Circumstance might be disadvantagious to both: I
was going to say more, but he interrupted me, smiling,
and told me, with a great deal of Modesty, that I mistook
in my Guesses, that he had nothing of that Kind in his
Thoughts, his present Circumstance being melancholly
and disconsolate enough; and he was very glad to hear
that I had Thoughts of putting them in a Way to see their
Country again, and nothing should have put him upon
staying there, but that the Voyage I was going was so ex-
ceeding long and hazardous, and would carry him quite
out of the Reach of all his Friends; that he had nothing to
desire of me, but that I would settle him in some little
Property in the Island where he was, give him a Servant
or two and some few Necessaries, and he would settle
himself here like a Planter, waiting the good Time, when
if ever I return'd to England, I would redeem him, and
hop'd I would not be unmindful of him when I came into
England; that he would give me some Letters to his
Friends in London, to let them know how good I had been
to him, and in what Part of the World, and what Circum-
stance I had left him in; that he promised me, that when-
ever I redeemed him, the Plantation, and all the Improve-
ments he had made upon it, let the Value be what it would,
should be wholly mine.
His Discourse was very prettily deliver'd, considering
his Youth, and was the more agreeable to me, because he
told me positively the Match was not for himself: I gave
him all possible Assurances, that if I liv'd to come safe to
England, I would deliver his Letters and do his Business
effectually, and that he might depend I would never for-
get the Circumstance I had left him in; but still I was im-
patient to know who was the Person to be married, upon
which he told me it was my Jack of all Trades, and his
Maid Susan.
I was most agreeably surpriz'd, when he nam'd the
Match, for indeed I thought it very suitable; the Charac-
terof that Man I have given already; and as for the Maid,
she was a very honest, modes!:, sober and religious young
Woman, had a very good Share of Sense, was agreeable
enough in her Person, spoke very handsomely and to the
Purpose, always with Decency and good Manners, and
not backward to speak when any Thing required it, or
impertinently forward to speak when it was not her Busi-
ness; very handy and housewifely in any Thing that was
before her; an excellent Manager, and fit indeed to have
been Governess to the whole Island; she knew very well
how to behave to all kind of Folks she had about her, and
to better, if she had found any there.
The Match being proposed in this Manner, we mar-
ried them the same Day, and as I was Father at the Altar,
as I may say, and gave her away, so I gave her a Portion;
for I appointed her and her Husband a handsome large
Space of Ground for their Plantation; and indeed this
Match and the Proposal the young Gentleman made to
give him a small Property in the Island, put me upon par-
celling it out amongst them, that they might not quarrel
afterwards about their Situation.
This sharing out the Land to them, I left to Will. At-
kins, who indeed was now grown a most sober, grave,
managing Fellow, perfectly reform'd, exceeding Pious
and Religious, and as far as I may be allow'd to speak posi-
tively in such a Case, I verily believe, was a true sincere
Penitent.
He divided Things so justly, and so much to every
one's Satisfaction, that they only desired one general
Writing under my Hand for the whole, which I caused
to be drawn up and sign'd and seal'd to them, setting out
the Bounds and Situation of every Man's Plantation, and
testifying that I gave them thereby severally a Right to
the whole Possession and Inheritance of the respective
Plantations or Farms, with their Improvements to them
and their Heirs, reserving all the rest of the Island as my
own Property, and a certain Rent for every particular
Plantation after eleven Years, if I, or any one from me, or
in my Name came to demand it, producing an attested
Copy of the same Writing.
As to the Government and Laws among them, I told
them I was not capable of giving them better Rules, than
they were able to give themselves, only made them pro-
mise me to live in Love and good Neighbourhood with
one another; and so I prepared to leave them.
One Thing I must not omit, and this is, that being now
settled in a Kind of Common-Wealth among themselves,
and having much Business in Hand, it was but odd to
have seven and thirty Indians live in a Nook of the Island
independent, and indeed un-employ'd; for excepting the
providing themselves Food, which they had Difficulty
enough in too, sometimes, they had no manner of Busi-
ness or Property to manage: I propos'd therefore to the
Governour Spaniard, that he should go to them with Fri-
day's Father, and propose to them to remove, and either
plant for themselves, or take them into their several Fa-
milies as Servants to be maintain'd for their Labour, but
without being absolute Slaves, for I would not admit
them to make them Slaves by Force by any Means, be-
cause they had their Liberty given them by Capitulation,
and as it were Articles of Surrender, which they ought
not to break.
They most willingly embrac'd the Proposal, and came
all very chearfully along with him; so we allotted them
Land, and Plantations, which three or four accepted of,
but all the rest chose to be employ'd as Servants in the
several Families we had settled; and thus my Colony was
in a Manner settled, as follows: The Spaniards possess'd
my original Habitation, which was the Capital City, and
extended their Plantations all along the Side of the Brook,
which made the Creek that I have so often describ'd, as
far as my Bower; and as they increas'd their Culture, it
went always Eastward; the English liv'd in the North-
East Part, where W. Atkins, and his Comrades began,
and came on Southward, and South-West, towards the
back Part of the Spaniards, and every Plantation had a
great Addition of Land to take in, if they found Occasion,
so that they need not jostle one another for want of Room.
All the East End of the Island was left uninhabited,
that if any of the Savages should come on Shore there,
only for their usual customary Barbarities, they might
come and go, if they disturb'd no Body, no Body would
disturb them; and no doubt but they were often ashore,
and went away again; for I never heard that the Planters
were ever attack'd or disturb'd any more.
It now came into my Thoughts, that I had hinted to
my Friend the Clergy-man, that the Work of Converting
the Savages, might perhaps be set on Foot in his Absence,
to his Satisfaction; and I told him, that now I thought it
was put in a fair Way; for the Savages being thus divided
among the Christians, if they would but everyone of them
do their Part with those which came under their Hands,
I hop'd it might have a very good Effect.
He agreed presently in that, if, said he, they will do
their Part; but how, says he, shall we obtain that of them?
I told him, we would call them together, and leave it in
Charge with them, or go to them one by one, which he
thought best, so we divided it; he to speak to the Spani-
ards, who were all Papists, and I to the English, who were
allProtestants; and we recommended it earnestly to them,
and made them promise, that they never would make any
Distinction of Papist or Protestant, in their exhorting the
Savages to turn Christians; but teach them the general
Knowledge of the true God, and of their Saviour Jesus
Christ; and they likewise promis'd us, that they would
never have any Differences or Disputes one with another
about Religion.
When I came to W. Atkins's House, I may call it so, for
such a House, or such a Piece of Basket-Work, I believe,
was not standing in the World again; I say, when I came
there, I found the young Woman I have mention'd above,
and W. Atkins's Wife, were become Intimates; and this
prudent religious young Woman, had perfected the
Work Will. Atkins had begun; and tho' it was not
above four Days after what I have related, yet the new
baptiz'd Savage Woman was made such a Christian, as I
have seldom heard of any like her in all my Observation,
or Conversation, in the World.
It came next into my Mind in the Morning before I
went to them, that amongst all the needful Things I had
to leave with them, I had not left them a Bible, in which, I
shew'd my self less considering for them, than my good
Friend the Widow was for me, when she sent me the Car-
go of an hundred Pounds from Lisbon, where she pack'd
up 3 Bibles, and a Prayer-book: However, the good Wo-
man'sCharity had a greater Extent than ever she imagin 'd;
for they were reserv'd for the Comfort and Instruction of
those, that made much better Use of them than I had
done.
I took one of the Bibles in my Pocket, and when I came
to Will. Atkins's Tent or House, and found the young
Woman, and Atkins's baptiz'd Wife, had been discours-
ing of Religion together; for W. Atkins, told it me, with a
great deal of Joy: I ask'd if they were together now, and he
said, yes; so I went into the House, and he with me, and
we found them together very earnest in Discourse; O Sir,
says Will. Atkins, when God has Sinners to reconcile to
himself, and Aliens to bring Home, he never wants a
Messenger; my Wife has got a new Instructor; I knew I
was unworthy, as I was uncapable of that Work; that
young Woman has been sent hither from Heaven; she is
enough to convert a whole Island of Savages; the young
Woman blush'd, and rose up to go away, but I desir'd her
to sit still; I told her, she had a good Work upon her
Hands, and I hop'd God would bless her in it.
We talk'd a little, and I did not perceive they had any
Book among them, tho' I did not ask; but I put my
Hand in my Pocket, and pull'd out my Bible; here, says I,
to Atkins, I have brought you an Assistant that perhaps
you had not before; the Man was so confounded, that he
was not able to speak for some Time; but recovering him-
self, he takes it with both his Hands, and turning to his
Wife, here, my Dear, says he; did not I tell you, our God,
tho' he lives above, could hear what we said? Here's the
Book I pray'd for, when you and I kneel'd down under
the Bush; now God has heard us, and sent it; when he had
said so, the Man fell into such Transports of a passionate
Joy, that between the Joy of having it, and giving God
Thanks for it, the Tears run down his Face like a Child
that was crying.
The Woman was surprised, and was like to have run
into a Mistake, that none of us were aware of; for she
firmly believ'd God had sent the Book upon her Hus-
band's Petition; It is true, that providentially it was so,
and might be taken so in aconsequent Sense; but I believe
it would have been no difficult Matter at that Time, to
have persuaded the poor Woman to have believ'd, that
an express Messenger came from Heaven, on purpose to
bring that individual Book; but it was too serious a Mat-
ter, to suffer any Delusion to take Place; so I turn'd to the
young Woman and told her we did not desire to impose
upon the new Convert, in her first, and more ignorant
understanding of Things; and begg'd her to explain to
her, that God may be very properly said to answer our
Petitions, when in the Course of his Providence, such
Things are in a particular Manner brought to pass, as we
petition'd for; but we do not expect Returns from Hea-
ven, in a miraculous and particular Manner, and that it is
our Mercy, that it is not so.
This the young Woman did afterwards effectually; so
that there was, I assure you, no Priest-craft used here; and
I should have thought it one of the most unjustifiable
Frauds in the World, to have had it so; but the Surprise
of Joy upon Will. Atkins, is really not to be expressed; and
there we may be sure, there was no Delusion: Sure, no
Man was ever more thankful in the World for any Thing
of its Kind, than he was for this Bible; nor I believe, never
any Man was glad of a Bible from a better Principle; and
tho' he had been a most profligate Creature, desperate,
headstrong, outragious, furious, and wicked to a great
Degree; yet this Man is a standing Rule to us all, for the
well instructing Children, (viz.) that Parents should
never give over to teach and instruct, or ever despair of
the Success of their Endeavours, let the Children be ever
so obstinate, refractory, or to Appearance, insensible of
Instruction; for if ever God in his Providence, touches the
Consciences of such, the Force of their Education re-
turns upon them, and the early Instruction of Parents
is not lost; tho' it may have been many Years laid asleep;
but some Time or other, they may find the Benefit
of it.
Thus it was with this poor Man; however ignorant he
was, or divested of Religion and Christian Knowledge:
He found he had some to do with now, more ignorant
than himself; and that the least Part of the Instruction of
his good Father that could now come to his Mind, was of
Use to him.
Among the reft it occurr'd to him, he said, how his
Father us'd to insist much upon the inexpressible Value
of the Bible; the Privilege and Blessing of it to Nations,
Families, and Persons; but he never entertain'd the least
Notion of the Worth of it, till now; when being to talk to
Heathens, Savages, and Barbarians, he wanted the Help
of the written Oracle for his Assistance.
The young Woman was very glad of it also for the pre-
sent Occasion, tho' she had one, and so had the Youth on
board our Ship among their Goods, which were not yet
brought on Shore; and now having said so many Things
of this young Woman, I cannot omit telling one Story
more of her, and my self, which has something in it very
informing and remarkable.
I have related, to what Extremity the poor young Wo-
man was reduced; how her Mistress was starv'd to Death,
and did die on board that unhappy Ship we met at Sea;
and how the whole Ship's Company being reduc'd to the
last Extremity; the Gentlewoman, and her Son, and this
Maid, were first hardly used as to Provisions, and at last
totally neglected and starved; that is to say, brought to
the last Extremity of Hunger.
One Day being discoursing with her upon the Ex-
tremities they sufFer'd, I ask'd her if she could describe
by what she had felt, what it was to starve, and how it ap-
pear'd; she told me, she believ'd she could; and she told
her Tale very distinctly thus.
"First, Sir, said she, we had for some Days far'd ex-
ceeding hard, and suffer'd very great Hunger; but now
at last, we were wholly without Food of any Kind, except
Sugar, and a little Wine, and a little Water. The first Day
after I had receiv'd no Food at all, I found my self towards
Evening, first empty and sickish at my Stomach, and
nearer Night mightily enclin'd to yawning and sleepy; I
laid down on a Couch in the great Cabin to sleep, and
slept about three Hours, and awak'd a little refresh'd;
having taken a Glass of Wine when I lay down; after be-
ing about three Hours awake, it being about five a-Clock
in the Morning, I found my self empty, and my Stomach
sickish, and lay'ddown again, but could notsleep atall, be-
ing very faint, and ill; and thus I continu'd all the second
Day, with a strange Variety, first Hungry, then sick again,
with Teachings to vomit; the second Night being oblig'd
to go to Bedagain,withoutanyFood, morethanaDraught
of fair Water; and being asleep, I dream'd I was at Bar-
badoes, and that the Market was mightily stock'd with
Provisions; that I bought some for my Mistress, and went
and din'd very heartily.
"I thought my Stomach was as full after this as any
would have been after, or at a good Dinner; but when I
wak'd, I was exceedingly sunk in my Spirits, to find my
self in the extremity of Famine: The last Glass of Wine
we had, I drank, and put Sugar in it, because, of its having
some Spirit to supply Nourishment; but there being no
Substance in the Stomach for the digesting Office to work
upon, I found the only Effect of the Wine was, to raise
disagreeable Fumes from the Stomach, into the Head;
VOL. Ill f
and I lay, as they told me, stupid, and senseless, as one
drunk for some Time.
ffo' 'The third Day in the Morn ing, after a Night of strange
and confus'd inconsistent Dreams; and rather dozing
than sleeping, I wak'd, ravenous and furious, with Hun-
ger ; and I question, had not my Understanding return'd
and conquer'd it? I say, I question whether if I had been
a Mother, and had had a little Child with me, its Life
would have been safe or not?
"This lasted about three Hours; during which Time
I was twice raging mad as any Creature in Bedlam, as my
young Master told me, and as he can now inform you.
"In one of these Fits of Lunacy or Distraction, whe-
ther by the Motion of the Ship, or some Slip of my Foot,
I know not; I fell down, and struck my Face against the
Corner of a Palat Bed in which my Mistress lay; and
with the Blow the Blood gush'd out of my Nose; and the
Cabin Boy bringing me a little Bason, I sat down and bled
into it a great deal; and as the Blood run from me, I came
to my self; and the Violence of the Flame or the Fever, I
was in, abated, and so did the ravenous Part of the Hun-
ger.
"Then I grew sick, and reach'd to Vomit, but could
not; for I had nothing in my Stomach to bring up: After
I had bled some Time, I swoon'd, and they all believ'd I
was dead; but I came to my self soon after, and then had a
most dreadful Pain in my Stomach, not to be described;
not like the Cholick, but a gnawing eager Pain for Food;
and towards Night it went off with akind of earnest Wish-
ing or Longing for Food; something like, as I suppose,
the Longing of a Woman with Child. I took another
Draught of Water with Sugar in it, but my Stomach
loathed the Sugar, and brought it all up again; then I
took a Draught of Water without Sugar, and that stay'd
with me; and I laid me down upon the Bed, praying moft
heartily, that it would please God to take me away; and
composing my Mind in Hopes of it, I slumber'd a while,
and then waking, thought my self dying, being light
with Vapours from an empty Stomach, I recommended
my Soul then to God, and earnestly wish'd that some
Body would throw me into the Sea.
"All this while my Mispress lay by me just as I thought
expiring, but bore it with much more Patience than I, and
gave the last bit of Bread she had left to her Child, my
young Master, who would not have taken it, but she ob-
lig'd him to eat it; and I believe it sav'd his Life.
"Towards the Morning I slept again, and first when I
awak'd, I fell into a violent Passion of Crying, and after
that had a second Fit of violent Hunger; I got up raven-
ous, and in a most dreadful Condition; had my Mistress
been dead, as much as I lov'd her, I am certain, I should
have eaten a Piece of her Flesh, with as much Relish, and
as unconcern'd, as ever I did the Flesh of any Creature
appointed for Food; and once or twice I was going to bite
my own Arm: At last, I saw the Bason in which was the
Blood I had bled at my Nose the Day before; I ran to it,
and swallow'd it with such Haste, and such a greedy Ap-
petite, as if I had wonder'd no Body had taken it before,
and afraid it should be taken from me now.
"Tho' after it was down, the Thoughts of it fill'd me
with Horror, yet it check'd the Fit of Hunger,and I drank
a Draught of fair Water, and was compos'd and refresh'd
for some Hours after it: This was the 4th Day, and thus I
held it, 'till towards Night, when within the Compass of
three Hours, I had all these several Circumstances over
again, one after another, (viz.) sick, sleepy, eagerly hun-
gry, Pain in the Stomach, then ravenous again, then sick
again, then lunatick, then crying, then ravenous again;
and so every quarter of an Hour, and my Strength wash-
ed exceedingly: At Night I laid me down, having no
Comfort, but in the Hope that I should die before
Morning.
"All this Night I had no Sleep; but the Hunger was
now turn'd into a Disease; and I had a terrible Cholick
and Griping, by Wind instead of Food, having found its
Way into the Bowels; and in this Condition I lay 'till
Morning, when I was surpriz'd a little with the Cries and
Lamentations of my young Master, who call'd out to me
that his Mother was dead: I lifted my self up a little; for I
had not Strength to rise, but found she was not dead,
tho' she was able to give very little Signs of Life.
"I had then such Convulsions in my Stomach, for want
of some sustenance, that I cannot describe; with such fre-
quent Throws and Pangs of Appetite, that nothing but
the Tortures of Death can imitate; an d in this Condition I
was when I heard the Seamen above cry out, A Sail, a
Sail, and hallowand jumpabout, as if they were distracted.
"I was not able to get off from the Bed, and my Mistress
much less; and my young Master was so sick, that I
thought he had been expiring; so we could not open the
Cabin Door, or get any Account what it was that occa-
sion'd such a Combustion, nor had we had any Conversa-
tion with the Ship's Company for two Days; they having
told us, that they had not a Mouthful of any Thing to eat
in the Ship; and they told us afterwards, they thought we
had been dead.
"It was this dreadful Condition we were in when you
were sent to save our Lives; and how you found us, Sir,
you know as well as I, and better too."
This was her own Relation, and is such a distinct Ac-
count of starving to Death, as I confess, I never met with,
and was exceeding entertaining to me; I am the rather
apt to believe it to be a true Account, because the Youth
gave me an Account of a good Part of it; tho' I must own,
not so distinct and so feelingly as his Maid; and the ra-
ther, because it seems his Mother fed him at the Price of
her own Life: But the poor Maid, tho' her Constitution
being stronger than that of her Mistress, who was in
Years, and a weakly Woman too, she might struggle har-
der with it; I say, the poor Maid might be supposed to
feel the Extremity something sooner than her Mistress,
who mightbeallowedto keep the last Bit somethinglonger
thansheparted with any torelievetheMaid. No Question,
as the Case is here related, if our Ship, or some other, had
not so providentially met them, a few Days more would
have ended all their Lives, unless they had prevented it
by eating one another; and even, that as their Case stood,
would have served them but alittle while, they being 500
Leagues fromany Land, or any Possibility of Relief,other
than in the miraculous Manner it happen'd: But this is
by the Way; I return to my Disposition of Things among
the People.
And, Firsl, It is to be observ'd here, Thatformany Rea-
sons I did not think fit to let them know any Thing of the
Sloop I had fram'd, and which I thought of setting up
among them; for I found, at leas! at my firsl comings such
Seeds of Divisions among them, that I saw it plainly had
I set up the Sloop, and left it among them, they would up-
on every light Disgust have separated, and gone away
from one another, or perhaps have turned Pirates, and so
made the Island a Den of Thieves, instead of a Plantation
of sober and religious People, so as I intended it; nor did
I leave the two Pieces of Brass Cannon that I had on
Board, or the two Quarter-Deck Guns, that my Nephew
took extraordinarily for the same Reason: I thought it
was enough to qualify them for a defensive War against
any that should invade them; but not to set them up for
an offensive War, or to encourage them to go Abroad to
attack others, which in the End would only bring Ruin
and Destruction upon themselves andalltheir Undertak-
ing: I reserv'd the Sloop therefore, and the Guns, for their
Service another Way, as I shall observe in its Place.
I have now done with the Island :I left them all in good
Circumstances, and in a flourishing Condition, and went
on board my Ship again the [fifth] day of [May,'] having
been five and twenty Days among them; and as they were
all resolv'd to stay upon the Island 'till I came to remove
them, I promis'd to send some further Relief from the
Brasils, if I could possibly find an Opportunity; and par-
ticularly I promis'd to send them some Cattel, such as
Sheep, Hogs, and Cows: For as to the two Cows and
Calves which I brought from England, we had been
oblig'd by the Length of our Voyage to kill them at Sea,
for want of Hay to feed them.
The next Day, giving them a Salute of five Guns at
Parting, we set sail, and arriv'd at the Bay of All-Saints in
the Brasils in about 22 Days; meeting nothing remark-
able in our Passage, but this, That about three Days after
we sail'd, being becalm'd, and the Current setting strong
to the E.N.E. running, as it were, into a Bay or Gulph on
the Land Side, we were driven something out of our
Course, and once or twice our Men cry'd Land to the
Eastward; but whether it was the Continent or Islands,
we could not tell by any Means.
But the third Day towards Evening, the Sea smooth,
and the Weather calm, we saw the Sea, as it were, cover'd
towards the Land with something very black, not being
able to discover what it was, 'till after some Time, our
chief Mate going up the main Shrowds a little Way, and
looking at them with a Perspective, cry'd out it was an
Army. I could not imagine what he meant by an Army,
and spoke a little hastily, calling the Fellow a Fool, or
some such Word: Nay, Sir, says he, don't be angry, for
'tis an Army and a Fleet too; for I believe there are a
thousand Canoes, and you may see them paddle along,
and they are coming towards us too, apace.
I was a little surpriz'd then indeed, and so was my Ne-
phew, the Captain; for he had heard such terrible Stories
of them in the Island, and having never been in those
Seas before, that he could not tell what to think of it, but
said two or three Times, we should all be devour'd. I must
confess, considering we were becalm'd, and the Current
set strong towards the Shore, I lik'd it the worse: How-
ever, I bad him not be afraid, but bring the Ship to an An-
chor, as soon as we came so near to know that we must en-
gage them.
The Weather continu'd calm, and they came on apace
towards us;so I gave Order to come to an Anchor, and
furle all our Sails: As for the Savages, I told them they had
nothing to fear but Fire; and therefore they should get
their Boats out, and fasten them, one close by the Head,
and the other by the Stern, and man them both well, and
wait the Issue in that Posture: This I did, that the Men in
the Boats might be ready with Skeets and Buckets to put
out any Fire these Savages might endeavour to fix to the
Out-side of the Ship.
In this Posture we lay by for them, and in a little while
they came up with us; but never was such a horrid Sight
seen by Christians: My Mate was much mistaken in his
Calculation of their Number, I mean of a thousand Ca-
noes; the most we could make of them when they came
up, being about a hundred and six and twenty; and a
great many of them too; for some of them had sixteen or
seventeen Men in them, and some more; and the least
six or seven.
When they came nearer to us, they seem'd to be struck
with Wonder and Astonishment, as at a Sight which they
had doubtless never seen before; nor could they at first,
as we afterwards understood, know what to make of us:
They came boldly up however very near to us, and
seem'd to go about to row round us; but we call'd to our
Men in the Boats, not to let them come too near them.
This very Order brought us to an Engagement with
them, without our designing it; for five or six of their
large Canoes came so near our Long-Boat, that our Men
beckon'd with their Hands to them to keep back, which
they understood very well, and went back; but at their
Retreat, about 50 Arrows came on board us from those
Boats; and one of our Men in the Long-Boat was very
much wounded.
However, I call'd to them not to fire by any Means;
but we handed down some Deal-Boards into the Boat,
and the Carpenter presently setup a kind of a Fence, like
waste Boards, to cover them from the Arrows of the Sa-
vages, if they should shoot again.
About half an Hour afterwards they came all up in a
Body a-stern of us, and pretty near us, so near that we
could easily discern what they were, tho' we could not
tell their Design: And I easily found they were some of
my old Friends, the same Sort of Savages that I had been
used to engage with; and in a little Time more they row'd
a little farther out to Sea, 'till they came directly Broad-
side with us, and then row'd down strait upon us,'till they
came so near, that they could hear us speak: Upon this I
order'd all my Men to keep close, least they should shoot
any more Arrows, and made all our Guns ready; but be-
ing so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out
upon the Deck, and call out aloud to them in his Lan-
guage to know what they meant, which accordingly he
did; whether they understood him or not, that I knew
not: But as soon as he had call'd to them, six of them, who
were in the foremost or nighest Boat to us, turns their
Canoes from us; and stooping down, shew'd us theirna-
ked Backsides, just as if in English, saving your Presence,
they had bid us kiss ;whether this was a Defiance or
Challenge, we know not; or whether it was done in meer
Contempt, or as a Signal to the rest; but immediately Fri-
day cry'd out they were going to shoot, and unhappily
for him poor Fellow; they let fly about 300 of their Ar-
rows, and, to my inexpressible Grief, kill'd poor Friday,
no other Man being in their Sight.
The poor Fellow was shot with no less than three Ar-
rows, and about three more fell very near him; such un-
lucky Marksmen they were.
I was so enrag'd with the Loss of my old Servant, the
Companion of all my Sorrows and Solitudes, that I im-
mediately order'd five Guns to be loaded with small Shot,
and four with great, and gave them such a Broad-side, as
they had never heard in their Lives before, to be sure.
They were not above half a Cable Length off when we
fir'd; and our Gunners took their Aim so well, that three
or four of their Canoes were overset, as we had reason to
believe, by one Shot only.
The ill Manners of turning up their bare Backsides to
us, gave us no great Offence; neither did I know for cer-
tain, whether that which would pass for the greatest Con-
tempt among us, might be understood so by them, or not;
therefore in Return, I had only resolv'd to have fir'd four
or five Guns at them with Powder only, which I knew
would fright them sufficiently: But when they shot at us
directly with all the Fury they were capable of, and espe-
cially as they had kill'd my poor Friday, who I so entirely
lov'd and valu'd, andwhoindeed so well deserv'd it; I not
only had been justify'd before God and Man, but would
have been very glad, if I could, to have overset every Ca-
noe there, and drown'd every one of them.
I can neither tell, how many we kill'd, or how many we
wounded at this Broad-side; but sure such a Fright and
Hurry never was seen among such a Multitude; there
were 13 or 14 of their Canoes split and overset in all, and
the Men all set a swimming; the rest frighted out of their
Wits, scour'd away as fast as they could, taking but little
Care to save those whose Boats were split or spoil'd with
our Shot: So I suppose, that they were many of them lost:
And our Men took one poor Fellow swimming for his
Life, above an Hour after they were all gone.
Our small Shot from our Cannon must needs kill and
wound a great many; but, in short, we never knew any
Thing how it went with them; for they fled so fast, that in
three Hours or thereabouts, we could not see above three
or four straggling Canoes; nor did we ever see the rest
any more; for a Breeze of Wind springing up the same
Evening, we weighed and set Sail for the Brasils.
We had a Prisoner indeed; but the Creature was so
sullen, that he would neither eat or speak; and we all fan-
cy'd he would starve himself to Death: But I took a way
to cure him; for I made them take him and turn him into
the Longboat, and make him believe they would toss him
into the Sea again, and so leave him where they found him,
if he would not speak: Nor would that do; but they really
did throw him into the Sea, and came away from him;
and then he follow'd them; for he swam like a Cork, and
call'd to them in his Tongue, tho' they knew not one
Word of what he said: However, at last they took him in
again, and then he began to be more tractable; nor did I
ever design they should drown him.
We were now under Sail again; but I was the most dis-
consolate Creature alive, for want of my Man Friday, and
would have been very glad to have gone back to the Is-
land, to have taken one of the rest from thence for my Oc-
casion, but it could not be; so we went on. We had one
Prisoner, as I have said; and 'twas a long while before we
could make him understand any thing: But, in time, our
Men taught him some English, and he began to be a little
tractable; afterwards we enquir'd what Country he came
from, but could make nothing of what he said; for his
Speech was so odd, all Gutterals, and spoke in the Throat
in such an hollow odd Manner, that we could never form
a Word from him; and we were all of Opinion, that they
might speak that Language as well, if they were gagg'd,
as otherwise: Nor could we perceive that they had any
Occasion, either for Teeth, Tongue, Lips, or Palat; but
form'd their Words, just asa hunting Horn forms a Tune
with an open Throat; he told us however, some time after,
when we had taught him to speak a little English, that they
were going with their Kings to fight a great Battle. When
he said Kings, we ask'd him how many Kings? He said,
they were FIVE NATION, we could not make him
understand the Plural S. and that they all join'd to go

against Two Nation. Weask'dhim, what made them come
up to us? He said, to makee tegreat Wonder look: Where it
is to be observ'd, That all those Natives, as also those of
Africa, when they learn English, they always add two E's
at the End of the Words where we use one, and make the
Accent upon them, as makee takee, and the like; and we
could not break them of it; nay, I could hardly make Fri-
day leave it off, tho' at last he did.
And now I name the poor Fellow once more, I must
take my last Leave of him; poor honest Friday! We buried
him with all the Decency and Solemnity possible, by put-
ting him into a Coffin, and throwing him into the Sea:
And I caus'd 'em to fire eleven Guns for him; and so end-
ed the Life of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most
affectionate Servant that ever Man had.
We went now away with a fair Wind for Brasil, and in
about twelve Days Time we made Land in the Latitude
of five Degrees South of the Line, beingthe North Easter-
most Land of all that Part of America. We kept on S. by E.
in Sight of the Shore four Days, when we made Cape St.
Augusline, and in three Days came to an Anchor off of the
Bay of All Saints, the old Place of my Deliverance, from
whence came both my good and evil Fate.
Never Ship came to this Part that had less Business
than I had; and yet it was with great Difficulty that we
were admitted to hold theleast Correspondence on Shore,
not my Partner himself, who was alive, and made a great
Figure among them; not my two Merchants Trustees,
not the Fame of my wonderful Preservation in that Is-
land, could obtain me that Favour: But my Partner re-
membring, that I had given 500 Moidores to the Prior
of the Monastery of the Auguslines, and 272 to the Poor,
went to the Monastery, and oblig'd the Prior that then
was, to go to the Governor, and get Leave for me person-
ally, with the Captain and one more besides Eight Sea-
men, to come on Shore, and no more; and this upon Con-
dition absolutely capitulated for, that we should not offer
to land any Goods out of the Ship, or to carry any Person
away without Licence.
They were so strict with us, as to landing any Goods,
that it was with extream Difficulty that I got on Shore
three Bales of English Goods, such as fine Broad Cloaths,
Stuffs, and some Linnen, which I had brought for a Pre-
sent to my Partner.
He was a very generous broad hearted Man, tho' like
me, he came from little at first; and tho' he knew not that
I had the least Design of giving him any Thing, he sent
me on Board a Present of fresh Provisions, Wine, and
Sweet-meats, worth above 30 Moidores, including some
Tobacco, and three or four fine Medals in Gold: But I
was even with him in my Present, which, as I have said,
consisted of fine broad Cloath, English Stuffs, Lace, and
fine Hollands: Also I deliver'd him about the Value of
100 lib. Sterl. in the same Goods for other Uses; and I
oblig'd him to set up the Sloop which I had brought with
me from England, as I havesaid,fortheUseof myColony,
in order to send the Refreshments I intended to my Plan-
tation.
Accordingly, he got Hands, and finish'd the Sloop in
a very few Days, for she was already fram'd, and I gavethe
Master of her such Instructions, as he could not miss the
Place, nor did he miss them, as I had an Account from my
Partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded with the small
Cargo I sent them; and one of our Seamen that had been
on Shore with me there, offer'd to go with the Sloop, and
settle there upon my Letter to the Governor Spaniard, to
allot him a sufficient Quantity of Land for a Plantation;
and giving him some Cloaths, and Tools for his Planting-
Work, which he said he understood, having been an old
Planter at Maryland, and a Buckaneer into the Bargain.
I encouraged the Fellow, by granting all he desired;
and as an Addition, I gave him the Savage, which we had
taken Prisoner of War, to be his Slave, and order'd the
Governour Spaniard to give him his Share of every thing
he wanted, with the rest.
When we came to fit this Man out, my old Partner told
me, there was a certain very honest Fellow, a BrasilPlan-
ter of his Acquaintance, who had fallen into the Displea-
sure of the Church; I know not what the Matter is with
him, says he; but on my Conscience, I think he is a Here-
tick in his Heart, and he has been obliged to conceal him-
self for fear of the Inquisition; that he would be very glad
of such an Opportunity to make his Escape with his Wife
and two Daughters; and if I would let them go to my Is-
land, and allot them a Plantation, he would give them a
small Stock to begin with; for the Officers of the Inquisi-
tion had seiz'd all his Effects and Estate, and he had no-
thing left but a little Houshold-Stuff and two Slaves.
And, adds he, Tho' I hate his Principles, yet I would not
have him fall into their Hands; for he would assuredly be
burnt alive, if he does.
I granted this presently, and join'd my English Man
with them, and we conceal'd the Man, and his Wife and
Daughters on Board our Ship, till the Sloop put out to go
to Sea; and then (having put all their Goods on board the
Sloop, some time before) we put them on board the Sloop,
after he was got out of the Bay.
Our Seaman was mightily pleas'd with this new Part-
ner ; and their Stock indeed was much alike rich in Tools,
in Preparations, and a Farm, but nothing to begin with,
but as above: However, they carried over with them,
which was worth all the rest, some Materials for planting
Sugar Canes, with some Plants of Canes; which he, I
mean, the Portugal Man, understood very well.
Among the rest of the Supplies sent my Tenants in the
Island, I sent them by their Sloop, three Milch Cows, and
five Calves, about 22 Hogs among 'em, three Sows big
with Pig, two Mares, and a Stone-Horse.
For my Spaniards, according to my Promise, I engag'd
three Portugal Women to go, and recommended it to
them to marry them, and use them kindly. I could have
procured more Women, but I remember'd, that the poor
persecuted Man had two Daughters, and there was but
five of the Spaniards that wanted; the rest had Wives of
their own, tho' in another Country.
All this Cargo arriv'd safe, and as you may easily sup-
pose,very welcome to my old Inhabitants, who were now
with this Addition between sixty and seventy People, be-
sides little Children; of which, there was a great many: I
found Letters at London from them all by the Way of Lis-
bon, when I came back to England; of which I shall also
take some Notice immediately.
I have now done with my Island, and all Manner of
Discourse about it; and whoever reads the rest of my
Memorandums, would do well to turn his Thoughts en-
tirely from it, and expecl: to read of the Follies of an old
Man, not warn'd by his own Harms, much less by those
of other Men, to beware of the like; not cool'd by almost
forty Years Misery and Disappointments, not satisfy'd
with Prosperity beyond Expectation, not made cautious
by Affliction and Distress beyond Imitation.
I had no more Business to go to the Easl Indies, than a
Man at full Liberty, and having committed no Crime,
has to go to the Turn-key at Newgate, and desire him to
lock him up among the Prisoners there, and starve him.
Had I taken a small Vessel from England, and went dire ct-
ly to the Island; had I loaded her, as I did the other Ves-
sel, with all the Necessaries for the Plantation, and for my
People, took a Patent from the Government here, to have
secur'd my Property, in Subjection only to that of Eng-
landr; had I carried over Cannon and Ammunition, Ser-
vants and People, to plant, and taking Possession of the
Place, fortified and strengthen'd it in the Name of Eng-
land, and increas'd it with People, as I might easily have
done; had I then settl'd my self there, and sent the Ship
back, loaden with good Rice, as I might also have done in
six Months time, and order'd my Friends to have fitted
her out again for our Supply; had I done this, and staid
there my self, I had, at least, acted like a Man of common
sense; but I was possest with a wandring Spirit, scorn'd
all Advantages, I pleased my self with being the Patron
of those People I placed there, and doing for them in a
kind of haughty majestick Way, like an old Patriarchal
Monarch; providing for them, as if I had been Father of
the whole Family, as well as of the Plantation: But I never
so much as pretended to plant in the Name of any Go-
vernment or Nation, or to acknowledge any Prince, or to
call my People Subjects to any one Nation more than an-
other ; nay, I never so much as gave the Place a Name; but
left it as I found it, belonging to no Man; and the People
under no Discipline or Government but my own; who,
tho' I had Influence over them as Father and Benefac-
tor, had no Authority or Power, to Act or Command one
way or other, farther than voluntary Consent mov'd them
to comply. Yet even this, had I stay'd there, would have
done well enough; but as I rambl'd from them, and came
there no more, the last Letters I had from any of them,
was by my Partners means; who afterwards sent another
Sloop to the Place, and who sent me Word, tho' I had not
the Letter till five Years after it was written; that they
went on but poorly, were Male-content with their long
Stay there; That Will. Atkins was dead; That five of the
Spaniards were come away, and that tho' they had not
been much molested by the Savages, yet they had had
some Skirmishes with them; and that they begg'd of him
to write to me, to think of the Promise I had made, to
fetch them away, that they might see their own Country
again before they dy'd.
But I was gone a Wild Goose Chase indeed; and they
that will have any more of me, must be content to follow
me thro' a new Variety of Follies, Hardships, and Wild
Adventures; wherein the Justice of Providence may be
duly observed, and we may see how easily Heaven can
gorge us with our own Desires; make the strongestof our
Wishes be our Affliction, and punish us most severely
with those very Things, which we think, it would be our
utmost Happiness to be allow'd in.
Let no wise Man flatter himself, with the Strength of
his own Judgment, as if he was able to chuse any particu-
lar Station of Life for himself: Man, is a short-sighted
Creature, sees but a very little Way before him; and as
his Passions, are none of his best Friends, so his particular
Affections, are generally his worst Counsellors.
I say this, with Respect to the impetuous Desire I had
from a Youth, to wander into the World; and howevident
it now was, that this Principle was preserv'd in me for my
Punishment: How it came on, the Manner, the Circum-
stance, and the Conclusion of it, it is easie to give you
VOL. Ill 'g
Historically, and with its utmost Variety of Particulars:
But the secret Ends of Divine Power, in thus permitting
us, to be hurry'd down the Stream of our own Desires, is
only to be understood of those who can listen to the Voice
of Providence, and draw religious Consequences from
God's Justice, and their own Mistakes.
Be it, I had Business, or no Business, away I went; 'tis
no Time now to enlarge any farther upon the Reason, or
Absurdityof myown Conduct; butto come to the History,
I was embark'd for the Voyage, and the Voyage I went.
I should only add here, that my honest and truly pious
Clergyman left me here; a Ship being ready to go to Lis-
bon, he ask'd me leave to go thither, being still, as he ob-
serv'd, bound never to finish any Voyage he began: How
happy had it been for me, if I had gone with him!
But it was too late now; all things Heaven appoints
are best; had I gone with him, I had never had so many
things to be thankful for, and you had never heard of the
second Part of the Travels and Adventures of Robin. Cru-
soe; so I must leave here the fruitless exclaiming at my
self, and go on with my Voyage.
From the Brasils, we made dire&ly away over the At-
lantick Sea, to the Cape de bon Esperance, or as we call it,
the Cape of Good Hope; and had a tolerable good Voyage,
our Course generally South-East; now and then a Storm,
and some contrary Winds, but my Disasters at Sea were
at an end; my future Rubs and cross Events were to befal
me on Shore; that it miglit appear the Land was as well
prepar'd to be our scourge, as the Sea; when Heaven,
who directs the Circumstances of Things, pleases to ap-
point it to be so.
Our Ship was on a Trading Voyage, and had a Supra-
Cargo on board, who was to direct all her Motions after
she arrived at the Cape; only being limited to certain
Numbers of Days, for Stay, by Charter-party, at the seve-
ral Ports she was to go to: This was none of my Business,
neither did I meddle with it at all; my Nephew, the Cap-
tain, and the Supra-Cargo, adjusting all those things be-
tween them, as they thought fit.
We made no Stay at the Cape longer than was needful,
to take in fresh Water, but made the best of our Way for
the Coast of Coremandel; we were indeed inform'd, that a
French Man of War of fifty Guns, and two large Mer-
chant Ships, were gone for the Indies, and as I knew we
were at War with France, I had some Apprehensions of
them; but they went their own Way, and we heard no
more of them.
I shall not pester my Account, or the Reader, with De-
scriptions of Places, Journals of our Voyages, Variations
of Compass, Latitudes, Meridian-Distances, Trade-
Winds, Situation of Ports, and the like; such as almost all
the Histories of long Navigation are full of, and makes
the reading tiresome enough, and are perfectly unprofit-
able to all that read it, except only to those, who are to go
to those Places themselves.
It is enough to name the Ports and Places, which we
touch'd at, and what occurr'd to us upon our passing
from one to another. We touch'd first at the Island of
Madagascar; where, tho' the People are fierce and trea-
cherous, and in particular, very well arm'd withLaunces,
and Bows, which they use with inconceivable Dexterity;
yet we fared very well with them a while, they treated us
very civilly; and for some Trifles which we gave them,
such as Knives, Scissars, &c. they brought us eleven good
fat Bullocks, middling in Size, but very good in Flesh;
which we took in, partly for fresh Provisions for our
present spending, and the rest, to Salt for the Ship's
Use.
We were obliged to stay here some Time after we had
furnish'd our selves with Provisions; and I, that was al-
ways too curious, to look into every Nook of the World
where ever I came, was for going on Shore as often as I
could; it was on the East Side of the Island that we went
on Shore, one Evening; and the People, who by the Way
are very numerous, came thronging about us, and stood
gazing at us at a Distance; but as we had traded freely
with them, and had been kindly used, we thought our
selves in no Danger; but when we saw the People, we cut
three Boughs out of a Tree, and stuck them up at a Dis-
tance from us, which it seems, is a Mark in the Country,
not only of Truce and Friendship, butwhen it isaccepted,
the other Side set up three Poles or Boughs, which is a
Signal, that they accept the Truce too; but then, this is a
known Condition of the Truce, that you are not to pass
beyond their three Poles towards them, nor they to come
past your three Poles or Boughs, towards you; so that you
are perfectly secure within the three Poles, and all the
Space between your Poles and theirs, is allow'd like a
Market, for free Converse, Traffick, and Commerce:
When you go there, you must not carry your Weapons
with you; and if they come into that Space they stick up
their Javelines and Launces, all at the first Poles, and come
on unarm'd; but if any Violence is offer'd them, and the
Truce thereby broken; away they run to the Poles, and
lay hold of their Weapons, and then the Truce is at an End.
It happen'd one Evening when we went on Shore, that
a greater Number of their People came down than usual,
but all was very friendly and civil, and they brought in
several Kinds of Provisions, for which we satisfied them,
with such Toys as we had; their Women also brought us
Milk, and Roots, and several Things very acceptable to
us, and all was quiet; and we made us a little Tent or Hut,
of some Boughs of Trees, and lay on Shore all Night.
I know not what was the Occasion, but I was not so
well satisfied to lye on Shore as the rest, and the Boat ly-
ing at an Anchor, about a Stone-cast from the Land, with
two Men in her to take Care of her; I made one of them
come on Shore, and getting some Boughs of Trees to co-
ver us also in the Boat, I spread the Sail on the Bottom of
the Boat, andlayunder the Coverof theBranchesof Trees
all Night in the Boat.
About two a-clock in the Morning, we heard one of
our Men make a terrible Noise on the Shore, calling out
for God's Sake, to bring the Boat in, and come and help
them, for they were all like to be murther'd; at the same
Time I heard the firing of 5 Muskets, which was the
Number of the Guns they had, and that, three Times
over; for it seems, the Natives here were not so easily
frighted with Guns, as the Savages were in America, where
I had to do with them.
All this while, I knew not what was the Matter; but
rouzing immediately from Sleep with the Noise, I caus'd
the Boat to be thrust in, and resolv'd, with three Fusils
we had on board, to land, and assist our Men.
We got the Boat soon to the Shore, but our Men were
in too much Haste: For being come to the Shore, they
plunged into the Water to get to the Boat with all the Ex-
pedition they could, being pursued by between three and
four hundred Men: Our Men were but nine in all, and
only fiveof them had Fusils with them; the rest had indeed
Pistols and Swords, but they were of small use to them.
We took up seven of our Men, and with Difficulty
enough too, three of them being very ill wounded; and
that which was still worse, was, that while we stood in the
Boat to take our Men in, we were in as much Danger as
they were in on Shore; for they pour'd their Arrows in
upon us so thick, that we were fain to barricade the Side
of the Boat up with the Benches, and two or three loose
Boards, which to our great Satisfaction we had by mere
Accident or Providence in the Boat.
And yet, had it been Day-light, they are it seems such
exact Marks-men, that if they could have seen but the
least Part of any of us, they would have been sure of us;
we had by the Light of the Moon a little Sight of them, as
they stood pelting us from the Shore with Darts and Ar-
rows ; and having got ready our Fire-Arms, we gave them
a Volley, that we could hear by the Cries of some of them,
that we had wounded several; however, they stood thus
in Battle Array on the Shore till break of Day, which we
suppose was, that they might see the better to take their
Aim at us.
In this Condition we lay, and could not tell how to
weigh our Anchor, or set up our Sail, because we must
needs stand up in the Boat, and they were as sure to hit us,
as we were to hit a Bird in a Tree with small Shot; we
made Signals of Distress to the Ship, which, tho' we rode
a League off, yet my Nephew the Captain hearing our
firing, and by Glasses, perceiving the Posture we lay in,
andthatwefir'd towards the Shore, pretty well understood
us; and weighing Anchor, with all Speed, he stood as near
the Shore as he durst with the Ship, and then sent another
Boat with ten Hands in her to assist us; but we call'd to
them not to come too near, telling them what Condition
we were in: However, they stood in nearer to us; and one
of the Men taking the End of a Tow-Line in his Hand,
and keeping our Boat between him and the Enemy, so
that they could not perfectly see him, swam on board us,
and made fast the Line to the Boat; upon which we slipp'd
our little Cable, and leaving our Anchor behind, they
tow'd us out of Reach of the Arrows, we all the while ly-
ing close behind the Barricado we had made.
As soon as we were got from between the Ship and the
Shore, that she could lay her Side to the Shore, she run
along just by them, and we pour'd in a Broad-side among
them loaden with Pieces of Iron and Lead, small Bullets,
and such stuff, besides the great Shot, which made a terri-
ble Havock amongst them.
When we were got on board and out of Danger, we
had Time to examine into the Occasion of this Fray; and
indeed our Supra-Cargowho hadbeenofteninthoseParts,
put me upon it; for he said, he was sure the Inhabitants
would not have touch'd us after we had made a Truce, if
we had not done something to provoke them to it. At
length it came out, (viz.) that an old Woman who had
come to sell us some Milk, had brought it within our
Poles with a young Woman, with her, who also brought
some Roots or Herbs; and while the old Woman, whe-
ther she was Mother to the young Woman or no, they
could not tell, was selling us the Milk, one of our Men
offer'd some Rudeness to the Wench that was with her,
at which the old Woman made a great Noise: However,
the Seaman would not quit his Prize, but carried her out
of the old Woman's Sight among the Trees, it being al-
most dark; the old Woman went away without her, and
as we suppose, made an Out-cry among the People she
came from; who upon Notice, rais'd this great Army up-
on us in three or four Hours; and it was great odds, but
we had been all destroy'd.
One of our Men was killed with a Launce thrown at
him just at the beginning of the Attack, as he sally'd out
of the Tent they had made; the rest came off free, all but
the Fellow who was the Occasion of all the Mischief, who
paid dear enough for his black Mistress; for we could not
hear what became of him, a great while; we lay upon the
Shore two Days after, tho' the Wind presented, and made
Signals for him; made our Boat sail up Shore and down
Shore, several Leagues, but in vain; so we were oblig'd to
give him over, and if he alone had suffer'd for it, the Loss
had been the less.
I could not satisfie my self, however, without ventur-
ing on Shore once more, to try if I could learn any Thing
of him or them; it was the third Night after the Action,
that I had a great Mind to learn if I could by any Means
what Mischief we had done, and how the Game stood on
the Indians Side: I was careful to do it in the Dark, lest we
should be attack'd again; but I ought indeed to have been
sure, that the Men I went with had been under my Com-
mand, before I engag'd in a Thing so hazardous and mis-
chievous as I was brought into by it, without my Know-
ledge or Design.
We took twenty stout Fellows with us as any in the
Ship, besides the Supra-Cargo and my self, and we landed
two Hours before Midnight, at the same Place where the
Indians stood drawn up the Evening before; Ilandedhere,
because my Design as I have said, was chiefly to see if
they had quitted the Field, and if they had left any Marks
behind them of the Mischief we had done them; and I
thought, if we could surprize one or two of them, perhaps
we might get our Man again by Way of Exchange.
We landed without any Noise, and divided our Men
into two Bodies, whereof, the Boatswain commanded one,
and I the other; we neither saw or heard any Body stir
when we landed, and we march'd up one Body at a Dis-
tance from the other, to the Place, but at first could see
nothing it being very dark; till by and by, our Boatswain
that led the first Party, stumbled and fell over a dead
Boy; this made them halt a while, for knowing by the
Circumstances that they were at the Place, where the In-
dians had stood, they waited for my coming up here; we
concluded to halt till the Moon began to rise, which we
knew would be in less than an Hour, when we could easily
discern the Havock we had made among them; we told
two and thirty Bodies upon the Ground, whereof two
were not quite dead: Some had an Arm, and some a Leg
shot off, and one his Head; those that were wounded we
suppos'd, they had carried away.
When we had made, as I thought, a full Discovery of
all we could come at the Knowledge of, I was resolv'd for
going on board; but the Boatswain and his Party sent me
Word, that they were resolv'd to make a Visit to the In-
dian Town, where these Dogs, as they call'd them, dwelt,
and ask'd me to go along with them; and if they could
find them, as still they fansied they should, they did not
doubt getting a good Booty, and it might be, they might
find Tho. Jeffry there, that was the Man's Name we had
losl.
Had they sent to ask my Leave to go, I knew well
enough what Answer to have given them; for I would
have commanded them instantly on Board, knowing it
was not a Hazard fit for us to run, who had a Ship, and
Ship-loading in our Charge, and a Voyage to make,which
depended very much upon the Lives of the Men; but as
they sent me Word they were resolved to go, and only
ask'd me and my Company to go along with them; I posi-
tively refus'd it, and rose up,forIwas sitting on the Ground
in Order to go to the Boat; one or two of the Men began
to importune me to go, and when I refus'd positively, be-
gan to grumble, and say they were not under my Com-
mand, and they would go: Come Jack, says one of the
Men, will go with me? I'll go for one, Jack said he
would, and another followed, and then another; and in a
Word, they all left me but one, who I persuaded to ftay,
and a Boy left in the Boat; so the Supra-Cargo and I, with
the third Man, went back to the Boat, where we told them
we would stay for them, and take Care to take in as many
of them as should be left; for I told them it was a mad
Thingthey were going about, and supposed most of them
would run the Fate of 'Thorn. Jeffry.
They told me, like Seamen, they'd warrant it they
would come off again, and they would take care, &c. So
away they went; I entreated 'em to consider the Ship and
Voyage; that their Lives were not their own, and that
they were entrusted with the Voyage in some Measure,
that if they miscarry'd, the Ship might be lost for want of
their Help, and that they could not answer it to God or
Man. I said a great deal more to 'em on that Head, but I
might as well have talk'd to the Main-Mast of the Ship,
they were mad upon their Journey, only they gave me
good Words, and begg'd I would not be angry; That
they would be very cautious, and they did not doubt but
they would be back again in about an Hour at farthest;
for the Indian Town, they said, was not above half a Mile
off, tho' they found it above two Miles before they got
to it.
Well, they all went away, as above; and tho' the At-
tempt was desperate, and such, as none but mad Men
would have gone about, yet to give 'em their due, they
went about it warily as boldly: They were gallantly arm-
ed, that's true; for they had every Man a Fuzee or Mus-
ket, a Bayonet, every Man a Pistol; some of them had
broad Cutlasses, some of them Hangers, and the Boat-
swain and Two more, had Pole-Axes: Besides all which,
they had among them thirteen Hand-Grenadoes. Bolder
Fellows, and better provided, never went about any wick-
ed Work in the World.
When they went out, their chief Design was Plunder,
and they were in mighty hopes of finding Gold there; but
a Circumstance which none of them were aware of, set
them on fire with Revenge, and made Devils of them all.
When they came to the few Indian Houses which they
thought had been the Town, which was not above half a
Mile off; they were under a great Disappointment; for
there were not above 12 or 13 Houses; and where the
Town was, or how big, they knew not: They consulted
therefore what to do, and were some time before they
could resolve: for if they fell upon these, they must cut all
their Throats, and it was ten to one but some of them
might escape, it being in the Night, tho' the Moon was
up; and if one escaped, he would run away, and raise all
the Town, so they should have a whole Army upon them:
Again, on the other hand, if they went away, and left
those untouch'd (for the People were all asleep) they could
not tell which Way to look for the Town.
However, the last was the best Advice; so they resolv'd
to leavethem, and look for the Town as well as they could.
They went on a little Way, and found a Cow tied to a
Tree; this they presently concluded, would be a good
Guide to them; for they said, the Cow certainly belonged
to the Town before them, or the Town behind them; and
if they untied her, they should see which way she went; if
she went back, they had nothing to say to her; but if she
went forward, they had nothing to do but to follow her:
So they cut the Cord, which was made of twisted Flags,
and the Cow went on before them; in a Word, the Cow
led them direftly to the Town, which as they report, con-
sistedof above 200 Houses, or Huts ;and in some of these,
they found several Families living together.
Here they found all in Silence, as profoundly secure, as
Sleep, and a Country that had never seen an Enemy of
that Kind could make them; and first, they call'd another
Council, to consider what they had to do; and in a Word,
they resolv'd to divide themselves into three Bodies, and
to set three Houses on Fire in three Parts of the Town;
and as the Men came out, to seize them and bind them; if
any resisted, they need not be ask'd what to do then, and
so to search the rest of the Houses for Plunder; but they
resolv'd to march silently first, thro' the Town, and see
what Dimensions it was of, and if they might venture up-
on it or no.
They did so, and desperately resolv'd that they would
venture upon them; but while they were animating one
another to the Work, three of them that were a little be-
fore the rest, call'd out aloud to them, and told them they
had found Thom. Jeffry; they all run up to the Place, and
so it was indeed; for there they found the poor Fellow
hang'd up naked by one Arm, and his Throat cut; there
was an Indian House just by the Tree, where they found
sixteen or seventeenof theprincipal Indianswhohzd been
concern'd in the Fray with us before; and two or three of
them wounded with our Shot; and our Men found they
were awake, and talking one to another in that House,
but knew not their Number.
The Sight of their poor mangled Comrade so enrag'd
'em, as before, that they swore to one another they would
be reveng'd, and that not an Indian who came into their
Hands should have Quarter, and to Work they went im-
mediately ; and yet not so madly as by the Rage and Fury
they were in might be expected. Their first Care was to
get something that would soon take Fire; but after a little
search, they found that would be to no purpose; but most
of the Houses were low, and thatch'd with Flags or Rushes,
of which the Country is full; so they presently made some
wild Fire, as we call it, by wetting a little Powder in the
Palms of their hands, and in a quarter of an Hour they
set the Town on Fire in four or five Places; and particu-
larly that House where the Indians were not gone to Bed.
As soon as the Fire began to blaze, the poor frighted Crea-
tures began to rush out to save their Lives; but met with
their Fate in the Attempt, and especially at the Door,
where they drove 'em back, the Boatswain himself killing
one or two with his Pole-Ax; The House being large, and
many in it, he did not care to go in, but call'd for a Hand-
Grenado, and threw it among 'em, which at first frighted
'em; but when it burst, made such Havock among 'em,
that they cried out in a hideous manner.
In short, most of the Indians who were in the open
Part of the House, were killed or hurt with the Grenado,
except two or three more who press'd to the Door, which
the Boatswain and two more kept with their Bayonets in
the Muzzles of their Pieces, and dispatch'd all who came
that Way. But there was another Apartment in theHouse
where the Prince or King, or whatever he was, and several
others were, and these they kept in till the House, which
was by this time all of a light Flame, fell in upon them,
and they were smother'd or burnt together.
All this while they fir'd not a Gun, because they would
not waken the People faster than they could master them;
but the Fire began to waken them fast enough, and our
Fellows were glad to keep a little together in Bodies; for
the Fire grew so raging, all the Houses being made of
light conbustible Stuff, that they could hardly bear the
Street between them, and their Business was to follow the
Fire for the surer Execution: As fast as the Fire either
forc'd the People out of those Houses which were burn-
ing, or frighted them out of others, our People were ready
at their Doors to knock them on the Head, still calling
and hallowing to one another to remember Thorn. Jeffrys.
While this was doing, I must confess I was very un-
easie, and especially when I saw the Flames of the Town,
which, it being Night, seem'd to be just by me.
My Nephew, the Captain, who was rouz'd by his Men
too, seeing such a Fire, was very uneasie, not knowing
what the Matter was, or what Danger I was in; especially
hearing the Guns too; for by this time they began to use
their Fire-Arms; a thousand Thoughts opprest his Mind
concerningmeandthe Supra-Cargo, what should become
of us: And at last, tho' he could ill spare any more Men,
yet not knowing what Exigence we might be in, he takes
another Boat, and with 13 Men and himself, comes on
Shore to me.
He was surpriz'd to see me and the Supra-Cargo in the
Boat with no more than two Men; and tho' he was glad
that we were well, yet he was in the same Impatience with
us to know what was doing; for the Noise continu'd, and
the Flame encreas'd: In short, it was next to an Impossi-
bility for any Men in the World, to restrain their Curiosi-
ty, to know what had happen'd, or the Concern for the
Safety of the Men: In a word, the Captain told me, he
would go and help his Men, let what would come. I ar-
gu'd with him as I did before with the Men, the Safety of
the Ship, the Danger of the Voyage, the Interest of the
Owners and Merchants, &c. and told him, I would go
and the two Men, and only see if we could at a Distance
learn what was like to be the Event, and come back and
tell him.
It was all one, to talk to my Nephew, as it was to talk to
the rest before; he would go he said, and he only wish'd
he had left but Ten Men in the Ship; for he could not
think of having his Men lost for want of Help, he had ra-
ther lose the Ship, the Voyage, and his Life and all; and
away he went.
In a Word, I was no more able to stay behind now, than
I was to persuade them not to go; so in short, the Captain
order'd two Men to row back the Pinnace, and fetch
twelve Men more, leaving the Long Boat at an Anchor,
and that when they came back, six Men should keep the
two Boats, and six more come after us; so that he left only
16 Men in the Ship; for the whole Ship's Company con-
sisted of 65 Men, whereof two were lost in the last Quar-
rel, which brought this Mischief on.
Being now on the March, you may be sure we felt little
of the Ground we trode on; and being guided by the Fire,
we kept no Path, but went directly to the Place of the
Flame: If the Noise of the Guns was surprizing to us be-
fore, the Cries of the poor People were now of quite an-
other nature, and fill'd us with Horror. I must confess, I
never was at the sacking a City, or at the taking a Town
by storm. I had heardof Oliver CromwelltnkingDrogheda
in Ireland, and killing Man, Woman and Child: And I
had read of Count Tilly, sacking of the City of Magde-
burgh, and cutting the Throats of 22000 of all Sexes:
But I never had an Idea of the Thing itself before, nor is
it possible to describe it, or the Horror which was upon
our Minds at hearing it.
However, wewenton, andat length cameto the Town,
tho' there was no entring the Streets of it for the Fire.The
first Object we met with, was the Ruins of a Hut or House,
or rather the Ashes of it, for the House was consum'd;
and just before it, plain now to be seen by the Light of the
Fire, lay four Men and three Women kill'd; and as we
thought, one or two more lay in the Heap among the Fire.
In short there were such Instances of a Rage altogether
barbarous, and of a Fury, something beyond what was
human, that we thought it impossible our Men could be
guilty of it, or if they were the Authors of it, we thought
they ought to be every one of 'em put to the worst of
Deaths. But this was not all, we saw the Fire encreas'd
forward, and the Cry went on just as the Fire went on; so
that we were in the utmost Confusion. We advanc'd a lit-
tle Way farther, and behold, to our Astonishment, three
Women naked, and crying a most dreadful Manner,
come flying, as if they had indeed had Wings, and after
them sixteen or seventeen Men, Natives, in the same
Terror and Consternation, with three of our English But-
chers, for I can call them no better, in their Rear, who,
when they could not overtake them, fir'd in among them,
and one that was kill'd by their Shot fell down in our
Sight; when the rest saw us, believing us to be their Ene-
mies, and that we would murther them as well as those
that persued them, they set up a most dreadful Shriek,
especially the Women; and two of them fell down as if
already dead with the Fright.
My very Soul shrunk within me, and my Blood run
chill in my Veins, when I saw this; and I believe, had the
three English Sailors that pursu'd them come on, I had
made our Men kill them all: However we took some
Ways to let the poor flying Creatures know, that we
would not hurt them, and immediately they came up to
us, and kneeling down, with their Hands lifted up, made
piteous Lamentation to us to save them, which we let
them know we would; whereupon they crept altogether
in a Huddle close behind us, as for Protection. I left my
Men drawn up together, and charg'd them to hurt no
Body, but if possible to get at some of our People, and see
what Devil it was possess'd them, and what they intended
to do; and in a word, to command them off; assuring
them, that if they stay'd till Day-light, they would have
an hundred thousand Men about their Ears: I say, I left
them, and went among those flying People, taking only
two of our Men with me; and there was indeed a piteous
Spectacle among them: Some of them had their Feet
terribly burnt with trampling and running thro' the Fire,
others their Hands burnt; one of the Women had fallen
down in the Fire, and was very much burnt before she
could get out again, and two or three of the Men had
Cuts in their Backs and Thighs from our Men pursuing;
and another was shot thro' the Body, and died while I
was there.
I would fain have learned what the Occasion of all this
was, but I could not understand one Word they said; tho'
by Signs I perceived that some of them knew not what
was the Occasion themselves. I was so terrified in my
Thoughts at this outragious Attempt, that I could not
stay there; but went back to my own Men, and resolved
to go into the Middle of the Town thro' the Fire, or what-
ever might be in the Way, and put an End to it, cost what
it would: Accordingly, as soon as I came back to my Men,
I told them my Resolution, and commanded them to fol-
vol. in h
low me, when in the very Moment came four of our Men,
with the Boatswain at their Head, roving over the Heaps
of Bodies they had killed, all cover'd with Blood and
Dust, as if they wanted more People to massacre, when
our Men hallow'd to them as loud as they could hallow,
and with much ado one of them made them hear; so that
they knew who we were, and came up to us.
As soon as the Boatswain saw us, he set up a Hallow
like a Shout of Triumph, for having, as he thought, more
Help come, and without bearing to hear me, Captain,
says he, noble Captain, I am glad you are come; we have
not half done yet, villainous Hell-hound Dogs, I'll kill as
many of them as poor Tom. has Hairs upon his Head. We
have sworn to spare none of them, we'll root out the very
Nation of 'em from the Earth, and thus he run on, out of
Breath too with Action, and would not give us leave to
speak a Word.
At last, raising my Voice, that I might silence him a
little, Barbarous Dog, said I, what are you doing? I won't
have one Creature touch'd more, upon pain of Death. I
charge you upon your Life, to stop your Hands, and
stand still here, or you are a dead Man this Minute.
Why, Sir, says he, Do you know what you do, or what
they have done? If you want a Reason for what we have
done, come hither; and with that he shew'd me the poor
Fellow hanging with his Throat cut.
I confess, I was urged then myself, and at another
Time should have been forward enough; but I thought
they had carried their Rage too far, and thought of Jacob's
Words to his Sons Simeon and Levi; Cursed be their Anger;
for it wasfierce; and their Wrath, for it was cruel: But I had
now a new Task upon my hands; for when the Men I car-
ried with me saw the Sight as I had done, I had as much
to do to restrain them, as I should have had with the other;
nay, my Nephew himself fell in with them, and told me in
their hearing, that he was only concerned for fear of the
Men being overpower'd; for as to the People, he thought
not one of 'emoughttolive; for they had all glutted them-
selves with the Murther of the poor Man, and that they
ought to be used like Murtherers. Upon these Words,
away run eight of my Men with the Boatswain and his
Crew, to compleat their bloody Work; and I seeing it
quite out of my Power to restrain them, came away pen-
sive and sad; for I could not bear the Sight, much less the
horrible Noise and Cries of the poor Wretches that fell
into their Hands.
I got no Body to come back with me but the Supra-
Cargo and two Men; and with these I walk'd back to the
Boats. It was a very great Piece of Folly in me, I confess,
to venture back, as it were alone; for as it began now to be
almost Day, and the Alarm had run over the Country,
there stood about 40 Men arm'd with Launces and Bows
at the little Place where the 12 or 13 Houses stood men-
tion'd before; but by Accident I miss'd the Place, and
came directly to the Sea-side, and by the Time I got to
the Sea-side it was broad Day; immediately I took the
Pinnace, and went aboard, and sent her back to assist the
Men in what might happen.
I observ'd about the Time that I came to the Boat-side,
that the Fire was pretty well out, and the Noise abated;
but in about half an Hour after I got on Board, I heard a
Volley of our Mens Fire-Arms, and saw a great Smoak;
this, as I understood afterwards, was our Men falling up-
on the Men, who as I said stood at the few Houses on the
Way, of whom they kill'd sixteen or seventeen, and set all
those Houses on Fire, but did not meddle with the Wo-
men or Children.
By that Time the Men got to the Shore again with the
Pinnace, our Men began to appear; they came dropping
in, some and some, not in two Bodies, and in Form as they
went, but all in Heaps, straggling hereandthere, in sucha
Manner, that a small Force of resolute Men might have
cut them all off.
But the Dread of them was upon the whole Country;
and the Men were amaz'd,andsurpriz'd,and so frighted,
that I believe a hundred of 'em would have fled at the
Sight of but five of our Men. Nor in all this terrible Ac-
tion was there a Man who made any considerable De-
fence, they were so surpriz'd between the Terror of the
Fire, and the sudden Attack of our Men in the Dark, that
they knew not which Way to turn themselves; for if they
fled one Way, they were met by one Party; if back again,
by another: So that they were everywhere knock'd down:
Nor did any of our Men receive the least Hurt; except
one who strain'd his Foot, and another had one of his
Hands very much burnt.
I was very angry with my Nephew the Captain, and in-
deed with all the Men in my Mind, but with him in par-
ticular; as well for his acting so out of his Duty as Com-
mander of the Ship, and having the Charge of the Voyage
upon him, as in his prompting rather than cooling the
Rage of his Men in so bloody and cruel an Enterprize.
My Nephew answer'd me very respectfully; but told me,
that when he saw the Body of the poor Seaman whom they
had murther'd in such a cruel and barbarous manner, he
was not Master of himself, neither could he govern his
Passion. He own'd, he should not have done so, as he was.
Commander of the Ship; but as he was a Man, and Na-
ture mov'd him, he could not bear it. As for the rest of the
Men, they were not subject to me at all, and they knew it
well enough; so they took no notice of my Dislike.
The next Day we set sail, so we never heard any more
of it: Our Men differ'd in the Account of the Number
they kill'd: Some said one Thing, some another; but ac-
cording to the best of their Accounts put altogether, they
kill'd or destroy'd about 150 People, Men, Women, and
Children, and left not a House standing in the Town.
As for the poor Fellow Tbo. Jejffrys, as he was quite
dead, for his Throat was so cut, that his Head was half
\ off, it would do him no Service to bring him away, so they
left him where they found him, only took him down from
the Tree where he was hang'd by one Hand.
However just our Men thought this Action, I was
against them in it; and I always, after that Time, told
them, God would blast the Voyage; for I look'd upon all
the Blood they shed that Night to be Murther in them:
Fortho' it is true, that they had kill'd Tho. Jeffrys, yet it
was as true, that Jejfrys was the Aggressor, had broken
the Truce, and had violated or debauch'd a young Wo-
man of theirs who came down to them innocently, and on
the Faith of their publick Capitulation.
The Boatswain defended this Quarrel when we were
afterwards on board: He said, It is true that we seem'd
to break the Truce, but really had not, and that the War
was begun the Night before by the Natives themselves,
who had shot at us, and kill'd one of our Men without any
just Provocation; so that as we were in a Capacity to fight
them now, we might also be in a Capacity to do our selves
Justice upon them in an extraordinary Manner, that tho'
the poor Man had taken a little Liberty with a Wench, he
ought not to have been murther'd, and that in such a vil-
lanous Manner: and that they did nothing but what was
just, and what the Laws of God allow'd to be done to
One would think this should have been enough to have
warn'd us against going on Shore among Heathens and
Barbarians: But it is impossible to make Mankind wise,
but at their own Expence and their Experience seems
to be always of most Use to them, when it is dearest
bought.
We were now bound to the Gulph of Persia, and from
thence to the Coast of Coremandel, only to touch at Sur-
rat: But the chief of the Supra-Cargo's Design lay at the
Bay of Bengale, where if he miss'd of his Business out-
ward bound, he was to go up to China, and return to the
Coast as he came Home.
The first Disaster that befel us, was in the Gulph of
Persia, where five of our Men venturing on Shore on the
Arabian Side of the Gulph, were surrounded by the Ara-
bians, and either all kill'd or carry'd away into Slavery;
the rest of the Boat's Crew were not able to rescue them,
and had but just Time to get off their Boat. I began to up-
braid them with the just Retribution of Heaven in this
Case: But the Boatswain very warmly told me, he thought
I went farther in my Censures than I could shew any War-
rant for in Scripture, and referr'd to the 13 St Luke, Verse
4th. where our Saviour intimates, that those Men, on
whom the Tower of Siloam fell, were not Sinners above
all the Galileans: But that which indeed put me to Silence
in the Case, was, That not one of these five Men, who
were now lost, were of the Number of those who went on
Shore to the Massacre of Madagascar; (so I always call'd
it, tho' our Men could not bear the Word Massacre with any

Patience:') And indeed, this last Circumstance, as I have
said, put me to Silence for the present.
But my frequent preaching to them on this Subject
had worse Consequences than I expected; and the Boat-
swain, who had been the Head of the Attempt, came up
boldly to me one Time, and told me, he found, that I con-
tinually brought that Affair upon the Stage, that I made
unjust Reflections upon it, and had used the Men very ill
on that Account, and himself in particular; that as I was
but a Passenger, and had no Command in the Ship, or
Concern in the Voyage, they were not oblig'd to bear it;
that they did not know, but I might have some ill Design
in my Head, and perhaps to call them to Account for it,
when they came to England; and that therefore, unless I
would resolve to have done with it; and also, not to con-
cern my self any farther with him, or any of his Affairs, he
would leave the Ship; for he did not think it was safe to
sail with me among them.
I heard him patiently enough 'till he had done, and
then told him, that I did confess I had all along oppos'd
the Massacre of Madagascar, for such I would always call
it; and that I had on all Occasions spoken my Mind free-
ly about it, tho' not more upon him than any of the rest:
That as to my having no Command in the Ship, that was
true; nor did I exercise any Authority, only took my Li-
berty of speaking my Mind in Things which publickly
concern'd us all; and what Concern I had in the Voyage
was none of his Business ;that I was a considerable Owner
of the Ship; and in that Claim I conceived I had a Right
to speak even farther than I had yet done, and would not
be accountable to him or any one else, and begun to be a
little warm with him: He made but little Reply to me at
that Time, and I thought that Affair had been over. We
were at this Time in the Road at Bengale, and beingwilling
to see the Place, I went on Shore with the Supra-Cargo in
the Ship's Boat, to divert myself, and towards Evening
was preparing to go on Board, when one of the Men came
to me, and told me, he would not have me trouble my self
to come down to the Boat, for they had Orders not to car-
ry me on Board any more. Any one may guess what a Sur-
prize I was in at so insolent a Message; and I ask'd the
Man, who bad him deliver that Errand to me? He told
me, the Cockswain. I said no more to the Fellow, but bad
him let them know he had deliver'd his Message, and
that I had given him no Answer to it.
I immediately went and found out the Supra-Cargo,
and told him the Story, adding what I presently foresaw,
(viz.) That there would certainly be a Mutiny in the Ship,
and entreated him to go immediately on Board the Ship
in an Indian Boat, and acquaint the Captain of it: But I
might ha' spar'd this Intelligence; for before I had spoken
to him on Shore, the Matter was effected on Board. The
Boatswain, the Gunner, the Carpenter; and in a Word,
all the Inferiour Officers, as soon as I was gone off in the
Boat, came up to the Quarter-Deck, and desir'd to speak
with the Captain, and there the Boatswain making a long
Harangue for the Fellow talk'd very well, and repeating
all he had said to me, told the Captain in few Words, That
as I was now gone peaceably on Shore, they were loth to
use any Violence with me; which, if I had not gone on
Shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to
have gone: They therefore thought fit to tell him, That as
they shipp'd themselves to serve in the Ship under his
Command, they would perform it well and faithfully:
But if I would not quit the Ship, or the Captain oblige
me to quit it, they would all leave the Ship, and sail no
farther with him; and at that Word, A L L, he turn'd his
Face about towards the Main-mast, which was it seems
the Signal agreed on between them; at which, all the Sea-
men being got together, they cry'd out, One and ALL,
One and ALL.
My Nephew, the Captain, was a Man of Spirit, and of
great Presence of Mind; and tho' he was surpriz'd, you
may be sure, at the Thing, yet he told them calmly, that
he would consider of the Thing, but that he could do no-
thing in it 'till he had spoken to me about it. He us'd some
Arguments with them, to shew them the Unreasonable-
ness and Injustice of the Thing: But it was all in vain, they
swore and shook Hands round before his Face, that they
would go all on Shore, unless he would engage to them,
not to suffer me to come any more on Board the Ship.
This was a hard Article upon him, who knew his Obli-
gation to me, and did not know how I might take it; so he
began to talk cavalierly to them, told them that I was a
very considerable Owner of the Ship, and that in Justice
he could not put me out of my own House; that this was
next Door to serving me, as the famous Pirate Kid had
done, who made the Mutiny in a Ship, set the Captain on
Shore in an uninhabited Island, and run away with the
Ship; that let them go into what Ship they would, if ever
they came to England again, it would cost them dear; that
the Ship was mine, and that he could not put me out of it;
and that he would rather lose the Ship and the Voyage too,
than disoblige me so much; so they might do as they
pleas'd: However, he would go on Shore, and talk with
me on Shore, and invited the Boatswain to go with me
[him] and perhaps they might accommodate the Matter
with me.
But they all rejected the Proposal, and said, they would
have nothing to do with me any more, neither on Board,
or on Shore; and if I came on Board, they would all go on
Shore. Well, said the Captain, if you are all of this Mind,
let me go on Shore and talk with him; so away he came to
me with this Account, a little after the Message had been
brought to me from the Cockswain.
I was very glad to see my Nephew, I must confess; for
I was not without Apprehensions, that they would con-
fine him by Violence, set sail, and run away with the Ship,
and then I had been stripp'd naked in a remote Country,
andnothingtohelp myself: In short, I had been in a worse
Case, than when I was all alone in the Island.
But they had not come that length, it seems, to my
great satisfaction; and when my Nephew told me what
they had said to him, and how they had sworn, and shook
Hands, that they would one and #//leave the Ship, if I was
suffer'd to come on Board, I told him, he should not be
concern'd at it at all, for I would stay on Shore. I only de-
sir'd he would take Care and send me all my necessary
Things on Shore, andleavemeasufficientSumof Money,
and I would find my Way to England, as well as I could.
This was a heavy Piece of News to my Nephew; but
there was no Way to help it, but to comply with it: So, in
short, he went on Board the Ship again, and satisfy'd the
Men, that his Uncle had yielded to their Importunity,
and had sent for his Goods from on Board the Ship; so
that Matter was over in a very few Hours, the Men re-
turn'd to their Duty, and I began to considerwhat Course
I should steer.
I was now alone in the remotest Part of the World, as I
think I may call it; for I was near three thousand Leagues
by Sea farther off from England, than I was at my Island;
only it is true, I might travel here by Land over the Great
Mogul's Country to Surratte, might go from thence to
Basora by Sea, up the Gulph of Persia, and from thence
might take the Way of the Caravans over the Desert of
Arabia to Aleppo and Scanderoon; from thence by Sea
again to Italy, and so over Land into France, and this put
together might be, at least, a full Diameter of the Globe;
but if it were to be measur'd, I suppose it would appear to
be a great deal more.
I had another Way before me, which was to wait for
some English Ships, which were coming to Bengale from
Achin on the Island of Sumatra, and get Passage onBoard
them for England: But as I came hither without any Con-
cern with the English Easl-India Company, so it would be
difficult to go from hence without their Licence, unless
with great Favour of the Captains of the Ships, or of the
Company's Factors, and to both, I was an utter Stranger.
Here I had the particular Pleasure, speaking by Con-
traries, to see the Ship set sail without me, a Treatment I
think a Man in my Circumstances scarce ever met with,
except from Pirates running away witha Ship, and setting
those that would not agree with their Villany, on Shore:
indeed this was next Door to it, both Ways; however, my
Nephew left me two Servants, or rather one Companion,
and one Servant, the first was Clerk to the Purser, who he
engag'd to go with me, and the other was his own Ser-
vant; I took me also a good Lodging in the House of an
English Woman, where several Merchants lodg'd; some
French, two Italians, or rather Jews, andone English Man:
Here I was handsomely enough entertain'd; and that I
might not be said to run rashly upon any Thing, I stay'd
here above nine Months, considering what Courseto take,
and how to manage myself; I had some English Goods
with me of Value, and a considerable Sum of Money, my
Nephew furnishing me with a thousand Pieces of Eight,
and a Letter of Credit for more, if I had Occasion, that I
might not be straiten'd whatever might happen.
I quickly dispos'd of my Goods, and to Advantage too;
and, as I originally intended, I bought here some very
good Diamonds, which, of all other Things, was the most
proper for me in my present Circumstances, because I
might always carry my whole Estate about me.
After a long Stay here, and many Proposals made for
my Return to England, but none falling out to my Mind,
the English Merchant who lodged with me, and with
whom I had contracted an intimate Acquaintance, came
to me one Morning: Country-man, says he, I have a Pro-
ject to communicate to you, which, as it suits with my
Thoughts, may for ought I know, suit with your's also,
when you shall have throughly consider'd it.
Here we are posted, says he, you by Accident, and I by
my own Choice, in a Part of the World very remote from
our own Country; but it is in a Country, where, by us
who understand Trade and Business, a great deal of Mo-
ney is to be got: If you will put a thousand Pound to my
thousand Pound, we will hire a Ship here, the first we can
get to our Minds; you shall be Captain, I'll be Merchant,
and we will go a trading Voyage to China; for what should
we stand still for? The whole World is in Motion, rouling
round and round; all the Creatures of God, heavenly
Bodies and earthly are busy and diligent, Why should
we be idle? There are no Drones in the World but Men,
Why should we be of that Number?
I lik'd his Proposal very well, and the more, because it
seem'd to be express'd with so much good Will, and in so
friendly a Manner: I will not say, but that I might by my
loose and unhing'd Circumstances be the fitter to em-
brace a Proposal for Trade, or indeed for any Thing else;
whereas, otherwise, Trade was none of my Element:
However, I might perhaps say with some Truth, that if
Trade was not my Element, Rambling was, and no Pro-
posal for seeing any Part of the World which I had never
seen before, could possibly come amiss to me.
It was however, some Time before we could get a Ship
to our Minds; and when we had got a Vessel, it was not
easy to get English Sailors; that is to say, so many as were
necessary to govern the Voyage, and manage the Sailors
which we should pick up there: After some Time we got
a Mate, a Boatswain, and a Gunner English; a Dutch Car-
penter, and three Portugueze Fore-mast Men; with these
we found, we could do well enough, having Indian Sea-
men, such as they are, to make up.
There are so many Travellers, whohavewrotethe Hist-
oryof their Voyages and Travels this Way, that it would be
very little Diversion to any Body, to give a long Account
of the Places wewentto, and the People who inhabitthere;
those Things I leave to others, and refer the Reader to
those Journals and Travels of English Men, of which,
many I find are published, and more promis'd every Day;
'tis enough to me to tell you, That I made this Voyage to
Achin, in the Island of Sumatra, and from thence to Siam,
where we exchang'd some of our Wares for Opium, and
some Arrack, the first, a Commodity which bears a great
Price among the Chinese, andwhich at that Time, wasvery
much wanted there; in a Word, we went up to Suskan,
made a very great Voyage; was eight Months out, and re-
turn'd to Bengale, and I was very well satisfy'd with my
Adventure: IobservethatourPeoplein£/z£>7<zW, often ad-
mire how the Officers which the Company send into India,
and the Merchants which generally stay there, get such
very great Estates as they do, and sometimes come Home
worth 60, to 70 [and] 100 thousand Pound at a Time.
But it is no Wonder, or at least we shall see so much
farther into it, when we consider the innumerable Ports
and Places where they have a free Commerce; that it will
then be no Wonder; and much less will it be so, when we
consider, that at all those Places andPortswhere the Eng-
lish Ships come, there is so much, and such constant De-
mand for the Growth of all other Countries, that there is a
certain Vent for the Returns, as well as a Market abroad,
for the Goods carried out.
In short, we made a very good Voyage, and I got so
much Money by the first Adventure, and such an Insight
into the Method of getting more, that had I been twenty
Year younger, I should have been tempted to have staid
here and sought no farther, for making my Fortune; but
what was all this, to a Man on the wrong Side of three-
score, that was rich enough, and came abroad, more in
Obedience to a restless Desire of seeing the World, than
a covetous Desire of getting in it; and indeed I think, 'tis
with great Justice, that I now call it a restless Desire for it
was so; when I was at Home, I was restless to go abroad;
and now I was abroad, I was restless to be at Home: I say,
what was this Gain to me? I was rich enough, nor had I
any uneasie Desiresabout gettingmore Moneyand there-
fore, the Profit of the Voyage to me, were Things of no
great Force, for the promptingmeforward to farther Un-
dertakings; and I thought that by this Voyage, I had
made no Progress at all, because I was come back as I
might call it, to the Place from whence I came as to a
Home; whereas, my Eye, which like that, which Solomon
speaks of, was never satisfied with Seeing, was still more
desirous of Wand'ring and Seeing; Iwas come into a Part
of the World, which I was never in before; and that Part
in particular, which I had heard much of; and was re-
solv'd to see as much of as I could, and then I thought, I
might say, I had seen all the World, thatwasworth seeing.
But my Fellow Traveller and I, had different Notions;
I do not name this, to insist upon my own, for I acknow-
ledge his were the most just and the most suited to the
end of a Merchant's Life; who, when he is abroad upon
Adventures, 'tis his Wisdom to stick to that as the best
Thing for him, which he is like to get the mosl: Money by:
My new Friend kept himself to the Nature of the Thing,
and would have been content to have gone like a Carrier's
Horse, always to the same Inn, backward and forward,
provided he could, as he call'd it, find his Account in it; on
the other Hand, mine was the Notion of a mad rambling
Boy, that never cares to see a Thing twice over.
But this was not all; I had a Kind of Impatience upon
me to be nearer Home, and yet, the most unsettled Re-
solution imaginable which Way to go; in the Interval of
these Consultations, my Friend, who was always upon
the Search for Business, propos'd another Voyage to me
among the Spice Islands, and to bring Home a Loading
of Cloves from theManittas, or thereabouts; Places where
indeed the Dutch do trade, but Islands, belonging partly
to the Spaniards; tho'we wentnotsofar, butto someother,
where they have not the whole Power as they have at Ba-
tavia, Ceylon, &c. we were not long in preparing for this
Voyage; the chief Difficulty was in bringing me to come
into it; however, at last nothing else offering, and finding
that really stirring about and trading, the Profit being so
great, and as I may say certain, had more Pleasure in it,
and more Satisfaction to the Mind than sitting still, which
to me especially, was the unhappiest Part of Life: I re-
solv'd on this Voyage too, which we made very success-
fully, touching at Borneo, and several Islands, whose
Names I do not remember, and came Home in about five
Months; we sold our Spice, which was chiefly Cloves, and
some Nutmegs, to the Persian Merchants, who carried
them away for the Gulph; and making near five of one,
we really got a great deal of Money.
My Friend, when we made up this Account smil'd at
me; well now, said he, with a Sort of agreeable insulting
my indolent Temper; is not this better than walking
about here, like a Man of nothing to do, and spending our
Time in scaring at the Nonsense and Ignorance of the Pa-
gans? Why truly, says I, my Friend, I think it is; and I
begin to be a Convert to the Principles of Merchandiz-
ing; but I must tell you, said I, by the Way, you do not
know what I am a doing; for if once I conquer, my back-
wardness, and embark heartily; as old as I am, I shall
harrass you up and down the World, till I tire you; for I
shall pursue it so eagerly, I shall never let you lye still.
But to be shortwith my Speculations, a littlewhile after
this, there came in a Dutch Ship from Batavia; she was a
Coaster, not an European Trader, and of about two hun-
dred Ton Burthen: The Men, as they pretended having
been so sickly, that the Captain had not Men enough to
go to Sea with; he lay by at Bengal, and having it seems
got Money enough, or being willing for other Reasons,
to go for Europe, he gave publick Notice, that he would
sell his Ship: This came to my Ears before my new Part-
ner heard of it; and I had a great Mind to buy it, so I goes
Home to him, and told him of it; he considered a while,
for he was no rash Man neither; but musing some Time,
he reply'd, she is a little too big; but however, we will
have her; accordingly we bought the Ship, and agreeing
with the Master, we paid for her, and took Possession;
when we had done so, we resolved to entertain the Men if
we could, to join them with those we had, for the pursu-
ing our Business; but on a sudden, they having receiv'd
not their Wages, but their Share of the Money, not one
of them was to be found; we enquir'd much about them,
and at length were told, that they were all gone together
by Land to Agra, thegreat City of the Mogul's Residence;
and from thence were to travel to Suratte, and so by Sea,
to the Gulph of Persia.
Nothing had so heartily troubled me a good while; as
that I miss'd the Opportunity of going with them; for
such a Ramble I thought, and in such Company, as would
both have guarded me and diverted me, would have suit-
ed mightily with mygreatDesign; and I should both have
seenthe World, and gone homewards too; but I wasmuch
better satisfied a few Days after, when I came to know
what sortof Fellows they were; for in short, their History
was, that this Man they call'd Captain was the Gunner
only, not the Commander; that they had been a trading
Voyage, inwhich,theywereattack'don Shore, by some of
the Mallayans, who had kill'd the Captain, and three of
his Men; and that afterthe Captain was kill'd, these Men
Eleven in Number, had resolv'd to run away with the
Ship, which they did; and brought her in at the Bay of
Bengale, leaving the Mate and five Men more on Shore,
of whom, we shall hear farther.
Well, let them come by the Ship how they would, we
came honestly by her, as we thought, tho' we did not I con-
fess, examine into Things so exactly as we ought, for we
never enquir'd any Thing of the Seamen; who, if we had
examin'd, would certainly have falter'd in their Account,
contradicted one another, and perhaps contradicted them-
vol. hi i
selves, or one how or other, we should have seen Reason
to have suspected them; but the Man shew'd us a Bill of
Sale for the Ship, to one Emanuel Closlershoven, or some
such Name; for I suppose it was all a Forgery, and call'd
himself by that Name, and we could not contradict him;
and being withal, a little too unwary, or at least, having
no Suspicion of the Thing, we went thro' with our
Bargain.
We pick'd up some more English Seamen here after
this, and some Dutch; and now we resolved for a second
Voyage, to the South East for Cloves, &c. that is to say,
among the Philippine and Mollucco Isles; and in short, not
to fill this Part of my Story with Trifles, when what is yet
to come, is so remarkable; I spent from first to last six
Years in this Country, trading from Port to Port, back-
ward and forward, and with very good Success; and was
now the last Year with my new Partner, going in the Ship
above-mention'd, on a Voyage to China; but designing
first to Siam, to buy Rice.
In this Voyage, being by contrary Winds oblig'd to
beat up and down a great while in the Straits of Mallacca,
and among the Islands; we were no sooner got clear of
those difficult Seas, but we found our Ship had sprung a
Leak, and we were not able by all our Industry to find it
out where it was: This forc'd us to make for some Port,
and my Partner who knew the Country better than I did,
directed the Captain to put into the River of Cambodia,
for I had made the English Mate, one Mr. Thomson, Cap-
tain, not being willing to take the Charge of the Ship upon
my self; This River lies on the North Side of the greatBay
or Gulph, which goes up to Siam.
While we were here, and going often on Shore for Re-
freshment, there comes to me one Day an English Man,
and he was it seems a Gunner's Mate, on board an Eng-
lish Easl-India Ship, which rode in the same River, up at,
or near the City of Cambodia; what brought him hither we
know not; but he comes up to me, and speaking English:
Sir, says he, you are a Stranger to me, and I to you; but I
have something to tell you, that very nearly concerns you.
I look'd steadily at him a good while, and thought at
first I had known him, but I did not; if it very nearly con-
cerns me, said I, and not your self, what moves you to tell
it me? I am moved says he, by the eminent Danger you
are in, and for ought I see, you have no Knowledge of it; I
know no Danger I am in, said I, but that my Ship is leaky,
and I cannot find it out; but I purpose to lay her a-
Ground to Morrow, to see if I can find it; but Sir, says he,
leaky, or not leaky, find it, or not find it, you will be wiser
than to lay your Ship on Shore to Morrow, when you hear
what I have to say to you; do you know Sir, said he, the
Town of Cambodia, lyes about fifteen Leagues up this Ri-
ver? and there are two large English Ships about five Lea-
gues on this Side, and three Dutch; well said I, and what
is that to me? Why Sir, said he, is it for a Man that is up-
on such Adventures as you are upon, to come into a Port,
and not examine first what Ships there are there, and whe-
ther he is able to deal with them? I suppose you don't
think you are a Match for them: I was amused very much
at his Discourse, but not amaz'd at it, for I could not con-
ceive what he meant; and I turn'd short upon him and
said, Sir, I wish you would explain your self; I cannot
imagine what Reason I have to be afraid of any Company
Ships, or Dutch Ships; I am no Interloper, what can they
have to say to me?
He look'd likeaManhalf angry,half pleas'd,andpaus-
ng a while, but smiling; well Sir, says he, if you think
your self secure, you must take your Chance; I am sorry
your Fate should blind you against good Advice; but as-
sure your self, if you do not put to Sea immediately, you
will the very next Tide be attack'dby fiveLong-Boats full
of Men, and perhaps if you are taken, you'll be hang'd for
a Pirate, and the Particulars be examin'd afterwards: I
thought Sir, added he, I should have met with a better
Reception than this, for doing you a Piece of Service of
such Importance: I can never be ungrateful, saidI, for
any Service, or to any Man that offers me any Kindness,
but it is past my Comprehension said I, what they should
have such a Design upon me for, however, since you say,
there is no Time to be lost, and that there is some villain-
ous Design in Hand against me; I'll go on board this Min-
ute, and put to Sea immediately, If my Men can stop the
leak, or if we can swim without stopping it? But, Sir, said
I, shall I go away ignorant of the Reason of all this? Can
you give me no farther Light into it?
I can tellyou butPartof the Story, Sir, sayshe, but I have
a Dutch Seaman here with me, and I believe I could per-
suade him to tell you the rest; but there is scarce time for
it. But the short of the Story is this, the first Partofwhich,
I suppose, you know well enough,("y/z.)thatyouwas with
this Ship at Sumatra, that there your Captain was mur-
ther'd by the Mallayans, with three of his Men, and that
you or some of those who were on board with you, ran
away with the Ship, and are since turn'd PIRATES;
this is the Sum of the Story, and you will be all seiz'd as
Pirates I can assure you, and executed, with very little
Ceremony; for you know, Merchants Ships shew but lit-
tle Law to Pirates, if they get them into their Power.
Now you speak plain English, said I, and I thank you;
andtho' I know nothing, that we have done, like what you
talk of, but am sure we came honestly and fairly by the
Ship, yet seeing such Work is a doing as you say, and that
you seem to mean honestly, I'll be upon my guard; nay,
Sir, says he, do not talk of being upon your guard; the
best Defence, is to be out of the Danger, if you have any
Regard to your Life, and the Life of all your Men; put
out to Sea without fail at High Water, and as you have a
whole Tide before you, you will be gone too far out be-
fore they can come down, for they came away at High
Water; and as they have twenty Miles to come, you get
near two Hours of them, by the Difference of the Tide,
not reckoning the Length of the Way; besides, as they
are only Boats, and not Ships, they will not venture to fol-
low you far out to Sea, especially if it blows.
Well, says I, you have been very kind in this, what shall
I do for you, to make you amends? Sir, says he, you may
not be so willing to make me any amends, because you
may not be convinc'd of the Truth of it: I'll make an of-
fer to you; I have nineteen Months Pay due to me, on
board the Ship which I came out of Eng-
land in, and the Dutch Man that is with me, has seven
Months Pay due to him; if you will make good our Pay to
us, we will go along with you;if you find nothing more
in it, wewill desire no more ;butif we do convince you, that
we have sav'd your Lives, and the Ship, and the Lives of
all the Men in her, we will leave the rest to you.
I consented to this readily, and went immediately on
board, and the two Men with me; as soon as I came to the
Ship Side, my Partner who was on board, came out on the
Quarter-Deck, and call'd to me with a great deal of Joy,
O ho! O oh! we have slopp'd the leak! we have slopped the
leak! Say you so, said I, thank God; but weigh the An-
chor then immediately ;weigh\Sayshe: Whatdoyoumean
by that? What is the Matter, says he? Ask no Questions,
says I, but all Hands to work, and weigh, without losing a
Minute; he was surpriz'd, but however, he call'dthe Cap-
tain, and he immediately order'd the Anchor to be got up;
and tho' the Tide was not quite done, yet a little Land
Breeze blowing, we stood out to Sea; then I call'd him in-
to the Cabin and told him the Story at large, and we call'd
in the Men, and they told us the rest of it; but as it took
us up a great deal of Time, so before we had done, a Sea-
man comes to the Cabin Door, and calls out to us, that the
Captain bad him tell us, we were chas'd; chas'd, says I, by
who, and by what? By five Sloops or Boats, says the Fel-
low, full of Men; very well, said I,thenit is apparent there
is something in it; in the next Place I order'd all our Men
to be call'd up, and told them, that there was a Design to
seize the Ship, and to take us for Pirates, and ask'd them,
if they would stand by us, and by one another; the Men
answer'd chearfully, that one and all, they would live and
die with us: Then I asked the Captain, what Way he
thought best for us to manage a Fight with them; for re-
sist them I was resolved we would, and that, to the last
Drop; he said readily, That the Way was to keep them off
with our great Shot, as longaswecould, and then to fire at
them with our small Arms as long as we could; but when
neither of these would do any longer, we should retire to
our close Quarters; perhaps they had not Materials to
break open our Bulk-heads, or get in upon us.
The Gunner had in the mean Time, Order to bring
two Guns to bear fore and aft out of the Steerage, to clear
the Deck, and load them with Musquet-Bullets and small
Pieces of old Iron, and what next came to Hand, and thus
we made ready for Fight; but all this while we kept out to
Sea, with Wind enough; and could see the Boats at a Dis-
tance, being five large Long-Boats, following us with all
the sail they could make.
Two of those Boats, which by our Glasses we could see
were English, out sailed the rest, were near two Leagues a
Head of them, and gain'd upon us considerably; so that
we found they would come up with us; upon which, we
fired Gun without Ball, to intimate, that they should bring
too, and we put out a Flag of Truce; as a Signal for Par-
ley, but they kept crowding after us, till they came within
Shot: When we took in our White Flag, they having
made no Answer to it, hung out a red Flag, and fired at
them with a Shot: Notwithstanding this, they came on,
till they were near enough to call to them with a speaking
Trumpet, which we had on Board; so we call'd to them,
and bid them keep off at their Peril.
It was all one, they crowded after us, and endeavoured
to come under our Stern, so to board us on our Quarter;
upon which, seeing they were resolute for Mischief, and
depended upon the strength that followed them, I order-
ed to bring the Ship too, so that they lay upon our Broad-
side, when immediately we fir'd five Guns at them; one of
which, had been levelled so true, as to carry away the
Stern of the hindermost Boat, and bring them to the Ne-
cessity of taking down their Sail, and running all to the
Head of the Boat to keep her from sinking; so she lay by,
and had enough of it; but seeing the foremost Boat crowd
on after us, we made ready to fire at her in particular.
While this was doing, one of the three Boats that was
behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up to
the Boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we
could afterwards see her take outthe Men; we call'd again
to the foremost Boat, and offer'd a Truce to parley again,
and to know what was her Business with us; but had no
Answer, only she crowded close under our Stern; upon
this our Gunner, who was a very dexterous Fellow, run out
his two Chase-Guns, and fired again at her; but the Shot
missing, the Men in the Boat shouted, wav'd their Caps,
and came on; but the Gunner gettingquicklyreadyagain,
fir'd among them the second Time; one Shot of which,
tho' it miss'd the Boat it self, yet fell in among the Men,
and we could easily see, had done a great deal of Mischief
among them; but we taking no Notice of that, war'd the
Ship again, and brought our Quarter to bear upon them;
and firing three Guns more, we found the Boat was split
almost to Pieces; in particular, her Rudder, and a Piece
of her Stern was shot quite away, so they handed their
Sail immediately, and were in great Disorder; but tocom-
pleat their Misfortune, our Gunner let fly two Guns at
them again; where he hit them we could not tell, but we
found the Boat was sinking, and some of the Men already
in the Water; upon this, I immediately man'd out our
Pinnace, which we had kept close by our Side, with Or-
ders to pick up some of the Men if they could, and save
them from drowning, and immediately to come on board
with them; because we saw the rest of the Boats began to
come up; Our Men in the Pinnace followed their Orders,
and took up three Men; one of which was just drowning,
and it was a good while before we could recover him;
as soon as they were on Board, we crouded all the Sail we
could make, and stood farther out to Sea, and we found
that when the other three Boats came up to the first two,
they gave over their Chace.
Being thus deliver'd from a Danger, which tho' I knew
not the Reason of it, yet seem'd to be much greater than I
apprehended; I took Care that we would change our
Course, and not let any one imagine whither we were go-
ing; so we stood out to Sea Eastward, quite out of the
Course of all Europian Ships, whether they were bound to
China, or any where else, within the Commerce of the
Europian Nations.
When we were now at Sea, we began to consult with
the two Seamen, and enquire first what the meaning of all
this should be, and the Dutch Man let us into the secret of
it at once; telling us that the Fellow that sold us the Ship,
as we said, was no more than a Thief, that had run away
with her: Then he told us, how the Captain, whose Name
too he told us, tho' I do not remember, was treacherously
murthered by the Natives on the Coast of Mallaca, with
three of his Men, and that he, this Dutch Man, and four
more, got into the Woods, where they wandered about a
great while; till at length, he in particular, in a miraculous
manner made his Escape, and swam off to a Dutch Ship,
which sailing near the Shore, in its Way from China, had
sent their Boat on Shore for fresh Water; that he durst
not come to that Part of the Shore where the Boat was, but
[made] shiftin the Night, totake the Waterfarther off, and
the Ship's Boat took him up.
He then told us, that he went to Battavia, where two
of the Sea-men belonging to the Ship arriv'd, having de-
serted the rest in their Travels, and gave an Account that
the Fellow who had run away with the Ship, sold her at
Bengale, to a Set of Pirates, which were gone a Cruising
in her; and that they had already taken an English Ship
and two Dutch Ships very richly laden.
This later Part we found to concern us directly, and
tho' we knew it to be false; yet as my Partner said very
well, if we had fallen into their Hands, and they had had
such a Prepossession against us beforehand, it had been
in vain for us to have defended our selves, or to hope for
any good Quarter attheir Hands, and especially consider-
ing that our Accusers had been our Judges, and that we
could have expected nothing from them, but what Rage
would have dictated, and an ungoverned Passion have
executed; and therefore it was his Opinion, we should go
directly back to Bengale, from whence we came, without
putting in at any Port whatever; because there, we could
give a good Account of our selves, could prove where we
were when the Ship put in, who we bought her of, and the
like; and which was more than all the re£t, if we were put
to the Necessity of bringing it before the proper Judges,
we should be sure to have some Justice, and not be hang'd
first, and judg'd afterward.
I was sometime of my Partner's Opinion; but after a
little more serious thinking, I told him, I thought it was a
very great Hazard for us to attempt returning to Bengale,
for that we were on the wrong side of the Straits of Malac-
ca ; and that if the Alarm was given, we should be sure to
be Way-laid on every side, as well by the Dutch of Batta-
via, as the English else-where; that if we should be taken,
as it were, running away, we should even condemn our
selves, and there would want no more Evidence to de-
stroy us; I also asked the English Sailor's Opinion, who
said, he was of my Mind, and that we should certainly
be taken.
This Danger, a little startled my Partner and all the
Ship's Company; and we immediately resolved to go
away to the Coast of Tonquin, and so on to the Coast of
China, and pursuing the first Design as to Trade, find
some Way or other to dispose of the Ship, and come back
in some of the Vessels of the Country, such as we could
get: This was approved of as the best Method for our Se-
curity; and accordingly we steered away N.N.E. keep-
ing above fifty Leagues off from the usual Course to the
Eastward.
This however put us to some Inconveniencies; for first
the Winds, when we came to the Distance from the Shore,
seem'd to be more steadily against us, blowing almost
Trade, as we call it, from the East, and E.N.E. so that we
were a long while upon our Voyage, and we were but ill
provided with Victuals for so long a Voyage; and which
was still worse, there was some Danger that those English
and Dutch Ships, whose Boats pursued us, whereof some
were bound that Way, might be got in before us, and if
not, some other Ship, bound to China, might have Infor-
mation of us from them, and pursue us with the same
Vigour.
I must confess, I was now very uneasy, and thought
myself, including the late Escape from the Long-Boats,
to have been in the most dangerous Condition that ever I
was in thro' all my past Life; for whatever ill Circum-
stances I had been in, I was never pursu'd for a Thief be-
fore; nor had I ever done any Thing that merited the
Name of Dishonest or Fraudulent, much less Thievish. I
had chiefly been my own Enemy, or as I may rightly say,
I had been no Body's Enemy but my own: But now I was
embarrass'd in the worst Condition imaginable; for tho'
I was perfectly innocent, I was in no Condition to make
that Innocence appear: And if I had been taken, it had
been under a supposed Guilt of the worst Kind; at least, a
Crime esteem'd so among the People I had to do with.
This made me very anxious to make an Escape, tho',
which Way to do it, I knew not, or what Port or Place we
should go to: My Partner seeing me thus dejected, tho'
he was the most concern'd at first, began to encourage
me; and discribing to me the several Ports of that Coast,
told me he would put in on the Coast of Chochinchina, or
the Bay of Tonquin, intending to go afterwards to Macao,
a Town once in the Possession of the Portuguese, and
where still a great many European Families resided, and
particularly the Missionary Priests usually went thither,
in order to their going forward to China.
Hither then we resolv'd to go; and accordingly, tho'
after a tedious and irregular Course, and very much strai-
tned for Provisions, we came within Sight of the Coast
very early in the Morning; and upon Reflection upon the
past Circumstances we were in, and the Danger if we had
not escaped, we resolv'd to put into a small River, which
however had a Depth enough of Water for us, and to see
if we could, either over Land, or by the Ship's Pinnace,
come to know what Ships were in any Port thereabouts.
This happy Step, was indeed our Deliverance; for tho' we
did not immediately see any Europian Ships in the Bay of
Tonquin, yet the next Morning there came into the Bay
two Dutch Ships, and a third without any Colours spread
out, but which we believ'd to be a Dutch Man, pass'd by
at about two Leagues Distance, steering for the Coast of
China; and in the Afternoon went by two English Ships
steering the same Course; and thus, we thought, we saw
our selves beset with Enemies, both one Way or other.
The Place we were in was wild and barbarous, the People
Thieves, even by Occupation or Profession; and tho' it is
true we had not much to seek of them, and except getting
a few Provisions, car'd not how little we had to do with
them, yet it was with much Difficulty that we kept our
selves from being insulted by them several Ways.
We were in a small River of this Country, within a few
Leagues of its utmost Limits Northward; and by our
Boat we coasted North-East to the Point of Land, which
opens the great Bay of Tonquin; and it was in this beating
up along the Shore, that we discover'd, as above, that in a
Word, we were surrounded with Enemies. The People
we were among, were the most barbarous of all the In-
habitants of the Coast; having no Correspondence with
any other Nation, and dealing only in Fish, and Oil, and
such gross Commodities; and it may be particularly seen,
that they are, as I said, the most barbarous of any of the
Inhabitants, (viz.) that among other Customs they have
this as one, (viz.) That if any Vessel have the Misfortune
to be shipwreck'd upon their Coast, they presently make
their Men all Prisoners or Slaves; and it was not long be-
fore we found a Spice of their Kindness this Way, on the
Occasion following.
I have observed above, that our Ship sprung a Leak at
Sea, and that we could not find it out; and however, it
happen'd, that as I have said it was stopp'd unexpectedly
in the happy Minute of our being to be seiz'd by theDutch
and English Ships in the Bay of Siam; yet as we did not
find the Ship so perfectly fit and sound as we desir'd, we
resolv'd, while we were in this Place, to lay her on Shore,
take out what heavy Things we had on Board, which were
not many, and to wash and clean her Bottom, and, if possi-
ble, to find out where the Leaks were.
Accordingly, having lighten'd the Ship, and brought
all our Guns and other moveable Things to one side, we
try'd to bring her down, that we might come at her Bot-
tom; but on second Thoughts we did not care to lay her
dry on Ground, neither could we find out a proper Place
for it.
The Inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with
such a sight, came wondering down to the Shore, to look
at us; and seeing the Ship lie down on one Side in such a
manner, and heeling in towards the Shore; and not seeing
our Men, who were at Work on her Bottom, with Stages
and with their Boats on the off-side, they presently con-
cluded, that the Ship was cast away, and lay so fast on the
Ground.
On this Supposition they came all about us in two or
three Hours time, with ten or twelve large Boats, having
some of them eight, some ten Men in a Boat, intending,
no doubt, to have come on Board, and plunder 'dthe Ship;
and if they had found us there, to have carry'd us away for
Slaves to their King, or whatever they call him; for we
knew nothing who was their Governour.
When they came up to the Ship, and began to row
round her, they discover'd us all hardat Work on the Out-
side of the Ship's bottom and side, washing, and graving,
and stopping, as every seafaring Man knows how.
They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who were
a little surpriz'd, could not imagine what their Design
was; but, being willingtobe .fare, wetookthis Opportunity
to get some of us into the Ship, and others to hand down
Arms and Ammunition to those that were at Work, to
defend themselves with, if there should be Occasion; and
it was no more than Need; for in less than a quarter of an
Hour's Consultation, they agreed, it seems, that the Ship
was really a Wreck, that we were all at Work endeavour-
ing to save her, or to save our Lives by the Help of our
Boats, and when we handed our Arms into the Boats, they
concluded, by that Motion, that we were endeavouring
to save some of our Goods; upon this they took it for
granted we all belong'd to them; and away they came
down upon our Men, as if it had been in a Line of
Battle.
Our Men, seeing so many of them, began to be fright-
ed; for we lay but in an ill Posture to fight, and cry'd out
to us to know what they should do: I immediately call'd
to the Men who work'd upon the Stages, to slip them
down, and get up the side into the Ship; and bad those in
the Boat to row round and come on Board; and those few
of us, who were on board, work'd with all the strength
and hands we had, to bring the Ship to Rights; but how-
ever, neither the Men upon the Stages or those in the
Boats, could do as they were order'd, before the Cochin-
chinesses were upon them; and two of their Boats boarded
our Long-Boat, and began to lay hold of the Men as their
Prisoners.
The first Man they laid hold of was an English Sea-
man, a stout strong Fellow, who having a Musket in his
Hand, never offer'd to fire it, but laid it down in the Boat,
like a Fool, as I thought: But he understood his Business
better than I could teach him; for he grappled the Pagan,
and dragg'd him by main Force, out of their own Boat in-
to ours; where, taking him by the two Ears, he beat his
Head, so against the Boat's Gunnel, that the Fellow dy'd
instantly in his Hands; and in the mean time, a Dutch
Man, who stood next, took up the Musket, and with the
But-end of it, so laid about him, that he knock'd down
five of them, who attempted to enter the Boat; But this
was doing little towards resisting thirty or fourty Men,
who fearless, because ignorant of their Danger, began to
throw themselves into the Long-Boat, where we had but
five Men in all to defend it: But one Accident gave our
Men a compleat Victory, which deserv'd our Laughter
rather than any Thing else, and that was this:
Our Carpenter being preparing to grave the Out-side
of the Ship, as well as to pay the Seams, where he had
caulk'd her to stop the Leakes, had got two Kettles just
let down into the Boat; one fill'd with boiling Pitch, and
the other with Rosin, Tallow, and Oil, and such Stuff, as
the Ship-Wrights use for that Work; and the Man that
tended the Carpenter, had a great Iron Ladle in his Hand,
with which he supply'd the Men that were at Work
with that hot Stuff; two of the Enemies Men entred the
Boat just where this Fellow stood, being in the Fore-
sheets ; he immediately saluted them with a Ladle full of
the Stuff, boiling hot, which so burnt and scalded them,
being half naked, that they roar'd out like two Bulls, and,
enrag'd with the Fire, leap'd both into the Sea: The Car-
penter saw it, and cry'd out, Well done, Jack, give them
some more of it; and stepping forward himself, takes one
of their Mops, and dipping it in the Pitch-Pot, he and his
Man threw it among them so plentifully that, in short, of
all the Men in three Boats, there was not one that was
not scalded, and burnt with it in a most frightful pitiful
Manner, and made such a Howling and Crying, that I
never heard a worse Noise, and indeed nothing like it;for
it is worth observing, That tho' Pain naturally makes all
People cry out, yet every Nation has a particular Way of
Exclamation, and make Noises as different from one an-
other, as their Speech; I cannot give the Noise, these
Creatures made, a better Name than Howling, nor a
Name more proper to the Tone of it; for I never heard
any Thing more like the Noise of the Wolves, which as I
have said, I heard howl in the Forest on the Frontiers of
Languedoc.
I was never pleas'd with a Victory better in my Life;
not only as it was a perfect Surprize to me, and that our
Danger was imminent before: but as we got this Victory
without any Blood shed, except of that Man the Fellow
kill'd with his naked Hands, and which I was very much
concern'd at; for I was sick of killing such poor Savage
Wretches, even tho' it was in my own Defence, knowing
they came on Errands which they thought just, and knew
no better; and that tho' it may be a just Thing, because
necessary, for there is no necessary Wickedness in Na-
ture, yet I thought it was a sad Life, which we must be
always oblig'd to be killing our Fellow-Creatures to pre-
serve, and indeed I think so still; and I would even now
suffer a great deal, rather than I would take away the
Life, even of that Person injuring me: And I believe, all
considering People, whoknow the Value of Life, would be
of my opinion, at least, they would, if theyentred serious-
ly into the Consideration of it.
But to return to my Story, all the while this was doing,
my Partner and I, who manag'd the rest of the Men on
Board, had with great Dexterity brought the Ship almost
to Rights; and having gotten the Guns into their Places
again,the Gunner call'd to me, to bid our Boat get out of
the Way, for he would let fly among them. I call'd back
again to him, and bid him not offer to fire, for the Car-
penter would do the Work without him, but bad him heat
another Pitch-Kettle, which our Cook, who was on Board,
took Care of: But the Enemy were so terrify'd with what
they had met with in their first Attack, that they would
not come on again; and some of them that were farthest
off, seeing the Ship swim, as itwere upright, begun, as we
supposed, to see their Mistake, and give over the Enter-
prize, finding it was not as they expedled: Thus we got
clear of this merry Fight; and having gotten some Rice,
and some Roots, and Bread, with about sixteen good big
Hogs on Board, two Days before, we resolv'd to stay here
no longer, but go forward whatever came of it; for we
made no Doubt but we should be surrounded the next
vol. in k
Day with Rogues enough, perhaps more than our Pitch-
Kettle would dispose of for us.
We therefore got all our Things on Board the same
Evening, and the next Morning was ready to sail; in the
mean time, lying at an Anchor at some Distance, we were
not so much concern'd, being now in a fighting Posture,
as well as in a sailing Posture, if any Enemy had present-
ed: The next Dayhavingfinish'dourWorkwithin Board,
andfindingour Ship was perfectly heal'd of all her Leaks,
we set sail; we would have gone into the Bay of Tonquin;
forwewantedtoinformourselvesofwhatwastobe known
concerning the Dutch Ships that had been there; but we
durst not stand in there, because we had seen several
Ships go in, as we suppos'd, but a little before; so we kept
on N. E. towards the Isle of Formosa, as much afraid of
being seen by a Dutch or English Merchant Ship, as a
Dutch or English Merchant Ship in the Mediterranean is
of an Algerine Man of War.
When we were thus got to Sea, we kept out N. E. as if
we would go to the Munillas or the Phillippine Islands;
and this we did, that we might not fall into the Way of any
of our European Ships; and then we steer'd North 'till we
came to the Latitude of 22 Degrees, 30 Min.; by which
Means we made the Island Formosa directly, where we
came to an Anchor, in order to get Water and fresh Pro-
visions, which the People there, who are very courteous
and civil in their Manners, supply'd us with willingly,
and dealt very fairly and punctually with us in all their
Agreements and Bargains; which is what we did not find
among other People; and may be owing to the Remains
of Christianity, which was once planted here by a Dutch
Missionary of Protestants, and is a Testimony of what I
have often observ'd, viz. That the Christian Religion al-
ways civilizes the People, and reforms their Manners,
where it is receiv'd, whether it works saving Effects upon
them or no.
From hence we sail'd still North, keeping the Coast of
China at an equal Distance, till we knew we were beyond
all the Ports of China, where our European Ships usually
come; being resolv'd, if possible, not to fall into any of
their Hands, especially in this Country, where, as our
Circumstances were, we could not fail of being entirely
ruin'd; nay, so great was my Fear in particular, as to my
being taken by them, that I believe firmly, I would much
rather have chosen to fall into the Hands of the Spanish
Inquisition.
Being now come to the Latitude of 30 Degrees, we re-
solv'd to put into the first trading Port we should come
at; and standing in for the Shore, a Boat came off two
Leagues to us, with an old Portuguese Pilot on Board,who
knowing Us to be an European Ship, came to offer his Ser-
vice, which indeed we were very glad of, and took him on
Board; upon which, without asking us whether we would
go, he dismiss'd the Boat he came in, and sent them back.
I thought it was now so much in our Choice, to make
the old Man carry us whither we would; that I began to
talk with him about carrying us to the Gulph of Nanquin,
which is the most Northern Part of the Coast of China:
The old Man said he knew the Gulph of Nanquin very
well; but smiling, ask'd us what we would do there?
I told him, we would sell our Cargo, and purchase
China-Wares, Callicoes, Raw-Silks, Tea, Wrought-Silks,
&c. and so would return by the same Course we came:
He told us our best Port had been to have put in at Macao>
wherewecould not have fail'd of a Marketfor our Opium,
to our Satisfaction, and might for our Money have pur-
chas'd all Sorts of China-Goods, as cheap as we could at
Nanquin.
Not being able to put the old Man out of his Talk, of
which he was very opinionated or conceited, I told him,
we were Gentlemen, as well as Merchants, and that we
had a Mind to go and see the great City of Pecking, and
the famous Court of the Monarch of China. Why then,
says the old Man, you should go to Ningpo, where, by the
River which runs into the Sea there, you may go up with-
in five Leagues of the Great Canal. This Canal is a navi-
gable River, which goes thorow the Heart of that vast
Empire of China, crosses all the Rivers, passes some con-
siderable Hills by the Help of Sluices and Gates, and
goes up to the City of Pecking, being in Length near 270
Leagues.
Well, said I, Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our
Business now: The great Question is, If you can carry us
up to the City of Nanquin, from whence we can travel to
Pecking afterwards? Yes, he said, he could do so very well,
and that there was a great Dutch Ship gone up that Way
just before. This gave me a little Shock; and a Dutch Ship
was now our Terror, and we had much rather have met
the Devil, at least, if he had not come in too frightful a
Figure; and we depended upon it, that aDutch Ship would
be our Destruction, for we were in no Condition to fight
them; all the Ships they trade with into those Parts being
of great Burthen, and of much greater Force than we
were.
The old Man found me a little confus'd, and under
some Concern, when he nam'd a Dutch Ship, and said to
me, Sir you need be under no Apprehensionsof the Dutch,
I suppose they are not now at War with your Nation: No,
says I, that's true; but I know not what Liberties Men
may take when they are out of the Reach of the Law :Why,
says he,you are no Pirates, what need you fear? They will
not meddle with peaceable Merchants sure.
If I had any Blood in my Body that did not fly up into
my Face at that Word, it was hinder'd by some Stop in
the Vessels, appointed by Nature to prevent it; for it put
me into the greatest Disorder and Confusion imaginable:
Nor was it possible for me to conceal it so, but that the old
Man easily perceiv'd it.
Sir, says he, I find you are in some Disorder in your
Thoughts at my Talk, pray be pleas'd to go which Way
you think fit, and depend upon it, I'll do you all the Ser-
vice I can. Why, Seignior, said I, it is true I am a little un-
settled in my Resolution at this Time whither to go in
particular; and I am something more so, for what you
said about Pirates, I hope there are no Pirates in these
Seas; we are but in an ill Condition to meet with them, for
you see we have but a small Force, and but very weakly
mann'd.
O Sir, says he, do not be concern'd, I do not know that
there has beenanyPiratesinthese Seas thesefifteen Years,
except one which was seen, as I hear, in the Bay of Siam,
about a Month since; but you may be assured she is gone
to the Southward; nor was she a Ship of any great Force,
or fit for the Work; she was not built for a Privateer, but
was run away with by a reprobate Crew that were on
Board, after the Captain and some of his Men had been
murther'd by the Malayans, at or near the Island of Su-
matra.
What! S AID I, seeming to know nothing of the Matter,
didtheymurtherthe Captain? No, said he, I do notunder-
sland that they murther'd him; but as they afterwards
run away with the Ship, it is generally believ'd they be-
tray'd him into the Hands of the Malayans, who did mur-
ther him, and perhaps they procur'd them to do it: Why
then, said I, they deserve Death as much as if they had
done it themselves: Nay, says the old Man, they do deserve
it, and they will certainly have it, if they light upon any
English or Dutch Ship; for they have all agreed together,
thatif theymeetthat Rogue, they will give him noQuarter.
But, said I to him, you say the Pirate is gone out of
those Seas, how can they meet with him? Why, that is
true, says he, they do say so; but he was, as I tell you, in
the Bay of Siam, in the River Cambodia, and was discover-
ed there by some Dutch Men who belonged to the Ship,
and who were left on Shore when they run away with her;
and some English and Dutch Traders being in the River,
they were within a little of taking him: Nay, said he, if the
foremost Boats had been well seconded by the rest, they
had certainly taken him; but he finding only two Boats
within Reach of him, tack'd about, and fir'd at these two,
and disabled them before the other came up, and then
standing off to Sea, the other were not able to follow him,
and so he got away: But they have all so exact a Descrip-
tion of the Ship, that they will be sure to know him; and
where-ever they find him, they have vow'd to give no
Quarter to either the Captain, or the Seamen, but to hang
them all up at the Yard-Arm.
What! says I, will they execute them right or wrong,
hang them first, and judge them afterwards? O Sir! says
the old Pilot, there's no Need to make a formal Business
of it with such Rogues as those, let them tye them Back
to Back, and set them a diving; 'tis no more than they
richly deserve.
I knew I had my old Man fast aboard, and that he
could do me no Harm, so that I turn'd short upon him:
Well now, Seignior, said I, and this is the very Reason,
why I would have you carry us up to Nanquin, and not to
put back to Macao, or to any other part of the Country,
where the English or Dutch Ships come; for be it known
to you, Seignior, those Captains of the English and Dutch
Ships, are a Parcel of rash, proud, insolent Fellows, that
neither knows what belongs to Justice, nor how to behave
themselves, as the Laws of God and Nature direct; but
being proud of their Offices, and not understanding their
Power, they would act the Murtherers to punish Rob-
bers ; would take upon them to insult Men falsely accus-
ed, and determine them guilty without due Enquiry; and
perhaps I may live to call some of them to an Account for
it, where they may be taught how Justice is to be exe-
cuted, and that no Man ought to be treated as a Criminal,
'till some Evidence may be had of the Crime, and that he
is the Man.
With this I told him, that this was the very Ship they
attack'd, and gave him a full Account of the Skirmish we
had with their Boats, and how foolishly and coward-like
they behav'd. I told him all the Story of our buying the
Ship, and how the Dutch Men served us. I told him the
Reasons I had to believe that this Story of killing the
Master by the Malayans was true; as also the running
away with the Ship; but that it was all a Fiction of their
own, to suggest that the Men were turn'd Pirates; and
they ought to have been sure it was so, before they had
ventur'd to attack us by Surprize, and oblige us to resist
them; adding that they would have the Blood of those
Men, who we kill'd there in our just Defence, to an-
swer for.
The old Man was amaz'd at this Relation, and told us,
we were very much in the Right to go away to the North,
and that if he might advise us, it should be to sell the Ship
in China, which we might very well do, and buy or build
another in the Country; and, said he, though you will not
get so good a Ship, yet you may get one able enough to
carry you and all your Goods back again to Bengale, or
any where else.
I told him, I would take his Advice, when I came to
any Port where I could find a Ship for my Turn, or get
any Customer to buy this: He reply'd, I should meet with
Customers enough for the Ship at Nanquin, and that a
Chinese Jonk would serve me very well to go back again;
and that he would procure me People, both to buy one
and sell the other.
Well, but Seignior, says I, as you say they know the
Ship so well, I may perhaps, if I followyour Measures, be
instrumental to bring some honest innocent Men into a
terrible Broil, and perhaps to be murther'd in cold Blood;
for wherever they find the Ship, they will prove the Guilt
upon the Men, by proving this was the Ship, and so inno-
cent Men may probably be overpower'd and murther'd:
Why, says the old Man, I'll find out a Way to prevent that
also; for as I know all those Commanders you speak of
very well, and shall see them all as they pass by, I will be
sure to set them to Rights in the Thing, and let them
know that they bad been so much in the Wrong; that tho'
the People, who were on board at first, might run away
with the Ship, yet it was not true that they had turned Pi-
rates ; and that in particular, these were not the Men that
first went off with the Ship, but innocently bought her for
their Trade; and I am persuaded they will so far believe
me, as at least to act morecautiouslyfortheTimetocome.
Well, says I, And will you deliver one Message to them
from me? Yes, I will, says he, if you will give it under your
Hand in Writing, that I may be able to prove, that it
came from you, and not out of my own Head. I answered,
That I would readily give it him under my Hand; so I
took a Pen, and Ink, and Paper, and wrote at large the
Story of assaulting me with the Long-Boats, &c. the pre-
tended Reason of it, and the unjust cruel Design of it; and
concluded to the Commanders, that they had done what
they not only should ha' been asham'd of, but also, that if
ever they came to England, and I liv'd to see them there,
they should all pay dearly for it, if the Laws of my Coun-
try were not grown out of Use before I arrived there.
My old Pilot read this over and over again, and ask'd
me several Times if I would stand to it? I answer'd,
I would stand to it as long as I had any Thing left in the
World, being sensible that I should one Time or other
find an Opportunity to put it home to them: But we had
no Occasion ever to let the Pilot carry this Letter; for he
never went back again: While those Things were passing
between us, by Way of Discourse, we went forward, di-
rectly for Nanquin, and in about thirteen Days Sail came
to an Anchor at the South- West Point of the great Gulph
of Nanquin, where, by the Way, I came by Accident to
understand, that two Dutch Ships were gone the length
before me, andthat I shouldcertainlyfall into their Hands;
I consulted my Partner again in this Exigency, and he
was as much at a Loss as I was, andwould very gladly have
been safe on Shore almost any where; however, I was not
in such Perplexity neither, but I ask'd the old Pilot, if
there was no Creek or Harbour, which I might put into,
and pursue my Business with the Chinese privately, and
be in no Danger of the Enemy: he told me, if I would sail
to the Southward about two and forty Leagues, there was
a little Port call'd Quinchang, where the Fathers of the
Mission usually landed from Macao, on their Progress to
teach the Christian Religion to the Chineses, and where
no European Ships ever put in; and if I thought to put in
there, I might consider what farther Course to take when
I was on Shore: He confess'd, he said, it was not a Place
for Merchants, except that at some certain Times, they
had a Kind of a Fair there, when the Merchants from Ja-
pan came over to buy the Chinese Merchandizes.
We all agreed to go back to this Place; the Name of the
Port, as he call'd it, I may perhaps spell wrong; for I do
not particularly remember it, having lost this, together
with the Names of many other Places, set down in a little
Pocket-Book, which was spoil'd by the Water, on an Ac-
cident, which I shall relate in its Order; but this I remem-
ber, that the Chinese, or Japonese Merchants we corre-
sponded with, call'd it by a differing Name from that
which our Portuguese Pilot gave it, and pronounc'd it as
above, Quinchang.
As we were unanimous in our Resolutions to go to
this Place, we weigh'd the next Day, having only gone
twice on Shore, where we were to get fresh Water; on
both which Occasions, the People of the Country were
very civil to us, and brought us abundance of Things to
sell to us; I mean, of Provisions, Plants, Roots, Tea, Rice,
and some Fowls; but nothing without Money.
We came to the other Port, (the Wind being contrary)
not till five Days, but it was very much to our Satisfac-
tion ; and I was joyful, and I may say, thankful, when I set
my Foot safe on Shore; resolving, and my Partner too,
that if it was possible to dispose ofour selves and Effects,
any other Way, tho' not every Way to our Satisfaction,
we would never set one Foot on board that unhappy Ves-
sel more; and indeed I must acknowledge, that of all the
Circumstances of Life, that ever I had any Experience of,
nothing makes Mankind so compleatly miserable, as that,
of being in constant Fear: Well does the Scripture say,
the Fear of Man brings a Snare; it is a Life of Death, and
the Mind is so entirely suppress'd by it, that it is capable
of no Relief; the animal Spirits sink, and all the Vigour
of nature, which usually supports Men under other Af-
flictions, and is present to them in th e greatest Exigencies,
fails them here.
Nor did it fail of its usual Operations upon the Fancy,
by heightening every Danger, representing the English
and Dutch Captains, to be Men uncapable of hearing Rea-
son, or of distinguishing between honest Men and Ro-
gues; or between a Story calculated for our own Turn,
made out of nothing, on Purpose to deceive; and a true
genuine Account of our whole Voyage, Progress, and
Design; for we might many Ways have convinc'd any
reasonable Creature, that we were not Pirates; the Goods
we had on board, the Course we steer'd,ourfranklyshew-
ing our selves, and entring into such and such Ports; and
even our very Manner, the Force we had, the Number of
Men, thefew Arms, little Ammunition, short Provisions;
all these would have serv'd to convince any Men, that we
were no Pirates; the Opium, and other Goods we had on
board, would make it appear, the Ship had been at Ben-
gale; the Dutch Men, who it was said, had the Names of
all the Men that was in the Ship, might easily see that we
were a Mixture of English, Portuguese, and Indians, and
but two Dutch Men on board: These, and many other
particular Circumstances, might have made it evident to
the Understanding of any Commander, whose Hands we
might fall into, that we were no Pirates.
But Fear, that blind useless Passion, work'd another
Way, and threw us into the Vapours; it bewildred our
Understandings, and set the Imagination at Work, to
form a thousand terrible Things, that perhaps might
never happen; we first suppos'd, as indeed every Body had
related to us, that the Seamen on board the English and
Dutch Ships, but especially the Dutch, were so enraged at
the Name of a Pirate, and especially at our beating of their
Boats, and escaping, that they would not give themselves
leave to enquire, whether we were Pirates or no; but
would execute us off Hand, as we call it, without giving
us any Room for a Defence; we reflected that there was
really so much apparent Evidence before them, that they
would scarce enquire after any more; as first, That the
Ship was certainly the same, and that some of the Seamen
among them knew her, and had been on board her; and
secondly, That when we had Intelligence at the River of
Cambodia, that they were coming down to examine us, we
fought their Boat and fled; so that we made no doubt but
they were fully satisfy'd of our being Pirates, as we were
satisfy'd of the contrary; and as I often said, I know not
but I should have been apt to have taken those Circum-
stances for Evidence, if the Tables were turn'd, and my
Case was theirs, and have made no Scruple of cutting all
the Crew to Pieces, without believing, or perhaps con-
sidering, what they might have to offer in their Defence.
But let that be how it will, those were our Apprehen-
sions ; and both my Partner and I too, scarce slept a Night,
without dreaming of Halters, and Yard-Arms; that is to
say, Gibbets, of fighting, and being taken; of killing and
being kill'd; and one Night I was in such a Fury in my
Dream, fancying the Dutch Men had boarded us, and I
was knocking one of their Seamen down, that I struck my
double Fist against the Side of the Cabin I lay in, with
such a Force, as wounded my Hand most grievously,
broke my Knuckles, and cut and bruised the Flesh; so
that it not only wak'd me out of my Sleep, but I was once
afraid I should have lost two of my Fingers.
Another Apprehension I had, was of the cruel Usage
we might meet with from them, if we fell into theirHands;
then the Story of Amboyna came into my Head, and how
the Dutch, might perhaps torture us, as they did our
Countrymen there; and make some of our Men, by Ex-
tremity of Torture, confess those Crimes they never were
guilty of; own themselves, and all of us to be Pirates, and
so they would put us to Death, with a formal Appearance
of Justice; and that they might be tempted to do this, for
the Gain of our Ship and Cargo, which was worth four or
five thousand Pound, put altogether.
These Things tormented me and my Partner too,
Night and Day; nor did we consider that the Captains of
Ships have no Authority to act thus; and if we had sur-
render'd Prisoners to them, they could not answerthede-
stroying us, or torturing us, but would be accountable for
it, when they came into their own Country: This I say,
gave me no Satisfaction; for if they will act thus with us,
what Advantage would it be to us, thatthey wouldbecall'd
to an Account for it; or if we were first to be murthered,
what Satisfaction would it be to us to have them punish'd
when they came Home?
I cannot refrain taking Notice here, what Reflections I
now had upon the past Variety of my particular Circum-
stances ; how hard I thought it was, that I who had spent
forty Years in a Life of continu'd Difficulties, and was at
last come as it were to the Port or Haven, which all Men
drive at,(v/z.) to have Rest andPlenty, shouldbeaVolun-
tier in new Sorrows, by my own unhappy Choice; and
that I, who escaped so many Dangers in my Youth, should
now come to be hang'd in my old Age, and in so remote a
Place, for a Crime I was not in the least inclin'd to, much
less really guilty of; and in a Place and Circumstance,
where Innocence was not like to be any Protection at all
to me.
After these Thoughts, something of Religion would
come in; and I should be considering, that this seem'd to
me to be a Disposition of immediate Providence, and I
ought to look upon it, and submit to it as such; that al-
though I was innocent as to Men, I was far from being
innocent as to my Maker; and I ought to look in and ex-
amine, what other Crimes in my Life, were most obvious
to me; and for which, Providence might justly inflict
this Punishment, as a Retribution; and that I ought to
submit to this, just asl would to a Ship-wreck, if it had
pleased God to have brought such a Disaster upon
me.
In its Turn, Natural Courage would sometimes take
its Place; and then I would betalking my self up to vigor-
ous Resolutions, that I would not be taken, to be bar-
barously used by a Parcel of mercyless Wretches, in cold
Blood; that it were much better to have fallen into the
Hands of the Savages, who were Man-Eaters, and who, I
was sure, would feast upon me, when they had taken me;
than by those, who would perhaps glut their Rage upon
me, by inhuman Tortures and Barbarities; that in the
Case of the Savages, I always resolv'd to die fighting, to
the last Gasp; and why should I not do so, seeing it was
much more dreadful to me atleasl, to think of falling into
these Mens Hands, than ever it was to think of being
eaten by Men; for the Savages, give them their due,
would not eat a Man till he was dead, and kill'd them first,
as we do a Bullock; but that these Men had many Arts
beyond the Cruelty of Death: When ever these Thoughts
prevail'd, I was sure to put my self in a kind of Fever, with
the Agitations of a supposed Fight; myBlood would boil,
and my Eyes sparkle, as if I was engag'd; and I always
resolv'd that I would take no Quarter at their Hands; but
even at last, if I could resist no longer, I would blow up
the Ship and all that was in her, and leave them but little
Booty to boast of.
By how much the greater Weight, the Anxieties and
Perplexities of these Things were to our Thoughts while
we were at Sea, by so much the greater was our Satisfac-
tion, when we saw our selves on Shore; and my Partner
told me he dream'd, that he had a very heavy Load upon
his Back, which he was to carry up a Hill, and found that
he was not able to stand long under it; but that the Portu-
guese Pilot came and took it offhis Back, and the Hill dis-
appear'd, the Ground before him shewing all smooth and
plain, and truly it was so, we were all like Men, who had
a Load taken off their Backs.
For my Part, I had a Weight taken off from my Heart,
that I was not able any longer to bear; and as I said above,
we resolv'd to go no more to Sea in that Ship: When we
came on Shore, the old Pilot, who was now our Friend,
gotusaLodging and a Ware-House for our Goods, which
by the Way, was much the same; it was a little House or
Hut, with alarge House j oyning to it, all built with Canes,
and pallisadoed round with large Canes, to keep out pil-
fering Thieves, of which, it seems there were not a few in
that Country; however, the Magistrates allowed us also a
little Guard, and we had a Sentinel with a kind of Hal-
berd, or Half-pike, who stood Sentinel at our Door; to
whom we allow'd a Pint of Rice, and a little Piece of Mo-
ney, about the Value of three Pence per Day, so that our
Goods were kept very safe.
The Fair or Mart, usually kept in this Place, had been
over some Time; however, we found that therewerethree
or four Jonks in the River, and two Japanners, I mean,
Ships from Jappan, with Goods which they had bought
in China, and were not gone away, having Japponese Mer-
chants on Shore.
The first Thing our old Portuguese Pilot did for us, was
to bring us acquainted with three Missionary Romish
Priests, who were in the Town, and who had been there
some Time, converting the People to Christianity; but
we thought they made but poor Work of it, and made
them but sorry Christians when they had done; however,
that was none of our Business: One of these was a French
Man, who they call'd Father Simon; he was a jolly well
condition'd Man, veryfreeinhis Conversation, not seem-
ingsoserious andgrave, as the other two did; one of whom
was a Portuguese, and the other a Genoese; but Father
Simon was courteous, easy in his Manner, and very agree-
able Company; the other two were more reserv'd, seem'd
rigid and austere, and apply'd seriously to the Work they
came about, (viz.) to talk with, and insinuate themselves
among the Inhabitants, where-ever they had Opportuni-
ty; we often eat and drank with those Men, and tho' I
must confess, the Conversion as they call it, of the Chineses
to Christianity, is so far from the true Conversion re-
quir'd, to bring Heathen People to the Faith of Christ,
that it seems to amount to little more, than letting them,
know the Name of Christ, and say some Prayers to the
Virgin Mary, and her Son, in a Tongue which they un-
derstand not, and to cross themselves and the like; yet it
must be confess'd, that these Religious, who we call Mis-
sionaries, have a firm Belief that these People shall be
sav'd, and that they are the Instruments of it;andon this
Account, they undergo not only the Fatigue of the Voy-
age, and Hazards of living in such Places, but oftentimes
Death it self, with the most violent Tortures, for the Sake
of this Work; and it would be a great Want of Charity in
us, whatever Opinion we have of the Work itself, and the
Manner of their doing it, if we should not have a good
Opinion of their Zeal, who undertook it with so many
Hazards, and who have no Prospect of the least Tem-
poral Advantage to themselves.
But to return to my Story; this French Priest, Father
Simon, was appointed it seems, by Order of the Chief of
the Mission, to go up to Peking, the Royal Seat of the
Chinese Emperor, and waited only for another Priest,
who was order'd to come to him from Macao, to go along
with him; and we scarce ever met together, but he was
inviting me to go that Journey, telling me, how he would
shew me all the glorious Things of that mighty Empire;
and among the rest, the greatest City in the World ;aCity,
said he, that your London and our Paris put together,can-
not be equal to: This was the City of Peking, which I con-
fess is very great, and infinitely full of People; but as I
look'd on those Things with different Eyes from other
Men, so I shall give my Opinion of them in few Words,
when I come in the Course of my Travels, to speak more
particularly of them.
But first, I come to my Fryar or Missionary; dining
with him one Day, and being very merry together, I
shew'd some little Inclination to go with him, and he
press'd me and my Partner very hard, and with a great
many Perswasions to consent; why Father Simon, says
my Partner, why should you desire our Company so
vol. in 1
much: You know we are Hereticks, and you do not love
us, nor cannot keep us Company with any Pleasure? O!
says he, You may perhaps be good Catholicks in Time;
my Business here is to convert Heathens, and who knows
but I may convert you too. Very well, Father, said I, so
you will preach to us all the Way; I won't be troublesome
to you, says he; our Religion does not divest us of good
Manners; besides, says he, we are here like Countrymen,
and so we are, compared to the Place we are in; and if you
are Hugonots, and I a Catholick, we maybe all Christians
at last; at least, said he, we are all Gentlemen, and we may
converse so, without being uneasy to one another. I lik'd
that Part of his Discourse very well, and it began to put
me in Mind of my Priest, that I had left in the Brasils; but
this Father Simon did not come up to his Character, by a
great deal; for tho' Father Simon had no Appearance of a
Criminal Levity in him neither, yet he had not that Fund
of Christian Zeal, strict Piety, and sincere Affection to
Religion, that my other good Ecclesiastick had, of whom
I have said so much.
But to leave him a little, tho' he never left us, nor soli-
citing us to go with him; but we had somethingelsebefore
us at first; for we had all this while our Ship,and our Mer-
chandize to dispose of, and we began to be very doubtful
what we should do, for we were now in a Place of very lit-
tle Business; and once I was about to venture to sail for
the River of Kilam, and the City of Nanquin: But Provi-
dence seem'd now more visibly as I thought, than ever, to
concern itself in our Affair; and I was encouraged from
this very Time, to think, I should one Way or other get
out of this tangled Circumstance, and be brought Home
to my own Country again, tho' I had not the least View of
the Manner: and when I began sometimes to think of it,
could not imagine by what Method it was to be done:
Providence, I say, began here to clear up our Way a little;
and the first Thing that offered was, that our old Portu-
guese Pilot brought a Japan Merchant to us, who began
to enquire what Goods we had; and in the first Place, he
bought all our Opium, and gave us a very good Price for
it, paying us in Gold by Weight, some in small Pieces of
their own Coin, and some in small Wedges, of about ten
or eleven Ounces each. While we were dealing with him
for our Opium, it came into my Head, that he might per-
haps deal with us for the Ship too, and I ordered the In-
terpreter to propose ittohim; he shrunk up his Shoulders
at it, when it was first propos'd to him; but in a few Days
after, he came to me with one of the missionary Priests
for his Interpreter,and told me, he had a Proposal to make
to me, and that was this; he had bought a great Quantity
of Goods of us, when he had no Thoughts (or Proposals
made to him) of buying the Ship; and that therefore, he
had not Money enough to payfor the Ship; but if I would
let the same Men who were in the Ship navigate her, he
would hire the Ship to go to Japan, and would send them
from thence to the Philippine Islands with another Load-
ing, which he would pay the Freight of, before they went
from Japan; and that at their Return, he would buy the
Ship: I began to listen to his Proposal, and so eager did
my Head still run upon Rambling, that I could not but
begin to entertain a Notion of going my self with him,
andsotosailfromthePii/7//)pi»eIslands,awayto the South
Seas; and accordingly I ask'd the Japanese Merchant, if
he would not hire us to the Philippine Islands, and dis-
charge us there; he said, no he could not do that, for then
he could not have the return of his Cargo; but he would
discharge us in Japan, he said, at the Ship's Return. Well,
still I was for taking him at that Proposal, and going my-
self; but my Partner, wiser than my self, persuaded me
from it, representing the Dangers as well of the Seas, as
of the Japaneses, who are a false, cruel, and treacherous
People; and then of the Spaniards, at the Philippines,
more false, more cruel, and more treacherous than
they.
But to bring this long Turn of our Affairs to a Conclu-
sion ; the first Thing we had to do, was to consult with the
Captain of the Ship, and with his Men, and know if they
were willing to go to Japan; and while I was doing this,
the young Man, who, as I said, my Nephew had left with
me as my Companion for my Travels, came to me, and
told me, that he thought that Voyage promised very fair,
and that there was a great Prospect of Advantage, and he
would be very glad if I undertook it; but that if I would
not, and would give him leave, he would go as a Mer-
chant, or how I pleas'd to order him; that if ever he came
to England, and I was there and alive, he would render me
a faithful Account of his Success, anditshouldbeas much
mine as I pleas'd.
I was really loth to part with him, but considering the
Prospect of Advantage which was really considerable,
and that he was a young Fellow, as likely to do well in it,
as any I knew, I inclin'd to let him go; but first I told him,
I would consult my Partner, and give him an Answer the
next Day; my Partner and I discours'd about it, and my
Partner made a most generous Offer; he told me, you
know it has been an unlucky Ship, and we both resolve
not to go to Sea in it again; if your Steward, so he call'd my
Man, will venture the Voyage, I'll leave my Share of the
Vessel to him, and let him make his best of it; and if we
live to meet in England, and he meets with Successabroad,
he shall account for one Half of the Profits of the Ship's
Freight to us, the other shall be his own.
If my Partner, who was no Way concerned with my
young Man, made him such an Offer, I could do no less
than offer him the same; and all the Ship's Company be-
ing willing to go with him, we made over Half the Ship to
him in Property, and took a Writing from him, obliging
him to account for the other, and away he went to Japan:
The Japan Merchant prov'd a very pundlual honestMan
to him, protected him at Japan, and got him a License to
come on Shore, which the Europeans in general have not
lately obtained; pay'd him his Freight very punctually,
sent him to the Philippines, loaded with Japan, and China
Wares, and a Supra-Cargo of their own, who trafficking
with the Spaniards, brought back European Goods again,
and a great Quantity of Cloves, and other Spice; and there
he was not only pay'd his Freight very well, and at a very
good Price, but being not willing to sell the Ship then, the
Merchantfurnish'dhim with Goods, onhisown Account;
that for some Money, and some Spices of his own, which
he brought with him, he went back to the Manillas to the
Spaniards, where he sold his Cargo very well: Here hav-
ing gotten a good Acquaintance at Manilla, he got his
Ship made a free Ship; and the Governor of Manilla hired
him, to go to Accapulco, in America,on theCoastofMexico,
and gave him a License to Land there, and travel to Mexi-
co, and to pass in any Spanish Ship to Europe, with all his
Men.
He made the Voyage to Accapulco very happily, and
there he sold his Ship; and having there also obtained Al-
lowance to travel by Land, to Porto Bella, he found Means
some how or other, to get to Jamaica, with all his Trea-
sure; and about eight Years after, came to England ex-
ceeding Rich; of the which, I shall take Notice in its
Place; in the mean Time, I return to our particular Af-
fairs.
Being now to part with the Ship, and Ship's Company;
itcamebeforeusofCourse,toconsiderwhat Recompence
we should give to the two Men, that gave us such timely
Notice of the Design against us in the River of Cambodia:
The Truth was, they had done us a considerable Service,
and deserv'd well at our Hands; tho' by the Way, they
were a Couple of Rogues too; for as theybeliev'd the Story
of our being Pirates, and that we had really run away
with the Ship, they came down to us, not only to betray
the Design that was form'd against us, but to go to Sea
with us as Pirates; and one of them confess'd afterwards,
that nothing else but the Hopes of going a Roguing
brought him to do it; however, the Service they did us
was not the less; and therefore, as I had promis'd to be
grateful to them, I first order'd the Money to be pay'd to
them, which they said was due to them on board their re-
spective Ships; that is to say, the English Man nineteen
Months Pay, and to the Dutch Man seven; and over and
above that, I gave them, each of them, a small Sum of
Money in Gold, and which contented them very well;
then I made the English Man Gunner in the Ship, the
Gunner being now made Second Mate, and Purser; the
Dutch Man I made Boatswain; so they were both very
well pleas'd, and prov'd very serviceable, being both able
Seamen, and very stout Fellows.
We were now on Shore in China; if I thought myself
banish'd, and remote from my own Country at Bengale,
where I had many Ways to get home for my Money;
what could I think of my self now? When I was gotten
about a thousand Leagues farther off from home, and
perfectly destitute of all manner of Prospect of Re-
turn.
All we had for it was this, that in about four Months
Time, there was to be another Fair at the Place where we
were; and then we might be able to purchase all sorts of
the Manufactures of the Country, and withal, might pos-
sibly find some Chinese Jonks or Vessels from Tonquin,
that would be to be sold, and would carry us and our
Goods, whither we pleas'd; this I lik'd very well, and re-
solv'd to wait; besides, as our particular Persons were not
obnoxious, so if any English or Dutch Ships came thither,
perhaps we might have anOpportunity toloadour Goods,
and get Passage to some other Place in India, nearer
Home.
Upon these Hopes we resolv'd to continue here; but
to divert our selves, we took two or three Journeys into
the Country; first we went ten Days Journey to see the
City of Nanquin, and a City well worth seeing indeed;
they say it has a Million of People in it; which however, I
do not believe. It is regularly built, the Streets all exactly
strait, and cross one another, in direct Lines, which gives
the Figure of it great Advantage.
But when I come to compare the miserable People of
these Countries with ours, their Fabricks, their manner
of Living, their Government, their Religion, their Wealth,
and their Glory, (as some call it) I must confess, I do not
so much as think it is worth naming, or worth my whileto
write of, or any that shall come after me to read.
It is very observable that we wonder at the Grandeur,
the Riches, the Pomp, the Ceremonies, the Government,
the Manufactures, the Commerce, and the Conduct of
these People; not that it is to be wonder'd at, or indeed
in the least to be regarded; but because, having first a
true Notion of the Barbarity of those Countries, the Rude-
ness and the Ignorance that prevails there, we do not ex-
peel: to find any such Things so far off.
Otherwise, what are their Buildings to the Palaces and
Royal Buildings of Europe? What their Trade, to the
universal Commerce of England, Holland, France and
Spain? What are their Cities toours,for Wealth, Strength,
Gaiety of Apparel, rich Furniture, and an infinite Variety?
What are their Ports, supply'd with a few Jonks and
Barks, to our Navigation, our Merchant Fleets, our large
and powerful Navys? Our City of London has moreTrade
than all their mighty Empire: One English, or Dutch, or
French Man of War of 80 Guns, would fight and destroy
all the Shipping of China: But the Greatness of their
Wealth, their Trade, the Power of their Government, and
Strength of their Armies, is surprising to us, because, as I
have said, considering them as a barbarous Nation of Pa-
gans, little better than Savages, we did not expect such
Things among them; and this indeed is the Advantage
with which all their Greatness and Power is represented
to us; otherwise it is in it self nothing at all; for as I have
said of their Ships, so may be said of their Armies and
Troops; all the Forces of their Empire, tho' they were to
bring two M illions of Men into the Field together, would
be able to do nothing but ruin the Country, and starve
themselves: If they were to besiege a strong Town in
Flanders, or to fight a disciplin'd Army, one Line of Ger-
man Curiassiers, or of French Cavalry, would overthrow
all the Horse of China; A Million of their Foot could not
stand before one embattled Body of our Infantry, posted
so as not to be surrounded, tho' they were to be not One
to Twenty in Number; nay, I do not boast, if I say that
30000 German or English Foot, and 10000 Frenchtiorse>
would fairly beat all the Forces of China: And so of our
fortified Towns, and of the Art of our Engineers in as-
saulting and defending Towns; there's not a fortified
Town in China, could hold out one Month against the
Batteries and Attacks of an European Army; and at the
same time, all the Armies of China could never take such
a Town as Dunkirk, provided it was not starv'd; no, not in
a ten Years Siege. They have Fire-Arms, 'tis true, but
they are awkward, clumsy, and uncertain in going off:
They have Powder, but it is of no Strength: They have
neither Discipline in the Field, Exercise to their Arms,
Skill to attack, or Temper to Retreat; and therefore, I
must confess, it seem'd strange to me, when I came home,
and heard our People say such fine Things of the Power,
Riches, Glory, Magnificence, and Trade of the Chinese;
because I saw, and knew, that they were a contemptible
Herd or Crowd of ignorant sordid Slaves, subjected to a
Government qualified only to rule such a People; and in a
word, for I am now launch'd quite beside my Design, I
say, in a word, were not its Distance inconceivably great
from Muscovy, and was not the Muscovite Empire almost
as rude, impotent, and ill govern'd a Crowd of Slaves as
they, the Czar of Muscovy might with much Ease drive
them all out of their Country, and conquer them in one
Campaign; and had the Czar, who I since hear is a grow-
ing Prince, and begins toappearformidablein the World,
fallen this Way, instead of attacking the Warlike Swedes,
in which Attempt none of the Powers of Europe would
have envy'd or interrupted him; he might by this time
have been Emperor of China, instead of being beaten by
the King of Sweden at Narva, when the latter was not
One to Six in Number. As their Strength and their Gran-
deur, so their Navigation, Commerce, and Husbandry, is
imperfect and impotent, compar'd to the same Things in
Europe; also in their Knowledge, their Learning, their
Skill in the Sciences; they have Globes and Spheres, and
a Smatch of the Knowledge of the Mathematicks; but
when you come to enquire into their Knowledge, how
short-sighted are the wisest of their Students! they know
nothing of the Motion of the Heavenly Bodies; and so
grossly absurdly ignorant, that when the Sun is eclips'd,
they think 'tis a great Dragon has assaulted, andrunaway
with it, and they fall a clattering with all the Drums and
Kettles in the Country, to fright the Monster away, just
as we do to hive a Swarm of Bees.
As this is the only Excursion of this kind which I have
made in all the Account I have given of my Travels, so I
shall make no more Descriptions of Countrys and Peo-
ple, 'tis none of my Business, or any part of my Design;
but giving an Account of my own Adventures, through a
Life of inimitable Wandrings, and a long Variety of
Changes, which perhaps few that come after me will have
heard the like of; I shall therefore say very little of all the
mighty Places, desart Countrys, and numerous People, I
have yet to pass thro' more than relates to my own Story,
and which my Concern among them will make necessary.
I was now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China,
about the Latitude of thirty Degrees North of the Line,
for we were return'd from Nanquin; I had indeed a Mind
to see the City of Peking, which I had heard so much of,
and Father Simon importun'd me daily to do it; at length
his Time of going away being set, and the other Mission-
ary, who was to go with him, being arriv'd from Macao, it
was necessary that we should resolve, either to go, or not
to go; so I referr'd him to my Partner, and left it wholly
to his Choice, who at length resolv'd it in the Affirmative,
and we prepar'd for our Journey. We set out with very
good Advantage, as to finding the Way, for we got leave
to travel in the Retinue of one of their Mandarins, a kind
of Viceroy, or principal Magistrate in theProvincewhere
they reside, and who take great State upon them, travel-
ling with great Attendance, and with great Homage from
the People, who are sometimes greatly impoverished by
them, because all the Countries they passthro'areoblig'd
to furnish Provisions for them and all their Attendance:
That which I particularly observed, as to our travelling
with his Baggage, was this, thattho'we receiv'dsufficient
Provisions, both for our selves and our Horses, from the
Country, as belonging to the Mandarin, yet we were ob-
lig'd to pay for every thing we had, after the MarketPrice
of the Country, and the Mandarin's Steward, or Com-
missary of the Provisions, collected it duly from us; so
that our travelling in the Retinue of the Mandarin, tho' it
was a very great Kindness to us, was not such a mighty
Favour in him, but was indeed a great Advantage to him,
considering there were above thirty other People travell'd
in the same Manner besides us, under the Protection of
his Retinue, or as we may call it, under his Convoy: This,
I say, was a great Advantage to him, for the Country fur-
nish'd all the Provisions for nothing, and he took all our
Money for them.
We were five and twenty Days travelling to Peking,
through a Country infinitely populous, butmiserably cul-
tivated; the Husbandry, the Oeconomy, and the Way of
living miserable, tho' they boast so much of the Indus-
try of the People; I say, miserable; and so it is, if we who
understand how to live were to endure it, or to compare it
with our own, but not so to these poor Wretches who
know no other: The Pride of these People is infinitely
great, and exceeded by nothing, but their Poverty, which
adds to that which I call their Misery; and I must needs
think the naked Savages of America live much more hap-
py, because, as they have nothing, so they desire nothing;
whereas these are proud and insolent, and in the main are
meer Beggars and Drudges; their Ostentation is inex-
pressible, and is chiefly shew'd in their Cloaths andBuild-
ing, and in the keeping Multitudes of Servants or Slaves,
and, which is to the last Degree ridiculous, their Con-
tempt of all the World but themselves.
I must confess, I travell'd more pleasantly afterwards
in the Desarts and vast Wildernesses of Grand Tartary,
than here; and yet the Roads here are well pav'd, and well
kept, and very convenient for Travellers; but nothing
was more aukward to me, than to see such a haughty, im-
perious, insolent People, in the midst of the grossest Sim-
plicity and Ignorance, for all their fam'd Ingenuity is no
more: And my Friend Father Simon and I, us'd to be very
merry upon these Occasions, to see the beggarly Pride
of those People; for Example: Coming by the House of a 
Country Gentleman, as Father Simon call'd him, about
ten Leagues ofF of the City of Nanquin, we had first of all
the Honour to ride with the Master of the House about
two Miles: The Stateherodein, was a perfect Don Quixot-
ism, being a Mixture of Pomp and Poverty.
The Habit of this greasy Don was very proper for a
Scaramouch or Merry-Andrew, being a dirty Callicoe,
with all the Tawdry and Trapping of a Fool's-Coat, such
as Hanging-sleeves, Tossels, and CutsandSlashesalmost
on every Side; it cover'd a Taffety Vest, as greasy as a
Butcher, and which testify'd that his Honour must needs
be a most exquisite Sloven.
His Horse was a poor, lean, starv'd, hobbling Crea-
ture, such as in England might sell for about 300^0 Shil-
lings, and he had two Slaves follow'd him on Foot, to
drive the poor Creaturealong;hehadaWhipinhisHand,
and he belabour'd the Beast as fast about the Head, as his
Slaves did about the Tail, and thus he rode by us with
about ten or twelve Servants, and we were told he was go-
ing from the City to his Country Seat, about half a
Leaguebeforeus: Wetravell'don gently, but this Figure
of a Gentleman rode away before us, and as we stopp'd at a
Village about an Hour to refresh us, when we came by the
Country Seat of this great Man, we saw him in a little
Place, before his Door, eating his Repast. It was a kind of
a Garden, but he was easy to be seen, and we were given
to understand that the more we look'd on him, the better
he would be pleas'd.
He sat under a Tree, something like the Palmetto
Tree, which effectually shaded him over the Head, and
on the South Side, but under the Tree also, was plac'd a
large Umbrello, which made that Part look well enough;
he sat lolling back in a great Elbow Chair, being a heavy
corpulent Man, and his Meat being brought him by two
Women Slaves; he had two more, whose Office, I think,
few Gentlemen in Europe would accept of their Service
in, (viz.) One fed the Squire with a Spoon, and the other
held the Dish with one Hand, and scrap'd off what he let
fall upon his Worship's Beard and Taffaty Vest, while the
great fat Brute thought it below him to employ his own
Hands in any of those familiar Offices, which Kings and
Monarchs would rather do, than be troubled with the
clumsy Fingers of their Servants.
I took this Time to think what Pain Mens Pride puts
them to; and how troublesome a haughty Temper, thus
ill-manag'd, must be to a Man of common Sense; and
leaving the poor Wretch to please himself with our look-
ing at him, as if we admir'd his Pomp, whereas we really
pity'd and contemn'd him, we persu'd our Journey; only
Father Simon had the Curiosity to stay to inform himself
what Dainties the Country Justice had to feed on, in all
his State, which he said he had the Honour to taste of,and
which was, I think, a Dose that an English Hound would
scarce have eaten, if it had been ofFer'd him, (viz.) a Mess
of boil'd Rice, with a great Piece of Garlick in it, and a lit-
tle Bag fill'd with Green Pepper, and anotherPlantwhich
they have there, something like our Ginger, but smelling
like Musk, and tasting like Mustard; all this was put to-
gether, and a small Lump or Piece of lean Mutton boil'd
in it; and this was his Worship's Repast, four or five Ser-
vants more attendingata Distance. If he fed themmeaner
than he was fed himself, the Spice excepted, they must
fare very coarsely indeed.
As for our Mandarin, with whom we travell'd, he was
respected like a King; surrounded always with his Gen-
tlemen, and attended in all -his Appearances with such
Pomp, that I saw little of him but at a Distance; but th is I
observ'd, that there was not a Horse in his Retinue, but
that our Carriers Pack-Horses in England seem to me to
look much better, but they were so cover'd with Equi-
page, Mantles, Trappings and such like Trumpery, that
you cannot see whether they are fat or lean; in a Word, we
could see scarce any thing but their Feetand their Heads.
I was now light-hearted, and all my Trouble and Per-
plexity that I have given an Account of being over, I had
no anxious Thoughts about me, which made this Journey
the pleasanter to me, nor had I any ill Accident attended
me, only in the passing or fording a small River, my
Horse fell, and made me free of the Country, as they call
it, that is to say, threw me in; the Place was not deep, but
it wetted me all over; I mention it because it spoil'd my
Pocket-Book, wherein I had set down the Names of seve-
ral People and Places which I had Occasion toremember,
and which, not taking due Care of, the Leaves rotted, and
the Words were never after to be read, to my great Loss,
as to the Names of some Places I touch'datin this Voyage.
At length we arriv'd at Peking; I had no Body with me
but the Youth, who my Nephew, the Captain, had given
me to attend me as a Servant, and who proved very trusty
and diligent; and my Partner had no Body with him but
one Servant, who was a Kinsman: as for the Portuguese
Pilot, he being desirous to see the Court, we gave him his
Passage, that is to say, bore his Charges for his Company;
and to use him as an Interpreter, for he understood the
Language of the Country, and spoke good French, and a
little English; and indeed, this old Man was a most useful
Impliment to us every where; for we had not been above
a Week at Peking, when he came laughing, Ah, Seignior
Inglese, says he, I have something to tell you will make your
Heart glad. My Heart glad, says I, What can that be? I don t
know any thing in this Country can either give me Joy or Grief
to any great degree. Yes, yes, said the old Man in broken
English, make you glad, me sorrow; sorry he would have
said. This made me more inquisitive. Why, said I, will it
make you sorry? Because, said he, you have brought me here
25 days Journey, and will leave me to go back alone, and
which way shall I get to my Port afterwards without a Ship,
without a Horse, without Peccune? So he called Money,
being his broken Latin, of which he had abundance to
make us merry with.
In short, he told us there was a great Caravan of Mus-
covite and Polish Merchants in the City, and they were
preparing to set out on their Journey by Land to Muscovy
within four or five Weeks, and he was sure we would take
the Opportunity to go with them, and leave him behind
to go back all alone. I confess, I was surpris'd with his
News, a secret Joy spread it self over my whole Soul,
which I cannot describe, and never felt before or since,
and I had no power for a good while to speak a Word to
the old Man; but at last I turn'd to him; How do you
know this, said I, are you sure it is true? Yes, says he, I
met this Morning in the Street an old Acquaintance of
mine, an Armenian, or one you call a Grecian, who is
among them; he came last from Aslracan, and was design-
ing to go to Tonquin, where I formerly knew him, but has
alter'd his Mind, and is now resolv'd to go with the Cara-
van to Muscow, and so down the River Wolga to Aslracan.
Well, Segnior, says I, do not be uneasy about being left
to go back alone, if this be a Method for my return to
England, it shall be your Fault if you go back to Macao at
all. We then went to consulting together what was to be
done, and I ask'd my Partner what he thought of the Pi-
lot's News, and whether it would suit with his Affairs?
He told me he would do just as I would, for he had settled
all his Affairs so well at Bengale, and left his Effectsinsuch
good Hands, that as we had made a good Voyage here, if
he could vest it in China Silks, wrought and raw, such as
might be worth the Carriage, he would be content to go
to England, and then make his Voyage back to Bengale,
by the Company's Ships.
Having resolv'd upon this, we agreed, that if our Por-
tugalPilot would go with us, we would bear his Charges
to Muscow, or to England if he pleas'd; nor indeed were we
to be esteem'd over generous in that Part neither, if we
had not rewarded him farther, for the Service he had done
us was really worth all that, and more; for he had not only
been a Pilot to us at Sea, but he had been like a Broker for
us on Shore; and his procuring for us the Japan Mer-
chant, was some hundreds of Pounds in our Pocket: So
we consulted together about it, and being willing to grati-
fy him, which was indeed but doing him Justice, andvery
willing also to have him with us besides, for he was a most
necessary Man on all Occasions, we agreed to give him a
Quantity of coin'd Gold, which, as I compute it, came to
about 175 Pounds Sterling between us, and to bear all his
Charges, bothlfor himself and Horse, except only a Horse
to carry his Goods.
Having settled this among our selves, we call'd him to
let him know what we had resolv'd; I told him, he had
complain'd of our being to let him go back alone, and I
was now to tell him we was resolv'd he should not go
back at all: that as we had resolv'd to go to Europe with
the Caravan, we resolv'd also he should go with us, and
that we call'd him, to knowhis Mind. Heshookhis Head,
and said, it was a long Journey, and he had no Pecune to
carry him thither, or to subsist himself when he came
there. We told him, we believ'd it was so, and therefore
we had resolv'd to do something for him, that should let
him see how sensible we were of the Service he had done
us, and also how agreeable he was to us; and then I told
him what we had resolv'd to give him here, which he
might lay out as we would do our own; and that as for his
Charges, if he would go with us, we would set him safe
a-shore, (Life and Casualties excepted) either in Muscovy
or England, which he would, at our own Charge, except
only the Carriage of his Goods.
He receiv'd the Proposal like a Man transported, and
told us he would go with us over the whole World; and
vol. in m
so, in short, we all prepar'd our selves for the Journey:
However, as it was with us, so it was with the other Mer-
chants, they had many things to do, and instead of being
ready in five Weeks, it was four Months and some odd
Days, before all Things were got together.
It was the Beginning of February, our Stile, when we
set out from Peking; my Partner and the old Pilot had
gone express back to the Port where we had first put in,to
dispose of some Goods which we had left there; and I
with a Chinese Merchant, who I had some Knowledge of
at Nanquin, and who came to Peking on his own Affairs,
went to Nanquin, where I bought ninety Pieces of fine
Damasks, with about two hundred Pieces of other very
fine Silks, of several Sorts, some mix'd with Gold, and
had all these brought to Peking against my Partner's Re-
turn; besides this, we bought a very large Quantity of
Raw Silk, and some other Goods, our Cargo amounting
in these Goods only to about three thousand five hundred
Pounds Sterling, which, together with Tea and some
fine Callicoes, and three Camels Loads of Nutmegs and
Cloves, loaded in all eighteen Camels for our Share, be-
sides those we rode upon; which with two or three spare
Horses, and two Horses loaded with Provisions, made us
in short 26 Camels and Horses in our Retinue.
The Company was very great, and, as near as I can re-
member, made between three and four hundred Horse,
and upwards of a hundred and twenty Men, very well
armed and provided for all Events: for as the Eastern
Caravans are subject to be attacked by the Arabs, so are
these by the Tartars; but they are not altogether so dan-
gerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous when they prevail.
The Company consisted of People of several Nations,
such as Muscovites chiefly, for there were above Sixty of
them who were Merchants or Inhabitants of Moscow,
tho' of them, some were Livonians, and to our particu-
lar Satisfaction, Five of them were Scots, who appeared
also to be Men of great Experience in Business, and Men
of very good Substance.
When we had travelled one Days Journey, the Guides,
who were Five in Number, called all the Gentlemen and
Merchants, that is to say, all the Passengers, except the
Servants, to a great Council, as they called it: At this great
Council every one deposited a certain Quantity of Money
to a common Stock, for the necessary Expence of buying
Forage on the Way, where it was not otherwise to be had,
and for satisfying the Guides, getting Horses, and the
like: And here they constituted the Journey, as they call
it, (viz.) They named Captains and Officers, to draw us
all up, and give the Command in case of an Attack, and
gave every one their turn of Command: norwasthisform-
ing us into Order any more than what we found needful
upon the Way, as shall be observed in its Place.
The Road all on this Side of the Country is very popu-
lous, and is full of Potters and Earth-makers, that is to
say, People that tamper'd the Earth for the China Ware;
and as I was coming along, our Portugal Pilot, who had
always something or other to say to make us merry, came
sneering to me, and told me he would show me the great-
est Rarity in all the Country, and that I should have this
to say of China, after all the ill-humour'd things I had
said of it, that I had seen one thing which was not to be
seen in all the World beside. I was very importunate to
know what it was: At last he told me it was a Gentleman's
House built all with China Ware. Well, says I, are not the
Materials of their Building the Product of their own
Country; and so it is all China~Wa.re, is it not? No no, says
he, I mean it is a House all made of China Ware, such as
you call it in England; or as it is call'd in our Country,
Porcellain. Well, says I, such a thing may be; how big is
it? Can we carry it in a Box upon a Camel? If we can, we will
buy it. Upon a Camel! says the old Pilot, holding up both
his Hands, why there is a Family ofThirty People lives in it.
I was then curious indeed to see it, and when I came to
it, it was nothing but this; it was a Timber-House, or a
House built, as we call it in England, with Lath and
Plainer, but all the Plaistering was really China Ware,
that is to say, it was plaister'd with the Earth that makes
China Ware.
The Outside, which the Sun shone hot upon, was glaz-
ed, and look'd very well, perfect white, and painted with
blue Figures, as the large China Ware in England'vs paint-
ed, and hard, as if it had been burnt: As to the Inside, all
the Walls, instead of Wainscot, were lined up with har-
den'd and painted Tiles, like the little square Tiles we
call Galley-Tiles in England, all made of the finest China,
and the Figures exceeding fine indeed, with extraordin-
ary Variety of Colours mix'd with Gold, many Tiles mak-
ing but one Figure, but join'd so artificially, the Mortar
being made of the same Earth, that it was very hard to see
where the Tiles met: The Floors of the Rooms were of
the same Composition, and as hard as the earthen Floors
we have in use in several Parts of England, especially Lin-
colnshire, Nottinghamshire, Leicestershire, &c. as hard as
Stone, and smooth, but not burnt and painted, except
some smaller Rooms, like Closets, which were all as it
were paved with the same Tile; the Cielings, and in a
word, all the plaistering Work in the whole House were
of the same Earth; and after all, the Roof was covered,
with Tiles of the same, but of a deep shining black.
This was a China-Warehouse indeed, truly and literal-
ly to be call'd so; and had I not been upon the Journey, I
could have staid some Days to see and examine the Par-
ticulars of it: they told me there were Fountains and Fish-
ponds in the Garden, all paved at the Bottom and Sides
with the same, and fine Statues set up in Rows on the
Walks, entirely form'd of the Porcellain Earth, and burnt
whole.
As this is one of the Singularities of China, so they may
be allow'd to excel in it; but I am very sure they excel in
their Accounts of it; for they told me such incredible
things of their Performance in Crockery Ware, for such it
is, that I care not to relate, as knowing it could not be
true; they told me in particular, of one Workman that
made a Ship with all its Tackle, and Masts, and Sails, in
Earthen Ware, big enough to carry fifty Men: If he had
told me he launched it, and made a Voyage to Japan in it,
I might have said something to it indeed; but as it was, I
knew the whole of the Story, which was in short, asking
Pardon for the Word, that the Fellow lyed; so I smiled,
and said nothing to it.
This odd Sight kept me two Hours behind the Cara-
van, for which, the Leader of it for the Day, fined me
about the Value of three Shillings, and told me, if it had
been three Days Journey without the Wall, as it was three
Days within, he must have fined me four times as much,
and made me ask Pardon the next Council Day; so I pro-
mised to be more orderly; for indeed I found afterward
the Orders made for keeping all together, were absolutely
necessary for our common Safety.
In two Days more, we pass'd the great China Wall,
made for a Fortification against the Tartars; and a very
great Work it is, going over Hills and Mountains in a
needless Track, where the Rocks are impassible, and the
Precipices such as no Enemy could possibly enter, or in-
deed climb up, or where if they did, no Wall could hinder
them: They tell us, its Length is near a thousand English
Miles, but that the Country is five hundred in a strait
measured Line, which the Wall bounds, without measur-
ing the Windings and Turnings it takes; 'tis about four
Fathom high, and as many thick in some Places.
I stood Itill an Hour or thereabout, without trespass-
ing our Orders, for so long the Caravan was in passing the
Gate; I say, I stood still an Hour to look at it on every
Side, near, and far off, I mean, that was within my View;
and the Guide of our Caravan, who had been extolling it
for the Wonder of the World, was mighty eager to hear
my Opinion of it; I told him it was a most excellent thing
to keep off the Tartars; which he happen'd not to under-
stand as I meant it, and so took it for a Compliment; but
the old Pilot laugh'd: O Seignior Inglese, says he, you
speak in Colours: In Colours, said I, what do you mean by
that? Why, you speak what looks white this way, and
black that way; gay one way, and dull another way; you tell
him it is a good Wall to keep out Tartars; You tell me
by that, it is good for nothing but to keep out Tartars, or it
will keep out none but Tartars; I understand you, Seignior
Inglese, I understand you, says he, but Seignior Chinese
understood you his own way.
Well, says I, Seignior, do you think it would stand out
an Army of our Country People, with a good Train of Ar-
tillery ; or our Engineers, with two Companies of Miners;
would not they batter it down in ten Days, that an Army
might enter in Battalia, or blow it up in the Air, Founda-
tion and all, that there should be no Sign of it left? Ay, ay,
says he, I know that. The Chinese wanted mightily to
know what I said, and I gave him Leave to tell him a few
Days after, for we was then almost out of their Country,
and he was to leave us in a little time afterward; but when
he knew what I had said, he was dumb all the rest of the
way, and we heard no more of his fine Story of the Chinese
Power and Greatness, while he stay'd.
After we had pass'd this mighty Nothing call'd a Wall,
something like the Pifts Wall, and so famous in Northum-
berland, and built by the Romans, we began to find the
Country thinly inhabited, and the People rather confined
to live in fortified Towns and Cities, as being subject to
the Inroads and Depredations of the Tartars, who rob in
great Armies, and therefore are not to be resisted by the
naked Inhabitants of an open Country.
And here I began to find the Necessity of keeping to-
gether in a Caravan as we travelled; for we saw several
Troops of Tartars roving about; but when I came to see
them distinctly, I wonder'd more that the Chinese Empire
could be conquer'd by such contemptible Fellows; for
they are a meer Hoord or Crowd of wild Fellows, keep-
ing no Order, and understanding no Discipline, or man-
ner of Fight.
Their Horses are poor lean starved Creatures, taught
nothing, and fit for nothing; and this we said, the first
Day we saw them, which was after we entered the wilder
Part of the Country; our Leader for the Day, gave Leave
for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they call it; and
what was this, but hunting of Sheep; however, it may be
call'd hunting too; for the Creatures are the wildest and
swiftest of Foot that ever I saw of their Kind; only they
will not run a great way, and you are sure of Sport when
you begin the Chace; for they appear generally thirty or
forty in a Flock, and like true Sheep, always keep together
when they fly.
In pursuit of this odd sort of Game, it was our hap to
meet with about forty Tartars; whether they were hunt-
ing Mutton as we were, or whether they look'dfor another
Kind of Prey, I know not; but as soon as they saw us, one
of them blew a kind of a Horn very loud, but with a bar-
barous Sound, that I had never heard before, and by the
way, never care to hear again: we all suppos'd this was to
call their Friends about them, and so it was; for in less
than Half a Quarter of an Hour, a Troop of forty or fifty
more appear'd, at about a Mile distance, but our Work
was over first, as it happen'd.
One of the Scots Merchants of Muscow, happen'd to be
amongst us, and as soon as he heard the Horn, he told us
in short, that we had nothing to do, but to charge them
immediately without loss of Time; and drawing us up in
a Line, he ask'd if we were resolv'd? we told him we were
ready to follow him; so he rode directly up to them: they
stood gazing at us like a meer Crowd, drawn up in no
Order, nor shewing the Face of any Order at all; but as
soon as they saw us advance, they let fly their Arrows,
which however miss'd us very happily; it seems they mis-
took not their Aim, but their Distance; for their Arrows
all fell a little short of us, but with so true an Aim, that had
we been about twenty Yards nearer, we must have had
several Men wounded, if not kill'd.
Immediately we halted, and tho' it was at a great Dis-
tance, we fir'd, and sent them Leaden Bullets, for Wooden
Arrows, following our Shot full Gallop, to fall in among
them Sword in Hand, for so our bold Scot that led us di-
rected: He was indeed but a Merchant, but he behav'd
with that Vigour and Bravery on this occasion, and yet,
with such a cool Courage too, that I never saw any Man
in Action fitter for Command. As soon as we came up to
them, we fir'd our Pistols in their Faces, and then drew,
but they fled in the greatest Confusion imaginable; the
only Stand any of them made, was on our Right, where
three of them stood, and by Signs call'd the rest to come
back to them, having a kind of Scymiter in their Hands,
and their Bows hanging at their Backs. Our brave Com-
mander, without asking any body to follow him, gallops
up close to them, and with his Fuzee knocks one of them
off his Horse, kill'd the second with his Pistol, and the
third ran away, and thus ended our Fight; but we had
this Misfortune attending it, (viz.) that all our Mutton
that we had in chace, got away: We had not a Man kill'd
or hurt; but as for the Tartars, there was about five of them
kill'd; who were wounded, we knew not; but this we
knew, that the other Party was so frighted with the Noise
of our Guns, that they made off, and never made any
attempt upon us.
We were all this while in the Chinese Dominion, and
therefore the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards; but
in about five Days we entr'd a vast great wild Desart,
which held us three Days and Nights March; and we
were oblig'd to carry our Water with us in great Leather
Bottles, and to encamp all Night, just as I have heard they
do in the Desart of Arabia.
I ask'd whose Dominion this was in, and they told me,
this was a kind of Border, that might be called no Man's
Land; being a Part of the Great Karakathie, or Grand
Tartary, but that however it was all reckon'd to China; but
that there was no Care taken here, to preserve it from the
Inroads of Thieves, and therefore it was reckon'd the
worst Desart in the whole World; tho' we were to go over
some much larger.
In passing this Wilderness, which I confess was at the
first very frightful to me, we saw two or three times little
Parties of the Tartars, but they seem'd to be upon their
own Affairs, and to have no Design upon us; and so like
the Man who met the Devil, if they had nothing to say to
us, we had nothing to say to them; we let them go.
Once however, a Party of them came so near, as to
stand and gaze at us; whether it was to consider what they
should do, whether attack us, or not attack us, that we
knew not; but when we were pass'd at some distance by
them, we made a Rear-Guard of forty men, and stood
ready for them, letting the Caravan pass half a Mile, or
thereabouts, before us; but after a while they march'd off,
only we found they saluted us with five Arrows at their
parting; one of which wounded a Horse, so that it dis-
abled him; and we left him the next Day, poor Creature,
in great need of a good Farrier; we suppose they might
shoot more Arrows, which might fall short of us, but we
saw no more Arrows or Tartars, that time.
We travell'd near a Month after this, the Ways being
not so good as at first, tho' still in the Dominions of the
Emperor of China, but lay for the most part in Villages,
some of which were fortified, because of the Incursions of
the Tartars. When we came to one of these Towns, (it
was about two Days and a Half Journey before we were
to come to the City Naum) I wanted to buy a Camel, of
which there are plenty to be sold all the way upon that
Road, and of Horses also, such as they are, because so
many Caravans coming that way, they are often wanted:
The Person that I spoke to to get me a Camel, would have
gone and fetch'd it for me, but I like a Fool must be offi-
cious, andgomy self along with him:ThePlacewas about
two Miles out of the Village, where, it seems, they kept
the Camels and Horses feeding under a Guard.
I walk'd it on Foot with my old Pilot, being very de-
sirous, forsooth, of a little Variety: When we came to the
Place, it was a low marshy Ground, wall'd round with a
&one Wall, piled up dry, without Mortar or Earth among
it, like a Park, with a little Guard of Chinese Soldiers at the
Door. Having bought a Camel, and agreed for the Price,
I came away, and the Chinese Man that went with me, led
the Camel; when on a sudden came up five Tartars on
Horseback; two of them seized the Fellow, and took the
Camel from him, while other three step'd up to me;
and my old Pilot, seeing us as it were unarm'd, for I had
no Weapon about me but my Sword, which could but ill
defend me against three Horse-men; the first that came
up, stop'd short upon my drawing my Sword; (for they
are errant Cowards) but a Second coming upon my Left,
gave me a Blow on the Head, which I never felt till after-
ward, and wondered when I came to my self, what was
the matter with me, and where I was, for he laid me flat
on the Ground; but my never failing old Pilot, the Portu-
guese (so Providence unlooked for directs Deliverances
from Dangers, which to us are unforeseen) had a Pistol in
his Pocket, which I knew nothing of, nor the Tartars
neither; if they had, I suppose they would not have at-
tack'd us: But Cowards are always boldest when there
is no Danger.
The old Man seeing me down, with a bold Heart
£tep'd up to the Fellow that had struck me, and laying
hold of his Arm with one Hand, and pulling him down
by main Force a little towards him with the other, shot
him into the Head, and laid him dead upon the Spot; he
then immediately step'd up to him who had stop'd us, as
I said, and before he could come forward again, (for it
was all done as it were in a moment) made a Blow at him
with a Scymeter which he always wore, but missing the
Man, cut his Horse into the Side of his Head, cut one of
his Ears off by the Root, and a great Slice down the Side
of his Face; the poor Beast enraged with the Wound, was
no more to be governed by his Rider, tho' the Fellow sat
well enough too; but away he flew, and carried him quite
out of the Pilot's Reach, and at some Distance rising up
upon his hind Legs, threw down the 'Tartar, and fell up-
on him.
In this Interval the poor Chinese came in, who had lost
the Camel, but he had no Weapon; however, seeing the
Tartar down, and his Horse fallen upon him, away he
runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly ill-favour'd Wea-
pon he had by his Side, something like a Pole-ax, but not
a Pole-ax neither, he wrench'd it from him, and made
shift to knock his Tartarian Brains out with it. But my old
Man had the third T artar to deal with still, and seeing he
did not fly, as he expected, nor come on to fight him, as he
apprehended, but stand stock still, the old Man stood
still too, and falls to work with his Tackle to charge his
Pistol again; but as soon as the Tartar saw the Pistol,
whether he supposed it to be the same, or another, I know
not, but away he scowered, and left my Pilot, my Cham-
pion I call'd him afterward, a compleat Victory.
By this time I was a little awake, for I thought when
first I began to wake, that I had been in a sweet Sleep; but
as I said above, I wondered where I was, how I came up-
on the Ground, and what was the matter: In a word, a
few moments after, as Sense returned, I felt Pain, tho' I
did not know where; I clap'd my Hand to my Head, and
took it away bloody; then I felt my Head ach, and then in
another Moment, Memory returned, and every thing
was present to me again.
I jump'd up upon my Feet instantly, and got hold of
my Sword, but no Enemies in View: I found a Tartar lie
dead and his Horse standing very quietly by him; and
looking farther, I saw my Champion and Deliverer, who
had been to see what the Chinese had done, coming back
with his Hanger in his Hand; the old Man seeing me on
my Feet, came running to me and embraced me with a
great deal of Joy, being afraid before that I had been kill-
ed, and seeing me bloody, would see how I was hurt, but
it was not much, only what we call a broken Head; nei-
ther did I afterwards find any great Inconvenience from
the Blow, other than the Place which was hurt; and which
was well again in two or three Days.
We made no great Gain however by this Victory, for
we lost a Camel, and gained a Horse; but that which was
remarkable, when we came back to the Village, the Man
demanded to be paid for the Camel; I disputed it, and it
was brought to a hearing before the Chinese Judge of the
Place; that is to say, in English, we went before a Justice
of the Peace: Give him his due, he acted with a great deal
of Prudence and Impartiality; and having heard both
Sides, he gravely ask'd the Chinese Man, that went with
me to buy the Camel, whose Servant he was? I am no Ser-
vant, says he, but went with the Stranger. At whose Re-
quest, says the Justice? At the Stranger's Request, says
he. Why then, says the Justice, you were the Stranger's
Servant for the Time, and the Camel being deliver'd to
his Servant, it was delivered to him, and he must pay
for it.
I confess the Thing was so clear, that I had not a Word
to say; but admiring to see such just Reasoning upon the
Consequence, and so accurate stating the cause, I pay'd
willingly for the Camel, and sent for another; but you
may observe, I sent for it, I did not go to fetch it my self
any more; I had enough of that.
The City of Naum is a Frontier of the Chinese Empire;
they call it fortified, and so it is, as Fortifications go there;
for this I will venture to affirm, that all the Tartars in Kar-
akathaie, which I believe, are some Millions, could not
batter down the Walls with their Bows and Arrows; but
to call it strong, if it were attacked with Cannon, would
be to make those who understand it, laugh at you.
We wanted, as I have said, above two Days Journey of
this City, when Messengers were sent Express to every
Part of the Road, to tell all Travellers and Caravans, to
halt till they had a Guard sent for them; for that an un-
usual Body of Tartars, making ten thousand in all, had
appeared in the Way, about thirty Miles beyond the City.
This was very bad News to Travellers; however, it
was carefully done of the Governour, and we were very
glad to hear we should have a Guard; accordingly, two
Days after, we had two hundred Soldiers sent us from a
Garrison of the Chineses, on our left, and three hundred
more from the City of Naum, and with those we advanced
boldly; the three hundred Soldiers from Naum, march'd
in our Front, the two hundred in our Rear, and our Men
on each Side of our Camels with our Baggage, and the
whole Caravan in the Center; in this Order, and well pre-
pared for Battle, we thought our selves a Match for the
whole ten thousand Mongol Tartars, if they had appeared;
but the next day when they did appear, it was quite an-
other thing.
It was early in the Morning, when marching from a
little well situated Town call'd Changu, we had a River to
pass, where we were obliged to ferry; and had the Tartars
had any Intelligence, then had been the Time to have at-
tack'd us, when the Caravan being over, the Rear-Guard
was behind; but they did not appear.
About three Hours after, when we were enter'd upon
a Desart of about fifteen or sixteen Miles over, behold, by
a Cloud of Dust they rais'd, we saw an Enemy was at
Hand, and they were at Hand indeed, for they came on
upon the Spur.
The Chineses, our Guard on the Front, who had talk'd
so big the Day before, began to stagger, and the Soldiers
frequently look'd behind them, which is a certain Sign in
a Soldier, that he is just ready to run away; my old Pilot
was of my mind, and being near me, he call'd out, Seignior
Inglese, says he, those Fellows must be encourag'd, or
they will ruin us all; for if the Tartars come on, they will
never stand it: I am of your Mind, said I, but what Course
must be done? Done! says he, letfiftyof our Men advance,
and flank them on each Wing, and encourage them, and
they will fight like brave Fellows in brave Company; but
without, they will every man turn his back; immediately I
rode up to our Leader, and told him, who was exadlly of
our mind; and accordingly, fifty of us march'd to the right
Wing, and fifty to the left, and the rest made a Line of
Rescue; and so we march'd, leaving the last two hundred
Men to make another Body by themselves, and to guard
the Camels; only that if need were, they should send a
hundred Men, to assist the last fifty.
In a Word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable
Company they were; how many, we could not tell, but
ten thousand we thought was the least: A Party of them
came on first, and view'd our Posture, traversing the
Ground in the Front of our Line; and as we found them
within Gun-shot, our Leader ordered the two Wings to
advance swiftly, and give them a Salvo on each Wing with
their Shot, which was done; but they went off, and I sup-
pose back to give an Account of the Reception they were
like to meet with: and indeed that Salute clogg'd their
Stomach, for they immediately halted, stood a while to
consider of it, and wheeling off to the left, they gave over
the Design, and said no more to us for that time; which
was very agreeable to our Circumstances, which were but
very indifferent for a Battle with such a Number.
Two Days after this, we came to the City Naun, or
Naum; we thank'd the Governour for his Care for us, and
collected to the Value of a hundred Crowns, or there-
abouts, which we gave to the Soldiers sent to guard us;
and here we rested one Day. This is a Garrison indeed,
and there were nine hundred Soldiers kept here; but the
Reason of it was, that formerly the Muscovite Frontiers
lay nearer to them than they do now, the Muscovites hav-
ing abandon'd that Part of the Country (which lies from
this City West, for about two hundred Miles) as desolate
and unfit for Use; and more especially, being so very re-
mote, and so difficult to send Troops thither for its De-
fence ; for we had yet above two thousand Miles to Mus-
covy, properly so call'd.
After this, we pass'd several great Rivers, and two
dreadful Desarts, one of which we were sixteen Days pass-
ing over, and which, as I said, was to be call'd no Mans
Land; and on the 13th of April we came to the Frontiers
of the Muscovite Dominions: I think the first City, or
Town, or Fortress, whatever it might be call'd, that be-
long'd to the Czar of Muscovy, was call'd Argun, being on
the Weft Side of the River Argun.
I could not but discover an infinite Satisfaction, that I
was so soon arrived in, as I call'd it, a Christian Country, or
at least in a Country governed by Christians; for tho' the
Muscovites do, in my Opinion, but just deserve the Name of
Christians, yet such they pretend to be, and are very de-
vout in their Way: It would certainly occur to any Man
who travels the World as I have done, and who had any
Power of Reflection; I say, it would occur to him, to re-
flect what a Blessing it is to be brought into the World,
where the Name of God, and of a Redeemer is known,
worship'd and ador'd; and not where the People given up
by Heaven to strong Delusions, worship the Devil, and
prostrate themselves to Stocks and Stones, worship Mon-
sters, Elements, horrible shaped Animals, and Statues,
or Images of Monsters: not a Town or City we pass'd
thro', buthad their Pagods, their Idols,and their Temples,
and ignorant People worshipping, even the Works of
their own Hands.
Now we came where at least a Face of the Christian
Worship appear'd, where the Knee was bow'd to Jesus;
and whether ignorantly or not, yet the Christian Religion
was own'd, and the Name of the true God was call'd upon,
and adored; and it made the very Recesses of my Soul re-
joice to see it: I saluted the brave Scots Merchant I men-
tioned above, with my first acknowledgement of this; and
taking him by the Hand, I said to him, Blessed be God,
we are once again come among Christians: He smiled,
and answered, do not rejoice too soon Countryman, these
Muscovites are but an odd sort of Christians; and but for
the Name of it, you may see very little of the Substance,
for some Months farther of our Journey.
Well, says I, but still 'tis better than Paganism, and
worshipping of Devils. Why, I'll tell you, says he, except
vol. in n
the Russian Soldiers in Garrisons, and a few of the Inhabi-
tants of the Cities upon the Road, all the rest of this Coun-
try, for above a thousand Miles farther, is inhabited by
the worst, and most ignorant of Pagans; and so indeed
we found it.
We were now launch'd into the greatest Piece of solid
Earth, if I understand any thing of the Surface of the
Globe, that is to be found in any Part of the Earth; we had
at least twelve hundred Miles to the Sea, Eastward; we
had at least two thousand to the Bottom of the Baltick
Sea, Westward; and above three thousand Miles, if we
left that Sea, and went on West to the British and French
Channels: We had full five thousand Miles to the Indian,
or Persian Sea, South; and about eight hundred Miles to
the Frozen Sea, North; nay, if some People may be be-
lieved, there might be no Sea North-East, till we came
round the Pole, and consequently into the North-West,
and so had a Continent of Land into America, the Lord
knows where, tho' I could give some Reasons, why I be-
lieve that to be a Mistake.
As we enter'd into the Muscovite Dominions, a good
while before we come to any considerable Towns, we had
nothing to observe there but this; first, that all the Rivers
that run to the East, as I understood by the Charts, which
some in our Caravan had with them; it was plain, all those
Rivers ran into the Great River Tamour, or Gammour:
This River, by the natural Course of it must run into the
East Sea, or Chinese Ocean. The Story they tell us, that
the Mouth of this River, is choak'd up with Bullrushes,
of a monstruous Growth, (viz.) three Foot about, and
twenty or thirty Foot high, I must be allow'd to say, I be-
lieve nothing of; but as its Navigation is of no Use, be-
casue there is no Trade that way, the Tartars, to whom
alone it belongs, dealing in nothing but Cattle, so no Body
that ever I heard of, has been curious enough, either to go
down to the Mouth of it in Boats, or come up from the
Mouth of it in Ships; but this is certain, that this River
running due East, in the Latitude of [60 degrees,] carries
a vast Concourse of Rivers along with it, and finds an
Ocean to empty it self in that Latitude; so we are sure of
Sea there.
Some Leagues to the North of this River, there are
several considerable Rivers, whose Streams run as due
North as the Yamour runs East, and these are all found to
join their Waters with the Great River Tartarus, nam'd
so, from the northernmost Nations of the Mongul Tartars,
who the Chinese say, were the first Tartars in the World;
and who, as our Geographers alledge, are the Gog and
Magog, mention'd in sacred Story.
These Rivers running all Northward, as well as all the
other Rivers, I am yet to speak of, make it evident, that
the Northern Ocean bounds the Land also on that side;
so that it does not seem rational in the least to think, that
the Land can extend it self to join with America on that
side, or that there is not a Communication between the
Northern and the Eastern Ocean; but of this I shall say
no more, it was my Observation at that time, and there-
fore I take Notice of it in this Place. We now advanc'd
from the River Arguna by easy and moderate Journeys,
and were very visibly oblig'd to the Care the Czar of Mus-
covy has taken to have Cities and Towns built in as many
Places as are possible to place them, where his Soldiers
keep Garrison something like the Stationary Soldiers
plac'd by the Romans in the remotest Countries of their
Empire, some of which I had read particularly were
plac'd in Britain for the Security of Commerce, and for the
lodging Travellers; and thus it was here; for where-ever
we came, tho' at these Towns and Stations, the Garrisons
and Governor were Russians, and profess'd Christians,
yet the Inhabitants of the Country were meer Pagans,
sacrificing to Idols, and worshipping the Sun, Moon, and
Stars, or all the Host of Heaven, and not only so, but were
of all the Heathens and Pagans that ever I met with, the
most barbarous, except only that they did not eat Man's
Flesh, as our Savages of America did.
Some Instances of this we met with in the Country be-
tween Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite Dominions,
and a City of Tartars and Russians together, call'd Nort-
ziuskoy, in which is a continu'd Desart or Forest, which
cost us twenty Days to travel over it: in a Village near the
last of those Places I had the Curiosity to go and see their
Way of Living, which is most brutish and unsufferable;
they had I suppose a great Sacrifice that Day, for there
stood out upon an old Stump of a Tree, an Idol made of
Wood, frightful as the Devil, at least as any Thing we can
think of to represent the Devil, can be made; it had a
Head certainly not so much as resembling any Creature
that the World ever saw; Ears as big as Goats Horns, and
as high; Eyes as big as a Crown-Piece; a Nose like a crook-
ed Ram's Horn, and a Mouth extended four corner'd,
like that of a Lion, with horrible Teeth, hooked like a
Parrot's under Bill; it was dressed up in the filthiest man-
ner that you could suppose; its upper Garment was of
Sheep-Skins, with the Wool outward, a great Tartar Bon-
net on the Head, with two Horns growing through it; it
was about eight Foot high, yet had no Feet or Legs, or
any other Proportion of Parts.
This Scare-crow was set up at the outer Side of the Vil-
lage, and when I came near to it, there was sixteen or
seventeen Creatures, whether Men or Women, I could
not tell, for they make no Distinction by their Habits,
either of Body or Head: These lay all flat on the Ground,
round this formidable Block of shapeless Wood: I saw
no Motion among them any more, than if they had been
all Logs of Wood like the Idol, and at first, really thought
they had been so; but when I came a little nearer, they
started up upon their Feet, and rais'd a howlingCry, as if it
hadbeensomanydeep-mouth'dHounds,andwalk'daway
as if they were displeas'd at our disturbing them: A little
way off from this Monster, and at the Door of that Tent
or Hutt, made all of Sheep-Skins and Cow-Skins, dry'd,
stood three Butchers, I thought they were such; when I
came nearer to them, I found they had long Knives in their
Hands, and in the middle of the Tent appear'd three
Sheep kill'd, and one young Bullock or Steer: These it
seems, were Sacrifices to that sensless Log of an Idol, and
these three Men, Priests belonging to it; and the seven-
teen prostrated Wretches, were the People who brought
the Offering, and were making their Prayers to that
Stock.
I confess I was more mov'd at their Stupidity and bru-
tish Worship of a Hobgoblin, than ever I was at any Thing
in my Life; to see God's most glorious and best Creature,
to whom he had granted so many Advantages, even by
Creation, above the rest of the Works of his Hands, vested
with a reasonable Soul, and that Soul adorn'd with Facul-
ties and Capacities, adapted both to honour his Maker,
and be honoured by him, sunk and degenerated to a De-
gree so more than stupid, as to prostrate it self to a fright-
ful Nothing, a meer imaginary Object dress'd up by
themselves, and made terrible to themselves by their own
Contrivance; adorn'd only with Clouts and Rags; and
that this should be the Effectof meer Ignorance,wrought
up into hellish Devotion by the Devil himself; who envy-
ing (to his Maker) the Homage and Adoration of his
Creatures, had deluded them into such gross, surfeiting,
sordid and brutish things, as one would think should
shock Nature it self.
Butwhatsignify'dallthe Astonishment and Reflection
of Thoughts; thus it was, and I saw it before my Eyes,
and there was no room to wonder at it, or think it impos-
sible; all my Admiration turn'd to Rage, and I rid up to
the Image, or Monster, call it what you will, and with my
Sword cut the Bonnet that was on its Head in two in the
middle, so that it hung down by one of the Horns; and
one of our Men that was with me took hold of the Sheep-
Skin that cover'd it, and pull'd at it, when behold a most
hideous Outcry and Howling run thro' the Village, and
two or three hundred People came about my Ears, so that
I was glad to scour for it; for we saw some had Bows and
Arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visit them
again.
Our Caravan rested three Nights at the Town, which
was about four Miles off, in order to provide some Horses
which they wanted, several of the Horses having been
lam'd, and jaded with the badness of the Way and long
March over the last Desart; so we had some Leisure here
to put my Design in Execution: I communicated my
Project to the Scots Merchant of Muscow, of whose Cou-
rage I had had sufficient Testimony, as above: I told him
what I had seen, and with what Indignation I had since
thought that human Nature could be so degenerate: I
told him, I was resolv'd if I could get but four or five Men
well arm'd to go with me, I was resolv'd to go and destroy
that vile, abominable Idol, and let them see that it h ad no
Power to help it self, and consequently could not be an
Object of Worship, or to be pray'd to, much less help
them that offer'd Sacrifices to it.
He laugh'd at me; says he, Your Zeal may be good, but
what do you propose to yourself by it? Propose, said 7, to
vindicate the Honour of God, which is insulted by this
Devil Worship. But how will it vindicate the Honour of
God, said he? While the People will not be able to know
what you mean by it, unless you could speak to them and
tell them so, and then they will fight you, and beat you
too, I'll assure you, for they are desperate Fellows, and
that especially in Defence of their Idolatry. Can we not,
said I, do it in the Night, and then leave them the Reasons
and Causes in Writing in their own Language? Writing!
said he, why there is not a Man in five Nations of them
that know any thing of a Letter, or how to read a Word in
any Language, or in their own. Wretched Ignorance!
said I to him; however I have a great mind to do it; per-
haps Nature may draw Inferences from it to them, to let
them see how brutish they are, to worship such horrid
Things. Look you, Sir, said he, if your Zeal prompts you
to it so warmly, you must do it; but in the next place I
would have you consider, these wild Nations of People
are subjected by Force to the Czar of Muscovy's Domin-
ions, and if you do this, 'tis ten to one but they will come
by Thousands to the Governour of Nertsinskay, and com-
plain, and demand Satisfaction; and if he cannot give
them Satisfaction, 'tis ten to one but they revolt, and it
will occasion a new War with all the Tartars in the Coun-
try.
This, I confess, put new Thoughts into my Head for a
while; but I harp'd upon the same String still, and all that
Day I was uneasy to put my Project in Execution: To-
wards the Evening the Scots Merchant met me by Acci-
dent in our Walk about the Town, and desir'd to speak
with me; I believe, said he, I have put you off of your good
Design; I have been a little concern'd about it since, for I
abhor the Idol and the Idolatry as much as you can do:
Truly, says I, you have put it off a little as to the Execu-
tion of it, but you have not put it all out of my Thoughts,
and I believe I shall do it still before I quit this Place, tho'
I were to be deliver'd up to them for Satisfaction. No, no,
says he, God forbid they should deliver you up to such a
Crew of Monsters; they shall not do that neither, that
would be murdering you indeed. Why, says I, how would
they use me ? Use you! says he; I'll tell you how they serv'd
a poor Russian, who affronted them in their Worship
just as you did, and who they took Prisoner; after they
had lam'd him with an Arrow that he could not run away,
they took him and stripp'd him stark naked, and set him
up on the top of the Idol Monster, and stood all round
him, and shot as many Arrows into him as would stick
over his whole Body, and then they burnt him and all the
Arrows sticking in him as a Sacrifice to the Idol. And was
this the same Idol ? Yes, says he, the very same. Well, says
I, I'll tell you a Story; so I related the Story of our Men at
Madagascar, and how they burnt and sack'd the Village
there, and kill'd Man, Woman and Child, for their mur-
dering one of our Men, just as it is related before; and
when I had done, I added, that I thought we ought to do
so to this Village.
He listen'd very attentively to the Story; but when I
talk'd of doing so to that Village, says he, You mistake
very much, it was not this Village, it was almost a hun-
dred Mile from this place, but it was the same Idol, for
they carry him about in Procession all over the Country:
Well, then, says I, then that Idol ought to be punish'd for
it, and it shall, says I, if I live this Night out.
In a word, finding me resolute, he lik'd the Design,
and told me I should not go alone, but he would go with
me, and bring a stout Fellow, one of his Countrymen, to
go also with us; and one, says he, as famous for his Zeal as
you can desire any one to be, against such Devilish things
as these. In a word, he brought me his Comrade, a Scots
Man, who he call'd Captain Richardson, and I gave him
a full account of what I had seen; and in a word, of what I
intended; and he told me readily, he would go with me if
it cost him his Life; so we agreed to go only us three. I
had indeed propos'd it to my Partner, but he declin'd it;
he said, he was ready to assist me to the utmost, and upon
all occasions for my defence; but that this was an Adven-
ture quite out of his way; so, I say, we resolv'd upon our
Work only us three and my Man-Servant, and to put it
in Execution that Night about Midnight, with all the
Secrecy imaginable.
However, upon second Thoughts, we were willing to
delay it till the next Night, because the Caravan being to
set forward in the Morning, we suppos'd the Governour
could not pretend to give them any Satisfaction upon us
when we were out of his Power. The Scots Merchant, as
steady in his Resolution for the Enterprize, as bold in
executing, brought me a Tartar's Robe or Gown of the
Sheep-Skins, and a Bonnet, with a Bow and Arrows, and
had provided the same for himself and his Countryman,
that the People, if they saw us, should not be able to de-
termine who we were.
All the first Night we spent in mixing up some com-
bustible Matter with Aqua-vitae, Gun-powder, and such
other Materials as we could get; and having a good Quan-
tity of Tar in a little Pot, about an Hour after Night we
set out upon our Expedition.
We came to the Place about eleven a Clock at Night,
and found that the People had not the least Jealousy of
Danger attending their Idol; the Night was cloudy, yet
the Moon gave us Light enough to see that the Idol stood
just in the same Posture and Place that it did before: The
People seemed to be all at their Rest, only, that in the
great Hutt, or Tent, as we called it, where we saw the
three Priests, who we mistook for Butchers, we saw a
Light, and going up close to the Door, we heard People
talking, as if there were five or six of them; we concluded
therefore, that if we set the Wild-fire to the Idol, these
Men would come out immediately, and run up to the
Place to rescue it from the Destruction that we intended
for it, and what to do with them we knew not; once we
thought of carrying it away, and setting Fire to it at a Dis-
tance; but when we came to handle it, we found it too
bulky for our Carriage, so we were at a Loss again: The
second Scots Man was for setting Fire to the Tent or Hutt,
and knocking the Creatures that were there on the Head
when they came out; but I could not joyn with that; I
was against killing them, if it was possible to be avoided:
Well, then said the Scots Merchant, I'll tell you what we
will do, we will try to take them Prisoners, tye their Hands
behind them, and make them stand still, and see their
Idol destroy'd.
As it happen'd, we had Twine or Packthread enough
about us, which was used to tye our Fire-Works together
with; so we resolv'd to attack these People first, and with
as little Noise as we could: The first Thing we did, we
knocked at the Door, which issued just as we desired it;
for one of their Idol Priests came to the Door: we imme-
diately seized upon him, stop'd his Mouth, and ty'd his
Hands behind him, and led him to the Idol, where we
gagg'd him, that he might not make a Noise; ty'd his
Feet also together, and left him on the Ground.
Two of us then waited at the Door, expecting that an-
other would come out to see what the Matter was; but we
waited so long 'till the third Man came back to us; and
then no Body coming out, we knock'd again gently, and
immediately out came two more, and we served them just
in the same Manner, but was oblig'd to go all with them,
and lay them down by the Idol some Distance from one
another; when going back, we found two more were come
out to the Door, and a third stood behind them within
the Door: We seiz'd the two, and immediately ty'd them,
when the third stepping back, and crying out, my Scots
Merchant went in after him, and taking out a Composi-
tion we had made, that would only smoke and stink, he
set Fire to it, and threw it in among them; by that Time
the other Scots Man and my Man taking Charge of the
two Men who were already bound, and ty'd together also
by the Arm, led them away to the Idol, and left them
there, to see if their Idol would relieve them, making
Haste back to us.
When the Fuze we had thrown in had fill'd the Hutt
with so much Smoak, that they were almost suffocated,
we then threw in a small Leather Bag of another kind,
which flam'd like a Candle, and following it in, we found
there was but four People left, who, it seems, were two
Men and two Women, and, as we supposed,' had been
about some of their Diabolick Sacrifices: They appear'd,
in short, frighted to Death, at least so as to sit trembling
and stupid, and not able to speak neither, for the Smoak.
In a word, we took them, bound them as we had the
other, and all without any Noise: I should have said, we
brought them out of the House or Hutt first; for indeed
we were not able to bear the Smoak any more than they
were. When we had done this, we carry'd them all toge-
ther to the Idol: when we came there, we fell to work with
him; and first we daub'd him all over, and his Robes also,
with Tar and such other Stuff as we had, which was Tal-
low mix'd with Brimstone; then we stopp'd his Eyes,
and Ears, and Mouth full of Gun-Powder, and then we
wrapp'd up a great Piece of Wild-fire in his Bonnet, and
then sticking all the Combustibles we had brought with
us upon him, we look'd about to see if we could find any
thing else to help to burn him, when my Man remem-
bred, that by the Tent or Hutt where the Men were, there
lay a heap of dry Forage, whether Straw or Rushes I do
not remember; away he and one of the Scots Men run, and
fetch'd their Arms full of that: When we had done this,
we took all our Prisoners, and brought them, having un-
ty'd their Feet, and ungagg'd their Mouths, and made
them stand up, and set them just before their monstrous
Idol, and there set fire to the whole.
We stay'd by it a quarter of an Hour, or thereabouts,
'till the Powder in the Eyes, and Mouth, and Ears of the
I dol blew up, and we could perceive had split and deform-
ed the Shape; and in a word, 'till we saw it burn into a
meer Block or Log of Wood, and then setting the dry
Forage to it, we found it would be quite consum'd, when
we began to think of going away; but the Scots Man said
no, we must not go, for these poor deluded Wretches will
all throw themselves into the Fire, and burn themselves
with the Idol; so we resolved to stay 'till the Forage was
burnt down too, and then we came away and left them.
In the Morning we appear'd among our Fellow Tra-
vellers exceeding busy, in getting ready for our Journey >
nor could any Man suggest that we had been any where
but in our Beds, as Travellers might be suppos'd to be, to
fit themselves for the Fatigues of that Day's Journey.
But it did not end so; the next Day came a great Multi-
tude of the Country People, not only of this Village, but
of a hundred more, for ought I know, to the Town-Gates,
and in a most outragious Manner, demanded Satisfaction
of the Russian Governour, for the insulting their Priests,
and burning their great Cham-Chi-Thaungu, such a hard
Name they gave the monstrous Creature they worship'd;
the People of Nertsinskay, were at first in a great Conster-
nation, for they said, the Tartars were no less than thirty
thousand, and that in a few Days more, would be one
hundred thousand strong.
The Russian Governour sent outMessengers to appease
them, and gave them all the good words imaginable: He
assured them, he knew nothing of it, and that there had
not a Soul of his Garrison been abroad: that it could not
be from any body there; and if they would let him know
who it was, they should be examplarily punished. They
return'd haughtily, that all the Country reverenced the
Great Cham-Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the Sun, and no
Mortal would have decreed to offer Violence to his Im-
age, but some Christian Miscreant, so they call'd them it
seems; and they therefore denounc'd War against him,
and all the Russians, who, they said, were Miscreants and
Christians.
The Governour still patient, and unwilling to make a
Breach, or to have any Cause of War alledged to be given
by him, the Czar having straitly charged them to treat the
conquer'd Country with Gentleness and Civility, gave
them still all the good Words he could; at last he told
them, there was a Caravan gone towards Russia that
Morning, and perhaps it was some of them, who had done
them this Injury; and that if they would be satisfied with
that, he would send after them, to enquire into it: This
seem'd to appease them a little; and accordingly the Go-
vernour sent after us, and gave us a particular Account
how the Thing was; intimating withal, that if any in our
Caravan had done it, they should make their Escape; but
that whether they had done it or no, we should make all
the Haste forward that was possible; and that in the mean
time, he would keep them in Play as long as he could.
This was very friendly in the Governour; however,
when it came to the Caravan, there was no Body knew
any Thing of the Matter; and as for us that were guilty,
we were the least of all suspected; none so much as ask'd
us the Question; however, the Captain of the Caravan for
the Time, took the Hint that the Governour gave us, and
we marched or travelled two Days and two Nights, with-
out any considerable Stop; and then we lay at a Village
called Plothus; nor did make any long Stop here, but has-
ten'd on towards Jaraivena, another of the Czar of Mus-
covy's Colonies, and where we expected we should be safe;
but it is to be observ'd, that here we began for two or three
Days March, to enter upon the vast nameless Desart, of
which I shall say more in its Place; and which, if we had
now been upon it, 'tis more than probable, we had been
all destroy'd: It was the second Day's March from Plot-
hus, that by the Clouds of Dust behind us at a great Dis-
tance, some of our People began to be sensible we were
pursued; we had enter'd the Desart, and had pass'd by a
great Lake call'd Schaks-Oser when we perceiv'd a very
great Body of Horse appear on the other Side of the Lake
to the North, we travelling West: We observ'd they went
away West as we did, but had supposed we would have
taken that Side of the Lake, whereas, we very happily
took the South Side; and in two Days more, we saw them
not, for they believing we were still before them, push'd
on till they came to the river Udda; this is a very great Ri-
ver when it passes farther North; but where we came to it,
we found it narrow, and fordable.
The third Day they either found their Mistake, or had
Intelligence of us, and came pouring in upon us, towards
the Dusk of the Evening: We had, to our great Satisfac-
tion, just pitch'd upon a Place for our Camp, which was
very convenient for the Night; for as we were upon a De-
sart, tho' but at the beginning of it, that was above five
hundred Miles over, we had no Towns to lodge at, and
indeed expected none but the City Jarawena, which we
had yet two Days march to; the Desart however, had some
few Woods in it on this Side, and little Rivers, which ran
all into the great river Udda: It was in a narrow Strait be-
tween two little, but very thick Woods, that we pitch'd
our little Camp for that Night, expecting to be attack'd
in the Night.
No body knew but ourselves, what we were pursued
for; but as it was usual for the Mongul Tartars to go about
in Troops in that Desart, so the Caravans always fortify
themselves every Night against them, as against Armies
of Robbers; and it was therefore no new thing to be pur-
sued.
But we had this Night, of all the Nights of our Travels,
a most advantageous Camp; for we lay between two
Woods, with a little Rivulet running just before our
Front; so that we could not be surrounded, or attack'd
any way, but in our Front or Rear; we took Care also to
make our Front as strong as we could, by placing our
Packs, with our Camels and Horses, all in a Line on the
Inside of the River, and felling some Trees in our Rear.
In this Posture we encamp'd for the Night, but the
Enemy was upon us before we had finish'd our Situation:
They did not come on us like Thieves as we expected, but
sent three Messengers to us, to demand the Men to be
delivered to them, that had abus'd their Priests, and
burn'd their God, Cham-Chi- Thaungu with Fire, that they
might burn them with Fire; and upon this, they said they
would go away, and do us no farther harm, otherwise,
they would burn us all with Fire. Our Men look'd very
blank at this Message, and began to stare at one another,
to see who look'd with most Guilt in their Faces; but no
Body was the Word, no Body did it. The Leader of the
Caravan sent Word, he was well assur'd, it was not done
by any of our Camp; that we were peaceable Merchants,
travelling on our Business; that we had done no harm to
them, or to any one else; and that therefore, they must
look farther for their Enemies who had injur'd them, for
we were not the People; so desir'd them not to disturb us,
for if they did, we should defend our selves.
They were far from being satisfy'd with this for an An-
swer, but a great Crowd of them came down in the Morn-
ing by break of Day to our Camp; but seeing us in such
an unaccountable Situation, they durst come no farther
than the Brook in our Front, where they stood and shew'd
us such a Number, that indeed terrify'd us very much;
for those that spoke least of them, spoke of ten thousand:
here they stood and look'd at us a while, and then setting
up a great Howl, they let fly a Cloud of Arrows among
us; but we were wel 1 enough fortified for tha t; for we shel-
ter'd under our Baggage, and I do not remember that one
Man of us was hurt.
Some Time after this, we see them move a little to our
Right, and expedited them on the Rear, when a cunning
Fellow, a Cossack, as they call them, of Jarawena, in the
Pay of the Muscovites, calling to the Leader of the Cara-
van, said to him, I'll go send all these People away to «S7-
heilka; this was a City, four or five Days Journey at least
to the South, and rather behind us: so he takes his Bow
and Arrows, and getting on Horse-back, he rides away
from our Rear directly, as it were back to Nertssinskay;
after this, he takes a great Circuit about, and comes to the
Army of the Tartars, as if he had been sent Express to tell
them a long Story; that the People who had burnt the
Cham-Chi-Thaungu, were gone to Siheilka, with a Caravan
of Miscreants, as he call'd them, that is to say, Christians;
and that they had resolv'd to burn the God Schal-Isar, be-
longing to the Tongueses.
As this Fellow was himself a meer Tartar, and perfect-
ly spoke their Language, he counterfeited so well, that
they all took it from him, and away they drove in a most
violent Hurry to Siheilka, which it seems was five Days
Journey to the North, and in less than three Hours, they
were entirely out of our Sight, and we never heard any
more of them; and we never knew whether they went to
that other Place called Siheilka, or no.
So we pass'd safely on to the City of Jarawena, where
there was a Garrison of Muscovites, and there we rested
five Days, the Caravan being exceedingly fatigued with
the last Day's hard march, and with want of Rest in the
Night.
From this City we had a frightful Desart, which held
us three and twenty Days march: We furnish'd our selves
with some Tents here, for the better accommodating our
selves in the Night; and the Leader of the Caravan, pro-
VOL. Ill o
cured sixteen Carriages or Waggons of the Country, for
carrying our Water and Provisions, and these Carriages
were our Defence every Night round our little Camp; so
that had the Tartars appeared, unless they had been very
numerous indeed, they would not have been able to hurt
us.
We may well be supposed to want Rest again after this
long Journey; for in this Desart we saw neither House or
Tree, or scarce a Bush; we saw abundance of the Sable-
Hunters, as they call'd them: These are all Tartars of the
Mongul Tartary, of which this Country is a part, and they
frequently attack small Caravans, but we saw no Num-
bers of them together: I was curious to see the Sable Skins
they catched, but could never speak with any of them, for
they durst not come near us, neither durst we straggle
from our Company, to go near them.
After we had pass'd this Desart, we came into a Coun-
try pretty well inhabited; that is to say, we found Towns
and Castles, settled by the Czar of Muscovy, with Garri-
sons of Stationary Soldiers to protect the Caravans, and
defend the Country against the Tartars, who wouldother-
wise make it very dangerous travelling; and his Czarisb
Majesty has given such strict Orders for the well guard-
ing the Caravans and Merchants, that if there are any
Tartars heard of in the Country, Detachments of the Gar-
risons are always sent to see the Travellers safe from Sta-
tion to Station.
And thus the Governour of Adinskoy, who I had Op-
portunity to make a Visit to, by means of the Scots Mer-
chant who was acquainted with him, offer'd us a Guard
of fifty Men, if we thought there was any Danger to the
next Station.
I thought long before this, that as we came nearer to
Europe we should find the Country better peopled, and
the People more civliz'd, but I found my self mistaken in
both, for we had yet the Nation of the Tongueses to pass
through; where we saw the same Tokens of Paganism
and Barbarity, or worse, than before, only as they were
conquer'd by the Muscovites, and entirely reduc'd, they
were not so dangerous; but for Rudeness of Manners,
Idolatry, and Multitheism no People in the World ever
went beyond them: They are cloath'd all in Skins of
Beasts, and their Houses are built of the same: You know
not a Man from a Woman, neither by the Ruggedness of
their Countenances or their Cloaths; and in the Winter,
when the Ground is cover'd with Snow, they live under
Ground in Houses like Vaults, which have Cavities go-
ing from one to another.
If the Tartars had their Cham-Chi-Tongu for a whole
Village or Country, these had Idols in every Hutt and in
every Cave; besides, they worship the Stars, the Sun, the
Water, the Snow, and in a word, every thing that they do
not understand, and they understand but very little; so
that almost every Element, every uncommon thing, sets
them a sacrificing.
But I am no more to describePeople thanCountries, any
farther than my own Story comes to be concerned in them:
I met with nothing peculiar to my self in this all Coun-
try, which I reckon was from the Desart which I spoke of
last, at least 400 Miles, half of it being another Desart,
which took us up twelve Days severe travelling, without
House, or Tree, or Bush, but were oblig'd again to carry
our own Provisions, as well Water as Bread. After we
were out of this Desart, and had travell'd two Days, we
came to Janezay, a Muscovite City or Station, on the great
River Janezay: this River they told us parted Europe
from Asia, tho' our Map-makers, as I am told, do not
agree to it; however, it is certainly the Eastern Boundary
of the ancient Siberia, which now makes up a Province
only of the vast Muscovite Empire, but is it self equal in
Bigness to the whole Empire of Germany.
And yet here I observ'd Ignorance and Paganism still
prevail'd, except in the Muscovite Garrisons; all the Coun-
try between the River Oby and the River Janezay is as en-
tirely Pagan, and the People as barbarous, as the remotest
of the Tartars, nay, as any Nation for ought I know in
Asia or America: I also found, which I observ'd to the
Muscovite Governours who I had Opportunity to con-
verse with, that the poor Pagans are not much the wiser
or the nearer Christianity for being under the Muscovite
Government; which they acknowledg'd was true enough,
but, as they said, was none of their Business: That if the
Czar expected to convert his Siberian, or Tonguese, or
Tartar Subjects, it should be done by sending Clergymen
among them, not Soldiers; and they added, with more
Sincerity than I expected, that they found it was not so
much the Concern of their Monarch to make the People
Christians, as it was to make them Subjects.
From this River to the great River Oby, we cross'd a
wild uncultivated Country: I cannot say 'tis a barren Soil;
'tis only barren of People, and good Management, other-
wise it is in itself a most pleasant, fruitful and agreeable
Country: What Inhabitants we found in it are all Pagans,
except such as are sent among them from Russia; for this
is the Country I mean on both Sides the River Oby, whi-
ther the Muscovite Criminals, that are not put to Death,
are banish'd, and from whence it is next to impossible
they should ever come away.
I have nothing material to say of my particular Affairs,,
till I came to Tobolski, the Capital City of Siberia, where I
continued some time on the following Occasion.
We had been now almost seven Months on our Jour-
ney, and Winter began to come on apace; whereupon my
Partner and I call'd a Council about our particular Af-
fairs, in which we found it proper, considering that we
were bound for England, and not for Muscow, to consider
how to dispose of our selves: They told us of Sledges and
Rane Deer to carry us over the Snow in the Winter time;
and indeed they have such things, that it would be incre-
dible to relate the Particulars of, by which means the
Russians travel more in the Winter than they can in Sum-
mer, because in these Sleds they are able to run Night and
Day; the Snow being frozen, is one universal Covering
to Nature, by which the Hills, the Vales, the Rivers, the
Lakes, all are smooth, and hard as a Stone, and they run
upon the Surface, without any regard to what is under-
neath.
But I had no occasion to push at a Winter Journey of
this kind: I was bound to England, not to Muscow, and
my Rout lay two ways, either I must go on as the Caravan
went till I came to Jeroslaw, and then go off West for
Narva, and the Gulph of Finland; and so either by Sea or
Land to Dantzick, where I might possibly sell my China
Cargo to good Advantage, or I must leave the Caravan at
a little Town on the Dwina, from whence I had but six
Days by Water to Arch-Angel, and from thence might be
sure of Shipping, either to England, Holland, or Hamburgh.
Now to go any of these Journeys in the Winter, would
ha' been preposterous; for as to Dantzick, the Baltick
would be frozen up, and I could not get Passage, and to
go by Land in those Countries, was far less safe than
among the Mongul Tartars; likewise to go to Arch-Angel
in Oftober, all the Ships would be gone from thence, and
even the Merchants who dwell there in Summer, retire
South to Muscow in the Winter when the Ships are gone;
so that I should have nothing but Extremity of Cold to
encounter, with a Scarcity of Provisions, and must lie
there in an empty Town all the Winter: so that upon the
whole I thought it much my better way to let the Caravan
go, and to make Provision to Winter where I was, (viz.) at
7'o^oM/in«S'/^mtfjintheLatitudeof[sixty]Degrees,where
I was sure of three Things to wear out a cold Winter with,
(viz.) Plenty of Provision such as the Country afforded;
a warm House, with Fuel enough, and excellent Com-
pany; of all which I shall give a full Account in its Place.
I was now in a quite different Climate from my belov'd
Island, where I never felt Cold except when I had my
Ague; on the contrary, I had much to do to bear any
Cloaths on my Back, and never made any Fire but with-
out Doors, and for my necessity in dressing my Food,
&c. Now I made me three good Vests, with large Robes
or Gowns over them to hang down to the Feet,and button
close to the Wrists, and all these lin'd with Furs to make
them sufficiently warm.
As to a warm House, I must confess I greatly dislik'd
our way in England of making Fires in every Room in the
House, in open Chimneys, which when the Fire was out,
always kept the Air in the Room cold as the Climate: But
taking an Appartment in a good House in the Town, I
order'd a Chimney to be built like a Furnace, in the Cen-
ter of six several Rooms, like a Stove, the Funnel to carry
the Smoak went up one Way, the Door to come at the
Fire, went in another, and all the Rooms were kept equal-
ly warm, but no Fire seen; just as they heat the Bagnios
in England.
By this means we had always the same Climate in all
the Rooms, and an equal Heat was preserv'd; and how
cold soever it was without, it was always warm within,
and yet we saw no Fire, nor was ever incommoded with
any Smoke.
The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be
possible to meet with good Company here, in a Country
so barbarous as that of the most Northerly Parts of Eur-
ope, near the frozen Ocean, and within but a very few De-
grees of Nova Zembla.
But this being the Country where the State Criminals
of Muscovy, as I observ'd before,are all banish'd, this City
was full of Noblemen, Princes, Gentlemen, Colonels, and
in short, all Degrees of the Nobility, Gentry, Soldiery and
Courtiers of Muscovy: Here was the famous Prince Gal-
liozen, the old General Robosliski, and several other Per-
sons of note, and some Ladies.
By means of my Scots Merchant, who nevertheless I
parted with here, I made an Acquaintance here with
several of these Gentlemen, and some of them of the first
Rank, and from these in the long Winter Nights in which
I stay'd here, I receiv'd several very agreeable Visits: It
was talking oneNight with Prince one of the ban-
ish'd Ministers of State, belonging to the Czar of Muscovy,
that my Talk of my particular Case began: He had been
telling me abundance of fine Things of the Greatness, the
Magnificence, the Dominions, and the absolute Power of
the Emperor of the Russians. I interrupted him, and told
him I was a greater and more powerful Prince than ever
the Czar of Muscovy was, tho' my Dominions were not so
large, or my People so many. The Russian Grandee look'd
a little surpriz'd, and fixing his Eyes steddily upon me,
began to wonder what I meant.
/ told him, his Wonder would cease when I had ex-
plain'd myself: First, I told him, I had the absolute Dis-
posal of the Lives and Fortunes of all my Subjects: That
notwithstanding my absolute Power, I had not one Per-
son disaffected to my Government, or to my Person, in all
my Dominions. He shook his Head at that, and said, there
indeed I outdid the Czar of Muscovy. I told him, That all
the Lands in my Kingdom were my own, and all my Sub-
jects were not only my Tenants, but Tenants at Will:
That they would all fight for me to the last Drop; and that
never Tyrant, for such I acknowledged myself to be, was ever
so universally beloved, and yet so horribly feared by his
Subjects.
After amusing them with these Riddles in Government
for a while, I open'd the Case, and told them the Story at
large of my living in the Island, and how I managed both
myself and the People there that were under me, just as I
have since minuted it down. They were exceedingly taken
with the Story, and especially the Prince, who told me
with a Sigh, that the true Greatness of Life was to be Mas -
ter of our selves: That he would not have exchanged such
a State of Life as mine, to have been Czar of Muscovy; and
that he found more Felicity in the Retirement he seem'd
to be banish'd to there, than ever he found in the highest
Authority he enjoy'd in the Court of his Master the Czar:
That the Heighth of human Wisdom was to bring our
Tempers down to our Circumstances; andto make a Calm
within, under the Weight of the greatest Scorns without.
When he came first hither, he said he used to tear the
Hair from his Head, and the Cloaths from his Back, as
others had done before him; but a little Time and Con-
sideration had made him look into himself, as well as
round him to things without: That he found the Mind of
Man, if it was but once brought to reflect upon the State
of universal Life, and how little this World was concern'd
in its true Felicity, was perfectly capable of making a Fe-
licity for itself, fully satisfying to itself, and suitable to its
own best Ends and Desires, with but very little Assistance
from the World: That Air to breath in, Food to sustain
Life, Cloaths for Warmth, and Liberty for Exercise in
order to Health, compleated, in his Opinion, all that the
World could do for us; and tho' the Greatness, the Au-
thority, the Riches, and the Pleasures which some enjoy'd
in the World, and which he had enjoy'd his Share of, had
much in them that was agreeable to us; yet he observ'd
that all those things chiefly gratify'd the coarsest of our
AfFedtions, such as our Ambition, our particular Pride,
our Avarice, our Vanity, and our Sensuality; all which
were indeed the meer Product of the worst part of Man,
were in themselves Crimes, and had in them the Seeds of
all manner of Crimes, but neither were related to, or con-
cern'd with any of those Virtues that constituted us wise
Men, or of those Graces which distinguish'd us as Chris-
tians : That being now deprived of all the fancy'd Felicity
which he enjoy'd in the full Exercise of all those Vices, he
said he was at leisure to look upon the dark Side of them,
where he found all manner of Deformity, and was now
convinced, that Virtue only makes a Man truly wise, rich
and great, and preserves him in the way to a superior
Happiness in a future State. And in this he said, they
were more happy in their Banishment than all their Ene-
mies were, who had the full Possession of all the Wealth
and Power that they (the Banish'd) had left behind them.
Nor, Sir, says he, do I bring my Mind to this politic
cally, by the Necessity of my Circumstances, which some
call miserable; but if I know any thing of my self, I would
not now go back, tho' the Czar, my Master, should call
me, and re-instate me in all my former Grandeur; I say, I
would no more go back to it, than I believe my Soul, when
it shall be deliver'd from this Prison of the Body, and has
had a Taste of the glorious State beyond Life, would come
back to the Jayl of Flesh and Blood it is now enclos'd in,
and leave Heaven to deal in the Dirt and Crime of human
Affairs.
He spoke this with so much Warmth in his Temper,so
much Earnestness and Motion of his Spirits, which were
apparent in his Countenance, that it was evident it was
the true Sense of his Soul: There was no room to doubt
his Sincerity.
I told him, I once thought my self a kind of a Monarch
in my old Station, of which I had given him an Account,
but that I thought he was not a Monarch only, but a great
Conqueror; for that he that has got a Victory over his own
exorbitant Desires, and has the absolute Dominion over
himself, whose Reason entirely governs his Will, is cer-
tainly greater than he that conquers a City. But, my Lord,
said I, shall I take the Liberty to ask you a Question? With
all my Heart, says he. If the Door of your Liberty was
open'd, said I, would you not take hold of it to deliver
your self from this Exile.
Hold, said he, your Question is subtle, and requires
some serious just Distinctions, to giveitasincere Answer;
and I '11 give it you from the Bottom of my Heart. Nothing
that I know of in this World would move me to deliver
my self from this State of Banishment, except these two,
First, the Enjoyment of my Relations, and Secondly, a
little warmer Climate; but I protest to you, that to go
back to the Pomp of the Court, the Glory, the Power, the
Hurry of a Minister of State, the Wealth, the Gaiety, and
the Pleasures, that is to say, Follies of a Courtier; if my
Master should send me Word this Moment, that he re-
stores me to all he banish'd me from; I protest, If I know
my self at all, I would not leave this Wilderness, these De-
sarts, and these frozen Lakes, for the Palace at Muscow.
But, my Lord, said I, perhaps you notonly are banish'd
from the Pleasures of the Court, and from the Power, and
Authority, and Wealth you enjoy'd before, but you may
be absent too from some of the Conveniences of Life,
your Estate perhaps confiscated and your Effects plun-
der'd, and the Supplies left you here may not be suitable
to the ordinary Demands of Life.
Ay, says he, that is as you suppose me to be a Lord, or a
Prince, &c. So indeed I am; but you are now to consider
me only as a Man, a human Creature, not at all distin-
guish'd from another, and so I can suffer no Want, unless
I should be visited with Sickness and Distempers. How-
ever, to put the Question out of Dispute; you see our
Manner; we are in this Place five Persons of Rank, we
live perfectly retir'd, as suited to a State of Banishment;
we have something rescu'd from the Shipwreck of our
Fortunes, which keeps us from the meer Necessity of
hunting for our Food; but the poor Soldiers who are here,
without that Help, live in as much Plenty as we, who go
into the Woods and catch Sables and Foxes; the Labour
of a Month will maintain them a Year; and as the Way of
living is not expensive, so it is not hard to get sufficient to
our selves. So that Objection is out of Doors.
I have not room to give a full Account of the most agree-
able Conversation I had with this truly great Man; in all
which he shew'd, that his Mind was so inspir'd with a
superior Knowledge of Things, so supportedby Religion,
as well as by a vast Share of Wisdom; that his Contempt
of the World was really as much as he had express'd, and
that he was always the same to the last, as will appear in
the Story I am going to tell.
I had been here 8 Months, and a dark dreadful Winter
I thought it to be, the Cold so intense, that I could not so
much as look abroad without being wrapt in Furs, and a
Mask of Fur before my Face, or rather a Hood with only
a Hole for Breath, and two for Sight: The little Day-light
we had, was, as we reckon'd, for three Months, not above
five Hours a day, and six at most; only that the Snow ly-
ing on the Ground continually, and the Weather clear, it
was never quite dark: Our Horses were kept (or rather
starv'd) under Ground, and as for our Servants, for we
hir'd three Servants here to look after our Horses and
selves, we had every now and then their Fingers and Toes
to thaw and take care of, lest they should mortify and fall
off.
It is true, within Doors we were warm, the Houses be-
ing close, the Walls thick, the Lights small, and the Glass
all double; our Food was chiefly the Flesh of Deer dry'd
and cur'd in the Season; good Bread enough, but bak'd
as Biskets; dry'd Fish of several Sorts, and some Flesh of
Mutton, and of the Buffeloes, which is pretty good Beef:
All the Stores of Provision for the Winter are laid up in
the Summer, and well cur'd; our Drink was Water mix'd
with Aqua-vitae instead of Brandy, and for a Treat, Mead
instead of Wine, which, however, they have excellent
good: The Hunters, who venture abroad all Weathers,
frequently brought us in fresh Venison, very fat and good,
and sometimes Bears Flesh, but we did not much care for
the last: We had a good Stock of Tea, with which we
treated our Friends, as above; and in a word, we liv'd
very chearfully and well, all things consider'd.
It was now March, and the Days grown considerably
longer, and the Weather, at least, tolerable, so the other
Travellers began to prepare Sleds to carry them over the
Snow, and to get things ready to be going; but my Mea-
sures being fix'd, as I have said, for Arch-Angel, and not
for Muscovy or the Baltick, I made no Motion; knowing
very well that the Ships from the South do not set out for
that Part of the World till May or June, and that if I was
there by the beginning of Augusl, it would be as soon as
any Ships would be ready to go away; and therefore, I
say, I made no haste to be gone, as others did; in a word,
I saw a great many People, nay, all the Travellers go away
before me: It seems every Year they go from thence to
Muscow for Trade, (viz.) to carry Furs, and buy Neces-
saries with them, which they bring back to furnish their
Shops; also others went of the same Errand to Arch-Angel,
but then they also being to come back again above 800
Miles, went all out before me.
In short, about the latter End of May I began to make
all ready to pack up; and as I was doing this, it occur'd to
me, that seeing all these People were banish'd by the Czar
of Muscovy to Siberia, and yet when they came there,were
left at Liberty to go whither they would; why did they not
then go away to any Part of the World where ever they
thought fit, and I began to examine what should hinder
them from making such an Attempt.
But my Wonder was over, when I enter'd upon that
Subject with the Person I have mention'd, who answer'd
me thus: Consider, First, Sir, said he, the Place where we
are; and Secondly, the Condition we are in; especially,
said he, the Generality of the People who are banish'd
hither; we are surrounded, said he, with stronger Things
than Bars and Bolts; on the North Side an unnavigable
Ocean, where Ship never sail'd, and Boat never swam;
neither, if we had both, could we know where to go with
them: Every other Way, said he, we have above a Thou-
sand Miles to pass through the Czar's own Dominions,
and By-Ways utterly unpassable, except by the Roads
made by the Governour, and by the Towns garrison'd by
his Troops; so that we could neither pass undiscover'd by
the Road, or subsist any other Way, so that it is in vain to
attempt it.
I was silenc'd indeed at once, and found that they were
in a Prison, every Jot as secure as if they had been lock'd
up in the Castle at Muscow; however, it came into my
Thought, that I might certainly be made an Instrument
to procure the Escape of this excellent Person, and that
whatever Hazard I run, I would certainly try if I could
carry him off. Upon this I took an Occasion one Evening
to tell him my Thoughts: I represented to him, that it
was very easy for me to carry him away, there being no
Guard over him in the Country, and as I was not going to
Muscow, but to Arch-Angel, and that I went in the nature
of a Caravan, by which I was not oblig'd to lye in the
stationary Towns in the Desart, but could encamp every
Night where I would, we might easily pass uninterrupted
to Arch-Angel, where I would immediately secure him on
Board an English or Dutch Ship, and carry him off safe
along with me; and as to his Subsistence, and other Par-
ticulars, it should be my Care till he could better supply
himself.
He heard me very attentively, and look'd earnestly on
me all the while I spoke; nay, I could see in his very Face,
that what I said put his Spirits into an exceeding Ferment;
his Colour frequently chang'd, his Eyes look'd red, and
his Heart flutter'd, that it might be even perceiv'd in his
Countenance; nor could he immediately answer me,
when I had done, and as it were expected what he would
say to it; but after hehad paus'dalittlehe embrac'dme, and
said, how unhappy are we unguarded Creatures as we are,
that even our greatest Acts of Friendship are made Snares
to us, and we are made Tempters of one another! My
dear Friend, said he, your Offer is so sincere, has such
Kindness in it, is so disinterested in it self, and is so calcu-
lated for my Advantage, that I must have very little Know-
ledge of the World, if I did not both wonder at it, and ac-
knowledge the Obligation I have upon me to you for it.
But did you believe I was sincere in what I have so often
said to you of my Contempt of the World? Did you be-
lieve I spoke my very Soul to you, and that I had really ob-
tain'd that Degree of Felicity here, that had plac'd me
above all that the World could give me, or do for me? Did
you believe I was sincere, when I told you I would not go
back, if I was re-call'd even to be all, that once I was in the
Court with the Favour of the Czar my Master? Did you
believe me, my Friend, to be an honest Man, or did you
think me to be a boasting Hypocrite? Here he stopp'd, as
if he would hear what I would say, but indeed, I soon after
perceiv'd, that he stopp'd because his Spirits were in Mo-
tion, his great Heart was full of Struggles, and he could
not go on. I was, I confess, astonish'd at the thing as well
as at the Man, and I us'd some Arguments with him to
urge him to set himself free: That he ought to look upon
this as a Door open'd by Heaven for his Deliverance, and
a Summons by Providence, who has the Care and Dispo-
sition of all Events, to do himself good, and to render
himself useful in the World.
He had by this time recover'd himself: How do you
know Sir, says he warmly, that instead of a Summons
from Heaven, it may not be a Feint of another Instru-
ment? Representing in all the alluring Colours to me the
Shew of Felicity as a Deliverance, which may in itself be
my Snare, and tends directly to my Ruin: Here I am free
from the Te mptation of re tur n in g to my former miserabl e
Greatness; there I am not sure but that all the Seeds of
Pride, Ambition, Avarice and Luxury, which I know re-
main in Nature, may revive and take Root, and in a Word,
again overwhelm me, and then the happy Prisoner, who
you see now Master of his Soul's Liberty, shall be the
miserable Slave of his own Senses, in the Full of all per-
sonal Liberty: Dear Sir, let me remain in this blessed Con-
finement, banish'd from the Crimes of Life, rather than
purchase a Shew of Freedom, at the Expence of the Li-
berty of my Reason, and at the Expence of the future
Happiness which now I have in my View, but shall then,
I fear, quickly lose Sight of; for I am but Flesh, a Man, a
meer Man, have Passions and Affections as likely to pos-
sess and overthrow me as any Man: O be not my Friend
and my Tempter both together!
If I was surpriz'd before, I was quite dumb now, and
stood silent, looking at him, and indeed admir'd at what
I saw; the Struggle in his Soul was so great, that tho' the
Weather was extreamly cold, it put him into a most vio-
lent Sweat, and I found he wanted to give Vent to his
Mind; so I said a Word or two, that I would leave him to
consider of it, and wait on him again, and then I withdrew
to my own Apartment.
About two Hours after I heard some Body at, or near,
the Door of my Room, and I was going to open the Door,
but he had open'd it, and came in: My dear Friend, says
he, you had almost overset me, but I am recover'd; do not
take it ill that I do not close with your Offer, I assure you,.
'tis not for want of a Sense of the Kindness of it in you,
and I came to make the most sincere Acknowledgment
of it to you; but I hope I have got the Victory over my
self.
My Lord, said /, I hope you are fully satisfy'd that you
do not resist the Call of Heaven. Sir, said he, if it had been
from Heaven, the same Power would have influenc'd me
to accept it; but I hope, and am fully satisfy'd, that it is
from Heaven that I decline it, and I have an infinite Satis-
faction in the Parting, that you shall leave me an honest
Man still, tho' not a free Man.
I had nothing to do but to acquiesce, and make Pro-
fessions to him of my having no End in it, but a sincere
Desire to serve him: He embrac'd me very passionately,
and assur'd me, he was sensible of that, and should always
acknowledge it, and with that he offer'd me a very fine
Present of Sables, too much indeed for me to accept from
a Man in his Circumstances, and I would have avoided
them, but he would not be refus'd.
The next Morning I sent my Servant to his Lordship,
with a small Present of Tea, and two Pieces of China Da-
mask, and four little Wedges of Japan Gold, which did
not all weigh above six Ounces, or thereabout, but were
far short of the Value of his Sables, which, indeed, when I
came to England, I found worth near 200/. He accepted
the Tea, and one Piece of the Damask, and one of the
Pieces of Gold, which had a fine Stamp upon it, of the
Japan Coinage, which I found he took for the Rarity of it,
but would not take any more, and he sent word by my
Servant that he desir'd to speak with me.
When I came to him, he told me, I knewwhathadpass'd
between us, and hop'd I would not move him any more
in that Affair; but that since I had made such a generous
vol. in p
Offer to him, he ask'd me, if I had Kindness enough to
offer the same to another Person that he would name to
me, in whom he had a great Share of Concern; I told him,
that I could not say I enclin'd to do so much for any one
but himself, for whom I had a particular Value, and should
have been glad to have been the Instrument of his De-
liverance; however, if he would please to name the Per-
son to me, I would give him my Answer, and hop'd he
would not be displeased with me, if he was with my An-
swer ; he told me, it was only his Son, who, tho' I had not
seen, yet was in the same Condition with himself, and
above two hundred Miles from him, on the other side the
Oby; but that if I consented, he would send for him.
I made no Hesitation, but told him I would do it: I
made some Ceremony in letting him understand that it
was wholly on his Account, and that seeing I could not
prevail on him, I would shew my Respect to him, by my
Concern for his Son; but these Things are too tedious to
repeat here: He sent away the next Day for his Son, and
in about twenty Days he came back with the Messenger,
bringing six or seven Horses, loaded with very rich Furs,
and which in the whole, amounted to a very great Value.
His Servants brought the Horses into the Town, but
left the young Lord at a Distance, till Night, when he
came incognito into our Apartment, and his Father pre-
sented him to me; and in short, we concerted there the
manner of our travelling, and every Thing proper for the
Journey.
I had bought a considerable Quantity of Sables, black
Fox Skins, fine Ermines, and such other Furs as are very
rich; I say, I had bought them in that City in Exchange
for some of the Goods I brought from China ; in particu-
lar for the Cloves and Nutmegs, of which, I sold the
greatest Part here, and the rest afterwards at Arch-Angel,
for a much better Price than I could have done at London;
and my Partner who was sensible of the Profit, and whose
Business more particularly than mine was Merchandize,
was mightily pleas'd with our Stay, on Account of the
Traffick we made here.
It was the beginning of June, when I left this remote
Place, a City, I believe, little heard of in the World; and
indeed it is so far out of the Road of Commerce, that I
know not how it should be much talk'd of. We were now
come to a very small Caravan, being only thirty two Hor-
ses and Camels in all, and all of them pass'd for mine, tho'
my new Guest was Proprietor of eleven of them; it was
most natural also that I should take more Servants with
me than I had before, and the young Lord pass'd for my
Steward; what great Man I pass'd for my self, I know
not, neither did it concern me to enquire; we had here,
the worst and the largest Desart to pass over that we met
with in all the Journey; indeed I call it the worst, because
the Way was very deep in some Places, and very uneven
inothers; the best we had to say for it, was, that we thought
we had no Troops of Tartars and Robbers to fear, and
that they never came on this Side the River Oby, or at
least, but very seldom, but we found it otherwise.
My young Lord had with him, a faithful Muscovite
Servant, or rather a Siberian Servant, who was perfectly
acquainted with the Country, and led us by private Roads,
that we avoided coming in to the principal Towns and
Cities, upon the great Road, such as Tumen, Soly-Kamskoi,
and several others; because theMuscovite Garrisons which
are kept there, are very curious and strict in their Obser-
vation upon Travellers; and searching least any of the
banish'd Persons of Note should make their Escape that
Way into Muscovy; but by this Means, as we were kept
out of the Cities, so our whole Journey was a Desart, and
we were oblig'd to encamp and lye in our Tents, when we
might have had very good Accommodation in the Cities
on the Way: This the young Lord was so sensible of, that
he would not allow us to lye abroad, when we came to
several Cities, on the Way, but lay abroad himself with
his Servant in the Woods, and met us always at the
appointed Places.
We were just enter'd Europe, having pass'd the River
Kama, which in these Parts, is the Boundary between
Europe and Asia, and the first City on the European Side
was call'd Soloy-Kamaskoy, which is as much as to say, the
great City, on the River Kama; and here we thought to
have seen some evident Alteration in the People, their
Manner, their Habit, their Religion, and their Business;
but we were mistaken, for as we had a vast Desart to pass,
which by Relation, is near seven hundred Miles long in
some Places, but not above two hundred M iles over where
we pass'd it; so 'till we came past that horrible Place, we
found very little Difference between that Country and
the Mogul Tartary; the People, mostly Pagans, and little
better than the Savages of America, their Houses and
Towns full of Idols, and their Way of Living, Wholly bar-
barous, except in the Cities as above, and the Villages
near them; where they are Christians as they call them-
selves, of the Greek Church, but have their Religion min-
gled with so many Reliques of Superstition, that it is
scarce to be known in some Places from meer Sorcery and
Witchcraft.
In passing this Forrest, I thought indeed we must, af-
ter all our Dangers were in our Imagination escap'd, as
before, have been plunder'd and robb'd, and perhaps
murther'd by a Troop of Thieves; of what Country they
were, whether the roving Bands of the Osliachi, a Kind of
Tartars or wild People on the Bank of the Obi, had rang'd
thus far, or whether they were the Sable-Hunters of Si-
beria, I am yet at a Loss to know; but they were all on
Horseback, carry'd Bows and Arrows, and were at first
about five and forty in Number; they came so near to us,
as within about two Musquet-Shot, and asking no Ques-
tions, they surrounded us with their Horse, and look'd
very earnestly upon us twice; at length they plac'd them-
selves just in our Way, upon which, we drew up in a little
Line before our Camels, being not above sixteen Men in
all; and being drawn up thus, we halted and sent out the
Siberian Servant, who attended his Lord, to see who they
were; his Master was the more willing to let him go, be-
cause he was not a little apprehensive, that they were a
Syberian Troop sent out after him: The Man came up
near them with a Flag of Truce, and call'd them, but tho'
he spoke several of their Languages or Dialefts of Lan-
guages rather, he could not understand a Word they said;
however, after some Signs to him, not to come nearer to
them at his Peril; so he said, he understood them to mean
offering to shoot at him if he advanc'd; the Fellow came
back no wiser than he went, only that by their Dress, he
said, he believ'd them to be some Tartars of Kalmuck, or
of the Circassian Hoords; and that there must be more of
them upon the great Desart, tho' he never heard that any
of them ever were seen so far North before.
This was small Comfort to us; however, we had no
Remedy; there was on our left Hand at about a Quarter
of a Mile's Distance, a little Grove or Clump of Trees
which stood close together, and very near the Road; I
immediately resolv'd we would advance to those Trees,
and fortify our selves as well as we could there; for first
I considered, that the Trees would in a great Measure
cover us from their Arrows, and in the next Place, they
could not come to charge us in a Body; it was indeed my
old Portuguese Pilot who proposed it, and who had this
Excellency attending him, namely, that he was always
readiest, and most apt to direct and encourage us in Cases
of the most Danger; we advanc'd immediately with what
Speed we could, and gain'd that little Wood, the Tartars
or Thieves, for we know not what to call them, keeping
their Stand, and not attempting to hinder us; when we
came thither, we found to our great Satisfaction, that it
was a swampy springy Piece of Ground, and on the one
Side, a very great Spring of Water, which running out in
a little Rill or Brook, was a little farther, joyn'd by another
of the like Bigness, and was in short, the Head or Source
of a considerable River, call'd afterwards the Wirtska; the
Trees which grew about this Spring, were not all above
two hundred, but were very large, and stood pretty thick;
so that as soon as we got in, we saw our selves perfectly
safe from the Enemy, unless they alighted and attack'd
us on Foot.
But to make this more difficult, our Portuguese, with
indefatigable Application, cut down great Arms of the
Trees, and laid them hanging not quite cut off from one
Tree to another, so that he made a continued Fence al-
most round us.
We stay'd here waiting the Motion of the Enemy some
Hours, without perceiving they made any Motion; when
about two Hours before Night, they came down directly
upon us, and tho' we had not perceiv'd it, we found they
had been join'd by some more of the same, so that they
were near fourscore Horse, whereof however, we fancy'd
some were Women: They came on till they were within
half Shot of our little Wood, when we fir'd one Musquet
without Ball, andcall'd to them in the Russian Tongue, to
know what they wanted, and bid them keep off; but as if
they knew nothing of what we said, they came on with a
double Fury directly up to the Wood-side, not imagining
we were so barricado'd that they could not break in; our
old Pilot was our Captain, as well as he had been our En-
gineer, and desir'd of us not to fire upon them till they
came within Pistol-Shot, and that we might be sure to
kill, and that when we did fire, we should be sure to take
good Aim; we bad him give the Word of Command,
which he delay'd so long, that they were some of them
within two Pikes length of us when we fir'd.
We aim'd so true, (or Providence directed our Shot so
sure) that we kill'd fourteen of them, and wounded seve-
ral others, as also several of their Horses; for we had all of
us loaded our Pieces with two or three Bullets at least.
They were terribly surpr iz'd with our Fire, and retreat-
ed immediately about one Hundred Rods from us; in
which Time, we loaded our Pieces again, and seeing them
keep that Distance, we sally'd out and catch'd four or five
of their Horses, whose Riders we suppose were kill'd,
and coming up to the dead, we could easily perceive they
were Tartars, but knew not from what Country, or how
they came to make an Excursion such an unusual Length.
About an Hour after they made a Motion to attack us
again, and rode round our little Wood, to see where else
they might break in; but finding us always ready to face
them, they went offagain, and we resolv'd not to stir from
the Place for that Night.
We slept little you may be sure, but spent the most
Part of the Night in strengthning our Situation, and bar-
ricadoing the Entrances into the Wood, and keeping a
strict Watch, we waited for Day-Light, and when it came,
it gave us a very unwelcome Discovery indeed; for the
Enemy, who we thought werediscourag'd with the Re-
ception they had met with, were now encreased to no less
than three hundred, and had set up eleven or twelve Huts
and Tents, as if they were resolv'd to besiege us; and this
little Camp they had pitch'd upon the open Plain, at about
three Quarters of a Mile from us. We were indeed sur-
priz'd at this Discovery; and now I confess, I gave my
self over for lost, and all that I had: The Loss of my Ef-
fects did not lye so near me, (tho' they were very consider-
able') as the Thoughts of falling into the Hands of such
Barbarians, at the latter End of my Journey, after so many
Difficulties and Hazards as I had gone thro'; and even
in Sight of our Port, where we expected Safety and De-
liverance ; as for my Partner, he was raging; he declar'd,
that to lose his Goods would be his Ruin; and he would
rather die than be starv'd; and he was for fighting to the
last Drop.
The young Lord, as gallant as ever Flesh shew'd itself,
was for fighting to the last also; and my old Pilot was of
the Opinion we were able to resist them all, in the Situa-
tion we were then in; and thus we spent the Day in De-
bates of what we should do; but towards Evening, we
found that the Number of our Enemies still encreas'd,
perhaps as they were abroad in several Parties for Prey;
the first had sent out Scouts to call for Help, and to ac-
quaint them of the Booty, and we did not know, but by
the Morning they might still be a greater Number; so I
began to enquire of those People we had brought from
Tobolski, if there was no other, or more private Ways by
which we might avoid them in the Night, and perhaps
either retreat to some Town, or get Help to guard us over
the Desart.
The Syberian, who was Servant to the young Lord,
told us, if we design'd to avoid them and not fight, he
would engage to carry us off in the Night, to a Way that
went North towards the Petrou, by which he made no
Question, but we might get away, and the Tartars never
the wiser; but he said, his Lord had told him, he would
not retreat, but would rather chuse to fight. I told h im, he
mistook his Lord, for that he was too wise a Man to love
Fighting for the sake of it; that I knew his Lord was brave
enough by what he had shew'd already; but that his Lord
knew better, than to desire to have seventeen or eighteen
Men fight five hundred, unless an unavoidable Necessity
forc'd them to it; and that if he thought it possible for us
to escape in the Night, we had nothing else to do but to
attempt it. He answer'd, if his Lord gave him such Or-
ders, he would lose his Life if he did not perform it; we
soon brought his Lord to give that Order, tho' privately,
and we immediately prepar'dfor the putting it in Practice.
And first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a
Fire in our little Camp, which we kept burning, and pre-
par'd so as to make it burn all Night, that the Tartars
might conclude we were still there; but as soon as it was
dark, (that is to say) so as we could see the Stars (for our
Guide would not stir before) having all our Horses and
Camels ready loaden, we followed our new Guide, who I
soon found steer'd himself by the Pole, or North Star, all
the Country being level for a long Way.
After we had travell'd two Hours very hard, it began
to be lighter still, not that it was quite dark all Night, but
the Moon began to rise, so that in short, it was rather
lighter than we wish'd it to be; but by six a Clock the next
Morning we were gotten near forty Miles, tho' the
Truth is, we almost spoil'd our Horses. Here we found a
Russian Village named Kermazinskoy, where we reeled,
and heard nothing of the Calmuck Tartars that Day; about
two Hours before Night we set out again, and travell'd
till eight the next Morning, tho' not quite so quick as be-
fore, and about seven a Clock we pass'd a little River call'd
Kirtza, and came to a good large Town inhabited by Rus-
sians, and very populous, call'd Ozomoys; there we heard
that several Troops or Hoords of Calmucks had been
abroad upon the Desart, but that we were now compleat-
ly out of Danger of them, which was to our great Satisfac-
tion you may be sure. Here we were oblig'd to get some
fresh Horses, and having Need enough of Rest, we stay'd
five Days; and my Partner and I agreed to give the honest
Syberian, who brought us thither, the Value of ten Pis-
toles, for his conducting us.
In five Days more we came to Feuslima, upon the River
fVitzogda, and running into the Dwina, we were there
very happily near the end of our Travels by Land, that
River being navigable in seven Days Passage to Arch-
Angel: From hence we came to Lawrenskoy the 3d of July,
and providing our selves with two Luggage Boats, and a
Barge for our own Convenience, we embark'd the 7th,
and arriv'd all safe at Arch-Angel the 18 th, having been a
Year and five Months and three Days on the Journey,
including our Stay of eight Months and odd Days at
Tobolski.
We were oblig'd to stay at this Place six Weeks for the
Arrival of the Ships, and must have tarry'd longer, had
not a Hamburgher come in above a Month sooner than
any of the English Ships; when after some Consideration,
that the City of Hamburgh might happen to be as good a
Market for our Goods as London, we all took Freight with
him, and having put my Goods on board, it was most na-
tural for me to put my Steward on board to take care of
them, by which means my young Lord had a sufficient
Opportunity to conceal himself, never coming on Shore
in all the time we stay'd there; and this he did, that he
might not be seen in the City, where some of the Mus-
cow Merchants would certainly have seen and discover'd
him.
We sailed from Arch-Angel the 20th of Augusl the same
Year, and after no extraordinary bad Voyage, arriv'd in
the Elbe the 13 th of September. Here my Partner and I
found a very good Sale for our Goods, as well those of
China, as the Sables, &c. of Syberia; and dividing the Pro-
duce of our Effects, my Share amounted to 347 5--173 d.
notwithstanding so many Losses we had sustain'd, and
Charges we had been at; only remembring that I had in-
cluded in this, about six hundred Pounds worth of Dia-
monds which I had purchas'd at Bengal.
Here the young Lord took his leave of us, and went up
the Elbe in order to go to the Court of Vienna, where he
resolv'd to seek Protection, and where he could corre-
spond with those of his Father's Friends who were left
alive: He did not part without all the Testimonies he
could give me of Gratitude for the Service I had done him,
and his Sense of my Kindness to the Prince his Father.
To conclude, having stay'd near four Months in Ham-
burgh, I came from thence over Land to the Hague, where
I embark'd in the Pacquet, and arriv'd in London the 1 oth
of January, 1705, having been gone from England ten
Years and nine Months.
And here, resolving to harrass my self no more, I am
preparing for a longer Journey than all these, having liv'd
72 Years, a Life of infinite Variety, and learn'd suffici-
ently to know the Value of Retirement, and the Blessing
of ending our Days in Peace.
FINIS.
