THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
BY DANIEL DEFDE,

A NEW EDITION, EDITED FOR YOUNG READERS BY E. O. CHAPMAH.
HUM UPWARDS OF TWO HUNDRED ILLUSTRATIONS BY DALZIEL, GRISET. J. D. WATSON AND OZHER&
NEW YORK:
WORTHINGTON CO.
1886.
COPYRIGHT, 1886, BY R. WORTHINGTON.
From Frees of
Psnmxa co*pi.ir,
133 Water Street,
New York.
INTRODUCTION.

THE story of ROBIN-
SON CRUSOE was writ-
ten by Daniel De Foe,
and first published in
1719, nearly one hundred and seventy years
ago. The author called it "The Life and
Strange Surprising Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe, of York, Mariner: who lived eight-
and-twenty years all alone in an uninhabited
island on the coast of America, near the
mouth of the great river Oroonoque; hav-
ing been cast on shore by shipwreck, where-
in all the men perished but himself. With
an account how he was at last strangely
delivered by Pirates. Written by himself."
They gave their books very long titles
in those days. But the people soon found
that this was a very interesting book, de-
spite its long title. No publisher wanted
to print it at first, but as soon as it was
published, a large number of copies were
sold, and publishers have been printing it
and selling it ever since.
It was at first thought by some to be an
entirely true story, but it is not. It is, nc
doubt, however, founded in part on the real
adventures of Alexander Selkirk, the son
of a shoemaker in Scotland. The following
brief account of him is given by Wilson,
the biographer of De Foe:
"His real name was Selcraig, which he
changed to that of Selkirk, when he went
to sea. He was born at Largo, in the
county of Fife, in 1676, and, after a com-
mon school education, was put to his
father's business, which was that of a shoe-
maker. Being a spoiled child, he soon dis-
covered a waywardness of temper that gave
much uneasiness to his parents; whilst au
early propensity to the sea rendered his
employment irksome. At length an inci-
dent occured that put him upon indulging
his humor; for, being brought under church-
censure for irregular conduct when he was
eighteen years of age, rather than submit,
he suddenly left home, and was never heard
of for six years. It is supposed that he was
with the buccaneers in the South Seas. In
1701 we find him again at Largo, but the
same intractable person as ever, being en-
gaged in constant broils with his family.
As the sea was his favorite element, he did
not continue long in Scotland, but, going
to London, engaged with Captain Dampier
N.
upon a cruising expedition to the South
Seas. This was the voyage that rendered
his subsequent history so interesting to the
lovers of romance.
"Being appointed sailing-master of the
Cinque Ports galley, a companion to the
St. George, commanded by Dampier, he left
England in the spring of 1703, and, after
various adventures, both vessels reached
the island of Juan Fernandez in the follow-
ing February. After staying some time to
re-fit, they sailed again in quest of booty;
but a violent quarrel arising between Sel-
kirk and his commander, Stradling, which
settled into a rooted aaimosity, the former
resolved to take the first opportunity of
leaving the vessel. This occurred at the
beginning of September, 1704, when her
crazy state obliged Stradling to return to
Juan Fernandez for fresh repairs; which
being completed, Selkirk bade a final adieu
to his comrades at the end of the same
month. Upon this island he lived by him-
self four years and four months, until he
was released by Captain Woodes Rogers,
in the month of February, 1709."
It has been said that this wild fellow
wrote a story of his adventures and gave it
to De Foe, and that De Foe made the story
of ROBINSON CRUSOE from it, but this is not
believed to be true.
Whether the story is founded upon that
of Selkirk or not, it is one that every body
finds full of interest. The picture of Crusoe,
with his coat and umbrella of goat skins,
watching day after day for a ship, until the
days pass into months and the months into
years, is one which readers will never tire
of, and is especially attractive to boys and
gills.


ROBINSON CRUSOE.

WAS BORN in the city
of York, in the year 1632.
My father's right name
was Kreutznaer, and he
had come to England from
Bremen. My mother's re-
lations were named Robin-
son, so I was named Robinson Kreutznaer.
The English people called it, Crusoe, and
after a while we came to write it so.
My father was not rich, but he had
become well to do by trading, and he
wished me to stay at home and be happy;
and all the more because both he and my
mother were getting old, and further, be-
cause one of my elder brothers had been
killed in the war with the Spaniards, and
the other had gone away from home and
had not been heard from; but I would be
satisfied with nothing but going to sea;
and my inclination to this led me so
strongly against the will of my father, and
against all the entreaties of my mothei
that there seemed to be something fatal in
my perversity, tending directly to the life
of misery which was to befall me.
One morning, my father called me into
his chamber, where he was sick with the
gout, and talked to me very seriously
about it. He told me that if I staid at
home, I had a prospect of raising my
fortunes and living a life of happiness.
He said that it was only the very wealthy
on the one hand, or the very desperate on
the other, who went abroad in search of
adventure. Mine was the middle - state,
which he had found by experience was the
best state in the world. This was the
state of life that was envied both by kings
and beggars. This condition of life was
what the wise man meant when he prayed
that he might have neither poverty nor
riches.

Much more he told me to dissuade me
from going to sea, and he ended by saying
that though he should not cease to pray
for me, if I did take this foolish step,
God would not bless me.
I was deeply affected by what my father
said, and I resolved not to think any more
of going abroad. But in a few days my
good resolutions were all given up and I
began to think of running away from
home in spite of the entreaties of my
father and the tears of my mother. How-
ever, as no opportunity presented itself, I
still remained at home, though I refused
to engage in any business or to learn any
trade.
One day, being at Hull, I met one of my
companions who was going by sea to Lon-
don, and he invited me so strongly to go
with him that I consulted neither father
nor mother any more, nor so much as sent
them word of it; but leaving them to hear
of it as they might, without asking God's
blessing, or my father's, without any con-
sideration of circumstances or consequences,
and in an ill hour, God knows, on the 1st
of September, 1651,1 went on board a ship
bound for London.
Never any young adventurer's misfor-
tunes, I believe, began sooner or continued
longer than mine. The ship was no sooner
got out of the Humber than the wind
began to blow, and the sea to rise in a
most frightful manner ; and, as I had never
been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly
sick in body, and terrified in mind. I
began now seriously to reflect upon what I
had done, and how justly I was overtaken
by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked
leaving my father's house, and abandoning
my duty. All the good counsels of my
parents came now fresh into my mind; and
my conscience, which was not yet come to
the pitch of hardness to which it has come
since, reproached me with the contempt of
advice, and the breach of my duty to God
and my father.
I thought that every wave would swallow
us up, and that every time the ship fell
into the hollow or trough of the sea, it
would never rise again. In this agony of
mind I made many vows and resolutions,
that if it would please God to spare my
life in this one voyage, if ever I got once
my foot upon dry land again, I would go
directly home to my father, and never set
made a sight that I thought the most de-
lightful I ever saw.
I had slept well in the night and was
now no more sea-sick, but very cheerful.

it into a ship again while I lived; that I
would take his advice, and never run my-
self into such miseries as these any more.
I had these wise and good thoughts as
long as the storm lasted, and, indeed, for
some time after. But the next day, the
wind abated and the sea grew calmer, and
a fine evening followed. My sea-sickness
and my fears disappeared, and with them
all my thoughts of home and duty. The
sun rose clear the next morning, and his
beams shining upon the sea, which was
quite smooth, there being little or no wind,
looking with wonder upon the sea that
so rough and terrible the day before, and
could be so calm and so pleasant in so little
a time after. And now, lest my good re-
solutions should continue, my companion
who had enticed me away comes to me.
"AVell, Bob," says he, clapping me upon
the shoulder, "how do you do after it? I
warrant you were frightened, wer'n't you,
last night, when it blew but a capful of
wind?"
"A capful d'you call it ?" said I; "'tw*~
a terrible storm."
10
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

"A storm, you fool!" replies he ; "do you
call that a storm? why, it was nothing at
all; give us but a good ship and sea-room,
and we think nothing of such a squall of
wind as that; but you're but a fresh-water
sailor, Bob. Come, let us make a bowl of
punch, and we'll forget all that."
To make short this sad part of my story,
we went the way of all sailors; the punch
was made, and I was made half-drunk with
it; and in that one night's wickedness I
drowned all my repentance, all my reflec-
tions upon my past conduct, all my resolu-
tions for the future. In a word, as the sea
was returned to its smoothness, so the
hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears
of being swallowed up by the sea being
forgotten, and the current of my former
desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows
and promises that I made in my distress.
I found, indeed, some intervals of reflec-
tion; and the serious thoughts did, as it
were, endeavor to return again sometimes;
but I shook them off, and roused myself
from them, and applying myself to drink-
ing and company, soon mastered the return
of those fits. But I was to have another
trial for it still; and Providence, as in such
cases generally it does, resolved to leave me
entirely without excuse; for if I would
not take this for a deliverance, the next
was to be such a one as the worst and most
hardened wretch among us would confess
both the danger and the mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea, we
came into Yarmouth Roads; the wind
having been contrary, and the weather
calm, we had made but little way since the
etonn. Here we were obliged to come to
an anchor, and here we lay, the wind con-
tinuing contrary, for seven or eight days,
during which time a great many ships from
Newcastle came into the same Roads.
We had not, however, rid here so long
but we should have tided it up the river,
but that the wind blew too fresh, and,
after we had lain four or five days, blew
very hard. However, the Roads being
reckoned as good as an harbor, the anchor-
age good, and our ground-tackle very
strong, our men were unconcerned, and not
in the least apprehensive of danger, but
spent the time in rest and mirth, after the
manner of the sea. But the eighth day, in
the morning, the wind increased, and we
had all hands at work to strike our top-
masts, and make everything snug and close,
that the ship might ride as easy as possible.
By noon the sea went very high indeed,
and our ship rode forecastle in, shipped
11
several seas, and we thought once or twice
our anchor had come home; upon which
our master o rdred out the sheet-anchor.
The storm grew fiercer and fiercer until
I began to see terror in the faces of the
seamen themselves. At first, I was quite
stupid with sickness and fear, and I lay in
the cabin; but now I clambered on deck,
and looked about. Two of the ships near us
had cut their masts, and I heard the sailors
distress, and, the storm somewhat abating,
a boat was put off to us from a ship that
had not been damaged, because she was
light. We had great difficulty in getting
into the boat when it reached us; but we
did it safely and after several hours of
drifting, in danger of being swamped every
minute, we reached the shore, drenched
and destitute. The ship sank soon after
we left her.

say that two more had been blown out to
sea. Finally a great ship foundered before
our eyes, and the ma«ter ordered our masts
to be cut away. Then came a cry that we
had sprang a leak, and we all went to
work at the pumps.
All our efforts were useless; the water
gained rapidly in the hold, and it became
certain that we could not ride out the
storm. Guns were now fired as signals of
At Yarmouth, we were given some money,
and I might easily have gone back to Hull,
but my ill fate pushed me on. With what
money I had, I made my way to London.
There I fell in with the master of a ship
bound for the coast of Guinea on a trading
voyage. He took quite a fancy to me at
once and became my friend. I raised some
forty pounds by corresponding with some
relations, and investing it in trinkets, such
12
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
as the captain carried to trade with the
natives, we set sail, and made a most suc-
cessful voyage.

My success I owed entirely to my
friend the captain, who first showed me
what things to buy in London, and then
how to trade them with the natives of
Guinea for gold-dust. On the voyage, he
taught me the use of the ship's instruments,
by which an account of our course was
taken every day, and I became a navigator
as well as a Guinea trader.
My friend died soon after his arrival at
home, but I resolved to go the same voy-
age again on the same ship. This was a
most unhappy voyage, for though I left a
good portion of my money with ray friend's
widow, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes.
Our ship making her course towards the
Canary Islands, was surprised, in the gray
of the morning, by a Moorish rover of Sal-
lee, who gave chase to us. We crowded as
much canvas as our yards would spread, or
our masts- carry, to get clear; but finding
the pirate gained upon us, we prepared to
fight, our ship having twelve guns and the
rogue eighteen. About three in the after-
noon he came up with us, and bringing to,
by mistake, just athwart our quarter, we
brought eight of our guns to bear on that
side, and poured in a broadside upon him,
which made him sheer off again, after
returning our fire, and pouring in also his
small shot from near two hundred men
which he had on board. However, we had
not a man touched, all our men keeping
close.
He prepared to attack us again, and we
to defend ourselves; but laying us on board
the next time upon our other quarter, he
entered sixty men upon our decks, who
immediately fell to cutting and hacking
the sails and rigging. We plied them with
small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and

13
such like, and cleared our deck of them
twice. However, to cut short this melan-
choly part of our story, our ship being dis-
abled, and three of our men killed, and
eight wounded, we were obliged to yield,
and were all carried prisoners into Sallee,
a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so
dreadful as I at first feared; nor was I car-
ried up the country to the Emperor's court,
as the rest of our men were, but was kept
by the captain as his proper prize, and
made his slave, being young and nimble,
and fit for his business. At this surpris-
ing change of my circumstances, from a
merchant to a slave, I was perfectly over-
whelmed; and now I looked back upon
my father's prophetic discourse to me, that
I should be miserable; which I thought
was now so effectually brought to pass,
that I could not be worse; for now the
hand of heaven had overtaken me, and I
was undone. But alas! this was but a
taste of the misery I was to go through.
Aa my new patron, or master, had taken
me home to his house, so I was in hopes
that he would take me with him when he
went to sea again, believing that it would
some time or other be his fate to be taken
by a man-of-war, and that then I should
be set at liberty. But this hope of mine
was soon taken away; for when he went
to sea, he left me on shore to look after his
little garden, and do the common drudgery
of slaves about his house.
I had no one to talk to, for, though
there were other slaves, not one of them
could understand my language, nor could
I understand theirs. But while at work
digging in the garden or grinding grain, I
thought of nothing but my escape. But
for a long time no means of escaping pre-
sented itself.
After about two years, my master stayed
at home longer than usual, and two or
three times a week he used to go out
a-fishing in his boat. He always took me
and a young Moresco, besides a Moor, with

him, for we made him very merry, and I
was very dexterous in catching fish.
It happened one time, that, going a-fish-
ing with him in a calm morning, a fog rose
so thick, that though we were not half a
league from the shore, we lost sight of it;
and rowing we knew not whither, we
labored all day and all the next night; and
when the morning came, we found we had
pulled out to sea instead of pulling in for
14
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the shore. However, we got well in again,
though with a great deal of labor and some
danger, and we were all very hungry. But
our master, warned by this disaster, resolv-
ed to take more care of himself in the
future; and having lying by him the long
boat of our English ship which he had
taken, he resolved he would not go a-fish-
ing any more without a compass and some
provision. So he ordered the carpenter of
Moor to take me and the young Moresco,
whose name was Xury, and go and catch
some fish, as he expected some distinguished
company to sup with him. Now, thought
I, is my chance to get my liberty.
My first contrivance was to speak to the
Moor and ask him if we ought not to take
along some food for our dinner; for I told
him we must not presume to eat of our
master's bread. He said that was true; so

his ship to build a little cabin in the
middle of the long-boat and fit a place for
provisions and water, also for a compass,
and put in a mast and sails. After that,
we used to go a-fishing in the long-boat.
One day my master commanded the
he brought a basket full of their kind, and
three jars with fresh water into the boat
I knew where my master's case of bottles
stood, and I conveyed them into the boat
while the Moor was on shore, as if they
had been there before for our master I
15
conveyed also a great lump of beeswax
into the boat, which weighed about half
an hundred weight, with a parcel of twine
or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer,
all of which were of great use to us after-
wards.
Another trick I
tried upon him, which
he innocently came
into also: "Moely,"
said I, 'our patron's
guns are all on board
the boat; can you not
get a little powder
and shot? It may be
we may kill some
alcamies (a fowl like
our curlews) for our-
selves." "Yes," says
he, "I'll bring some;"
and accordingly, he
brought a great leath-
er pouch, which held
about a pound and a
half of powder, and
another with shot,
that had five or six
pounds, with some
bullets, and put all into the boat. At the
same time, I had found some powder of my
master's in the great cabin, and thus fur-
nished with everything needful, we sailed
out of the port to fish.
The castle, which is at the entrance of the
port, knew who we were, and took no
notice of us; and we were not above a mile
out of the port before we hauled in our
sail, and sat us down to fish. The wind
blew from the N. N. E., which was con-
trary to my desire; for had it blown
southerly, I had been sure to make the
coast of Spain; but my resolutions were,
blow which way it would, I would be gone
from that horrid place where I was, and
leave the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and

caught nothing (for when I had fish on my
hook I would not pull them up, that he
might not see them) I said to the Moor,
"This will not do; our master will not be
thus served; we must stand further off."
He, thinking no harm, agreed, and, being
in the head of the boat, set the sails; and,
as I had the helm, I ran the boat out near
a league farther, and then brought her to,
as if I would fish; when, giving the boy
the helm, I stepped forward to where the
Moor was, and making as if I stooped for
16
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
something behind him, I took him by sur-
prise with my arm under his waist, and
tossed him clear overboard into the sea.
He rose immediately, for he swam like a
cork, and begged to be taken in.
As he continued to swim after us I
fetched a fowling-piece from the cabin,

and pointing it at him, said: "You can
swim well enough to reach the shore. If
you try to get in the boat, I will shoot
you." He turned about when he saw I
was determined, and swam toward the
shore, which I have no doubt he reached
in safety.
When he was gone, I turned to the boy,
and said to him, "Xiny, if you will be
faithful to me, I'll make you a great man;
but if you will not stroke your face to be
true to me," that is, swear by Mahomet
and his father's beard, " I must throw you
into the sea, too." The boy smiled in my
face, and spoke so innocently, that I could
not mistrust him, and swore to be faithful
to me, and go all over the world with me.
As long as the swimming Moor could
see me, I steered the boat straight out to
sea, for I knew he would tell his master
which way I had gone. But as soon as
I thought the boat waa out of his sight,
I turned her head to the south-east.
With a good breeze and a smooth sea, at
three o'clock on the afternoon of the next
day, I had no doubt that we were one
hundred and fifty miles from Sallee. At
this time we were within sight of the
coast, and I knew that we were were out
of the kingdom of the Moors.
But so afraid was I of being followed
by my late master, that we sailed on
toward the south for five days, without
stopping. At the close of the fifth day,
we anchored at the mouth of a little river;
but I was afraid to go on shore for fear of
the wild beasts, which inhabit that coast
in great numbers. They made hideous
noises in the night, and sometimes we could
see great creatures bathing on the beach.
One of them swam off toward the boat,
but a shot from a fowling-piece sent him
quickly back to the shore.
However, we had to go on shore for
water, for we had not a pint left, so, the
next day, we drew the boat in as close as
we could, and waded ashore, taking our
fowling-pieces and two jars. I staid by
the boat, while Xury soon found some
water and filled the jars. He also shot a
hare, which we roasted on the shore, and
had quite a feast.
Several times I was obliged to land for
fresh water, after we had left this place;
and once in particular, being early in the
17
morning, we came to an anchor under a
little point of land. Xury, whose eyes
were more about him than it seems mine
were, calls softly to me, and tells me that we
had best go farther off the shore; "for,"
says he, "look, yonder lies a dreadful
monster on the side of that hillock, fast
asleep." I looked where he pointed, and
saw a terrible great lion that lay on the
lay so, with his leg raised a little above
his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about
the knee, and broke the bone. He started
up, growling at first, but finding his leg
broke, fell down again; and then got up
upon three legs, and gave the most hideous
roar that ever I heard. I took up the
second piece immediately, and though he
began to move off, fired again, and shot

Bide of the shore, under the shade of a
piece of the hill. I took our biggest gun,
and loaded it with a good charge of pow-
der, and with two slugs, and laid it down;
then I loaded another gun with two bul-
lets; and the third (for we had three
pieces) I loaded with five smaller bullets.
I took the best aim I could with the first
piece to h#ve shot him in the head, but he
him in the head, and had the pleasure to
see him drop.
This was game indeed to us, but this
was no food; and I was very sorry to lose
three charges of powder and shot upon a
creature that was good for nothing to us.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps
the skin of him might, one way or other,
be of some value to us. So Xury and I
18
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
went to work with him; but Xury was
much the better workman at it, for I knew
very ill how to do it. Indeed, it took us
both the whole day, but at last we got off
the hide of him, and spreading it on the
devour the flesh, making signs to offer me
some. I shook my head, but signified that
I would take the skin, if they would put it
on the shore and go away. This they did,
and I sent Xury for it. They also left on

top of our cabin, the sun effectually dried
it it two days' time, and it afterwards
served me to lie upon.
After sailing on for twelve days more I
found that the land was inhabited by
negroes, who ran along the shore and made
signs to us. As I thought them savages, I
did not venture to go on shore. One day
a great leopard ran down among them to
the water, at which they were greatly
frightened. When I shot him, they were
greatly surprised and very grateful. They
quickly took off the skin and began to
the shore a great jar of water' and some
dried roots and corn for which I was
thankful.
I sailed on for eleven days more without
going near the shore till I saw the land run
out a great way into the sea. This I took
to be Cape de Verde. On sailing out to
the point of the Cape, I saw land far out
to sea which I thought was the Cape de
Verde Islands. I stepped into the cabin
and was thinking whether I ought not to
sail for the Islands when I heard Xury cry
out: "Master, master, a ship with a sail"
1!)
I rushed from the cabin and found Xury
in a great fright, he thinking that it must
needs be a ship of his old master, the
pirate. I saw, however, that it was a
Portuguese ship, and I crowded all sail to
come up to her, and was soon on board.
Upon hearing my story, the captain
offered to take me to the Brazils, whither
he was going, without any pay whatever, and
to take all my goods also. He offered to
give me a good sum for my boat, which I
accepted. He wanted also to buy Xury,
but I was loth to sell the boy's liberty as
soon as he had gained it. But as he offered
to set him free in ten years and to treat
him well, and, moreover, Xury being will-
ing, I let the Captain have him.
We made a good voyage to tbe Brazils,
landing in All Saints' Bay in twenty-two
days. The generous treatment the captain
gave me, I qan never enough remember. He
would take nothing of me for my passage,
gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's
skin, and forty for the lion's skin, which I
had in my boat, and caused everything I
had in the ship to be punctually delivered
to me; such as the case of bottles, two of
my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees'-
wax, for I had made candles of the rest; in
a word, I made about two hundred and
twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo; and
with this stock I went on shore.
I soon learned that the planters of that
country lived well and became rich, so I
bought land and became a planter, raising
sugar and tobacco. When the Portuguese
captain sailed, I sent by him an order for
the money which I had left with the
English captain's widow, and gave him in-
structions to invest it in Lisbon in such
utensils and things ud 7 wanted; which he
did, and brought them to me on his next
voyage.
I was now very prosperous and happy,
but I was not to remain so. I often talked
to the planters about me of my voyage to
the coast of Guinea, and how easy it was to
trade with the natives for gold-dust, or
even for slaves, which were very dear in
the Brazils.
One day some of the planters came to
me and proposed, that, as there was noth-
ing we needed so much as slaves to work
our plantations, they would fit out a ship
to go to the coast of Guinea for slaves, and
that I would take charge of the affair. Al-
though I was very well situated where I
was, I accepted their proposal, providing

they would take care of my property while
I was gone. In short, I obeyed blindly the
dictates of my fancy rather than my reason;
and, accordingly, the ship being fitted out,
and the cargo finished, and all things done
as by agreement, by my partners in the
voyage, I went on board in an evil hour
again, tiie 1st of Sej: toaiber, 1659, being the
satue day eight year? U_a,t I went from my

father and mother at Hull, acting the rebel
to their authority, and the fool to my own
interest.
Our ship was about one hundred and
twenty tons burden, carried six guns, and
fourteen men, besides the master, his boy,
and myself. We had on board no large
cargo of goods, except of such toys as were
fit for our trade with the negroes, such as
beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles,
especially little looking-glasses, knives,
scissors, hatchets, and the like.
We had very good weather, and we
lailed north, at first, along our own coast.
We passed the line in about twelve days'
time, and were, by our last observation, in
eeven degrees twenty-two minutes north
latitude, when a violent tornado took us
quite out of our knowledge. It blew in
such a terrible manner, that for twelve
days together we could do nothing but
drive, and, scudding away before it, let it
carry us wherever fate and the fury of the
waves directed; and during these twelve
days, I need not say that I expected every
day to be swallowed up; nor did any in
the ship expect to save their lives.
At last we perceived lw:d ahead, but be-
fore we could make out whether it was an
island or the mainland, the ship struck on
the sand a long distance from the shore.
Now, we were in a dreadful condition in-
deed, and had nothing to do but to think
of saving our lives as best we could. We
had a boat at our stern just before the
storm, but she was first staved by dashing
against the ship's rudder, and in the next
place she broke away, and either sunk or
was driven off to sea; so there was no hope
from her. We had another boat on board,
but how to get her off into the sea was a
doubtful thing; however, there was no
room to debate, for we fancied the ship
would break in pieces every minute, and
some told us she was actually broken
already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel
lay hold of the boat, and with the help of
the rest of the men, they got her flung over
the ship's side; and getting all into her, let
go, and committed ourselves, being eleven

in number, to God's mercy and the wild
sea; for though the storm was abated con-
siderably, yet the sea went dreadfully high
upon the shore.
21
And now we all saw plainly that the
boat could not escape, and that we should
be drowned. Aa to making sail, we had
none, nor, if we Jiad, could we have done
anything with i(.; so we worked at the oar
towards land, Chough with heavy hearts^
like men going to execution; for we all
knew that w'len the boat came near the
uhore she 'A'mid be dashed in a thousand
perhaps make smooth water. But there
was nothing of this appeared; but as we
made nearer and nearer the shore, the land
looked more frightful than the sea.
At last, a great wave came rolling after
us, overset the boat, and we were all swal-
lowed up in a moment. Nothing can de-
scribe what I felt when I sank into the
water; for though I swam very well, yet I

pieces by the breach of the sea. However,
we committed our souls to God in the most
earnest manner.
What the shore was, whether rock or
sand, whether steep or shoal, we knew not;
the only hope was that we might happen
into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some
river, where by great chance we might run
our boat in under the lee of the land, and
could not deliver myself from the waves so
as to draw breath, till that wave having
driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way
on towards the shore, and having spent
itself, went back, and left me upon the land
almost dry, but half dead with the water I
took in. I had so much presence of mind,
as well as breath left, that seeing myself
nearer the main land thaii I expected, I got
i -' "~'-

upon my feet and ran.
Another wave soon over-
took me and then another, until I was
dashed against a rock with such force as to
make me nearly senseless.
I held on to the rock, however, until the
wave receded, and the next run I took I
got to the mainland, exhausted and bruised,
and, indeed, more dead than alive.
But I was now landed, and safe on
shore, and began to look up and to thank
God that my life was saved. I walked
about the shore, lifting \ip my hands, and
my whole being, I may say, wrapt up in
a contemplation of my deliverance; mak-
ing a thousand gestures and motions, which
I cannot describe; reflecting upon all my
comrades that were drowned, and that
there should not be one soul saved but
myself; for, as for them, I never saw them
afterwards, or any sign of them, except
three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes
that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel,
when, the breach and froth of the sea
being so big, I could hardly see it, it lay
so far off, and considered, Lord! how was
it possible I could get on shore?
After I had solaced my mind with the
comfortable part of my condition, I began
to look around me, to see what kind of
place I was in, and what was next to be
done; and I soon found my comforts abate,
and that, in a word, I had a dreadful de-
liverance; for I was wet, had no clothes to
shift me, nor anything either to eat or
drink, to comfort me. Neither did I see
any prospect before me, but that of per-
ishing with hunger, or being devoured by
wild beasts; and that which was particu-
larly affecting to me was, that I had no
weapon, either to hunt and kill any crea-
ture for my sustenance, or to defend my-
self against any other creature that might
desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I
had nothing about me but a knife, a to-
bacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a box.
This was all my provision; and this threw
me into terrible agonies of mind, that for a
while I ran about like a madman. Night
coming upon me, I began, with a heavy
heart, to consider what would be my lot if
there were any ravenous beasts in that
country, seeing at night they always come
abroad for prey.
All the remedy that offered to my
thoughts, at that time, was to get up into
a thick bushy tree, like a fir, but thorny,
which grew near me, and where I resolved
to sit all night, and consider the next
day what death I should die, for as yet I
saw no prospect of life. I walked about
a furlong from the shore, to see if I could
find any fresh water to drink, which I did
to my great joy; and having drunk, and
put a little tobacco in my mouth to pre-
vent hunger, I went to the tree, and get-
ting up into it) endeavoured to place my-
self so that if I should sleep I might not
fall. And having cut me a short stick,
like a truncheon, for my defence, I took up
my lodging; and being excessively fatigued.
23
I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably
as, I believe, few could have done' in my
condition, and found myself more refreshed
with it than I think I ever was on such an
occasion.
that at least I might save some necessary
things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment
in the tree, I looked about me again, and
the first thing I found was the boat, which

When I waked up it was broad day-
light, the weather clear, and the storm
abated, so that the sea did not rage and
swell as before; but that which surprised
me more was, that the ship was lifted off
in the night from the sand where she lay,
by the swelling of the tide, and was driven
up almost as far as the rock which I at first
mentioned, where I had .been so bruised
by the wave dashing me against it. This
being within about a mile from the shore
where I was, and the ship seeming to stand
upright still, I wished myself on board,
lay, as the wind and sea had tossed her up,
upon the land, about two miles on my right
hand. I walked as far as I could upon
shore to have got to her; but found a neck,
or inlet of water between me and the boat
which was about half a mile broad; so I
came back for the present, being more
intent upon getting at the ship, where I
hoped to find something for my present
subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very
calm, and the tide ebbed so far out, that I
could come within a quarter of a mile of
the ship. And here I found a fresh renew-
ing of my grief ; for I saw evidently, that if
we had kept on board, we had been all
eafe; that is to say, we had all got safe on
shore, and I had not been so miserable as
to be left entirely destitute of all comfort
and company as I now was.
This forced the tears to my eyes again.
As there was little relief in that, I resolved
if possible, to get to the ship; so I pulled
off my clothes, for the weather was hot, and

took to the water. But when I came to the
ship my difficulty was still greater to know
how to get on board, for as she lay high out
of the water, there was nothing within my
reach to lay hold of. I swam around her
twice, and the second time I espied a small
piece of rope hanging down the fore-chains
so low, that with great difficulty I got hold
of it, and by the help of that rope got up
into the forecastle of the ship.
I found that the ship was bulged, and
had a great deal of water in her hold; but
that she lay so on the side of a bank of
hard sand, or rather earth, that her stern lay
lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
almost to the water. By this means all her
quarter was free, and all that was in that
part was dry; for you may be sure my first
work was to search, and to see what was
spoiled and what was free. And, first, I
found that all the ship's provisions were
dry and untouched by the water, and being
very well disposed to eat, I went to the
bread-room and filled my pockets with bis-
cuit, and ate it as I went about other things,
for I had no time to lose. I also found
some rum in the great cabin, of which I
took a large dram, and which I had, indeed,
need enough of, to spirit me for what was
before me.
Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to
furnish myself with many things which I
foresaw would be very necessary to me. It
was in vain to sit still and wish for what
was not to be had; and this extremity
roused my application. We had several
spare yards, and two or three large spars of
wood, and a spare top-mast or two in the
ship. I resolved to fall to work with these,
and I flung as many of them overboard as I
could manage for their weight, tying every
one with a rope, that they might not drive
away. When this was done I went down
the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I
tied four of them together at both ends, as
well as I could, in the form of a raft, and
laying two or three short pieces of plank
upon them, crossways, I found I could
walk upon it very well, but that it was not
able to bear any great weight, the pieces
being too light.
So I went to work, and with the carpen-
ter's saw I cut a spare top-mast into three
lengths, and added them to my raft, with a
great deal of labor and pains. But the
hope of furnishing myself with necessaries
encouraged me to go beyond what I should
have been able to have done upon another
occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear
any reasonable weight. My next care was
what to load it with, and how to preserve
what I had laid upon it from the surf of
the sea: but I was not long considering
this.
I first laid all the planks or boards upon
it that I could get, and having considered
well what I most wanted, I first got three
of the seamen's chests, which I had broken
open and emptied, and lowered them down
upon my raft; the first of these I filled
with provisions—viz., bread, rice, three
Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's
flesh (which we lived much upon), and a
little remainder of European corn, which
had been laid by for some fowls which we
brought to sea with us, but the fowls were
killed. There had been some barley and
wheat together; but, to my great disap-
pointment, I found afterwards that the rats
had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors,
I found several cases of bottles belonging
to our skipper, in which were some cordial
wines; and, in all, about five or six gallons
of arrack. These I stowed by themselves,
there being no need to put them into the
chest, nor any room for them.
While I was doing this, I found the tide
began to flow, though very calm; and I had

the mortification to see my coat, shirt and
waistcoat, which I had left on the shore
upon the sand, swim away. As for my
breeches, which were only linen, and open-
kneed, I swam on board in them and my
stockings.
However, this put me \ipon rummaging
for clothes, of which I found enough, but
took no more than what I wanted for pre-
sent use, for I had other things which my
eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work
with on shore; and it was after long
searching that I found out the carpenter's
chest, which was indeed a very useful prize
to me, and much more valuable than a ship-
lading of gold would have been at that
time. I got it down to my raft, whole as
it was, without losing time to look into it,
for I knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition
and arms. There were two fowling-pieces
in the cabin, and two pistols. These I
secured first, with some powder-horns, and
two old, rusty swords. I knew there were
three barrels of powder in the ship and,
with much search, I found them; two of
them were dry and good, and these I got
to my raft, with the arms.
And now I thought myself pretty well
freighted, and I began to think how I
should get to shore with all my things,
having neither sail, oar, nor rudder, and
the least puff of wind would have overset
my raft. But the sea was calm, the tide
was setting toward the shore, and what
little wind there was, blew in that direc-
tion. I found, however, two or three
broken oars, and with these I put to sea.
The raft went very well; but I found
that the tide took me some distance from
the point where I had landed before, by
which I perceived that there was an in-
draft of the water. This led me to think
that there might be a creek or river there;
and so I found there was.
I steered my raft toward it as well as I
could. At the mouth of the little creek I
came very near suffering a second ship-
wreck, which, I verily believe, would have
broken my heart. The raft ran on a shoal,
and nearly upset. I held all the things in
their places, and when the tide rose a little
higher, it floated safely off. I landed at
high tide, when the water covered the
bank, and when it receded, the raft was
high and dry.
My next work was to view the country,
and seek a proper place for my habitation,
and where to stow my goods, to secure
them from whatever might happen. Where
I was, I yet knew not; whether on the
continent or an island; whether inhabited
or not inhabited; whether in danger of
wild beasts or not.
There was a hill not above a mile from
me, which rose up very steep and high,
and which seemed to overtop some other
hills, which lay as in a ridge from it, north-
ward. I took out one of the fowling
O
pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn
of powder; and thus armed, I traveled for
discovery up to the top of that hill, where,
after I had with great labor and difficulty
got to the top, I saw my fate, to my great
affliction—viz., that I was in an island
environed every way with the sea no
land to be seen except some rocks, which
lay a great way off, and two small islands,
less than this, which lay about three
leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was
barren, and, as I saw good reason to
believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts,
of which, however, I saw none. Yet I saw
abundance of fowls, but knew not their
kinds; neither, when I killed them, could
I tell what was fit for food and what not.
At my coming back, I shot at a great
bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree, on
the side of a great wood. I believe it was
the first gun that had been fired there
since the creation of the world. I had no
sooner fired, but from all parts of the wood
there arose an innumerable number of

fowls of many sorts, making a confused
screaming and crying, every one according
to his usual note, but not one of them of
any kind that I knew. As for the creature
I killed, I took it to be a kind of hawk, its
color and beak resembling it, but it had no
talons or claws more than common. Its
flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came
back to my raft, and fell to work to bring
my cargo on shore, which took me all the
rest of the day. What to do with myself
at night I knew not, nor indeed where to
rest, for I was afraid to lie down on the
ground, not knowing but some wild beast
might devour me, though, as I afterwards

found, there was really no need for those
fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricaded
myself round with the chests and boards
that I had brought on shore, and made a
kind of hat for that night's lodging. As
for food, I yet saw not which way to sup-
ply myself, except that I had seen_two or
three creatures, like hares, run out of the
wood where I shot the fowl.
I now began to consider that I might
yet get a great many things out of the
ship, which would be useful to me, and
particularly some of the rigging and sails,
and such other things as might come to
land; and I resolved to make another voy-
age on board the vessel, if possible. And
as I knew that the first storm that blew
must necessarily break her all in pieces, 1
resolved to set all other things apart, till I
got everything out of the ship that I could
get. Then I called a council—that is to
say, in my thoughts—whether I should
take back the raft; but this appeared im-
practicable; so I resolved to go as before,
when the tide was down; and I did so,
only that I stripped before I went from my
hut, having nothing on but a chequered
shirt, a pair of linen drawers, and a pair of
pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and
prepared a second raft; and, having had
experience of the first, I neither made this
so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet
I brought away several things very useful
to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores I
found two or three bags full of nails and
spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two
of hatchets, and, above all, that most useful
thing called a grindstone.
All these I secured, together with seve-
ral things belonging to the gunner, particu-
larly two or three iron crows, and two
barrels of musket bullets, seven muskets,
and another fowling piece, with some small

quantity of powder more; a large bag-full
of small shot, and a great roll of sheet lead;
but this last was so heavy I could not
hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's
clothes that I could find, and a spare fore-
top sail, a hammock, and some bedding;
and with this I loaded my second raft, and
brought them all safe on shore, to my very
great comfort.
I was under some apprehension during
my absence from the land, that at least my
provisions might be devoured on shore;
but when I came back, I found no sign of
any visitor; only there sat a creature like a
wild cat, upon one of the chests, which,
when I came towards it, ran away a little
distance, and then stood still. She sat very
composed and unconcerned, and looked full
in my face, as if she had a mind to be
acquainted with me. I presented my gun
to her, but, as she did not understand it,
she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor
did she offer to stir away; upon which I
tossed her a bit of biscuit, though, by the
way, I was not very free of it, for my store
was not great; however, I spared her a bit,
I say, and she went to it, smelled at it, and
ate it, and looked (as pleased) for more;
but I thanked her, and could spare no
more, so she marched off.
Having got my second cargo on shore—-
though I was obliged to open the barrels of
powder, and bring them by parcels, for they
were too heavy, being large casks—I went
to work to make me a little tent, with the
sail, and some poles which I cut for that
purpose; and into this tent I brought
everything that I knew would spoil either
with rain or sun; and I piled all the empty
chests and casks up in a circle round the
tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt,
either from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the
door of the tent with some boards within,
and an empty chest set up on end without;

JO
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
and spreading one of the beds upon the
ground, laying my two pistols just at my
Lead, and my gun at length by me, I went
to bed for the first time, and slept very
quietly all night. I was very weary and
heavy; for the night before I had slept
little, and had labored hard all day, as
well to fetch those things from the ship, as
to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds
now that ever was laid up, I believe, for one
man; but still I was not satisfied, for while

the ship stood upright in that posture, I
thought I ought to get everything out of
her I could. So every day, at low water, I
vent on board, and brought away some-
thing or other; but particularly the third
time I went, I brought away as much of
the rigging as I could, as also all the small
rope and rope twine I could get, with a
piece of spare canvas, which was to mend
the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of
wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought
away all the sails, first and last; only that
I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring
as much at a time as I could, for they were
no more useful to me for sails, but as mere
canvas only.
But that which comforted me more still,
was, that at last of all, after I had made
five or six such voyages as these, and
thought I had nothing more to expect from
the ship that was worth my meddling with
—I say, after all this, I found a great hogs-
head of bread, three large runlets of rum
or spirits, a box of fine sugar, and a barrel
of fine flour; this was surprising to me, be-
cause I had given over expecting any more
provisions except what was spoiled by the
water. I soon emptied the hogshead of the
bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel,
in pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and,
in a word, I got all this on shore also,
though at several times.
The next day I made another voyage, and
now, having plundered the ship of what
was portable, I cut up the cable in pieces
that I could lift, and gathered all the iron
work that I could move. I cut up the
yards and made a raft to take it all ashore,
but when I got into the little cove, the raft
upset and my load all went to the bottom.
However, when it was low water, I got the
most of it out.
If it had remained calm, I verily believe
that I would have cut up the whole ship
and got it ashore. The twelfth time that
I went on board, I found some money and
some knives. The former was of no worth
to me, but I took it, and as the wind began
to rise I hurried on shore. It blew very
hard that night, and in the morning there
was no more ship to be seen.
I now began to think of securing myself
against wild beasts and savages, by build-

ing a dwelling, and I resolved to make me
both a tent and a cave, and I set about
finding a more healthy and suitable spot
than where I then was.
I consulted several things in my situa-
tion, which I found would be proper for
me: first, health and fresh water; secondly,
shelter from the heat of the sun; thirdly,
security from ravenous creatures, whether
man or beast; fourthly, a view to the sea,
that if God sent any ship in sight, I might
not lose any advantage for my deliverance,
of which I was not willing to banish my
expectation yet.
In search of a place proper for this, I
found a little plain on the side of a rising
hill, whose front towards this little plain
jvas steep as a house side, eo that nothing
could come down upon me from the top.
On the side of the rock there was a hollow
place, worn a little way in, like the en-
trance or door of a cave; but there was
not really any cave, or way into the rock,
at all.
On the flat of the green, just below this
hollow place, I resolved to pitch my tent.
This plain was not above a hundred yards
broad, and about twice as long, and lay
like a green before my door; and, at the
end of it, descended irregularly every way,
down into the low ground by the sea-side.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-
circle before the hollow place, and in this
half-circle I pitched two rows of strong
stakes, driving them into the ground till
they stood very firm, the biggest end being
out of the ground above five feet and a
half, and sharpened on the top. The two
rows did not stand above six inches from
one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I
had cut in the ship, and laid them in rows,
upon one another, within the circle, be-
tween these two rows of stakes, up to the

top, placing other stakes in the inside,
leaning against them, about two feet and a
half high, like a spur to a post; and this
33
fence was so strong, that neither man nor
beast could get into it or over it.
Tbe entrance into this place I made to
be, not by a door, but by a short ladder to
go over the top; which ladder, when I was
in, I lifted over after me; and so I was
completely fenced in and fortified, as I
thought, from all the world, and conse-
quently slept secure in the nigh;, which
year are very violent there. I made it
double—viz., one smaller tent within, and
one larger tent above it; and covered the
uppermost part of it with a large tar-
paulin, which I had saved among the sails.
When I had done all this, I dug a cave
in the hill-side, piling the earth and stones
within my fence so as to raise the ground
nearly to the top. Before I had done all

otherwise I could not have done; though,
as it appeared afterwards, there was no
need of all this caution from the enemies
that I apprehended danger from.
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite
labor, I carried all my riches, all my pro-
visions, ammunition, and stores; and I
made me a large tent also, to preserve me
from the rains, that in one part of the
this, a thunder-storm, accompanied by sharp
flashes of lightning, frightened me very
much for fear that my powder would take
fire. As soon as the storm was over, I
went to work and separated the powder
into small parcels and hid it away in
different places in the rocks.
In the interval of time while this was
doing, I went out at least once every day
34
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
with my gun, as well to divert myself, as
to see if I could kill anything fit for food;
and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself
with what the island produced. The first
and I was upon the rocks, they took no
notice of me; from whence I concluded,
that by the position of their optics, their
sight was so directed downward, that they

time I went out, I discovered that there
were goats in the island, which was a great
satisfaction to me; but they were so shy,
so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was
the most difficult thing in the world to
come at them; but I was not discouraged
at this. I observed if they saw me In the
valleys, though they were upon the rocks,
they would run away, as in a terrible fright;
but if they were feeding in the valleys,
did not readily see objects that were above
them; so afterwards I always climbed the
rocks first, to get above them, and then
had frequently a fair mark.
The first shot I made among these crea-
tures I killed a she-goat, which had a little
kid by her, which grieved me heartily; for,
when the old one fell, the kid stood stock
still by her, till I came and took her up;
and not only so, but when I carried the
36
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
old oue with me upon my shoulders, the
kid followed me quite to my enclosure;
upon which I laid down the dam, and took
the kid in my arms, and carried it over my
pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame;
but it would not eat, so I was forced to
kill it and eat it myself.
After I had been there about ten or
twelve days, it came into my thoughts that
I should lose my reckoning of time, and
should even forget the Sabbath-day from
the working-days; but to prevent this, I

mt it with my knife upon a large post, in
Capital letters, and making it into a great
cross, I set it up on the shore where I first
landed, viz., "I came on shore here on the
30th of September, 1659."
Upon the sides of this square post I cut
every day a notch with my knife, and
every seventh notch was as long again as
the rest, and every first day of the month
as long again as that long one; and thus I
kept my calendar.
I had brought from the ship some pens,
ink and paper, and while they lasted I
kept a strict account of everything, but
they were soon gone. We had on the
ship two cats and a dog, and I had brought
both of the cats on shore. As for the dog
he swam ashore, and became my trusty
servant for many years.
The want of tools made every work I
did go on heavily; and it was near a whole
year before I had entirely finished my
little pale, or suiTounded habitation. The
piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I
could well lift, were a long time in cutting
and preparing in the woods, and more, by
far, in bringing home; so that I spent
sometimes two days in cutting and bring-
ing home one of those posts; and a third
day in driving it into the ground. But
what need I have been concerned at the
tediousness of anything I had to do, seeing
I had time enough to do it in? nor had I
any other employment, if that had been
over, at least that I could foresee, except
the ranging the island to seek for food,
and climbing the high rocks to see if any
vessel was within sight.
Having now brought my mind a little
to relish my condition, and given over
looking out to sea, to see if I could spy a
ship; I eay, giving over these things, I
began to apply myself to accommodate my
way of living, and to make things as easy
to me as I could.
I have already described my habitation,
which was a tent under the side of a rock,
surrounded with a strong pale of posts
and cables; but I might now rather call it
a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up
against it of turfs, about two feet thick on
the outside; and after some time (I think
it was a year and a half) I raised rafters
37
from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched
or covered it with boughs of trees, and
such things as I could get to keep out the
rain, which I found at some times of the
year very violent.
I have already observed how I brought
all my goods into this pale, and into this
cave which I had made behind me. But I
must observe, too, that at first this was a
confused heap of goods, which, as they lay
in no order, so they took up all my place.
I had no room to turn myself; so I set my
self to enlarge my cave, and worked far-
ther into the earth, for it was a loose,
sandy rock, which yielded easily to the
labor I bestowed on it; and so when I
found I was pretty safe as to beasts of
prey, I worked sideways, to the right
hand, into the rock; and then turning to
the right again, worked quite out, and
made me a door to come out on the out-
side of my pale or fortification.
And now I began to apply myself to
make such necessary things as I found I
most wanted, particularly a chair and a
table; for without these I was not able to
enjoy the few comforts I had in the world.
I could not write, or eat, or do several
things with so much pleasure without a
table.
I had never handled a tool in my life;
and yet, in time, by labor, application, and
contrivance, I found, at last, that I wanted
nothing but I could have made it, espe-
cially if I had had the tools. However, I
made abundance of things, even without
tools; and some with no more tools than
an adze and a hatchet, which, perhaps,
\\vre never made that way before, and that
with infinite labor. For example, if I

wanted a board, I had no other way but to
cut down a tree, set it on an edge before
me, and hew it flat on either side with my
axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a
plank, and then dub it smooth with my
adze. It is true, by this method I could
make but one board out of a whole tree;
but this I had no remedy for but patience.
However, I made me a table and a chair,
in the first place; and this I did out of the
short pieces of boards that I brought on
my raft from the ship. But when I had
wrought out some boards as above, I made
large shelves, of the breadth of a foot and
an half, one over another, all along oue
side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails
and iron-work on; and, in a word, to sepa-
rate everything at large into their places,
that I might come easily at them; also I
knocked pieces into the wall of the rock,
to hang my guns and all things that would
hang up; so that had my cave been to be
seen, it looked like a general magazine of
all necessary things; and I had everything
so ready at my hand, that it was a great
pleasure to me to see all my goods in such
order.

, As long as my ink
lasted I kept a jour-
nal of all that happened to me, of which I
will now give a part, for much that I wrote
at that time I have already told, and need
not repeat.
September 30, 1659.—I, poor, miserable
Robinson Crusoe, being shipwrecked, dur-
ing a dreadful storm, in the offing, came on
shore on this dismal, unfortunate island,
which I called "The Island of Despair;"
all the rest of the ship's company being
drowned, and myself almost dead.
All the rest of the day I spent in afflict-
ing myself at the dismal circumstances I
was brought to; viz, I had neither food,
house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to;
and, in despair of any relief, saw nothing
but death before me: either that I should
be devoured by wild beasts, or perish by
starvation.
Oct. 25.—It rained all night and all
day, with some gusts of wind; during
which time the ship broke in pieces, the
wind blowing a little harder than before,
and was no more to be seen, except the
wreck of her, and that only at low water.
I spent this day in covering and securing
the goods which I saved, that the rain
might not spoil them.
Oct. 26.— I walked about the shore
almost all day, to find out a place to fix
my habitation, greatly concerned to secure
myself from any attack in the night, either
from wild beasts or men. Towards night
I fixed upon a proper place, under a rock,
and marked out a semicircle for my en-
campment, which I resolved to strengthen
with a work, wall, or fortification, made of
double piles, lined within with cables, and
without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked
very hard in carrying all my goods to my
new habitation, though some part of the
time it rained exceeding hard.
Nov. 1.—On this day I made a strict
division of my time, fixing the hours which
I would devote to my several duties, viz.:
every morning, to walk out with my gun
for two or three hours, if it did not rain;
then to employ myself to work till about
eleven o'clock; then to eat what I had to
live on; then to lie down and sleep, the
weather being very hot; then to work
again. The working part of this day was
wholly employed in making my table.
Nov. 5.—This day I went abroad with
my gun and my dog, and killed a wild cat;
her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good for
nothing. Of every creature that I killed,
I took off the skin and preserved it.
Coming back by the seashore, I saw two
or three seals, but not well knowing what
they were at first, while I stood gazing at
them, they got into the sea and escaped me.
39
Nov. 17.—This day I began to dig behind
my tent into the rock, to make room for
my further conveniency.
Note.—Three things I wanted exceed-
ingly for this work, viz., a pickaxe, a
shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket; so I
desisted from my work, and began to con-
sider how to supply that want, and make
me some tools. As for the pickaxe, I
made use of the iron crows, which were
proper enough, though heavy; and the
next thing was a shovel, or spade. This was
so absolutely necessary, that, indeed, I
could do nothing effectually without it; but
what kind of one to make I knew not.
Nov. 18.—The next day, in searching
the woods, I found a tree of that wood,
or like it, which, in the Brazils, they call
the iron-tree, for its exceeding hardness ; of
this, with great labor, and almost spoiling
my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home,
with difficulty enough, for it was exceed-
ingly heavy. The excessive hardness of
the wood, and having no other way, made
me a long while upon this machine, for I
worked it by little and little into the form
of a shovel or spade; the handle exactly
shaped like ours in England, only that the
board part having no iron shod upon it at


bottom, it would not last me so long ; how-
ever, it served well enough for the ase&
which I had occasion to put it to; but
never was a shovel, I believe, made nfter
that fashion or so long making.
I was still deficient, for I wanted a
basket, or a wheelbarrow. A basket I
could not make by any means, having no
such things as twigs that would bend to
make wicker-ware—at least, none yet found
out; and as to the wheelbarrow, I fancied
I could make all but the wheel; but that
I had no notion of; neither did I know
how to go about it; besides, I had no
possible way to make iron gudgeons for the
spindle or axis of the wheel to run in; so
I gave it over, and so, for carrying away
40
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the earth which I dug out of the cave, I
made a thing like a hod, which the laborers
carry mortar in, when they serve the brick-
layers.
in widening and deepening my cave, that
it might hold my goods commodiously.
Note.—During all this time I worked to
make this room, or cave, spacious enough

This was not so difficult to me as the
making the shovel; and yet this and the
shovel, and the attempt which I made in
vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me no
less than four days, I mean always except-
ing my morning's walk with my gun, which
I seldom failed, and very seldom failed
also of bringing home something fit to eat.
Nov. 23.—My other work having stood
still, because of my making these tools,
when they were finished I went on, and
working every day, as my strength and
time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely
to accommodate me as a warehouse, or
magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a
cellar As for a lodging,-I kept to the
tent; except that sometimes, in the wet
season of the year, it rained so hard, that I
could not keep myself dry, which caused
me afterwards to cover all my place within
my pale with long poles, in the form of
rafters, leaning against the rock, and load
them with flags and large leaves of trees,
like a thatch.
Dec. 10.—I began now to think my cave
or vault finished, when on a sudden (^t
41
seems I had made it too large), a great
quantity of earth fell down from the top.
I now had a great deal of work to do over
again, for I had the loose earth to carry
out, and then I had to prop uo the ceiling.
him upon some goats, but they all faced
about upon him, and he knew his danger
and would not come near them.
All this time it rained hard nearly every
day. I made rounds in the woods for game

Dec. 11.—This day I went to work and
got posts pitched upright to the top, with
boards across over each top, and in a week
I had the roof secured.
Dec. 27.—Killed a young goat, and lamed
another, so that I catcheditand led it home
by a string. When I had it home, I bound
and splintered up its leg, which was broke.
Note.—I took such care of it that it
lived, and the leg grew as strong as ever.
By nursing it so long, it grew tame and
would not go away. This led.me to think
of taming more goats.
Jan. 2.—Went out with my dog, and set
when the rain permitted me, and made fre-
quent discoveries in these walks of some-
thing or other to my advantage; particularly
I found a kind of wild pigeons, which
build, not as wood pigeons in a tree, but
rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the
rocks; and taking some young ones, I en-
deavored to breed them up tame, and did
SQ; but when they grew older they flew all
away, which perhaps was at first for want
of feeding them, for I had nothing to give
them; however, I frequently found their
nests, and got their young ones, which were
very good meat.
42
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
And now, in the managing my household
affairs, I found myself wanting in many
things, which I thought at first it was im-
possible for me to make; as, indeed, as to
some of them it was: for instance, I could
never make a cask to be hooped. I had a
small runlet or two, as I observed before;
but I could never arrive to the capacity of
making one by them, though I spent many
weeks about it; I could never put in the

heads, nor join the staves so true to one an-
other as to make them hold water; so I gave
that also over.
In the next place, I was at a great loss
for candles; so that as soon as it was dark,
which was generally by seven o'clock, I
was obliged to go to bed. I remembered
the lump of bees'-wax with which I made
candles in my African adventure; but I had
none of that now. The only remedy I had
was, that when I had killed a goat, I saved
the tallow, and with a little dish made of
clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I
added a wick of some oakum, I made me
a lamp; and this gave me light, though not
a clear, steady light like a candle.
In the middle of all my labors, it hap-
pened that, rummaging my things, I found
a little bag, which had been filled with corn
for the feeding of poultry. What little re-
mainder of corn had been in the bag was
all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing
in the bag but husks and dust; and being
willing to have the bag for some other use,
I shook the husks of corn out of it on one
side of my fortification, under the rock.
It was a little before the great rains just
now mentioned, that I threw this stuff away,
taking no notice of anything, and not so
much as remembering that I had thrown any-
thing there, when, about a month after, I
saw some few stalks of something green
shooting upon the ground, which I fancied
might be some plant I had not seen. But I
was surprised when, after a little longer
time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come
out, which were perfect green barley, of
the same kind as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonish-
ment and confusion of my thoughts on this
occasion. I had hitherto acted upon no re-
ligious foundation at all; indeed, I had
very few notions of religion in my head,
nor had entertained any sense of anything
that had befallen me, otherwise than as a
43
chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases
God, without so much as inquiring into the
end of Providence in these things. But
after I saw barley grow there in a climate
which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially that I knew not how it came
there, it startled me strangely, and I began
to suggest that God had miraculously caused
this grain to grow without any help of seed
sown.
This touched my heart a little, and
brought tears out of my eyes, and I began
to bless myself that such a prodigy of
Nature should happen upon my account;
and this was the more strange to me, be-
cause I saw near it still, all along by the
side of the rock, straggling stalks of rice,
and which I knew, because I had seen it
grow in Africa, when I was ashore there.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn,
you may be sure, in their season, which
was about the end of June; and laying up
every corn, I resolved to sow them all
again, hoping in time to have sufficient to
supply me with bread. But it was not
till the fourth year that I would allow
myself the least grain of this corn to eat,
and even then but sparingly; for I lost all
that I sowed the first season, by not
observing the proper time; for I sowed it
just before the dry season, so that it never
came up at all.
Besides this barley, there were twenty
or thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved
with the same care, and whose use was of
the same kind, or to the same purpose,
viz., to make me bread, or rather food;
for I found ways to cook it up without
baking, though I did that also after some
time.
But to return to my Journal:—
April 16.—I finished the ladder; so I
went up the ladder to the top, and then
pulled it up after me, and let it down on
the inside. This was a complete enclosure
to me; for within I had room enough, and
nothing could come at me from without,
unless it could first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was
finished, I had almost had all my labor
overthrown at once, and myself killed.
The case was thus:—As I was busy in the
inside of it, behind my tent, just in the
entrance into my cave, I was terribly
frightened with a most dreadful surpris-
ing thing indeed; for, all on a sudden, I
found the earth came tumbling down from
the roof of my cave, and from the edge of
the hill over my head, and two of the posts
I had set up in the cave cracked in a fright-
ful manner. I was heartily scared; and for
fear I should be buried in it, I ran forward
to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe
there neither, I got over my wall for fear
of the pieces of the hill, which I expected
might roll down upon me. I was no sooner
stepped down upon the firm ground, than
I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake:
44
JttOBINSON CRUSOE.
for the ground I stood on shook three
times, with such shocks as would have
overturned the strongest building that
could be supposed to have stood upon the
earth; and a great piece of the top of the
rock, which stood about half a mile from
me, next the sea, fell down with such a
terrible noise as I never heard in all my
life. I perceived also the very sea was put
into a violent motion by it.
I was so amazed with the thing itself,
having never felt the like, or discoursed
with any one that had, that I was like one
dead or stupefied; and the motion of the

earth made my stomach sick like one that
was tossed at sea. But the noise of the
falling of the rock awaked me as it were,
and rousing me from the stupefied condi-
tion I was in, filled me with horror, and I
thought of nothing then, but the hill fall-
ing upon my tent and all my household
goods, and burying all at once.
When I found there were no more shocks,
I began to take courage, but I was for a
long time afraid to get over the wall for
fear the hill would fall on me. To make
my situation worse, the rain began to fall
down in torrents, and there came a terrible
hurricane of wind. The sea was lashed to
foam; and trees were torn up by the roots,
and, in short, it was a dreadful storm.
In about three hours the wind abated,
but the rain continued all night and all the
next day. As there were no more shocks,
I climbed over the wall and went into my
cave to escape the rain, but still in great
fear that it would fall upon me.
This led me to a resolve that I would
find a new place for my home, where an
earthquake could not harm me, and I find
this in my journal:
April 22.—I began to consider of means
to put this resolve in execution; but I
was at a great loss about my tools. I
had three large axes, and abundance of
hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for
traffic with the Indians); but with much
chopping and cutting knotty hard wood,
they were all full of notches and dull;
and though I had a grindstone, I could
not turn it and grind my tools too. At
length, I contrived a wheel with a string,
to turn it with my foot, that I might have
both my hands at liberty.
Note.—I had not seen any such thing in
England, or at least not to take notice how
it was done, though since I have observed
it was very common there; besides that,
my grindstone was very large and heavy.
This machine cost me a full week's work
to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29.—These two whole days I
took up in grinding my tools, my machine
for turning my grindstone performing very
well.
April 30.—Having perceived my bread
had been low a great while, I now took a
survey of it, and reduced myself to one
45
biscuit-cake a day, which made my heart
very heavy.
May 1.—In the morning, looking toward
the sea-side, the tide being low, I saw
something lie on the shore like a cask;
when I came to it, I found a small barrel,
and two or three pieces of the wreck of the
ship, which were driven on shore by the
late hurricane; and looking towards the
wreck, I thought it seemed to lie higher
out of the water than it used to do. I
examined the barrel which was driven
on shore, and soon found that it was a bar-
rel of gunpowder; but it had taken water,
and the powder was caked as hard as a
stone; however, I rolled it farther on
shore for the present, and went on to look
for more.
When I came to the ship, I found that
the earthquake or the hurricane had cast it
so close to the shore that I could walk
quite to li at low water. The wreck was
also much broken up, and many things
were washed ashore.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from
moving my habitation, and I busied myself
mightily to make my way into the ship,
which I found was filled with sand. This
I could not do, but I resolved to pull her
in pieces, and to that end I worked every
day.
May 4.—I went a-f.shing, but caught
not one fish that I durst eat of, till I was
weary of my sport; when, just going to
leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had
made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but
I had no hooks; yet I frequently caught
fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all
of which I dried in the sun, and ate them
dry.
May 5.—Worked on the wreck; cut
another beam asunder, and brought three
great fir planks from off the decks, which I
tied together, and made swim on shore
O'
when the tide of flood came in.

May 6.—Worked on the wreck; got
several iron bolts, and other pieces of iron-
work; worked very hard, and came home
very much tired.
May 7.—Went to the wreck again, with
an intent not to work, but found the weight
of the wreck had broken itself down; that
several pieces of the ship seemed to lie
loose, and the inside of the hold lay so.
open that I could see into it.
May 8.—Went to the wreck, and car-
ried an iron crow to wrench up the deck
which lay now quite clear of the water or
sand. I wrenched open two planks, and
brought them on shore also with the tide.
May 9.—Went to the wreck, and with
the crow made way into the body of the
wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened
them with the crow, but could not break
them up. I felt also a roll of English
lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy
to move.
May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14.—Went every
day to the wreck; and got a good deal of
pieces of timber, and boards, or planks, and
two or three hundredweight of iron.
May 15.—I carried two hatchets, to try
if I could not cut a piece off the roll of
lead, but as it lay about a foot and a half
in the water, I could not make any blow to
drive the hatchet.
May 16.—It had blown hard in the
night, and the wreck appeared more broken
by the force of the water; but I stayed so
long in the woods, to get pigeons for food,
that the tide prevented me going to the
wreck.
I continued this work every day to the
15th of June, except the time necessary to
get food, which I always appointed, during
this part of my employment, to be when
the tide was up, that I might be ready
when it was ebbed out; and by this time
I had gotten timber, and plank, and iron-
work enough to have built a good boat, if
I had known how; and also I got, at seve-
ral times, and in several pieces, near one
hundredweight of the sheet-lead.
June 16.—Going down to the sea-side, I
found a large tortoise, or turtle. This was
the first I had seen, which, it seems, was
only my misfortune; for had I happened
to be on the other side of the island, I
might have had hundreds of them every
day.
June 17 I spent in cooking the turtle. I
found in her threescore eggs; and her flesh
was to me, at that time, the most savory
and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life,
having had no flesh, but of goats and
fowls, since I landed in this horrible place.
June 18.—Rained all the day, and I stayed
within. I thought, at this time, the rain
felt cold, and I was something chilly,
which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19.—Very ill, and shivering, as if
the weather had been cold.
June 20.—No rest all night: violent
pains in my head, and feverish.
June 21.—Very ill; frightened almost to
death with the apprehension of my sad con-
dition—to be sick, and no help; prayed
to God, for the first time since the storm
off of Hull, but scarce knew what I said
or why; my thoughts being all confused.
June 22.—A little better; but under
dreadful apprehensions of sickness.
June 23.—Very bad again; cold and
shivering, and then a violent headache.
June 24.—Much better.
June 25.—An ague very violent: the fit
held me seven hours; cold fit, and hot with
faint sweats after it.
June 26. — Better; and having no
victuals to eat, took my gun, but found my-
self very weak; however, I killed a she-
goat, and with much difficulty got it home,
and broiled some of it, and ate. I would
fain, have stewed it, and made some broth,
but had no ix>t.
48
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
June 27.—The ague again so violent that
I lay a-bed all day, and neither ate nor
drank. I was ready to perish with thirst;
but so weak I had no strength to stand up,
or to get myself any water to drink.
Prayed to God again, but was light-headed;
and when I was not, I was so ignorant I
knew not what to say; only I lay and
cried, "Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity
me! Lord, have mercy upon me!" I sup-
pose I did nothing else for two or three
hours; till, the fit wearing off, I fell asleep,
and did not awake till far in the night.
When I awoke, I found myself much re-
freshed, but weak, and exceeding thirsty;
however, as I had no water in my whole
habitation, I was forced to lie till morning,
and went to sleep again. In this second
sleep, I had this terrible dream: I thought

that I was sitting on the ground, and that'
I saw a man descend from a great black
cloud, in a bright flame of fire. His
countenance was most dreadful. When he
stepped upon the ground, I thought the
earth trembled, just as it had done in the
earthquake. Then I heard a voice so
terrible that it is impossible to express
the terror of it. All that I understood
was this :—'' Seeing all these things have
not brought thee to repentance, now thou
shalt die ;"—at which words, I thought he
lifted up the spear that was in his hand to
kill me.
No one that shall ever read this account
will expect that I should be able to de-
scribe the horrors of my soul at this terrible
vision. Nor is it any more possible to de-
scribe the impression that remained upon
my mind when I awaked, and found it
was but a dream.
1 had, alas! no divine knowledge. What
I had received from my father had been
worn out by eight years of seafaring
wickedness. During all that time I had
never thought seriously of God, nor had I
been thankful to Him for His great mer-
cies. But now I began to pray for the
first time in many years, after which I fell
into a refreshing sleep.
June 28.—Feeling much better, I arose
and cooked three of the turtle's eggs in
the ashes, and ate them. I tried to walk
about with my gun, but was too weak to
go far, and I sat down to think. I knew
that the ague would return the next day,
and then I remembered that the Brazilians
took tobacco for such distempers. I had
some tobacco in one of the chests that I
had saved, and I went to get it. I was
directed by heaven, no doubt, for I found
in the chest a cure both for soul and body.
Packed in with the tobacco was a Bible,
which I had forgotten all about, but which
I was now overjoyed to find. I took it to
my table and read from it a long time, and
having taken a dose of tobacco steeped in
rum, I went to bed.
The next day I had the fever, but not so
bad, and July 3d I missed it for good and
all. I was, however, so weak for many
days that I could do but little more than
sit at the mouth of my cave and try to
make baskets.
It was the 15th of July that I began to
take a more particular survey of the island
itself. I went up the creek first, where, as
I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I
found, after I came about two miles up,
that the tide did not float any higher; and
that it was no more than a little brook.
On its banks were many meadows covered
with grass, and on the higher parts I found
tobacco growing. There were many other
plants that I had never seen before.
On the next day I went farther the same
way, and, much to my joy, found melons
upon the ground in great abundance, and
grapes hanging in great clusters from the
branches of the trees. I staid there all
that night, sleeping in a tree as when I
first landed. In the morning, I traveled on
some four miles farther. Here I found a
delicious valley, where everything appeared
so fresh and green that it looked like a
planted garden. Here were orange, lemon,
lime and cocoa trees, but few of them bore
fruit. I gathered some green limes, and,
mixed with water, I found their juice very
refreshing. I resolved to lay up a store of
all for the wet season.
In order to do this, I gathered a great
heap of grapes in one place, a lesser heap
in another place, and a great parcel of
limes and lemons in another place; and
taking a few of each with me, I traveled
home, but before I got thither, the grapes
were spoiled; the richness of the fruit, and
the weight of the juice, having broken
them and bruised them, they were good for
little or nothing. As to the limes, they were
good, but I could bring but a few.

The next day I went back, having made
me two small bags to bring home my har-
vest; but I was surprised, when, coming to
my heap of grapes, I found them all spread
abroad, trodden to pieces, and dragged
about, some here, some there, and abund-
ance eaten and devoured. By this I con-
cluded there were some wild creatures
thereabouts, which had done this; but
what they were I knew not. However, I
took another course; for I gathered a large
60
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
quantity of the grapes, and hung them
upon the out branches of the trees, that
they might cure and dry in the sun; and
as for the limes and lemons, I carried as
many back as I could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I
contemplated with great pleasure the fruit-
fulness of that valley, and the pleasantness
of the situation; the security from storm
on that side of the water, and the wood;
and concluded that I had pitched upon a
place to fix my abode, which was by far
the worst part of the country. Upon the
whole, I began to consider of removing my
habitation, and to look out for a place

equally safe as where now I was situate, if
poss'bls, in that pleasant, fruitful part of
the island.
This thought ran long in my head, and
I was exceedingly fond of it for some time,
the pleasantness of the place tempting me;
but when I came to a nearer view of it, I
considered that I was now by the sea-side,
where it was at least possible that some-
thing might happen to my advantage;
and that the same ill fate that brought
me hither, might biing some other un-
happy wretches to the same place; and to
enclose myself among the hills and woods
in the centre of the island, was to antici-
pate my bondage, and to render such an
affair not only improbable, but impossible;
and that therefore I ought not by any
means to remove.
However, I was so enamored with
this place, that I spent much of my time
there for the whole remaining part of the
month of July; and though, upon second
thoughts, I resolved as above not to remove,
yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and
surrounded it at a distance with a strong
fence, being a double hedge, as high as I
could reach, well staked, and filled between
with brushwood; and here I lay very
secure, sometimes two or three nights to-
gether, always going over it with a ladder
us before; so that I fancied now I had my
country house and my sea-coast house.
The 3rd of August, I found the grapes I
had hung up were perfectly dried, and
indeed were excellent good raisins of the
so I began to take them down from the
sun
trees, and it was very happy that I did so,
for the rains which followed would have
spoiled them, and I had lost the better part
of my winter's food; for I had above two
hundred large bunches of them. No sooner
had I taken them all down, and carried
most of them home to my cave, but it began
to rain; and it rained, more or less, every
day, till the middle of October, and some-
times so violently, that I could not stir out
of my cave for several days.

In this season I was much surprised with
the increase of my family. I had been con-
cerned for the loss of one of my cats, who
ran away from me, and I heard no more
tidings of her, till, to my astonishment, she
came home about the end of August, with
three kittens. I afterward came to be so
pestered with cats, that I was forced to
kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, and
to drive them from my house as much as
possible.
From the 14th of August to the L>6th,
incessant rain, so that I could not stir, and
was now very careful not to be much wet.
In this confinement, I began to be strait-
ened for food; but venturing out twice, I
one day killed a goat; and the last day,
which was the 20th, found a very large
tortoise, which was a treat to me, and my
- food was regulated thus:—I ate a bunch of
raisins for my breakfast; a piece of the
goat's flesh, or of the turtle, for my dinner,
broiled (for, to my great misfortune, I had
no vessel to boil or stew anything), and
two or three of the turtle's eggs for supper.
Sept. 30.—I was now come to the un-
happy anniversary of my landing. I cast
up the notches on my post, and found
I had been on shore three hundred and
sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn
fast, setting it apart for religious exercises,
prostrating myself on the ground with the
most serious humiliation, confessing my
sins to God, acknowledging his righteous
judgment upon me, and praying to him to
have mercy upon me through Jesus Christ;
and having not tasted the. least refreshment
for twelve hours, even till the going down
of the sun, I then ate a biscuit-cake and a
bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing
the day as I began it. I now set off every
seventh day as the Sabbath day.
My ink gave out about this time, and I
gave up my journal. After a time I learned
how to divide the rainy season from the
dry season, but at first the lack of this
knowledge came near costing me dear, for
I sowed my grain before the dry season,
and not a stalk came up. Fortunately ]
had not sown it all, and I sowed the few
grains left before the rainy season and it
grew very well, though it was several years
before I had enough to make a crop.
After I had found, by experience, the ill
consequences of being abroad in the rain,
I took care to furnish myself with provi-
sions before hand, that I might not be
obliged to go out, and I sat within doors
as much as possible during the wet months.
In this time I found much employment,
and very suitable also to the time, for I
found great occasion of many things which
I had no way to furnish myself with but
by hard labor and constant application;
particularly, I had tried many ways to
make myself a basket, but all the twigs I
could get for the purpose proved so brittle
that they would do nothing.
It came into my mind that the twigs of
that tree from whence I cut my stakes that
grew might possibly be as tough as the
sallows, willows, and osiers in England,
and I resolved to try. Accordingly, the
next day I went to my country-house, as I
called it, and cutting some of the smaller
twigs, I found them to my purpose as much
as I could desire.. During the next season,
I employed myself in making, as well as
I could, a great many baskets, both to
carry earth or lay up anything, as I had
occasion; and though I did not finish them
very handsomely, yet I made them suffi-
ciently servicable for my purpose; and
thus, afterwards, I took care never to be
without them; and as my wicker-ware
decayed, I made more, especially strong,
deep baskets to place my corn in, instead of
sacks, when I should come to have any
quantity of it.
I now resolved to travel quite across to
the other side of the island, so, taking a
hatchet with my gun and dog, and a larger
quantity of powder and shot than usual,
and putting a great bunch of raisins and
two biscuit cakes in my pouch, I began
my journey.
I saw abundance of parrots, and fain
would I have caught one, if possible, to
have kept it to be tame, and taught it to

speak to me. I did, after some painstak-
ing, catch a young parrot, for I knocked it
down with a stick, and having recovered
it, I brought it home; but it was some
years before I could make him speak;
however, at last, I taught him to call me
by my name very familiarly.

As soon as I came to the seashore, I was
surprised to see that I had taken up my
lot on the worst side of the island, for
here, indeed, the shore was covered with
innumerable turtles, whereas, on the other
side, I had found but three in a year and
a half. Here was also an infinite number
of fowls of many kinds, some of which I
had not seen before, and many of them
very good meat, but such as I knew not
the names of, except those called penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased,
but was very sparing of my powder and
shot, and therefore had more mind to kill
a she-goat, if I could, which I could better
feed on; and though there were many
goats here, more than on the other side of
the island, yet it was with much more
difficulty that I could come near them.
I confess this side of the country was
much pleasanter than mine; but yet I had
not the least inclination to remove, for, as
I was fixed in my habitation, it became
natural to me, and I seemed all the while
I was here to be as it were upon a jour-
ney, and from home. However, I trav-
eled along the shore of the sea towards
the east, I suppose about twelve miles, and
then setting up a great pole upon the shore
for a mark, I concluded I would go home
again.
I took another way going home, and
became bewildered and lost, so that I had
to go back to my post and start again. In
this journey, my dog surprised a kid, which
I caught and led by a string till I came to
my bower, where I left him, securely tied.
I cannot express my satisfaction when I
came to what I called my home and threw
myself in my hammock. I had been gone
a month, and it all appeared so comfortable
that I resolved never to leave it for so lona:
O
a time again, while I remained on the
island.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel
how much more happy the life I now led
was, with all its miserable circumstances,
than the wicked, abominable life I led all
the past part of my days; and now having
changed both my sorrows and my joys;
my very desires altered, and my delights
were perfectly new from what they were
at first coming.
Before, as I walked about, either on my
hunting, or for viewing the country, the
anguish of my soul at my condition would
break out upon me on a sudden, and my
very heart would die within me, to think
of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I
was in, and how I was a prisoner, locked
55
up with the eternal bars and bolts of the
ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, with-
out redemption. In the midst of the
greatest composures of my mind, this
would break out upon me like a storm,
and make me wring my hands, and weep
would go off, and the grief having ex-
hausted itself would abate.
But now I began to exercise myself
with new thoughts. I daily read the Word
of God, and applied all the comforts of it
to my present state. One morning, being

like a child. Sometimes it would take me
in the middle of my work, and I would sit
down and sigh, and look upon the ground
for an hour or two together; and this
was still worse to me, for if I could burst
out into tears, or vent myself by words, it
very sad, I opened the Bible upon these
words, " I will never leave thee, never for-
sake thee." Immediately it occurred that
these words were to me; why otherwise
should they be directed in such a manner,
just at the moment when I was mourning
over ray condition, as one forsakeu of God
and man? "Well, then," said I, "if God
does not forsake me, of what ill conse-
quence can it be, or what matters it, though

the world should all forsake me, seeing, on
the other hand, if I had all the world, and
should lose the favor and blessing of God,
there would be no comparison in the loss?''
'From this moment I began to conclude
in my mind that it was possible for me to
be happy in this forsaken, solitary condi-
tion; and I was going to give thanks to
God for brin£rin<r me to this place. I know
O O -L
not what it was, but something shocked my
mind at that thought, and I durst not
speak the words. "How canst thou become
such a hypocrite," said I, even audibly, "to
pretend to be thankful for a condition,
which, however
thou mayst en-
deavor to be con-
tented with, thou
wouldst rather
pray heartily to be
delivered from?"
So I stopped
there; but though
I could not say I
thanked God for
being there, yet
I sincerely gave
thanks to God for
opening my eyes,
by whatever afflict-
ing providences,
to see the former
condition of my
life, and to mourn
for my wickedness
and repent.
Thus I began
my third year. I
was seldom idle,
dividing my time
according to my daily employments, such as.
first, my duty to God, and the reading the
Scriptures, which I always set apart some
time for, thrice every day; secondly, the
going abroad with my gun for food, which
generally took up three hours in every
morning, when it did not rain; thirdly.
O' v » -
the ordering, curing, preserving and cook-
ing what I had killed or caught for my
supply. These took up great part of the
H^>

day. Also, it is to be considered, that in
the middle of the day, when the sun was
in the zenith, the violence of the heat was
too great to stir out; so that about four
hours in the evening was all the time I
could be supposed to work in, with this
exception, that sometimes I changed my
hours of hunting and working, and went
to work in the morning, and abroad with
my gun in the afternoon.
While in-doors, during the rains, I talked
much to my parrot, which now learned her
own name and seemed to repeat it for my
diversion, as it pleased me greatly.
I was now in the months of November
and December, expecting my crop of barley
and rice. The ground I had dug up for

At*.
them was not great; for my seed of each
was not above half a peck, for I had lost
one whole crop by sowing in the dry sea-
son; but now my crop promised very well,
when on a sudden I found I was in danger
of losing it all again by enemies of several
sorts, which it was scarcely possible to keep
from it; as, first the goats, and wild crea-
tures which I called hares, which, tasting
the sweetness of the blade, eat it so close
that it could get no time to shoot up into
stalk.
This I saw no remedy for, but making
an inclosure about it with a hedge, which I
did with a great deal of toil, and the more,
because it required a great deal of speed;
the creatures daily spoiling my corn. How-
ever, as my arable land was but small,
suited to my crop, I got it totally well
fenced in about three weeks' time; and
shooting some of the creatures in the day
time, I set my dog to guard it in the night,
tying him up to a stake at the gate, where
he would stand and bark all night long; so
in a little time the enemies forsook the
place, and the corn grew very strong and
well.
But now I had even greater trouble to
keep the birds from eating all of the
ripening grain. I finally shot three of
them, and hung them up as scarecrows.
This had the effect I desired, and kept the
birds away. In the latter end of Decem-
ber I reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or
sickle to cut it down, and all I could do
was to make one, as well as I could, out of
one of the broad-swords, or cutlasses,
which I saved among the arms out of the
ship. However, as my crop was but
small I had no great difficulty to cut it
down; in short, I reaped it in my way, for
I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried
it away in a great basket which I had
made, and so rubbed it out with mv hands',
59
and at the end of all my harvesting, I
found that out of my half-peck of seed I
had near two bushels of rice, and above
two bushels and a-half of barley; that is
to say, by my guess, for I had no measure
at that time.
I had long studied, by some means or
other, to make myself some earthen vessels,
which, indeed, I wanted sorely. I did not
doubt but if I could find out any clay, I
might 'botch up some such pot as might,
being dried by the sun, be hard enough
and strong enough to bear handling, and
to hold anything that was dry, and re-
quired to be so; and as this was necessary
in preparing corn, meal, &c., which was
the thing that I was upon, I resolved to
make some as large as I could, and fit only
to stand like jars, to hold what should be
put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or
rather laugh at me, to tell how many awk-
ward ways I took to raise this paste; what
odd, misshapen, ugly things I made; how
many of them fell in, and how many fell
out—the clay not being stiff enough to
bear its own weight; how many cracked
by the over-violent heat of the sun, being
set out too hastily; and how many fell to
pieces with only removing, as well before
as after they were dried; and, in a word,
how, after having labored hard to find the
clay—to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it—I could not make
above two large earthen ugly things (I can-
not call them jars) in about two months'
labor.
However, as the sun baked these two
very dry and hard, I lifted them very
gently up, and set them down again in two
great wicker baskets, which I had made on
purpose for them, that they might not
break.
Though miscarried so much in my design
for large pots, yet I made several smaller
things with better success; such as little
round pots, flat dishes, pitchers and pipkins,
and anything my hand turned to; and the
heat of the sun baked them strangely hard.

But all this would not answer my end,
which was to get an earthen pot to hold
what was liquid, and bear the fire; which
none of these could do. It happened after
some time, making a pretty large fire for
cooking my meat, when I went to put it
out after I had done with it, I found a
broken piece of one of my earthenware ves-
sels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised
to see it, and said to myself that certainly
they might be made to burn whole, if they
would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my
fire so as to 7iiake it burn me some pots. I
had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters
burn in, or of glazing them with lead,
though I had some lead to do it with; but
I placed three large pipkins, two or three

potr-;, in a. pile, one upon another, and placed
my firewood all round it, with a heap of
embers under them. I plied the fire with
fresh fuel round the outside and upon the
top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-hot
quite through, and observed that they did
not crack at all; when I saw them clear
red, I let them stand in that heat about
fiye or six hours, till I found one of them,
though it did not crack, did melt or run;
for the sand which was mixed with the
clay melted with the violence of the heat,
and would have run into glass if I had
gone on. So I slacked my fire gradually till
the pots began to abate of the red color,
and watching them all niffht, that I might
not let the fire abate too fast, in the morn
ing I had three very good (I will not say
handsome) pipkins, and two other earthen
pots, as hard burnt as could be desired, and
one them perfectly glazed with the running
of the sand.
After this experiment, I wanted no sort
of earthenware for my use; but I must
needs say as to the shapes of them they
were very indifferent, as any one may sup-
pose, when I had no way of making them,
but as the children make dirt pies, or as a
woman would make pies that never learned
to raise paste.
I now thought to dig out a stone, and
make myself a mortar; but, after searching
a long while I could find no stone hard
enough, as all the rocks on the island were
soft and crumbling. I got instead a great
block of hard wood, and with much labor
I rounded the outside, and then, with the
help of fire, made a hollow place in it, as
the Indians in Brazil make their canoes.
Then I made a heavy pestle of iron-wood,
and laid them both by till I had my next
crop of corn to grind or pound into flour.
With some muslin taken from the ship, I
made some very good sieves.
The baking part was the next thing to
be considered, but I managed this also.
I made some hollow earthen vessels, which
served as hearths. In there I built hot
fires. Then, raking the ashes and embera
off clean, I put in my loaves and covered
them with earthen jars.
All the while these things were doing,
you may be sure my thoughts ran many
times upon the land which I had seen
from the other side of the island; and I
was not without secret wishes that I was
81
on shore there, fancying that I might find
some way or other to convey myself far-
ther, and perhaps at last find some means
of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance
for the dangers of such a condition, and
how I might fall into the hands of sav-
ages, and perhaps such as I might have
reason to think far worse than the lions
and tigers of Africa; that if I once came
into their power I should run a hazard of
being killed, and perhaps of being eaten;
for I had heard that the people of the
Caribbean coasts were cannibals, or men-
eaters, and I knew by the latitude, that I
could not be far off from that shore. All
these things, I say, which I ought to have
considered well of, and I did cast up in
my thoughts afterwards, yet took up none
of my apprehensions at first, and my head
ran mightily upon the thought of getting
over to that shore.
Now, I wished for my boy Xury and
the long-boat, with the shoulder-of-mutton
sail, with which I sailed above a thousand
miles on the coast of Africa; but this was
in vain. Then I thought I would go and
look at our ship's boat, which was blown
up upon the shore a great way, in the
storm, when we were first cast away. She
lay almost where she did at first, but not
quite, and was turned, by the force of the
waves and the winds, almost bottom up-
ward, against the high ridge of rough
sand, but no water about her as before.
If I had had hands to have refitted her,
and to have launched her into the water,
the boat would have done well enough,
and I might have gone back into the
Brazils with her easily enough; but

might have easily foreseen that I could no
more turn her and set her upright upon
her bottom, than I could remove the
island; however, I went to the wood, and
cut levers and rollers, nnd brought them to
the boat, iesolved to try what I could do.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piec*
of fruitless toil, and spent, I think, three
or four weeks about it; at last, finding it
impossible to heave it up with my little
strength, I fell to digging away the sand,
to undermine it, and so to make it fall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust,
and guide it right in the fall.
But I was unable to stir it, (>f to get
under it, much less to move it forward to-
wards the water; so I was forced to give
it over; and yet, though I gave over the
hopes of the boat, my desire to venture
over for the mainland increased.

This at length set me
upon thinking whether
it was not possible to make myself a
canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of
those climates make, even without tools,
or, as I might say, without hands—viz.,
of the trunk of a great tree. This I not
only thought possible, but easy, and pleased
myself extremely with my thoughts of
making it, and with my having much more
convenience for it than any of the Negroes
or Indians; but not at all considering the
particular inconveniences which I lay
under more than the Indians did, viz.,
want of hands to move it into the water
when it was made.
I went to work upon this boat the most
like a fool that eyer man did, who had any
of his senses awake. I pleased myself
with the design, without determining
O' O
whether I was ever able to undertake it;
not but that the difficulty of launching my
boat came often into my head; but I put
a stop to my inquiries into it, by this
foolish answer which I gave myself: "Let
me first make it; I warrant I shall find
some way to get it along when it is done."
This was a most preposterous method;
but the eagerness of my fancy prevailed,
and to work I went, and felled a cedar-
tree. I question much whether Solomon
ever had such a one for the building the
Temple of Jerusalem. It was five feet ten
inches diameter at the lower part, and four
feet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two feet; after which it lessened
for a while, and then parted into branches.
It was not without infinite labor that I
felled this tree. I was twenty days hack-
ing and hewing at it at the bottom; I was
fourteen more getting the branches and
limbs and the vast spreading head of it cut
off, which I hacked and hewed through
with my axe and hatchet. After this, it
cost me a month to shape it to something
like the bottom of a boat. It cost me
near three months more to clear the inside,
and work it out so as to make an exact
boat of it. This I did, indeed, without fire,
by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint
of hard labor, till I had brought it to be a
very handsome periagua, and big enough
to have carried six-and-twenty men.
When I had gone through this work, I
was extremely delighted with it. The
boat was really much bigger than ever I
saw a canoe or periagua, that was made of
one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke
it had cost, you may be sure—for there
remained nothing but to get it into the
water; and had I gotten it into the water,
I make no question, but I should have
begun the maddest voyage, and the most
unlikely to be performed that ever was
undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the
water failed me. It lay about one hun-
tired yards from the water, and not more;
but the first inconvenience was, it was up
hill towards the creek. Well, to take
away this discouragement, I resolved to
dig into the surface of the earth, and so
make a declivity. This I began, and it
cost me a prodigious deal of pains (but
who grudge pains that have their deliver-
ance in view ?); but when this was worked
through, and this difficulty managed, it was
still much at one, for I could no more stir
the canoe than I could the other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground,
and resolved to cut a dock or canal, to
bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I
could not bring the canoe down to the
water. I began this work, but upon cal-
culating the amount of digging and what
I could do in a day, I found it would take
twelve years to finish it, so I was obliged
to abandon it.
In the middle of this work I finished my
fourth year in this place, and kept my anni-
versary with the same devotion, and with
as much comfort as ever before; for, by
a constant study and serious application of
the Word of God, and by the assistance of
His grace, I gained a different knowledge
from what I had before. I looked now
upon the world as a thing remote, which I
had nothing to do with, no expectation
from, and, indeed, no desire about; in a
word, I had nothing indeed to do with it,
nor was ever likely to have.
The next thing to my ink being wasted,
was that of my bread, I mean the biscuit
which I brought out of the ship. This I
had husbanded to the last degree, allowing
myself but one cake of bread a day for
above a year; and yet I was quite without
bread for a year before I got any corn of
my own.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily;
as to linen, I had had none for a good
while, except some shirts which I had found
in the chests of the other seamen, and
which I carefully preserved ; because many
times I could bear no other clothes on but
a shirt; and it was a very great help
to me that I had, among all the men's
clothes of the ship, almost three dozen
of shirts. There were also several thick
watch-coats of the seamen's, which were
left behind, but they were too hot to wear;
so I set to work, tailoring, or rather, indeed,
botching, for I made most piteous work of
it. However, I made shift to make two or
three waiscoats, which I hoped would serve
me a great while; as for breeches or
drawers, I made but a very sorry shift till
afterwards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins
of all the creatures that I killed, I mean
four-footed ones, and I had hung them up
stretched out with sticks in the sun, by
which means some of them were so dry and
hard that they were fit for little, but others,
it seems, were very useful. The first thing
made of these was a great cap for my head,
with the hair on the outside, to shoot off
the rain; and this performed so well, that
after, I made me a suit of clothes wholly of
those skins. I must not omit to acknow-
ledge they were wretchedly made; for if I
was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor.
However, they were such as I made a very
good shift with, and when I was abroad, if
it happened to rain, the hair of the waist-
coat and cap being outermost, I was kept
very dry.
After this, I spent a great deal of time
and pains to make an umbrella. I was, in-
deed, in great need of one, and had a great
mind to make one. I had seen them made
in the Brazils, where they are very useful
in the great heats which are there, and I
felt the heats eveiy jot as great here, and
greater too, being nearer the equinox; be-
sides, as I was obliged to be much abroad,
it spread, but if it did not let down too,
and draw in, it would not be portable for
me any way but just over my head, which
would not do. However, at last, as I said,
I made one to answer. I covered it with
skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off
the rain like a pent-house, and kept off
the sun so effectually, that I could walk
out in the hottest of the weather with

it was a most useful thing to me, as well
for the rains as the heats. I took a world
of pains at it, and was a great while before
I could make anything likely to hold: nay,
after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled
two or three before I made one to my mind.
But at last I made one that answered indif-
ferently well; the main difficulty I found
was to make it to let down. I could make
greater advantage than I could before iu
the coolest.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my
mind being entirely composed by resigning
to the will of God, and throwing myself
wholly upon the disposal of His providence.
This made my life better than sociable, for
when I began to regret the want of conver-
sation, I would ask myself whether thus
conversing mutually with my own thoughts,
and (as I hope I may say) with even my
Maker, by ejaculations and petitions, was
not better than the utmost enjoyment of
human society in the world?
I cannot say that, after this, for five
years, any extraordinary thing happened to
me, but I lived on in the same course, in
the same posture and place, just as before.
The chief thing I was employed in, besides
my yearly labor of planting my barley and
rice, and curing my raisins—of both which
I always kept up just enough to have
sufficient stock of the year's provision
beforehand—I had one labor, to make me
a canoe, which at last I finished; so that,
by digging a canal to it of six feet wide
and four feet deep, I brought it into the
creek, almost half a mile.
In building this boat I was wiser than
in building my larger one, and I built it
small enough to get to the sea. I was near
two years in building it, but I never
grudged my labor, in hopes of having a
boat to go off to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was
finished, yet the size of it was not at all
answerable to the design which I had in
view when I made the first; I mean of
venturing over to the mainland, so that
design was given over for the present. As
I had a boat, my next design was to make
a tour round the island.
For this purpose, I fitted up a little mast
in my boat, and made a sail to it out of
some of the little pieces of the ship's sails
which lay in store. I tried the boat, and
found she would sail very well. Then I
made little lockers or boxes at each end to
put provisions, ammunition, etc., to be
kept dry, either from rain or the spray of
the sea. I made also, a little, long, hollow
place where I could lay my gun, making a
flap to hang down over it to keep it diy.
I fixed my umbrella at the stern, to stand
over my head like an awning. All now
being ready, I loaded my ship for the voy-
age, putting in two dozen loaves of barley
bread, an earthen pot full of parched
rice, a little bottle of rum, and half a goat,
powder and shot for my gun, and two
large coats, one to lie upon and one to
cover me in the night, and thus I set sail.
When I came to the east side of the
island, I found a great ledge of rocks lie
out about two leagues into the sea, and be-
yond that a shoal of sand lying half a
league more. I was afraid to go so far out
to sea, for fear I could not get back again,
so I anchored my boat, and, taking my
gun, went on shore and climbed a big hill,
to get a view of the other side of the
ledge.
From the hill I perceived a strong and
intricate current, which would be very
likely to prevent me from being able to
make the island again. And, indeed, had
I not got first upon this hill, I believe it
would have been so; for there was the
same current on the other side of the
island, only that it set off at a farther dis-
tance, and I saw there was a strong eddy
under the shore; so I had nothing to do
but to get out of the first current, and I
should presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days, because,
the wind blowing pretty fresh at E.S.E.,
and that being just contrary to the current,
made a great breach of the sea upon the
point; so that it was not safe for me to

keep too close to the shore for the breach,
nor to go too far off, because of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind
having abated overnight, the sea was calm,
and I ventured. But I am a warning-piece
to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no
sooner was I come to the point, when I
was not even my boat's length from the
shore, but I found myself in a great depth
of water, and a current like the sluice of
a mill. It carried my boat along with it
with such violence that all I could do
could not keep her so much as on the edge
of it; but I found it hurried me farther
and farther out from the eddy, which was
on my left hand. There was no wind
stirring to help me, and all that I could do
with my paddles signified nothing. And
now I began to give myself over for lost;
for as the current was on both sides of the
island, I knew in a few leagues' distance
they must join again, and then I was irre-

coverably gone; so that
l had no prospect be-
fore me but of perishing, not by the sea,
for that was calm enough, but of starving
from hunger. I had, indeed, found a tor-
toise on the shore, as big almost as I could
lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I
had a great jar of fresh water, that is to
say, one of my earthen pots; but what
was all this to being driven into the vast
ocean, where, to be sure, there was no
shore, no mainland or island, for a thous-
and miles at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the
providence of God to make the most mis-
erable condition that mankind could be in
worse. Now I looked back upon my deso-
late, solitary island as the most pleasant
place in the world, and all the happiness
my heart could wish for was to be there
again. I stretched out my hands to it,
with eager wishes. "O happy desert!"
said I, "I shall never see thee more. O
miserable creature! whither am I going?''
I still worked hard to get my boat out
of the current. About noon, a breeze
sprang up from the S. S. E, which cheered
my heart a little, and especially when, in
about half an hour more, it blew a pretty
small, gentle gale. By this time, I had
got at a frightful distance from the island;
and had the least cloudy or hazy weather
intervened, I had been undone another
way, too; for I had no compass on board,
and should never have known how to have
steered towards the island, if I had but
once lost sight of it. But the weather
continuing clear, I applied myself to get
up my mast again, and spread my sail,
standing away to the north as much as
possible, to get out of the current.
I made such good headway that I soon
found an eddy which carried me about a
league on my way back. The wind con-
tinuing fair, I continued to near the island
and soon got to land. When I was on
shore, I fell on my knees and gave God
thanks for my deliverance. After which, I
drew my boat into a little cove under some
trees, and laid me down to sleep, being
quite spent with the fatigue of the voyage,
which I resolved not to repeat.
I was now at a great loss which way to
get home with my boat I had run so much
hazard, and knew too much of the case, to
think of attempting it by the way I wenl
out; and what might be at the other side 1
knew not, nor had I any mind to run any
more ventures. So I resolved, on the next
morning, to make my way westward along
the shore, and to see if there was no creek
where I might lay up my frigate in safety,
so as to have her again, if I wanted her.
In about three miles, coasting the shore, I
came to a very good inlet or bay, about a
mile over, which narrowed till it came to a
very little rivulet or brook, where I found
a very convenient harbor for my boat.
Here I put in, and, having stored my boat
very safe, I went on shore to look about
me, and see where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by
the place where I had been before, when I
CRUSOE.
69
travelled on foot to that shore; so, taking
nothing out of nay boat but my gun and
umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot, I
began my march. The way was comfort-
able enough after such a voyage as I had
been upon, and I reached my old bovver in
the evening, where I found everything
standing as I left it.
I got over the fence, and laid me down
to rest my limbs, for I was
very weary, and fell asleep.
But judge you, if you can,
what a surprise I must have
been in when I was awaked
out of my sleep by a voice,
calling me by my name sev-
eral times: "Robin, Robin,
Robin Crusoe! poor Robin
Crusoe! Where are you,
Robin Crusoe? Where are
you? Where have you
been?"
I was so dead asleep at
first, being fatigued with
rowing the first part of the
day and walking the latter
part, that I did not awake
thoroughly; and dozing be-
tween sleeping and waking,
thought I dreamed that
somebody spoke to me; but
as the voice continued to
repeat, "Robin Crusoe!
Robin Crusoe!'' at last I
began to awake more per-
fectly, and was at first
dreadfully frightened, and
started up in the utmost
consternation. No sooner
were my eyes open, but I
saw my poll sitting on the top of the
hedge, and immediately knew that it was
he that spoke to me; for just in such
bemoaning language I had used to talk
to him and teach him.
However, even though I knew it was the
parrot, and that indeed it could be nobody
else, it was a good while before I could
compose myself. Holding out my hand,

'70
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
and calling him by his name, "Poll," the
sociable creature came to me, and sat upon
my thumb, as he used to do, and continued
talking to me, "Poor Robin Crusoe! and
how did I come here! and where had I
been ?" just as if he had been overjoyed to
see me again; and so I carried him home
along with me.
I had now enough of rambling to sea for
some time, and enough to do for many days
to sit still and reflect upon the danger I

had been in. I would have been very glad
to have had my boat again on my side of
the island; but I knew not how it was
practicable to get it about. As to the east
side of the island, which I had gone round,
I knew well enough there was no ventur-
ing that way; my very heart would shrink
and my very blood run chill, but to
think of it; and as to the other side of the
island, I knew there was a current there
quite as dangerous.
I began to think now what I should do
for goat's flesh when my powder should be
all gone. To make provision for this, I set
traps, and caught some young kids, which
I tamed, keeping them in a large enclosure,
securely fenced about. ' It would have
made a stoic smile to see me and my little
family sit down to dinner. There was my
majesty, the prince and lord of the whole
island. I had the lives of all my subjects
at absolute command; I could hang, draw,
give life and liberty and take it away, and
no rebels among all my subjects. Then to
see how like a king I dined too, all alone,
attended by my servants! Poll, as if he
had been my favourite, was the only per-
son permitted to talk to me; my dog, who
was now grown very old and crazy, sat
always at my right hand; and two cats,
one on one side the table, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from
my hand, as a mark of special favor.
I wanted the use of my boat very much,
but I was very loth to run any more risk
at sea. One day I resolved to go by land
to the little hill on the other side where I
had observed how the shore lay and the
current set, and so I started, following the
edge of the shore. Had any of the people
of England met me at that time, I should
either have frightened them or raised a
great deal of laughter.
I had a great, high shapeless cap, made
of goat's skin, with a flap hanging down
behind, as well to keep the sun from me as
to shoot the rain off from running into my
neck; nothing being so hurtful in these
climates as the rain upon the flesh under
the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the
skirts coming down to about the middle
of the thighs, and a pair of open-kneed
breeches of the same. The breeches were
made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose
hair hung down such a length on either
side, that, like pantaloons, it reached to the
middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I
had none, but had made me a pair of some-
things, I scarce know what to call them,
like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace
on either side like spatterdashes, but of a
most barbarous shape, as indeed were all
the rest of "my clothes^---'- _J;? .V
I had on a' broad bel^'of goat's skin
dried, which I drew together with two
thongs of the same, instead of buckles;
and in a kind ofea. frog on.: either- side of
this, instead of-& sword and dagger, "hung
a little saw and~a.:hatchet, one oa one side,
one on the other. . I had another ielt not
so broad, and fastenedrin the sauielnanner
~ " - - —-.' ." --"-—=.-:-
which hung over my sio.ulder; and at the
end of it, under,my left arm, hung two
pouches, both made of goat's skin too, in
one of which-hung,my powder, in the
other my shot. At my-back I earned my
basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over
my head a great, clumsy, ugly goat-skin
umbrella, but which, after all, was the
most necessary thing I had about me next
to my gun> . ._
When I reached the hill, I found the sea
quite: still, which convinced me that the
current^was formed by the ebb and flow
:pf the tide. Still I resolved to leave the
boat for use on that side of the island, and
to make me another boat to use on my
home side.
It happened one day, about noon, going
towards my boat, I was exceedingly sur-
prised with, the print of a man's naked foot
on the shore, which was very plain to be
seen on the sand. I stood like one thun-
derstruck, or as if I had seen an appar-
ition. I listened, I looked around me, but

73
J could hear nothing, nor see anything; I
went up to a rising ground, to look far-
ther; I went up the shore, and down the
shore, but it was all one; I could see no
other impression but that one. I went to
it again to see if there were any more, and
to observe if it might not be my fancy;
but there was no room for that, for there
was exactly the print of a foot—toes, heel,
and every part of a foot. How it came
thither I knew not, nor could in the least
imagine. But after innumerable fluttering
thoughts, like a man perfectly confused
and out of myself, I came home to my for-
tification, not feeling,
as we say, the ground
I went on, but terri-
fied to the last de-
gree, looking behind
me at every two or
three steps, mistaking
every bush and 'tree,
and fancying every
stump at a distance
to be a man. Nor is it
possible to describe
how many various
shapes my affrighted
imagination represent-
ed* things to me in;
how many wild ideas
were formed every
moment in my fancy,
and what strange un-
accountable whimseys
came into my thoughts
by the way.
When I came to
my castle (for so I
think I called it ever
after this), I fled into it like one pur-
sued. Whether I went over by the
ladder, as first contrived, or went in at
the hole in the rock, which I called a
door, I cannot remember; for never frighted
hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with
more terror of mind than I did to this
retreat. 'i- -
I had no sleep that night, but lay
trembling with fright and thinking who or
what it could be that had visited the
island. I fancied all sorts of things, but
finally concluded that some of the savages
of the main land had been there, and this

did not in the least allay my fear, for after-
wards I was in constant dread that I
should meet them. When milking my
goats or gathering my fruit, if I heard the
least noise, I was ready to drop every-
thing and flee to my house.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had
dug my cave so large as to bring a door
through again beyond where my fortifica-
tion joined to the rock. Therefore I re-
solved to draw me a second fortification, in
the same manner of a semicircle, at a dis-
tance from my wall, just where I had
planted a double row of trees about twelve
years before. These trees having been planted
so thick before, there wanted but few piles
to be driven between them, and my wall
would be soon finished. So that I had
now a double wall; and my outer wall
was thickened with pieces of timber, old
cables, and everything I could think
of to make it strong, having in it seven
little holes, about as big as I might put
my arm out at. In the inside of this, I
thickened my wall to about ten feet thick,
continually bringing earth out of my cave,
and laying it at the foot of the wall, and
walking upon it; and through the seven
holes I contrived to plant the muskets like
cannon, so I could fire all the seven guns in
two minutes' time. This wall I was many
a weary month in finishing, and yet never
thought myself safe till it was done.
Then I planted the ground without as
full of trees as could well stand and grow,
so that, in two years' time, I had a grove so
thick that no one would ever imagine there
was any human habitation beyond it.
While I was doing this I thought much of
the safety of my goats; so I made a strong

75
enclosure in a retired part of the island,
and removed to it ten she-goats and two
he-goats and left them there.
One day as I wandered more to the west
part of the island, being on a hill, I thought
I saw a boat far out at sea, but I was not
sure. On coming down from the hill, I
was confounded and amazed to see the
shore spread with skulls and other bones of
human bodies. There was a place where
a fire had been made, and a circle dug in
the earth, where I supposed the savage
wretches had sat down to their inhuman
feast. When I recovered from my horror
at such a sight, I began to thank God that
I was cast ashore upon a part of the island
that was not visited by the cannibals.
In this frame of thankfulness, I went
home to my castle, and began to be much
easier now, as to the safety of my circum-
stances, than ever I was before: for I
observed that these wretches never came to
this island in search of what they could
get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or
not expecting, anything here; and having
often, no doubt, been up in the covered,
woody part of it, without finding anything
to their purpose. I knew I had been here
now almost eighteen years, and never saw
the least footsteps of human creature there
before; and I might be eighteen years
more as entirely concealed as I was now, if
I did not discover myself to them, which I
had no manner of occasion to do; it being
my only business to keep myself entirely
concealed where I was, unless I found a
better sort of creatures than cannibals to
make myself known to. Yet I entertained
such an abhorrence of the savage wretches
that I have been speaking of, and of the

wretched inhuman custom of their devour-
ing and eating one another up, that I con-
tinued pensive and sad, and kept close
within my own circle for almost two years
after this. When I say my own circle, I
mean by it my three plantations, viz., my
castle, my country-seat (which I called my
bower), and my enclosure in the woods;
nor did I look after this for any other use
than as an enclosure for my goats; for the
aversion which nature gave me to these
wretches was such, that I did not so much
as go to look after my boat in all this time,
but began rather to think of making me

another; for I could not think of ever
making any more attempts to bring the
other boat round the island to me, lest I
should meet with some of those creatures
at sea; in which case, if I had happened to
have fallen into their hands, I knew what
would have been my lot.
Night and day, I could think of nothing
now but how I might destroy some of
these monsters, and, if possible, save the
victim they should bring hither to destroy.
It would take up a larger volume than this
whole work is intended to be, to set down
all the contrivances I hatched, or rather
brooded upon, in my thoughts, for the
destroying of these
creatures, or at least
frightening them so as
to prevent their coming
hither any more. But
all was abortive; noth.
ing could be possible
to take effect, unless I
was to be there to do
it myself: and what
could one man do
among them, when
perhaps there might
be twenty or thirty of
them, together with
their darts, or their
bows and arrows, with
which they probably
could shoot as true to
a mark as I could with
my gun?
Sometimes I thought
of digging a hole
under the place where
they made their fire,
and putting in five or six pounds of gun-
powder, which, when they kindled their
fire, would consequently take fire, and blow
up all that was near it: but as, in the first
place, I should be unwilling to waste so
much powder upon them, my being now
within the quantity of one barrel, so neither
could I be sure of its going off at any cer-
tain time, when it might surprise them;
and, at best, that it would do little more
than just blow the fire about their ears and
fright them, but not sufficient to make
them forsake the place; so I laid it aside.
I continually made my tour every morn-
ing to the top of the hill, which was from
78
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

my castle, as I called it,
about three miles or
more, to see if I could
observe any boats upon the sea, coming near
the island, or standing over towards it; but
I began to tire of this hard duty, after I
had for two or three months constantly
kept my watch, but came always back
without any discovery.
I began to think, too, that it was not
for me to judge these wretches, and for a
year, I gave up watching for them. This
I did, however: I removed my boat and
hid it securely on the east end of the
island, and I kept myself more retired
than ever.
I believe the reader of this will not
think it strange if I confess these anxie-
ties, these constant fears I lived in, and
the concern that was now upon me, put
an end to all invention, and to all the
contrivances that I had laid for my future
accommodations and conveniences. I had
the care of my safety more now upon
hands than that of my food. I cared not
to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood
now, for fear the noise I should make
should be heard; much less would I fire
a gun for the same reason; and, above all,
I was intolerably uneasy at making any
fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at
a great distance in the day, should betray
me. For this reason, I removed that part
of my business which required fire, such
as burning of pots and pipes, etc., into
my new apartment in the woods; where,
after I had been some time, I found, to
my unspeakable consolation, a mere nat-
ural cave in the earth, which went in a
vast way, and where, I dare say, no sav-
age, had he been at the mouth of it, would
be so hardy as to venture in; nor, indeed,
would any man else, but one who, like me,
wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.
On entering with a lighted torch, I stum-
bled over an old he-goat that had crept in
there to die, and who did die the next day.
The entrance to this cave was a small
hole at the base of a large rock, but within
it was large and roomy and quite diy. I
was greatly rejoiced at the discovery, and
I brought here my magazine of powder,
several muskets and other things.

79
It was now the month of December in
my twenty-third year; and this, being the
southern solstice (for winter I cannot call
it), was the particular time of my harvest,
and required me to be pretty much abroad
in the fields, when, going out early in the
morning, I was surprised with seeing a
light of some fire upon the shore, at a dis-
tance from me of about two miles towards
the end of the island where I had observed
some savages had been, as before, and not
on the other side, but, to my great afflic-
tion, it was on my side of the island.
I was, indeed, terribly surprised at the
sight, and stopped short within my grove,
not daring to go out, lest I might be sur-

prised; and yet I had no more peace
within, from the apprehensions I had
that if these savages, in rambling over
the island, should find my com standing
or cut, or any of my works, they would

immediately conclude that there were peo-
ple in the place, and would then never rest
till they had found me out. In this ex-
tremity I went back directly to my castle,
and pulled up the ladder after me, having
made all things without look as wild and
natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting
myself in a posture of defence; I loaded
all my cannon, as I called them—that is to
say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortifications, and all my
pistols, and resolved to defend myself to
the last gasp—not forgetting seriously to
commend myself to the Divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver
me out of the hands of the barbarians.
And in this posture I continued about
two hours, and began to be impatient for
intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to
send out. I was not able to bear sitting
in ignorance any longer; so setting up my
ladder to the side of the hill, and then
pulling the ladder after me, I set it up
again, and mounted to the top of the hill,
and pulling out my perspective-glass, I laid
me down flat on the ground, and began to
look for the place. I presently found
there were no less than nine naked sav-
ages sitting round a small fire they had
made, not to warm them, for they had no
need of that, the weather being extremely
hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of
their barbarous diet of human flesh which
they had brought with them, whether alive
or dead I could not know.
They had two canoes with them, which
they had hauled up upon the shore; and
as it was then ebb of tide, they seemed to
me to wait the return of the flood to go
away again. As I expected, so it proved;
for, as soon as the tide made to the west-
ward, I saw them all take boat and row
(or paddle, as we call it) away. I should
have observed, that for an hour or more
before they went off they were dancing
and I could easily discern their postures
and gestures by my glass.
As soon as I saw them gone, I took my
guns and pistols and went away to the
81
hill on the other side. I saw there had
been three canoes of savages there, and
they were out at sea, making over for the
main. Going down to the shore I saw
with horror, the marks of their dreadful
feast, in the blood and bones of human
bodies.
I was so filled with indignation at this
sight, that I began to ponder how I could
destroy them when they should come
again. I went often to the hill to look for
them, and if they had come, I should cer-
tainly have attacked them. But more than
a year elapsed and I saw no signs of them,
and I lived on very comfortably. In the

meantime, an event happened which
intensely excited me.
There had been a storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of lightning and thunder,
and a very foul night it was after it. As
I was reading in the Bible, and taken up
with very serious thoughts about my pres-
ent condition, I was surprised with the
noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea.
This was, to be sure, a surprise of a differ-
ent nature from any I had met before; for
the notions this put into my thoughts were
of another kind. I started up in the
greatest haste, and, in a trice, clapped my
ladder to the middle place of the rock, and
pulled it after me; and, mounting it the
second time, got to the top of the hill the
very moment that a flash of fire bid me
listen for a second gun, which, accordingly,

in about half a minute, I heard; and by
the sound, knew that it was from that part
of the sea where I was driven out with the
current, in my boat. I immediately con-
sidered that this must be some ship in dis-
tress. I had the presence of mind, at that
minute, to think, that though I could not
help them, it might be they might help
me; so I brought together all the dry
wood I could get at hand, and, making a
good, handsome pile, I set it on fire upon
the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed
freely; and though the wind blew very
hard, yet it burned fairly out, so that I
was certain, if there was any such thing as
a ship, they must need see it, and no doubt
they did; for as soon as my fire blazed up,
I heard another gun and then several
more.

In the morning I saw to my great sor-
row the wreck of a ship upon the concealed
rocks, far out from shore. I cannot ex-
plain, by any possible energy of words,
what a strange longing I felt in my soul
upon this sight, breaking out sometimes
thus:—" Oh, that there had been but one
or two, nay, or but one soul, saved out of
this ship, to have escaped to me that I
might but have had one companion, one
fellow-creature, to have spoken to me and
to have conversed with!" In all the time
of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest,
And now the thought so pressed upon
me night and day that I must go off to this
wreck, that, at last, I loaded my boat with
everything necessary and ventured to sea,
after making a careful study of the dan-
gerous currents.
When I came close to the ship, a dog
appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming,
yelped and cried; and, as soon as I called
him, jumped into the sea to come to me. I

so strong a desire after the society of my
fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the
want of it.
But there was no sign of any living
thing on the wreck, and I had only the
affliction, some days after, to see the corpse
of a drowned boy come on shore. He had
nothing in his pockets but two pieces of
eight and a tobacco pipe—the last was to
me of ten times more value than the first.
took him into the boat, but found him
almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gave
him a cake of my bread, and he devoured
it like a ravenous wolf that had been starv-
ing a fortnight in the snow; I then gave
the poor creature some fresh water, with
which, if I would have let him, he would
have burst himself. After this I went on.
board; but the first sight I met with was
with two men drowned in the forecastle.
b3

Besides the dog, there was nothing left in
the ship that had life; nor any goods, that
I could see, but what were spoiled by the
water. I saw several chests, which I
believe belonged to some of the seamen;
and I got two of them into the boat, with-
out examining what was in them.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask
full of liquor, of about twenty gallons,
which I got into my boat with much diffi-
culty. There were several muskets in the
cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about
four pounds of powder in it. As for the
muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I
84
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
left them, and took the powder-horn. I
took a fire shovel and tongs, which I
wanted extremely; as also two little brass
]«n los, a copper pot to make chocolate,
an«l u gridiron; and with this cargo, and
to me; and about a dozen and a half of
white linen handkerchiefs. Besides this,
when I came to the till in the chest, I
found there three great bags of pieces of
eight; and in one of them, six doubloons

the dog, I came away, and the same even-
ing I reached the island again, weary and
fatigued to the last degree. I reposed that
night in the boat, and in the morning I got
all my cargo on shore. The cask of liquor
I found to be a kind of rum, not at all
good; but when I came to open the chests,
I found several things of great use to me.
For example, I found in one a fine case of
bottles, filled with cordial waters. I found
two pots of very good succades, or sweat-
meats, so fastened on the top that the salt
water had not hurt them. I found some
,very good shirts, which were very welcome
of gold, and some small bars of gold; I
suppose they might all weigh near a pound.
Upon the whole, I got very little by this
voyage that was of any use to me; for as
to the money, I had no manner of occasion
for it; for it was to me as the dirt under
my feet, and I would have given it all for
three or four pair of English shoes and
stockings, which were things I greatly
wanted. I had, indeed, got two pairs of
shoes now, which I took off the feet of the
two drowned men whom I saw in the
wreck, and I found two pairs more in one
of the chests, which were very welcome to
88
me. I found in
this seaman's chest
about fifty pieces
of eight, in rials,
but no gold. Well,
however, I lugged
this money home
to my cave, and
laid it up, as I had
done that before
which I had got
in our own ship.
But it was a great
pity that the other
part of this ship had not come to my
share; for I am satisfied I might have
loaded my canoe several times over
with money; which, if I had ever escaped
to England, would have lain here safe

\\

enough till I might have come again and
fetched it.
After this event, I lived easy enough for
near two years, but I thought constantly
of how I should get away from the island.
One night I dreamed that one of the vic-
tims of the cannibals ran away from them
and came to me. "Now," thought I, in
my dream, "I may venture to the main
land, for this savage will be my pilot."
After this dream, I watched every day for
the cannibals, determined to capture one of
their victims.
I had watched thus for about a year and
a half, when I saw one morning no less
than five canoes on shore, and there were
about thirty of the savages dancing around
a fire. While I looked, I saw two miser-
able wretches dragged from the boats.
One was knocked down immediately and
cut up for their cookery, while the other
was left standing by himself till they
would be ready for him.
This poor wretch, seeing himself a little
at liberty, and unbound, started away from
them, and ran with incredible swiftness
86
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

along the sands, directly towards me. I
was dreadfully frightened, when I perceived
him run my way; and especially when, as
I thought, I saw him pursued by the whole
body. However, my spirits began to re-
cover when I found that there was not
above three men that followed him; and
still more was I encouraged, when I found
that he outstripped them exceedingly in
running.
There was between them and my castle,
the creek; but he made nothing of it, but,
plunging in, swam through in about thirty
strokes, landed, and ran with exceeding
strength and swiftness. When the three
persons came to the creek, I found that two
of them could swim, but the third went no
farther, and soon after went softly back
again. It came very warmly upon my
thoughts that now was the time to get me
a servant, and perhaps a companion. I
immediately ran down the ladder, fetched
my two guns, and getting up again with
the same haste to the top of the hill, I
crossed towards the sea; and having a
very short cut, and all down hill, clap'd
myself in the way between the pursuers
and the pursued, hallooing aloud to
him that fled, who, looking back, was at
first perhaps as much frightened at me as
at them. But I beckoned with my hand to
him to come back; and, in the mean time,
rushing at once upon the foremost, I
knocked him down with the stock of my
piece. I was loth to fire, because I would
not have the rest hear. Having knocked
this fellow down, the other stopped, as if
he had been frightened, and I advanced
towards him. But as I came nearer, I per-
ceived he had a bow and arrow, and was
fitting it to shoot at me: so I was then
obliged to shoot at him first, which I did,
and killed him at the first shot. The poor
savage who fled, but had stopped, was so
frightened with the fire and noise of my
piece that he stood stock still. I hallooed
again to him, and made signs to come for-
ward, which he easily understood, and

came a little way, and stood, trembling. I
smiled at him pleasantly, and beckoned,
and at length he came close to me, laid his
head upon the ground, and put my foot
upon it. This, it seems, meant that he
would be my slave forever.
But there was more work to do. The
savage that I had knocked down began to
come to himself, and sat up on the ground.
My savage motioned for me to give him my
sword, and when I gave it to him he ran
quickly and cut off his head at a single
stroke. When he had done this, he comes
laughing to me in sign of triumph, and
brought me the sword again. But that
which astonished him most, was to know
how I killed the other Indian so far off.
"When he came to him, he stood like one
amazed, looking at him, turning him first
on one side, then on the other. He took
up his bow and arrows and came back; so
I turned to go away, and beckoned him to
follow me.
Upon this he made signs to me that he
should bury them with sand, that they
might not be seen by the rest, if they fol-
lowed; and so I made signs to him again


to do so. He fell to work; and in an in-
stant he had scraped a hole in the sand
with his hands, big enough to bury the
first in, and then dragged him into it, and
covered him; and did so by the other also.
Then calling him away, I carried him, not
to my castle, but quite away to my cave,
on the farther part of the island. Here I
gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to
eat, and a draught of water, which I found
he was indeed in great distress for, and
having refreshed him, I made signs for
him to go and lie down to sleep, so the
poor creature lay down, and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, with
straight, strong limbs, tall and well shaped;
and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years of
89
age. He had a very good countenance, not
ti fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to
have something very manly in his face.
His hair was long and black, not curled
like wool; his forehead very high and
large; and a great vivacity and sparkling
sharpness in his eyes. The color of his
skin was not quite black, but very tawny.
His face was round and plump; his nose
small, not flat like the Negroes; a very
good mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth
well set, and as white as ivory. After he
had slept about half an hour, he awoke and
came out of the cave to me: for I had been
milking my goats. When he espied me he
came running to me, laying himself down
again upon the ground, with all the pos-
sible signs of an humble, thankful disposi-
tion, making a great many antic gestures
to show it. At last he lays his head flat
upon the ground, close to my foot, and
sets my other foot upon his head, as he had
done before.
I let him know that I understood him
and was very well pleased. In a little
time I began to speak to him, and teach
him to speak to me; and, first, I let him
know his name should be FRIDAY, which
was the day I saved his life. I called him
so for the memory of the time. I likewise
taught him to say Master, and then let him
know that was to be my name; I likewise
taught him to say Yes and No, and to
know the meaning of them. I gave him
some milk in an earthen pot, and let him
see me drink it before him, and sop my
bread in it; and gave him a cake of bread
to do the like, which he quickly complied
with, and made signs that it was very good
for him. I kept there with him all that
night; but, as soon as it was day, I bec-
koned to him to come with me, and let
him know I would give him some clothes;
at which he seemed very glad, for he was

stark naked. As we went by the place
where he had buried the two men, he
pointed exactly to the place, and shovsed
me the marks that he had made to find
them again, making signs to me that we
should dig them up again and eat them.
At this I appeared very angry, made as if
I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and
beckoned with my hand to him to come
away, which he did immediately, with
great submission. I then led him up to
90
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the top of the hill, to see if his enemies
were gone, and pulling out my glass, I saw
plainly the place where they had been, but
no appearance of them or their canoe.
We visited the place, and carefully
buried the remains of their horrible feast.
Friday let me know that there had been
a great battle, and that four prisoners, of
which he was one, were brought here to
inside. As to the weapons, I took them
all into my habitation every night. But I
needed none of all this precaution; for
never man had a more faithful, loving,
sincere servant than Friday was to me;
without passions, sullenness, or designs,
perfectly obliged and engaged. His very
affections were tied to me, like those of a
child to a father; and I dare say he would

be eaten. When we came back to our
castle, I fell to work to dress my man,
Friday. I gave him a pair of linen
drawers, and made him a jerkin of goat's
skin, and a very good cap of hare's skin,
and he was mightily pleased to see himself
clothed like his master.
I then made him a little tent between
my two fortifications, and I fixed all my
doors so that I could fasten them on the
have sacrificed his life to save mine,
upon any occasion whatsoever. The many
testimonies he gave me of this put it out
of doubt, and soon convinced me that I
needed no precautions for my safety on his
account.
I was greatly delighted with him, and
made it my business to teach him every-
thing that was proper to make him useful,
handy, and helpful; but especially to

make him speak, and understand me when
I spoke. And he was the aptest scholar
that ever was; and particularly was so
merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased
-when he could but understand me, or make
me understand him, that it was very pleas-
ant to me to talk to him.
After I had been two or three days
returned to my castle, I thought that, in
order to bring Friday of? from his horrid
way of feeding, and from the relish of a
cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste
other flesh; so I took him out with me one
morning to the woods. I went, indeed,
intending to kill a kid out of my own
flock, and bring it home and dress it; but
as I was going, I saw a she-goat lying down
in the shade, and two young kids sitting
by her. I catched hold of Friday and
made signs to him not to stir; immediately
I presented my piece, shot, and killed one
of the kids. The poor creature, who had,
at a distance, indeed, seen me kill his
enemy, but did not know nor could
imagine how it was done, was sensibly
surprised; trembled, and shook, and looked
so amazed that I thought he would have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot
at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped
up his waistcoat, to feel whether he was
not wounded; and, as I found presently,
thought I was resolved to kill him; for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embrac-
ing my knees, said a great many things I
did not understand; but I could easily see
the meaning was, to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him
that I would do him no harm; and taking
him up by the hand, laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid which I had killed,
beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which
he did; and while he was wondering, and
looking to see how the creature was killed,
I loaded my gun again. By-and-by I saw
a great fowl sitting upon a tree within
shot; so, to let Friday understand a little
what I would do, I called him to me again,
pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a
parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground
under the parrot, to let him see I would
make it fall. I fired, and bade him look,
and immediately he saw the parrot fall.
He stood like one frightened again, not-
withstanding all I had said to him; and I
93

believe, if I would have let him, he would
have worshipped me and the gun. As for
the gun itself, he would not so much as
touch it for several days.
When Friday tasted the stewed kid he
let me know that he liked it very much.
The next day I roasted a piece, and when
Friday came to eat it he expressed great
satisfaction, and made me understand that
he would never eat human flesh any more.
I taught him to beat and sift the corn and
to make bread, and in a short time he was
able to do all my work as well as I could
do it myself, and we lived very happily.
I had a mind once to try if he had any
hankering inclination to his own country
again; and having taught him English so
well that he could answer me almost any
question, I asked him whether the nation
he belonged to never conquered in battle.
At which he smiled, and said, "Yes, yes
we always fight the better."
94
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

Master—How came
you to be taken pris-
oner, then?
Friday—They more many than my na-
tion, in the place where me was; they take
one, two, three, and me; my nation over-
beat them in the yonder place, where me
no was; there my nation tftke one, two,
great thousand.
Master—But why did not your side re-
cover you from your enemies?
Friday—They run, one, two three, and
me, and make me go in the canoe; my
nation have no canoe that time.
Master—Well, Friday, what does your
nation do with the men they take? Do
they carry them away and eat them?
Friday—Yes, my nation eat mans too.
Master—Where do they carry them?
Friday—Go to other place, where they
think.
, Master—Do they come hither?
Friday—Yes, yes, they come hither;
come other else place.
Master—Have you been here with
them?
i Friday—Yes, I been here (points to
the N. W. side of the island, which, it
seems, was their side).
By this I understood that my man,
Friday, had formerly been among the
savages who used to come on shore on
the farther part of the island, on the said
man-eating occasions that he was now
brought for: and, some time after, when
I took the courage to carry him to that
side, being the same I formerly mentioned,
he presently knew the place, and told me
he was there once, when they eat up
twenty men, two women and one child.
He could not tell twenty in English, but
he numbered them, by laying so many
stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell
them over.
I asked Friday a thousand questions
about his country, and he told me all he
knew. He said his sort of people were
called Caribs; but further west,there were
white-bearded men like me, and that they
had killed "much mans;" by all of which,
I knew he meant the Spaniards whose
cruelties in America had spread over the
whole country, and were remembered from
father to son. As the time passed away,
I talked much to Friday about God and
the Saviour, and I verily believe that he
became a better Christian than I was.
When he could understand me well I told
him of the countries of Europe, and how
I came to be on the island. When I
showed him the ship's boat which was
now falling to pieces on the shore, he told
me that such a boat had come ashore in
his country with seventeen white men in it,
and that these white men were then living
with his people.
It was after this some time, that being
upon the top of the hill, at the east side of
the island, Friday, the weather being very
serene, looked very earnestly towards the
main land, then fell to dancing and cried,
"Oh, joy! oh, glad! there see my country."
95

That set me to thinking whether I could
not make the voyage with Friday, or send
Friday alone to see if the white men were
still there.
When I proposed to Friday that he
should go over alone to see his people, he
felt very badly, and said he would like to
go, but would not leave me; so I resolved
to make a large canoe and make the ven-
ture. We felled a large tree near the
water, and. with a month's hard labor, we
shaped a very handsome boat, and in an-
other fortnight we got her into the water.
Though she was large enou*h to carry
twenty men, I was surprised to see with
what dexterity and how swift my man
Friday could manage her, turn her, and
paddle her along. So I asked him if we
would, and if we might venture over in
her. "Yes," he said; "we venture over in
her very well, though great blow wind."
However, I had a farther design that he
knew nothing of, and that was to make a
mast and a sail, and to fit her with an
anchor and cable.

After all this was done, I had my man
Friday to teach as to what belonged to the
navigation of my boat; for, though he
knew very well how to paddle the canoe,
ha knew nothing of what belonged to a
sail and a rudder; and was the most
amazed when he saw me work the boat to
and again in the sea by the rudder, and
how the sail gibbed, and filled this way or
that way, as the course we sailed changed.
However, with a little use I made all these
things familiar to him, and he became an
expert sailor, except that as to the com-
pass I could make him understand very
little of that.
By the time I had the boat finished the
rainy season was upon us, and we had to
keep within doors. When we began to go
out again, I sent Friday down to the shore
one day to find a turtle. In a short time
he came flying over my outer wall in a
great fright, crying out to me, "O, master!
0, master! O, bad!" "What's the matter,
Friday?" said I. "Oh! yonder, there,"
says he; "one, two, three canoes, one,
two, three!" "Well, Friday," says I, "do
not be frightened." So I heartened him
up as well as I could. However, I saw
the poor fellow was most terribly scared,
for nothing ran in his head but that they
were come back to look for him, and would
cut him in pieces and eat him; and the
poor fellow trembled so that I scarcely
knew what to do with him. I comforted
him as well as I could, and told him I was
in as much danger as he, and that they
would eat me as well as him. "But," said
I, "Friday, we must resolve to fight them.
Can you fight, Friday?" "Me shoot,"
says he; "but there come many great num-
ber." "No matter for that," said I, again;
'' our guns will fright them that we do not
kill." So I asked him whether, if I re-
solved to defend him, he would defend
me, and stand by me, and do just as I bid
him. He said, "Me die when you bid die,
master."
I loaded the two fowling-pieces with
swan shot as large as small pistol-bullets.
Then I took four muskets, and loaded
them with two slugs, and five small bullets
each; and my two pistols I loaded with a
brace of bullets each. I hung my great
sword by my side, and gave Friday his
hatchet. When I had thus prepared my-
self, I took my perspective-glass, and went
up to the side of the hill; and I found
quickly by my glass that there were one-
and-twenty savages, three prisoners, and
three canoes; and that their whole busi-
ness seemed to be the triumphant banquet
97
upon these three human bodies. I ob-
served also that they landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his
escape, but nearer to my creek, where the
shore was low, and where a thick wood
came close almost down to the sea. This,
very cheerful, and told me, as before, he
would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury I gave Friday one pis-
tol to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder, and I took one pistol
and the other three myself; and in this

with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand
these wretches came about, filled me with
such indignation that I came down again
to Friday, and told him I was resolved to
go down to them, and kill them all; and
asked him if he would stand by me. He
had now got over his fright, and he was
posture we marched out. I took a small
bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave
Friday a large bag with more powder and
bullets; and as to orders, I charged him
to keep close behind me, and not to stir,
or shoot, or do anything till I bid him,
and in the meantime not to speak a word.
98
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

In this posture I fetched a compass to my
right hand of near a mile, as well to get
over the creek as to get into the wood, so
that I might come within shot of them
before I should be discovered, Friday fol-
lowing close at my heels. I marched till
I came to the skirt of the wood on the side
which was next to them, only that one cor-
ner of the wood lay between me and them.
Here I called softly to Friday, and show-
ing him a great tree which was just at the
corner of the wood, bade him go to the tree,
and bring me word what they were doing.
He did so, and came immediately back to
me, and told me that they were all about
their fire eating the flesh of one of their pris-
oners, and that another lay bound upon the
sand a little from them, whom he said they
would kill next; and this fired the very
soul within me. He told me it was not
one of their nation, but one of the bearded
men whom he had told me of, that came to
their country in the boat. I was filled with
horror at the very naming of the white
bearded man; and going to the tree, I saw
plainly a white man, who lay upon the
beach of the sea with his hands and feet
tied with flags, or things like rushes.
I had now not a moment to lose, for
nineteen of the dreadful wretches sat upon
the ground, all close huddled together, and
had just sent the other two to butcher the
poor Christian, and bring him perhaps limb
by limb to their fire, and they were stoop-
ing down to untie the bands at his feet. I
turned to Friday: "Now, Friday," said I,
"do exactly as you see me do." So I set
down one of the muskets and the fowling-
piece upon the ground, and Friday did the
like by his, and with the other musket I
took my aim at the savages, bidding him
to do the like; then asking him if he was
ready, he said, "Yes." "Then fire at
them," said I; and at the same moment I
fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than
I, that on the side that he shot he killed

99
two of them, and wounded three more;
and on my side I killed one, and wounded
two. They were, you may be sure, in a
dreadful consternation; and all of them
that were not hurt jumped upon their feet,
but did not know which way to run, or
which way to look. Friday kept his eyes
lets, we found only two drop; but so many
were wounded, that they ran about yelling
and screaming like mad creatures, all
bloody, and most of them miserably
wounded.
"Now, Friday," said I, laying down the
discharged pieces, and taking up the mus-

close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he
might observe what I did; so, as soon as
the first shot was made, I threw down the
piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and
Friday did the like. He saw me cock and
present; he did the same again. "Are you
ready, Friday?" said I. "Yes," says he.
"Let fly, then," said I, "in the name of
God!" and with that I fired again among
the amazed wretches, and so did Friday;
and as our pieces were now loaded with
what I call swan-shot, or small pistol-bul-
ket which was yet loaded, "follow me,"
which he did with a great deal of courage;
upon which I rushed out of the wood and
showed myself, and Friday close at my
foot. As soon as I perceived they saw me,
I shouted as loud as I could, and bade
Friday do so too, and running as fast as I
could, which by the way was not very fast,
being loaded with arms as I was, I made
directly towards the poor victim, who was,
as I said, lying upon the beach. The two
butchers who were going toward him
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
when we first fired had fled in fright to the
sea-side and had jumped into a canoe, and
three more of the rest made the same vay.
I told Friday to run down and fire at

them, which he did, killing two and badly
wounding a third.
I cut the flags that bound the poor vic-
tim, and asked him, in the Portuguese
tongue, what he was. He answered, in
Latin, Christianus; but was so faint and
weak that he could scarce stand or speak.
I gave him a drink from my bottle, and a
piece of bread which he quickly ate. Then
I asked him what countryman he was, and
he said Espagnole; and being a little
recovered, let me know how thankful he
was. "Seignior," said I, in as good
Spanish as I could make up, we must
fight now. Take this sword and pistol, if
you have any strength left." He took
them thankfully and, as if they gave him
new vigor, he flew upon his murderers like
a fury. A. powerful savage once threw
him on his back and was wringing my
sword out of his hands, when he wisely
quitted the sword and shot him through
the body, before I, who was running up to
help him, could come near him. We
killed them all except four who escaped in
the boat, whereof one was wounded, if not
dead.
Those that were in the canoe worked
hard to get out of gunshot, and though
j Friday made two or three shots at them, I
did not- find that he hit any of them.
Friday AVould fain have had me to take one
of their canoes, and pursue them; and,
indeed, I was very anxious about their
escape, lest, carrying the news home to
their people, they should come back per-
haps with two or three hundred of the
canoes, and devour us; se I conssnted to
pursue them by sea, and running to one of
their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday
follow me. But when I was in the canoe,
I was surprised to find another poor crea-
ture lie there, bound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, and almost dead with fear \
for he had not been able to look over the
side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck
and heels, and had been tied so long, that
he had really little life in him.

I immediately cut the tA\risted flags or
rushes, and would have helped him up;
but he could not stand or speak, but
groaned most piteously, believing, it seema,
101
still, that he was only unbound in order
to be killed. When Friday came to him,
I bade him speak to him, and tell him of
his deliverance; and pulling out my bottle,
made him give the poor wretch a dram;
which, with the news of his being de-
livered, revived him, and he sat up in the
boat. But when Friday came to hear him
speak, and look in his face, it would have
moved anyone to tears to have seen how
into the boat, and out of the boat, a great
many times; when he went in to him, he
would sit down, open his breast, and hold
his father's head close to his bosom half an
hour together; then he took hi= arms and
ankles, which were numbed and stiff with
binding, and chafed and rubbed them with
his hands; and I gave him some rum out
of my bottle to rub them with, which did
them a great deal of good.

Friday Kissed him, embraced him, hugged
.him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped
abort, danced, sung; then cried again,
wrung his hands, beat his own face and
head; and then sung and jumped about
again like a distracted creature. It was a,
good while before I could make him speak
to me, or tell me what was the matter;
but when he came a little to himself, he
told me that it was his father. He went
This action put an end to OT:T pursuit of
the canoe with the other savages, who
were now gotten almost out of sight; and
it was happy for us, for it blew so hard
within two hours after, and befoie they
could be got a quarter of their way, and
continued blowing so hard all night, and
that from the north-west, which was against
them, that I could not suppose their boat
could live.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

The Spaniard's limbs were as bad as
those of the savage, but, Friday picked
him up and carried him to the boat, and
paddled it along to the creek, and so we
got home. Neither the savage nor the
Spaniard could climb over the wall, so we
made them a good tent outside. But they
soon got well and as strong as Friday and
myself.
I had Friday ask his father what he
thought of the escape of the savages in
the canoe, and their bringing the whole
nation to destroy us. His opinion was
that they could never live out the storm,
but, if they did, that they were so dread-
fully frightened with the manner of their
being attacked, the noise, and the fire, that
he believed they would tell the people
they were all killed by thunder and light-
ning, not by the hand of man; and that
Friday and I were two heavenly spirits,
or furies, come down to destroy them.
103
This lie said he knew, because he heard
them all cry out so, in their language, one
to another; for it was impossible for them
to conceive that a man could dart fire, and
speak thunder, and kill at a distance. And
this old savage was in the right; for, as
I understood since, by other hands, the
savages never attempted to go over to
the island afterwards; they were so ter-
state of great want. I resolved to increase
our stock of goats and grain, sufficient to
feed them all, and then to send for them.
At the proper season we fell to work dig-
ging, and planted as much grain as we
could. We also gathered more grapes, and
caught a large number of kids. At last, I
victualed the boat and sent the Spaniard
and Friday's father over to the main, agree-

rifled with the accounts given by those
four men (for it seems they did escape the
sea), that they believed whoever went to
that enchanted island would be destroyed
with fire from the gods.
la my discourse with the Spaniard, he
told me how he and thirteen others had
been shipwrecked on the savage coast, and
that his companions were all alive but in a
ing upon a signal which they should show,
upon approaching the island again.
It was no less than eight days I had
waited for them, when a strange and unfore-
seen accident intervened, of which the like
has not, perhaps, been heard of in his-
tory. I was fast asleep in my hutch one
morning, when my man Friday came run-
ning to me, and called aloud, "Master,
BOBINSON CRUSOE.
master, they are come, they are come!"
I jumped up, and went out as soon as I
could get my clothes on, through my little
grove, which, by the way, was by this time
grown to be a very thick wood. But I was
surprised, when, presently, I saw a boat
standing in for the shore, with a shoulder
of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing pretty fair to bring them in; also
I observed, presently, that they did not
come from that side which the shore lay
on, but from the southernmost end of the
island. Upon this I called Friday in, and
bade him lie close, for these were not the
people we looked for, and that we might
not know yet whether they were friends or
enemies. In the next place, I went in to
fetch my perspective glass, to see what I
could make ojit of them. I had scarce set
foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly
discovered a ship lying at anchor, not above
a league and a half from the shore. By my
observation, it appeared plainly to be an
English ship, and the boat appeared to be
an English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in,
though the joy of seeing a ship, and one
that I had reason to believe was manned
by my own countrymen, and consequently
friends, was such as I cannot describe;
but yet I had some secret doubts hanging

about me—I cannot tell from whence they
came—bidding me keep upon my guard.
I was fully satisfied they were English-
men, at least most of them; one or two I

thought were Dutch, but it did not prove
so. There were in all eleven men, whereof
three of them I found were unarmed, and,
as I- thought, bound; and when the first
four or five of them were jumped on shore,
they took those three out of the boat, as
prisoners. One of the three I could per-
ceive using the most passionate gestures of
entreaty, affliction, and despair; the other
two, I could perceive, lifted up their
hands sometimes, and appeared concerned,
indeed, but not to such a degree as the-
first. I was perfectly confounded at the
sight, and knew not what the meaning of
it should be. Friday called out to me in
English, as well as he could, " O master!
you see English mans eat prisoner as well
as savage mans." "Why, Friday," says I,
"do you think they are going to eat them,
then ?"—" Yes," says Friday, "they will
eat them."—" No, no," says I, "Friday; I
am afraid they will murder them, indeed;
but you may be sure they will not eat
them."
All this while I had no thought of what
the matter really was, but stood trembling
with the horror of the sight, expecting
every moment when the three prisoners
should be killed; nay, once I saw one of
105
the villains lift up his arm with a great
cutlass, as the seamen call it, or sword, to
strike one of the poor men; and I expected
to see him fall every moment; at which
all the blood in my body seemed to run
chill in my veins. I wished heartily now
for my Spaniard, and the savage that was
gone with him, or that I had any way to
have come undiscovered within shot of
they pleased; but they sat down all three
upon the ground, very pensive, and looked
like men in despair.
It was just at the top of high water
when these people came on shore; and
while they rambled about to see what kind
of a place they were in, they had carelessly
stayed till the tide was spent, leaving their
boat aground. They had left two men in

them, that I might have secured the three
men, for I saw no fire-arms they had among
them; but it fell out to my mind another
way. After I had observed the outrageous
usage of the three men by the insolent sea-
men, I observed the fellows run scattering
about the land, as if they wanted to see
the country. I observed also that the
three other men had liberty to go where
the boat, who, having drunk a little too
much brandy, fell asleep. When they
awoke and found that the boat was too
fast aground for them to stir it, they hal-
looed out for the rest; upon which they
all came to the boat. Then I heard one of
them say, "Let her alone, Jack; she'll
float next tide."
I knew it would be ten hours before the
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

boat would float again, and by that time it
would be dark. So I kept close. I fitted
myself up for battle as before, and waited
in my castle. About two o'clock, how-
ever, when they had all straggled into the
woods and out of sight, I resolved to
disclose myself to the three distressed
men, who were seated under a tree but a
short distance off.
Friday and I went out, and when we
came near them I called out, "What are
ye, gentlemen?" They all started up, and
were very much frightened at my uncouth
appearance. But I calmed their fears with
a few words, and told them I was ready to
assist them. "What is your case?" said I.
"Our case is too long," said one, "to tell
you now, but, in short, I was commander
of that ship; my men have mutinied
against me; they have been hardly pre-
vailed on not to murder me, and, at last,
have set me on shore in this desolate place,
with these two men with me—one my
mate, the other a passenger, where we ex-
pected to perish, believing the place to be
uninhabited, and know not yet what to
think of it." "Where are these brutes,
your enemies?" said I. "There they lie,
sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees.
"Have they any fire-arms?" said I. He
answered, "They had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the boat." "Well
then," said I, "leave the rest to me. I see
they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to
kill them all; but shall we rather take
them prisoners?" He told me there were
two desperate villains among them, that it
was scarce safe to show any mercy to; but
if they were secured, he believed all the
rest would return to their duty. "Well,"
says I, "let us retreat out of their view or
hearing, lest they awake, and we will re-
solve further." So they willingly went
back with me.
"Look you, sir,'* said I; "if I venture
upon your deliverance, my conditions are
but two; first, that while you stay on
this island with me, you will not pretend
to any authority here, and if I put arms
in your hands, you will, upon all occasions,
give them up to me, and do no prejudice
to me or mine upon this island, and in the

meantime be governed by my orders;
secondly, that if the ship is or may be
recovered, you will carry me and my man
to England, passage free."
He gave me assurance that he would
comply with these most reasonable de-
mands. "Well, then," said I, "here are
the other badly wounded. But he jumped
up and called for help, and then, as I came
up, he, with all the rest, cried out for
mercy. The captain told them he would
three muskets for you, with powder and
ball; tell me next what you think is
proper to be done." He showed all the
testimony of his gratitude that he was
able, but offered to be wholly guided by
me. I told him the best method I could
think of was to fire on them at once as
they lay. He said, very modestly, that he
was loth to kill them, if he could help it;
but that those two were incorrigible vil-
lains, and had been the authors of all the
mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped,
we should be undone still, for they would
go on board and bring the whole ship's
company, and destroy us all.
In the middle of this discourse we heard
some of them awake, and soon after we
saw two of them on their feet. I asked
him if either of them were the men who
he had said were the heads of the mutiny?
He said, "No." "Well, then," said I,
"you may let them escape; if the rest
escape you, it is your fault." Animated
with this, he took the musket I had given
him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt,
and his two comrades with him, with each
man a piece in his hand. The two men
who were with him, going first, made some

noise, at which one of the seamen started
up and cried out to the rest. But he was
too late, for our party fired, aad one of
the two leaders was killed on the spot and

spare their lives if they would give up
their mutiny and obey his orders, which
they promised to do. I was willing they
should be spared; but I told the captain
he should keep them bound while they
were upon the island.
We now laid our plans to get possession
of the ship. As we thought they would be
sending a boat ashore to look for their
comrades, we took every thing from the boat
on shore, and dragged her up beyond the
reach of high tide and stove a hole in her
bottom, so that they could not use her.
After a while another boat put off from
the ship with ten men in her, all armed.
We put some of our prisoners in the cave,
and some we kept with us, securely tied.
So now we kept close and watched the
sailors rowing ashore.
As soon as they got to the place where
their other boat lay, they ran their boat
into the beach and came all on shore, haul-
ing the boat up after them. They all ran
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
to their other boat; and it was easy to see
they were under a great surprise to find her
stripped of all that was in her, and a great
hole in her bottom. After they had mused
awhile upon this, they set up two or three
great shouts, to try if they could make
times. Finding that they were not answered
they came to the conclusion that their com-
panions were all murdered, and they started
for the shore resolved to go back to the
ship and sail away without them.
As soon as I perceived them go towards

their companions hear; but all was to no
purpose. Then they fired a volley of their
small arms; but it was all one; those in
the cave, we were sure, could not hear;
and those in our keeping, though they
Leard it well enough, yet durst give no
answer to them. Then three men got hit >
the boat and put her off a little way from
the shore, while the other seven started to
find their companions.
It seems they were too'much frightened
to go far from the shore, but they went to
the top of a hill and hallooed several
the shore, I imagined it to be as it really
was; but I presently thought of a strata-
gem to fetch them back again, and which
answered »iy end to a tittle. I ordered
Friday and the captain's mate to go over
the little creek to a rising ground, at about
half a mile distance, and halloo out as loud
as they could; and that as soon as ever
they heard the seamen answer them, they
should return it again; and then keeping
out of sight, take a round, always answer-
ing when the others hallooed, to draw them
as far into the island as possible.
109
They were just going into the boat,
when Friday and the mate hallooed; and
they answering, ran along the shore west-
ward, towards the voice they heard, when
they were presently stopped by the creek,
where, the water being up, they could not
get over, and called for the boat to come
up and set them over, as I expected. When
they had set themselves over, I observed
that the boat being gone up a good way
into the creek, they took one of the three
men out of her, to go along with them, and
left only two in the boat, having fastened
her to the stump of a little tree on the
shore. This was what I wished for; and
immediately leaving Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to their business, I took the
rest with me, and crossing the creek out of
their sight, we surprised the two men before
they were aware; one of them lying on
the shore, and the other being in the boat.
The fellow on shore was between sleeping
and waking, and going to start up. The cap-
tain, who was foremost, ran in upon him,
and knocked him down; and then called
out to him in the boat to yield, or he was
a dead man. There needed very few argu-
ments to persuade a single man to yield,
when he saw five men upon him, and
his comrade knocked down. In the
meantime, Friday and the captain's mate
so well managed their business with the
rest, that they drew them, by hallooing and
answering, from one hill to another, till
they not only heartily tired them, but left
them where they could not reach back to

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

the boat before it was dark; and, indeed,
they were heartily tired themselves also,
by the time they came back to us.
When they came back to the boat in
the dark, and found it high on the shore of
the creek, and their two men gone, they
began to complain that they were on an
enchanted island.
I made the man they had left in the
boat, who was now one of us, call them
by name, to try if I could bring them to
a parley. So he calls out as loud as he
could to one of them, "Tom Smith! Tom
Smith! For God's sake, throw down your
arms and yield, or you are all dead men
this moment." "Who must we yield to?
Where are they?"
says Smith quickly.
"Here they are,"
says he; "here's our
captain and fifty men
with him, have been
hunting you these
two hours; the boat-
swain is killed, Will
Frye is wounded, and
I am a prisoner; and
if you do not yield
at once, you are all
lost."
Then the captain
called out that if they
would lay down their
arms, the governor,
by whom he meant
me, would spare all
their lives, except
that of Will Atkins,
who, it seems, was the
first man to mutiny
and lay hold of the captain. They all lay
down their arms at once, and we bound
them and took some to the cave, and the
others to my bower. I mended the hole
that we had made in the first boat, and
after talking with the prisoners, the cap-
tain picked out those that he could trust
and started to retake the ship, reaching her
about midnight.
Those that were on the deck were not
alarmed at seeing their own boats coming
back, and so the captain, after a short
fight, captured them all and put down the
hatches to keep the others below. They
then broke open the door of the round-
house where the new rebel captain lay, and
Ill
as he fired upon them and would not sub-
mit, the mate shot him dead. The next
day his body was hung up at the yard-
arm as a warning to the rest.
When the captain came back, he told
me he had brought me some little refresh-
ments, such as the ship afforded. Upon
this, he called aloud to the boat, and bade
his men bring the things ashore that were
for the governor; and, indeed, it was a
present as if I had been one that was not
to be carried away along with them, but
as if I had been to dwell upon the island
still, and they were to go without me.
First, he had brought me a case of bottles
full of excellent cordial waters, six large
bottles of Madeira wine, two pounds of
excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces
of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork,
with a bag of peas, and about a hundred-
weight of biscuit. He also brought me a
box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full of
lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and
abundance of other things. But besides
these, he brought me six new clean
shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair
of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one
pair of stockings, and a very good suit of
clothes of his own, which had been worn
but very little: in a word, he clothed me
from head to foot. It was a very kind and
agreeable present, as any one may imagine,
to one in my circumstances; but never was
anything in the world of that kind so
unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it was
to me to wear such clothes at their first
putting on.
After dressing in my new clothes, so as
to look more like a real governor than in
my goat skins, I had all the rebels brought
before me, and I told them I had got a full
account how they had run away with the
ship, and were preparing to commit further
robberies. I let them know that by my

direction the ship had been seized; that
she lay now in the road; and they might
see that their new captain had received the
reward of his villany; that, as to them, I
wanted to know what they had to say why
I should not execute them as pirates, as
they could not doubt but I had authority
to do.
One of them answered that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they
were taken, the captain promised them-
their lives, and they humbly implored my
mercy. But I told them I knew not what
mercy to show them; for as for myself I
had resolved to quit the island with all my
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
men, and had taken passage to go to
England. As for them, they could not go
to England in the ship, except as prisoners
in arms, and upon reaching there, they
would surely be hanged.
When I came to England, I was a per-
fect stranger to all the world. My father
and mother were dead, and all my family
except two sisters and two children of one
of my brothers. The captain gave to the

Upon this they begged that I would let
them stay on the island, to which I gave
my consent. Then I told them my whole
history, and how I had managed every-
thing. I left them, all my firearms and
about a barrel and a half of gunpowder,
and I prevailed upon the captain to give
them two barrels more and also some gar-
den seeds. I gave them also the bag of
peas, and the captain sent them their chests
and clothes, for which they seemed very
thankful. And then I left the island, after
being upon it eight-and-twenty years, two
months and nineteen days.
owners a handsome account of my saving
the ship, and they made up a purse of
nearly £200. With this money I resolved
to go to Lisbon and see if I could get any
news from my plantations in Brazil. I
accordingly took shipping and arrived in
Lisbon safely, Friday accompanying me,
and proving a most valuable servant. Here
I found my old friend, the captain, who
took me on the coast of Africa. He was
an old man now, and he told me he had
not been to the Brazils for nine years, but
he assured me that when he was there last,
my partner was alive, and he believed I
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
would have a very good account of my
plantation. I prepared the necessary papers
and sent them by a ship sailing to the
Brazils, and in about seven months I

received a large packet from my surviving
trustees giving a full account of my plan-
tation, which had been so improved that I
was now master of about 50,000 pounds
sterling in money, with a fine estate. The
trustees sent me, besides the gold, 1,200
chests of sugar and 800 rolls of tobacco.
I was so overcome by this news, and the
reception of such great riches, that I fell
sick, but soon recovered. I rewarded my
old benefactor, and appointed him receiver
of the profits of my plantation. Having
settled all my affairs in Lisbon, I resolved
to return to England by land—that is,
except from Calais to Dover. I engaged an-
other servant, and joined a party of mer-
chants, who were going the same way.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon;
and our company being very well mounted
and armed, we made a little troop, where-
of they did me the honor to call me cap-
tain, as well because I was the oldest man,
as because I had two servants.
When we came to the Pyrenean Moun-
tains, I suffered much with the cold, and
there was so much snow that we were
stopped ten days for want of a guide. We
found one, however, and set out again.
We were descending on the northern side
of the mountains, when, our guide being
something before us, out rushed three
monstrous wolves, and after them a bear.
Two of the wolves flew upon the guide,
and, had he been far before us, he would
have been devoured before we could have
helped him. One of them fastened upon
his horse, and the other attacked the man
with such violence that he had not time or
presence of mind enough to draw his pis-
tol, but hallooed and cried out to us most
lustily. My man Friday, like a bold
fellow, rode directly up, and with his
pistol shot the wolf in the head. The
other, when he heard the pistol shot, fled
immediately.
But never was a fight managed so hardily,
and in such a surprising manner, as that
between Friday and the bear. As the

bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does
not gallop as the wolf does, which is
swift and light, so he has two particular
qualities. First, as to men, who are not his
115
proper prey: if you do not meddle with
him he will not meddle with you; but
then you must take care to be very civil to
him, and give him the road, for he is a
very nice gentleman; he will not go a step
out of his way for a prince; nay, if you
are really afraid, your best way is to look
another way and keep going on; for if you
stop, and stand still, and look at him, he
takes it for an affront; but if you throw
or toss anything at him, and it hits him,
though it were but a bit of stick as big as
your finger, he sets all other business aside
to pursue his revenge—that is his first
quality. The next is, that if he be once
affronted, he will never leave you, night or
day, but follow at a good round rate till
he overtakes you.
When, on a sudden, we .espied the bear,
we were a little surprised. "Oh-oh, oh!"
says Friday; "oh, master! you give me te
leave, me shakee te hand with him; me
makee you good laugh."
"You fool," said I, "he will eat you
up." "Eatee me up! eatee me up!" says
Friday, twice over again; "me eatee him
up; me makee you good laugh; you all
stay here, me show you good laugh." So
down he sits, and gets his boots off in a
moment, and puts on a pair of pumps (as
we call the flat shoes they wear, and which
he had in his pocket), gives my other ser-
vant his horse, and with his gun away he
flew, swift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and
offered to meddle with nobody, till Friday
coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the
bear could understand him : "Hark ye, hark
ye," says Friday, "me speakee with you."
We followed at a distance. Friday, who
had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came
up with him quickly, and took up a great
stone, and threw it at him, and hit him
just on the head, but did him no more

harm than if he had thrown it against a
wall. But it answered Friday's end, for the
rogue was so void of fear that he did it
purely to make the bear follow him, and
show us some laugh, as he called it. As
soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw
him, he turns about, and comes after him,
taking very long strides, and shuffling on
at a strange rate, so as would have put a
horse to a middling gallop. Away runs
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Friday, and seeing a great oak-tree fit for
his purpose, he beckoned us to follow; and
doubling his pace, he got nimbly up the
tree, laying his gun down upon the ground,
at about five or six yards from the bottom
of the tree. The bear soon came to the tree,
and we followed at a distance. The first
thing he did, he stopped at the gun,
Finally, Friday crept to the end of the
limb and dropped to the ground, and the
bear began to come down backward. Fri-
day picked up his gnu, and when the bear
was nearly on the ground he shot him
through the head.
The guide now pressed us forward. We
had one dangerous place to pass, and our

smelled at it, but let it lie, and up he
scrambles into the tree, climbing like a
cat, though so monstrous heavy.
Friday went out on a long branch, and
the bear followed him. "Now," said Fri-
day, "see me make bear dance," and he
began to shake the limb up and down, so
that the bear had all it could do to hold
on. When the bear would move back,
Friday would sit still and tell him to come
farther, and the bear would start toward
him, and get another shaking as before.
guide told us, if there were more wolves
in the country, we should find them there;
and this was a small plain surrounded
with woods on every side, and a long nar-
row defile, or lane, which we were to pass
to get through the wood, and then we
should come to the village where we were
to lodge. It was within half an hour of
sunset when we entered the wood, and a
little after sunset when we came into the
plain. We met with nothing in the first
wood, except that in a little plain we saw
117
five great wolves cross the road, full speed,
one after another. Upon this, our guide,
who was but a faint-hearted fellow, bid us
keep in a ready posture, for he believed

there were more wolves a-coming. We
kept our arms ready and our eyes about us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came
through that wood, and entered the plain.
As soon as we came into the plain, the first
object we met with was a poor horse which
the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen
of them at work picking his bones. We
had not gone half over the plain, when we
began to hear the wolves howl in the wood
on our left in a frightful manner, and pres-
ently we saw about a hundred coming on
directly toward us, all in a body. I scarce
knew in what manner to receive them, but
found to draw ourselves in a close line was
the only way; so we formed in a moment,
but I ordered that only every other man
should fire, and that the others should
stand ready to give them a second volley
immediately. However, at present, we had
no necessity; for upon firing the first vol-
ley, the enemy made a full stop. Four of
them being shot in the head, dropped;
several others were wounded, and went
bleeding off. I found they stopped, but
did not immediately retreat; whereupon I
caused all the company to halloo as loud
as we could; and they began to retire «nd
turn about. I then ordered a second volley
to be fired in their rear, which put them to
the gallop, and away they went to the
woods. We had but little more than loaded
our fusees, when we heard a terrible noise
in the same wood on our left, only that it
was farther onward.
The night was coming on, and the light
began to be dusky, which made it the
worse on our side; and, on a sudden, we
perceived two or three troops of wolves, one
on our left, one behind us, and one in our
front, so that we seemed to be surrounded
with them. However, as they did not fall
upon us, we kept our way forward. At

another opening of the wood, we heard
the noise of a gun, and looking that way,
out rushed a horse, with a saddle and
a bridle on him, flying like the wind, and
sixteen or seventeen wolves after"him full
speed.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
But here we had a most horrible sight;
for, riding up to where the horse came out,
we found the carcases of another horse and
of two men, devoured by the ravenous
creatures. This filled us with horror, and
we knew not what course to take; but the
creatures resolved us soon, for they
gathered about us presently, in hopes of

prey. It happened, very much to our
advantage, that at the entrance into the
wood, there lay some large timber-trees. I
drew my little troop in among those trees,
and placing ourselves in a line behind one
long tree, I advised them all to alight, and
keeping that tree before us for a breast-
work, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts,
inclosing our horses in the centre. We did
so, and it was well we did; for never was
a more furious charge than the creatures
made upon us. They came on us with a
growling kind of a noise, and mounted the
piece of timber. I ordered our men to fire
as before, every other man; and they took
their aim so sure that they killed several of
the wolves at the first volley; but there
was a necessity to keep a continual firing,
for they came on like devils, those behind
pushing on those before. I finally ordered
a train of powder to be poured along the
log, and I set fire to it. This frightened
them so that Avhen we had fired another
volley and gave a great shout, they all
turned tail and left us, and we resumed
our journey.
I reached England and made up my mind
to stop roving. I married a wife not to my
dissatisfaction, and had'three children, two
sons and a daughter, and for seven years
was contented I sold my plantation in
the Brazils and was wealthy and happy.
One of my nephews I bred up as a gentle-
man, the other I placed with a ship
captain, and being a bold and sensible
fellow, in five years I gave him a good
ship and sent him to sea.
But, my wife dying and my nephew
coming home with good success from a
voyage to Spain, the old desire to go
abroad returned, and in my after voyages
I had more adventures of which I shall
give an account in a Second Part of my
history.
119

PART II.

HAT homely proverb, that
what is bred in the bone
will not go out of the flesh,
was never more verified
than in the story of my life.
Any one would think that after
thirty-five years' affliction, and a
variety of unhappy circumstances,
which few men, if any, ever went
through before, and after near seven years
of peace and enjoyment in the fulness of
all things, and grown old, that the native
propensity to rambling should be worn
out, and I might, at sixty-one years of age,
have been a little inclined to stay at home.
Yet all these things had no effect upon
me, or at least not enough to resist the
strong inclination I had to go abroad again.
In particular, the desire of seeing my new
plantation on the island, and the colony \
left there, ran in my head continually. I
dreamed of it all night, and my imagina-
tion ran upon it all day; and my fancy
worked so steadily and strongly upon it
that I talked of it in my sleep.
In this kind of temper I lived some years.
My wife, finally, told me very seriously,
one night, that she believed there was some
powerful impulse of Providence upon me
to visit my island again, and that I ought
logo. This affectionate behavior in my wife
brought me a little out of the vapors, .and
I began to think seriously of my folly,
and to give up my thoughts of going
away. I resolved to divert myself with
other things, and to engage in some busi-
ness that might effectually tie me up from

any more excursions of this kind; for I
found that thing return upon me chiefly
when I was idle, and had nothing to do.
To this purpose, I bought a little farm in
the county of Bedford. I had a little
house upon it, and the land about it, I
found, was capable of great improvement.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled
my family, bought ploughs, harrows, a
cart, wagon, horses, cows and sheep, and,
setting seriously to work, became in one
half-year a mere country gentleman. My
thoughts were entirely taken up in manag-
ing my servants, cultivating the ground,
enclosing, planting, etc.; and I lived, as I
thought, the most agreeable life that na-
ture was capable of directing.
But in the middle of all this felicity,
one blow from unseen Providence un-
hinged me at once, and drove me into a
deep relapse of the wandering disposition,
which, as I may say, being born in my
very blood, soon recovered its hold of me.
This blow was the loss of my wife. My
thoughts ran all away again into the old
affair; my head was quite turned with the
whimseys of foreign adventures; and all
the pleasant, innocent amusements of my
farm, which before entirely possessed me,
were nothing to me, had no relish, and
were like music to one that- has no ear, or
food to one that has no taste; in a word, I
resolved to let my farm, and return to Lon-
don. When I came to London, I was still
as uneasy as I was before; I had no relish
for the place, no employment in it, nothing
to do but to saunter about.
It was now the beginning of the year
Ib93, when my nephew, whom I had
brought up to the sea, was come home
from a short voyage to Bilboa. He came
to me, and told me that some merchants of
his acquaintance had been proposing to
him to go a voyage for them to the East
Indies, and to China, as private traders.
"And now, uncle," says he, "if you will
go to sea with me, I will engage to land
you upon your old habitation in the island;
for we are to touch at the Brazils."
This so exactly hit with my temper that
I consented, but told him I would go no
further than my own island. He argued
against this, but to little purpose. How-
ever, I and my man Friday went on board
in the Downs, on the 8th of January, 1693.
I took with me the frame of a sloop that
could be easily put together. I also took
with me some servants whom I purposed
to leave on the island, among them two
carpenters, a smith, a very handy, in-
121

g^cious fellow, who could do many things,
and a tailor. In my cargo was an abun-
dance of cloths and wearing apparel, beds,
bedding, and household stuff, particularly
kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter,
brass, etc., and near a hundred pounds more
in iron-work, nails, tools of every kind,
staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary
thing I could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms,
muskets, and fusees; besides some pistols,
a considerable quantity of shot of all
sizes, three or four tons of lead, and two
pieces of brass cannon; and, because I
knew not what time and what extremities
I was providing for, I carried a hundred
barrels of powder, besides swords, cut-
lasses, and the iron part of some pikes and
halberts. So that, in short, we had a large
magazine of all sorts of stores; and I
made my nephew carry two small quart*-r-
deck guns more than he wanted for his
.ship, to leave behind if there was occasion;
that when we came there, we might build
a fort, and man it against all sorts of
enemies.
Contrary winds first put us to the north-
ward, and we were obliged to put in at
Galway, in Ireland. Here I took in sev-
eral live hogs, and two cows with their
calves, which I resolved, if I had a good
passage, to put on shore in my island; but
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
we found occasion to dispose otherwise of
them.
We set out on the 5th of February from
Ireland, and had a very fair gale of wind
for some days. As I remember, it might
be about the 20th of February, in the even-
ing late, when the mate, having the watch,
came into the round-house, and told us he
saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired.
I immediately ordered that five guns
should be fired, one soon after another,
that, if possible, we might give notice to
them that there was help for them at hand,
and that they might endeavor to save
themselves in their boat; for though we
could see the flames of the ship, yet they,
it being dark, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, onn

This made us all run out upon the quarter-
deck, where we saw a very great light,
which we concluded must be some ship
on fire at sea; and as, by our hearing the
noise of guns just before, we concluded
that it could not be far off, we stood
directly towards it. In about half an hour's
sailing, the wind being fair and the weather
clearing up a little, we could plainly dis-
cern that it was a great ship on fire.
driving as the burning ship drove, waiting
for daylight; when, on a sudden, to our
great terror, though we had reason to
expect it, the ship blew up in the air; and
in a few minutes the rest of the ship sunk.
About eight o'clock in the morning, we
discovered the ship's boats, and found
there were two of them, both thronged
with people. We immediately spread our
ancient, to let them know we saw them,
123
and hung a waft out, as a signal for them
to come on board; and then made more
sail, standing directly to them. In little
more than half an hour, we came up with
them; and, in a word, took them all in,
being no less than sixty-four men, women
and children.
It is impossible for me to express the
several gestures, the strange ecstasies
which these poor delivered people ran into.
There were some in tears; some raging and
tearing themselves, as if they had been in
the greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark
raving and downright lunatic; some ran

HOB INS ON CRUSOE.

about the ship stamping with their feet,
others wringing their hands; some were
dancing, some singing, some laughing,
more crying, many quite dumb, not able to
speak a word; several swooning and readv
to faint; and a few were crossing them-
selves, and giving God thanks.
There were two priests among them, one
much older than the other. This old priest
went stark mad, but the young one was
very calm, and after he had fallen on his
knees and given thanks, he did much to
quiet the others. In a little more than a
week, we met a barque, which the French
people hired to put them on shore; all
except the young priest, who desired to go
with us. ,
We steered on toward the West Indies
for twenty d&ys, when we came up with a
ship with one mast gone, and quite help-
less. The crew were. in great distress,
being out of provisions, arid nearly starved.
There was a youth, and his mother, and
a maid-servant on board, who were passen-
gers, and having no provisions of their
own, they were in a more deplorable con-
dition than the rest; for the seamen, being
reduced to such an extreme necessity them-
selves, had no compassion for the poor
passengers. We lay by the ship long
enough to supply them with provisions,
and help them put up a new mast, and they
thought they could continue their voyage.
While we lay there, the woman passenger
died, and the son begged that we would
take him and the servant on our ship,
which we did.
I shall trouble nobody with the little in-
cidents of wind, weather, currents, etc., on
the rest of our voyage; but, to shorten my
story, shall observe that I came to my old
habitation, the island, on the 10th of April,
1695. It was with no small difficulty that
I found the place; for, as 1 came to it, and
went from it, before, on the south and east
side of the island, coming from the Brazil*,
KO now, coming in between the main and
the island, I did not know it when I saw it.
We went on shore on several islands,
but none for my purpose; ouV this I
learned by my coasting the shore, that I
was under one great mistake before, viz.
that the continent which I thought I sa\v
from the island I lived in, was really no
continent, but a long island, or rather n
ridge of islands.
Thus, coasting from one island to an-
other, at length I came fair on the south
side of my island, and presently knew the
125
very countenance of the place ; so I brought
the ship safe to an anchor, broadside with
the little creek where my old habitation
was.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for
Friday, and asked him if he knew where
he was? He looked about a little, and,
presently clapping his hands, cried, "Oh,
"Well, well," says I, "Friday, you don't
know; but shall we see anyone else,
then?" The fellow, it seems, had better
eyes than I, and he points to the hill just
above my old house; and, though we lay
half a league off, he cries out, "Me see,
me see, yes, yes, me see much man there,
and there, and there!"

yes; oh, there—oh, yes; oh, there !" point-
ing to our old habitation, and fell dancing
and capering like a mad fellow; and I had
much ado to keep him from jumping into
the sea, to swim ashore to the place.
"Well, Friday," says I, "do you think
we shall find anybody here? and do you
think we shall find your father?" "No,
no," says he, shaking his head, "no see
him more; no, never more see him again.
He long ago die; he much old man."
As soon as Friday told ' ine he saw
people, I caused the English ancient to be
spread, and fired three guns, to give them
notice we were friends; and immediately
ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me;
and went directly on shore, taking with
me the .young friar. We had, besides,
about sixteen men well armed, if we had
found any neXv guests there whi<ih we' did
not know of; but' we - had ' 'HO: need of
weapons.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
As we went on shore, the first man I
fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard
whose life I had saved. I ordered nobody
to go on shore at first but myself; but
there was no keeping Friday in the boat,
for the affectionate creature had spied his
father at a distance, and if they had not
let him go ashore, he would have jumped
into the sea. He was no sooner on shore,
but he flew away to his father, like an
arrow out of a bow. It would have made
any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest
resolution, to have seen the first transports
of this poor fellow's joy when he came to
his father: how he embraced him, kissed
him, stroked his face, took him up in his


arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay
down by him; then stood and looked at
him for a quarter of an hour together;
then lay down on the ground, and stroked
his legs, and kissed them, and then got up
again, and stared at him; one would have
thought the fellow bewitched. But it
would have made a dog laugh the next
day to see how his passion ran out another
way. In the morning, he walked along the
shore again with his old father, several
hours, always leading him by the hand, as
if he had been a lady; and every now and
then he would come to the boat to fetch
something or other for him, either a lump
of sugar, a dram, a biscuit cake, or some-
thing or other that was good. In the
afternoon, his frolics ran another way; for
then he would set the old man down upon
the ground, and dance about him, and
make a thousand antic postures and ges-
tures; and all the while he did this he
would be talking to him, and telling him
one story or another of his travels, and of
what happened to him abroad, to divert
him. In short, if the same filial affection
was to be found in Christians to their
127
in our pftrt of the world, one
tvould be tempW to say there would
hardly haAre beea any need of the fifth
•iommandment.
The first Spftpiard, whom I said, I knew
very well, tvaa he whose life I had saved.
He came towards the boat, and he not only
iid not know me at first, but he had no
then, beckoning to the person that attended
him, bade him go and call out his com-
rades.
He then asked me if I would walk to
my old habitation, where he would give me
possession of my own house again. So I
walked along with him; but, alas ! I could
no more find the place again than if I had

thoughts, no notion of its being me that
-was come, till I spoke to him. "Seignior,"
said I, in Portuguese, "do you not know
me?" At which he spoke not a word, but
threw his - arms abroad, and saying some-
thing in Spanish that I did not perfectly
hear, came forward and embraced me, tell-
ing me he was inexcusable not to know that
face again that he had once seen as if an
angel from Heaven, sent to save his life;
never been there; for they had planted so
many trees, and in ten years' time they
were grown so big, that, in short, the place
was inaccessible, except by such windings
and blind ways as they themselves only,
who made them, could find.
I asked him what put them upon all
these fortifications. He told me I would say
there was need enough of it, when they
had given me an account how they had
BOBINSON CRUSOE.

passed their time. Nothing that ever befell
him in his life, he said, was so afflicting to
him at first, as the disappointment when he
came back to the island and found I was
not there.
As to the three barbarians (so he called
them) that were left behind, and of whom,
he said, he had a long story to tell me, the
Spaniards all thought themselves much
better among the savages, only that their
number was so small; "and," says he," had
they been strong enough, we had been all
long ago in purgatory;" and with that he
crossed himself on the breast. "But, sir,"
says he, "I hope you will not be displeased
when I shall tell you how, forced by neces-
sity, we were obliged to disarm them, and
make them our subjects, as they would not
be content with being moderately our
masters, but would be our murderers." I
answered, I was afraid of it when I left
them there, and nothing troubled me at
my parting from the island, but that they"
were not come back, that I might have put
them in possession of everything first, and
left the others in a state of subjection, as
they deserved.
While I was saying this, the mail
carne whom he had sent back, and with
him eleven more. In the dress they were
in, it was impossible to guess what nation
they were of; but he made all clear both
to. them and to me. First he turned to
me, and pointing to them, said, "These,
sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to you;" and then turning to
them, and pointing to me, he let them
know who I was; upon which they all
came up, one by one, not as if they had
been sailors, and ordinary fellows, but
really as if they had been noblemen, and I
a monarch.

129
As soon as I had retired with the Span-
iard, I had him relate to me all that had
happened, and first I asked him about his
voyage to the main, as I then thought it,
with Friday's father. He told me they had
a safe voyage and his friends were over-
joyed to see him, and they had thought
him surely dead. They borrowed some
large canoes from the savages under the
way I baked my bread, bred up tame
goats, and planted my corn; and, in a
word, everything I did. They began to
live very sociably; and the head Spaniard,
who had seen pretty much of my methods,
and Friday's father together, managed all
their affairs; but as for the Englishmen,
they did nothing but ramble about the
island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises;

pretense of going a-fishmg, and reached the
island in safety.
The only just thing the rogues did was
that, when the Spaniards came ashore, they
gave my letter to them, and gave them
provisions, as I ordered them; also they
gave them the long paper of directions
which I had left with them, containing
the particular methods which I took for
managing every part of my life there; the
and when they came home at night, the
Spaniards had their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have heen satisfied
with this, had the others but let them
alone, which, however, they could not find
in their hearts to do long; but, like the dog
in the manger, they would not eat them-
selves, neither would they let the others
eat. The difference, nevertheless, was at
fii-st but trivial, and such as is not worth
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

relating, but at last it broke out into open
war; and though, it is true, the first rela-
tion of it came from the Spaniards them-
selves, whom I may call the accusers, yet
when I came to examine the fellows, they
could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of
this part, I must supply a defect in my
former relation; and this Avas, I forgot to
set down, among the rest, that just as we
were weighing the anchor to set sail, there
happened a little quarrel on board of our
ship, and the captain, in separating them,
threatened again to hang them when he
came to England. This so frightened two
of them that they stole the ship's pinnace,
and taking two muskets and some other
weapons, they ran away to their com-
panions on shore. But the other rogues
would not have them to live with them,
but made them go and build huts for
themselves. This they had done when the
Spaniards came. The latter gave them
some corn to plant, and they began to live
pretty well. But the three rogues would
not let them alone, but tore up their crops
and set their hut on fire.
But not to crowd this part with an ac-
count of the lesser part of their rogueries,
such as treading down their corn, shooting
three young kids and a she-goat, which tlto
poor men had got to breed up tame for
their store; and, in a word, plaguing them
night and day in this manner, it forced the
two men to such a desperation, that they
resolved to fight them all three, the first
time they had a fair opportunity.
It happened that the day before, two of
the Spaniards, having been in the woods,
had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom,
for distinction, I called the honest men,
and he had made a sad complaint to the
Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had
met with from their three countrymen.
When the Spaniards came home at night,
and they were all at supper, one of them
took the freedom to reprove the three
Englishmen, though in very gentle and
mannerly terms, and asked them how they
could be so cruel.
One of the Englishmen returned very
briskly, "What had they to do there ? that
they came on shore without leave; and
that they should not plant or build upon
the island; it was none of their ground."
"Why," said the Spaniard, very calmly,
"Seignior Inglese, they must not starve."
The Englishman replied, "They might
starve; they should not plant nor build in
that place. They should be servants,

131
and work for them." "But," says the
Spaniard, "they are not bought with your
money; you have no right to make them
servants." The Englishman answered,
"The island was theirs; the governor had
given it to them, and no man had anything
the Spaniards had given notice of their
coming, and Atkins proposed that they
should take revenge on the Spaniards. ..
As soon as they had made this bloody
bargain, they fell to work with the poor
men's habitation. They did not set fire,

to do there but themselves;" and with
that, swore that they would go and burn
all their new huts. "Why," said the
Spaniard, "by the same rule we would be
your slaves too." "And so you shall,"
says the bold dog, "before we are done
with you." With that, they strode off with
their guns.
They intended to wait till midnight, and
then go murder the two men and burn
their huts; but they fell asleep and did not
awake until their victims were gone abroad
in the morning. Then they concluded that
indeed, to anything, but they pulled down
both their houses, and pulled them so limb
from limb that they left not the least stick
standing, or scarce any sign on the ground
where they stood. They tore all their little
collected household stuff in pieces, and
threw everything about in such a manner,
that the poor men afterwards found some
of their things a mile off their habitation.
When they had done this, they pulled up
all the young trees which the poor men
had planted; pulled up an inclosure they
had made to secure their cattle and their
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
corn; and, in a word, sacked and plundered
everything as completely as a horde of
Tartars would have done.

The two men were, at this juncture, gone
to find them out, and had resolved to fight
them wherever they had been, though they
were but two to three; so that, had they
met, there certainly would have been
bloodshed among them, for they were all
very stout, resolute fellows, to give them
their due.
But Providence took more care to keep
them asunder than they themselves could

do to meet; for, as if they had dogged one
another, when the three were gone thither,
the two were here; and afterwards, when
the two went back to find them, the three
were come to the old habitation again. We
shall see their different conduct presently.
When the three came back like furious
creatures, flushed with the rage, which the
work they had been about had put them
into, they came up to the Spaniards, and
told them what they had done, by way
of scoff and bravado; and one of them

stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if
they had been a couple of boys at play,
takes hold of his hat as it was upon his
head, and giving it a twirl about, fleering
in his face, says to him, "And you, Sei-
gnior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same
sauce, if you do not mend your manners."
The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil
man, was as brave a man as could be,
having no weapon in his hand, stepped
gravely up to him, and, with one blow of
his fist, knocked him down; at which one
1:33
of the rogues, as insolent as the first, fired
his pistol at the Spaniard immediately. He
missed his body, indeed, for the bullets
went through his hair, but one of them
touched the tip of his ear, and he bled
pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard
believe he was more hurt than he really
\vas, and that put him into some heat, for
before he acted all in a perfect calm. But
now, resolving to go through with his work,
he stooped, and took the fellow's musket
whom he had knocked down, and was just
going to shoot the man who had fired at
him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being
in the cave, came out and calling to him
not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the
other two, ami took their arms from them.
The rogues went away swearing ven-
geance, but when they had wandered about
for three days, they came back nearly
starved, and begged to be taken iu. So
the Spaniards took them in again, and gave
them their arms, first making them go and

build up the huts and fences they had
destroyed. They had just begun to be in-
solent again when an accident happened
which made them lay by all private resent-
ments, and look to the preservation of their
lives.
The Spaniard whom I had saved and

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
governor,
who was then the leader or the
feeling restless one night, got up and
wandered abroad to see if anything was
the matter. He had not gone far when he
was surprised to see several fires and a
great number of savages walking about
them. He went back and told the rest,
and they all kept very close till morning.
It seems that the savages had had a great
battle in their own country, and both sides
had come here to eat their prisoners. But
neither party knew that the other was on
the island. In the morning, when they
found it out, they fell to fighting again,
and a great number were killed. Three of
them ran away, right into our habitation
and were captured by the Spaniards.
When the battle was over, the victors
raised a great shout, and took to their
canoes, and shortly after the others fol-
lowed, none of them who went away
having found out that there were inhabi-
tants on the island. The great danger they
had been in tamed even the three English
brutes I have been speaking of; and for a


grcat while after, they were tractable, and
went about the common business of the
whole society well enough. But some time
after this they fell into such simple meas-
ures again, as brought them into a great
deal of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I
observed; and these three being lusty, stout
young fellows, they made them servants,
and taught them to work for them; and
as slaves they did well enough. But they
did not take their measures with them as 1
did by my man Friday, and so they never
had them to assist them and light for them
as I had Friday, who was as true to me as
the very flesh upon my bones.
And now they had another broil with
the three Englishmen; one of whom,
being in a rage at one of the three slaves,
135
the fellow had not done some-
thing right which he bid him do, drew a
hatchet out of a frog-belt, in which he
wore it, and fell upon the poor savage to
kill him. One of the Spaniards, who was
by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous
cut in his shoulder, placed himself between
him and the savage. The fellow, being
enraged the more at this, struck at the
Spaniard with his hatchet, when the
Spaniard knocked him down with a shovel.
The two other Englishmen rushed on the
Spaniard, and the other Spaniards coming
to the rescue, a sharp fight ensued, and
then the three Englishmen were taken
prisoners.
Some of the Spaniards were then for
putting them to death; but the merciful
governor decided that they should be
turned away to live by themselves, and
forbidden to come near them under pain

of being shot. He gave them grain and
provisions and all else that they needed,
except arms and ammunition, and they
went and builded huts on a remote part of
the island. Here they lived for nearly a
year, when they came in one day and
asked for a canoe and arms, and said they
would go over to the mainland and seek
their fortunes. The Spaniards gave them
arms and ammunition and some tools, and

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
having baked bread enough to serve them
a month, and given them as much goats'
flesh as they could eat while it was sweet,
and a great basket of dried grapes, a pot
of fresh water, and a young kid alive, they
boldly set out in the canoe for a voyage
over the sea, where it was at least forty
miles broad. The Spaniards called after
them, "Bon veyajo /" and no man ever
thought of seeing them any more.
battle were eaten. There had been a great
fight, and the king then had a large number
waiting to be killed and eaten. Will
Atkins in fun asked if they might have
some, and the savages brought down to the
boat five women and eleven men.
As brutish as these fellows were at home,
their stomachs turned at this sight, and
they did not know what to do. To refuse
the prisoners would have been the highest

But after two-and-twenty days' absence
they all came back, and upon being ques-
tioned told of their adventures. They had
reached what they thought the main land
and found it only an island. The savages
rushed down to the shore to fight them, so
they did not land. They landed, however,
at another island where they were well
treated. On that island, they were told
that only the men and women taken in
affront to the savage gentry that could be
offered them. After some debate they
resolved to accept of them; and, in return,
they gave the savages one of their hatcbets,
an old key, a knife, and six or seven of
their bullets; which, though they did not
understand their use, they seemed particu-
larly pleased with; and then tying the poor
creatures'hands behind them, they dragged
the prisoners into the boat for our men.
137
On the way back, they stopped at the
first island and set eight of them at lib-
erty, and the others they had brought to
our island and then had them bound in
their huts, so they could not run away.
Upon hearing such a remarkable story, all
went over to the huts to look at them.
Here they Bat, all of them stark naked.
First, there were three men, lusty, comely
fellows, well-shaped, straight and fair limbs,
about thirty and thirty-five years of age;
and five women, whereof two might be
from thirty to forty; two more not above
four or five-and-twenty; and the fifth, a
tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or seven-
teen. The women were well-favored, agree-
able persons, both in shape and features,
only tawny; and two of them, had they
been perfectly white, would have passed
for very handsome women, even in London
itself.
Only one of them, a woman, could
understand Friday's father, but through
her we soon made them understand that
they were not to be eaten, nor even killed.
At this, when we untied them, they all
fell to dancing, and then they all began to
take up things to signify that they would
work. As there were five women and
five Englishmen, the Spaniards let these
last each choose one for a wife, which they
did. And now each one built a hut for
himself, the two honest ones in one place,
and the three rogues in another.
Some time after this, five or six canoes
of savages came on shore. Our men kept
within doors till the canoes were gone,
and then it was discovered that they had
left three of their number behind, and
they lay under a tree fast asleep. After

consultation it was resolved to take them
prisoners; and they did so. The poor
fellows were strangely frightened when
they were seized upon and bound; and
afraid, like the women, that they should be
murdered and eaten for it seems those
people think all the world do as they do;
but they were soon made easy as to that.
One of them ran away to the woods
and was never seen again. He probably

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
escaped with some canoes that came ashore
soon after.
The first testimony they had that this
fellow had given intelligence of them was,
that, about two months after, six canoes of
savages came rowing along the north side
of the island, where they never used to
When our men came out from the tree,
the savage who was not killed began to
make piteous moans for his life, so they
tied him to a tree and ran on to their
wives. Soon after, the other savages went
away as they came. It was five or six
months before they saw any more of the

come before, and landed about a mile from
the habitation of the two Englishmen,
where this escaped man had been kept.
As they were coming directly towards
their huts, the two men sent their wives
and some of their goods into the woods,
and went a little way themselves and hid
in a hollow tree. The savages burned
their huts and then scattered about the
island. A number of them coming up to
the hollow tree, the two Englishmen fired
and killed all but one. Among the killed
was the savage who had escaped.
savages, when, on a sudden, they were
invaded by a fleet of no less than eight-
and-twenty canoes. The savages came on
shore in the evening, so our men had time
to make preparation. In the morning
they came ranging along the shore. Our
army was small, indeed. There were seven-
teen Spaniards, five Englishmen, old Fri-
day (or Friday's father), the three slaves
taken with the women, who proved very
faithful, and three other slaves who lived
with the Spaniards. To arm these, they
had eleven muskets, five pistols, three
139
fowling-pieces, five muskets or fowling-
pieces, two swords and three old halberts.
To their slaves they did not give
either musket or fusee; but they had each
a long staff, with a great spike of iron fas-
tened into each end of it, and by his side
a hatchet; also every one of our men had
a hatchet. Two of the women could not
be prevailed upon, but they would come
into the fight, and they hail bows and
their situation; only that Will Atkins,
who now proved a most useful fellow, with
six men, was planted just behind a small
thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard,
with orders to let the first of them pass by,
and then fire into the middle of them, and
as soon as he had fired, to make his retreat
as nimbly as he could round a part of the
wood, and so come behind the Spaniards.
When the savages came on, they ran

arrows, which the Spaniards had taken
from the savages when the first action hap-
pened, and the women had hatchets too.
The Spaniard governor commanded the
whole; and Will Atkins, who, though a
Dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a
. ioet daring, bold fellow, commanded
under him. The savages came forward
like lions; and our men, which was the
of their fate, had no advantage in
stra<?<7li n of about every way in heaps, out
of all manner of order, and Will Atkins
let about fifty of them pass by him; then
seeing the rest come in a very thick throng,
he orders three of his men to fire, having
loaded their muskets with six or seven bul-
lets apiece. How many they killed or
wounded they knew not, but the conster-
nation and surprise was inexpressible
among the savages. They were frightened
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

to the last degree to hear such a dreadful
noise, and see their men killed, and others
hurt, but see nobody that did it; when, in
the middle of their fright, Will Atkins and
his other three let fly again among the
thickest of them; and in less than a min-
ute, the first three being loaded again, gave
them a third volley.
Had Will Atkins and his men retired
immediately, as they were ordered to do,
or had the rest of the body been at hand,
to pour in their shot continually, the sav-
ages had been effectually routed; for they
thought they were killed by the gods with
thunder and lightning; but some of the
savages who were at a distance spying
them, came upon them behind, and wounded
Atkins himself, and killed one of his fellow
Englishmen with their arrows, as they did
afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the
Indian slaves.
Our men being thus hard laid at,
retreated to a rising ground in the wood;
and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys
upon them, retreated also; for their num-
ber was so great, and they were so desper-
ate, that though above fifty of them were
killed, and more than as many wounded,
yet they came on in the teeth of our men,
fearless of danger, and shot their arrows
like a cloud.
The Spaniard governor having drawn
his little body up together upon a rising
ground, Atkins, though he was wounded,
would have them march and charge again
altogether at once; but the Spaniard re-
plied: "Seignior Atkins, you see how their
wounded men fight; let them alone till
morning; all the wounded men will be
stiff and sore with their wounds, and faint
with the loss of blood; and so we shall
have the fewer to engage." This advice

was good; but Will Atkins replied mer-
rily, "That is true, seignior, and so shall I
too; and that is the reason I would go on
while I am warm." "Well, Seignior
Atkins," says the Spaniard, "you have be-
haved gallantly, and done your part; we
will fight for you if you cannot come on;
but 1 think it best to stay till morning."
So they waited.
But as it was a clear moonlight night,
and they found the savages in great dis-
order about their dead and wounded men,
and a great noise and hurry among them
where they lay, they afterwards resolved
to fall upon them in the night. They
came so near where the thickest of them
lay, that, before they were seen or heard,
eight of them fired in upon them, and did
dreadful execution upon them; in half a
minute more, eight others fired after them,
pouring in their small shot in such a
quantity, that abundance were killed and
wounded; and all this while they were not
able to see who hurt them, or which way
to fly.
They fought desperately, but so many
were killed and wounded, that the rest
soon fled to their boats and put to sea.
But a dreadful storm coming on that even-
ing, many of the canoes were lost and the
others driven back to the island, seeing
which our men went over and fired guns
to frighten them, and they all ran into the
woods. Our men then destroyed all their
boats, so that they could not get back to
their nation to bring another army. The
savages kept hid in the woods most of the
time, but they managed to destroy the
. crops and do much damage. Having no
weapons, they were reduced to a deplor-
able condition, some of them even starv-
ing to death. Friday's father then caught
one, and through him arrangements were
made by which they were given seeds and
tools and a part of the island to live on,
upon condition that they would not leave
their bounds. The kept their promise,
and became very good and peaceful fel-
lows.
This was the condition of things on my

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
return. My coming was a great relief to
them, because we furnished them with
knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pickaxes,
and all things of that kind which they
could want. With the help of those tools,
they came at last to build up their huts or
houses very handsomely, raddling or work-
I measured it by my steps; the walls were
as close worked as a basket, and very strong.
Round the top he laid strong pieces,
pinned together with wooden pins, from
which he raised a pyramid for roof, very
handsome, I assure you, and joined to-
gether very well, though he had 110 nails?

ing it up like basket-work all the way
round. Our men were so taken with it,
that they got the wild savages to come and
do the like for them; so that when I came
to see the two Englishmen's colonies, they
looked, at a distance, as if they all lived
like bees in a hive. As for Will Atkins,
who was now become a very industrious,
useful, and sober fellow, he had made him-
self such a tent of basket-work as, I be-
lieve, was never seen. It was one hundred
and twenty paces round on the outside, as
and only a few iron spikes, which he made
himself too, out of the old iron that I had
left there; and, indeed, this fellow showed
abundance of ingenuity in several things
which he had no knowledge of. He made
him a forge, with a pair of wooden bel-
lows to blow the fire. He made himself
charcoal for his work; and he formed out
of the iron crows a middling good anvil to
hammer upon. In this manner he made
many things, but especially hooks, staples,
and spikes, bolts and hinges.
143
I had many talks with the Spaniards
about their adventures among the savages.
They told me they had given up all hope of
getting away. They were compelled to
go with them to their wars, and in one of
them the Spaniard, whom i had rescued,
was taken prisoner. They were very
grateful to me for sending for them, and
were very polite and kind in every way.
So I called them all together one day. and
O v'
showed them the stores I had brought,
and was going to leave them, for I had
not come to take them away. First, I
asked them, one by one, if they were
willing to stay, and would give up all
animosities, one to another. And each
told me he would.
Will Atkins, with abundance of frank-
ness, said they had met with affliction
enough to make them all sober, and ene-
mies enough to make them all friends;
that, for his part, he would live and die
with them; that they had done nothing to
him, but what his own mad humor made
necessary; and that he would ask them
pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish and
brutish things he had done to them; and
as for going to England, he cared not if
he did not go thither these twenty years.
I cannot express what pleasure sat upon
the countenances of all these poor men,
when they saw the care I had taken of
them. They told me I was a father to
them; and that having such a correspond-
ent as I was in so remote a part of the
world, it would make them forget that
they were left in a desolate place; and
they all engaged to me not to leave the
place without my consent
Then I presented to them the people I

had brought with me, particularly the
tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters,
all of them most necessary people; but,
above all, my general artificer, than whom
they could not name anything that was
more useful to them. And the tailor, to
show his concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made
them every one a shirt, the first thing he
did; and what was still more, he taught
the women not only how to stitch, but he
made them assist to make the shirts for
their husbands, and for all the rest.
As to the carpenters, I scarce need men-
tion how useful they were; for they took
to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things,
and made clever, convenient tables, tools,
bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and
everything they wanted of that kind. But
to let them see how nature made artificers
at first, I carried the carpenters to see Will
Atkins' basket-house, as I called it; and
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

they both owned they never saw an instance
of such natural ingenuity before, nor any-
thing so regular and handily built, at least
of its kind. And one of them, when he saw
it, after musing a good while, turning about
to me, "I am sure," says he, "that man
has no need of us; you need do nothing
but give him tools."
The young man whose mother was
starved to death, and also the maid
requested leave to remain, so a plot of
ground was given them and a house was
built for them to live in. Before I left the
priest married the maid to my Jack-of-all-
trades, as I call him, and they built another
something of religion; that notwithstand-
ing these English subjects of mine, as he
called them, had lived with these women
almost seven years, had taught them to
speak English, and that they were, as he
perceived, women capable of instruction,
yet they had not, to this hour, taught them

house. This young Catholic priest had
so much true piety that he was beloved by
all He came to me one morning and told
me that the men I was leaving behind
would not have God's blessing if they were
not married to their wives, and further-
more that they should teach their wives
anything of the Christian religion—no, not
so much as to know that there was a God.
"I am persuaded," says he, "had those
men lived in the savage country whence
their wives came, the savages would have
taken more pains to have brought them to
be idolaters, and to worship the devil, than
any of these men, so far as I can see, have
taken with them to teach them the knowl-
edge of the true God." I walked along
and urging how unchristian and irreligious
life it was, I first asked them if they were
married men or bachelors. They soon

toward the Englishmen's houses, and he
walked with me, discoursing by the way.
When we came to the Englishmen, I be-
gan to talk to them of the scandalous life
they led, and gave them a full account of
the notice the clergyman had taken of it;
showed that two of them were widowers,
and the other three were single men, or
bachelors. I asked them with what con-
science they could take these women, and
call them their wives and not be lawfully
marrled to them.
147
They all gave me the answer I expected,
viz., that there was nobody to many them;
that they agreed before the governor to
keep them as their wives, and to maintain
them and own them as their wives; and
that the laws of man being otherwise, they
might desert the poor women and children
hereafter; and that their wives, being
friendless and moneyless, would have to
help themselves.

they thought, as things stood with them,
they were as legally married as if they had
been married by a parson.
I told them that no doubt they were
married in the sight of God, and were
bound to keep them as their wives; but
All this went on as I expected; and
they told me, especially Will Atkins, who
now seemed to speak for the rest, that they
loved their wives as well as if they had
been born in their own native country, and
would not leave them on any account what-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
ever ; and they did verily believe that their
-wives were as virtuous and as modest, ami
did, to the utmost of their skill, as much
for them and for their children as any wo-
men oould possibly do. And Will Atkins,
for his own particular, added, that if any
man would offer to carry him home to Eng-
But when the clergyman came to per-
form the duty which he had suggested, he
would not do it till he had first awakened
in them some sense of their religious duty.
He talked to them with such effect that
two of them promised to live religious
lives and to teach their wives about God •

land, and make him captain of the best
man-of-war in the navy, he would not go
with him if he might not carry his wife
and children with him. In a word, they
all consented to be married by the priest.
and the priest married these two; but
Will Atkins said he would go and talk
with his wife about it. "This man,
Atkins," said the priest, " however wicked
he has been, will be a true convert."
HOBINSON CRUSOE.

After this, my clergyman, turning to me,
said, "I entreat you, sir, let us walk out
and look; I daresay we shall find this poor
man somewhere or other talking seriously
to his wife, and teaching her already some-
thing of religion." We went out together,
and I carried him a way which none knew
but myself, and where the trees were very
thick, when, coming to the edge of the
wood, I saw Atkins and his tawny wife
sitting under the shade of a bush, very
eager in discourse, pointing up to the sun,
and to every quarter of the heavens, and
then down to the earth, then out to the
sea, then to himself, then to her, to the
woods, to the trees. •' Now," says the
clergyman, "you see my words are made
good. The man preaches to her; mark him,
now, he is telling her that our God has
7 O
made him and her, and the heavens, the
earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, etc."
"I believe he is," said I. Immediately, we
perceived Will Atkins start upon his feet,
fall down on his knees, and lift up both
his hands.
We went back, and after a while Will
Atkins and his wife came in. Upon ques-
tioning him, he told me that he had tried
to talk to his wife about God. She would
not believe him at first, because she could
not understand why he did not worship so
great and good a being. This so shocked
him that he realized what a great sinner he
had been, and he had resolved to be a
Christian. Both he and his wife were
ready to be baptized, and the priest per-
formed that office, and then married them.
The last thing I did before I went away
was to take a Bible to Will Atkins. The
man was so confounded, that he was not
able to speak for some time; but recover-
ing himself, he takes it with both his
hands, and turning to his wife, "Here,

151

my dear," says he, "did I not tell you
our God, though he lives above, could
hear what we have said? Here's the
book I prayed for when you and I
kneeled down under the bush; now God
has heard us and sent it." When he had
said so, the man fell into transports of
passionate joy.
Having now done with the island, I left
them all in good circumstances, and in a
flourishing condition, and went on board
my ship again on the 6th of May. I prom-
ised to send them farther relief from the
Brazils, and particularly I promised to
send them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs
and cows. As to the two cows and calves
which I brought from England, we had
been obliged to kill them at sea, for want
of hay to feed them.
About three days after we had sailed,
while we were becalmed, a great fleet of
canoes were seen approaching us. I had the
ship brought to an anchor; the boats were
put overboard and manned, for I was afraid
only that they would set the ship on fire.
When they came nearer to us, they seemed
to be struck with wonder and astonishment,
as at a sight which doubtless they had
never seen before. They came up, how-
ever, very near to us, and seemed to go
about to row round us; but we called to
our men in the boats not to let them come
too near them. Our men beckoned with
their hands to keep them back, which they
understood very well, and went back; but
at their retreat about fifty arrows canie on
board us from those boats, and one of our
men in the long-boat was wounded. How-
ever, I called to them not to fire by any
means; but we handed down some deal
boards into the boat, with which they made
a kind of fence to cover them. They
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

rowed a little farther out to sea, till they
came directly broadside with us, and then
rowed down straight upon us. Upon this
I ordered all my men to keep close, lest
they should shoot any more arrows, and
made till our guns ready. I made Friday
go out upon the deck, and call out aloud
to them in his language, to know what
they meant; which accordingly he did.
Whether they understood him or not, that
I knew not; but immediately Friday cried
out they were going to shoot, and, unhap-
pily for him, poor fellow, they let fly
about three hundred of their arrows, and,
to my inexpressible grief, killed poor
Friday, no other man being in their sight. I
was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty
servant and companion, that I immediately
ordered five guns to be loaded with small
shot, and four with great, and gave them
such a broadside as they had never heard
in their lives before. They were not above
half a cable's length off when we fired;
and our gunners took the aim so well that
thirteen or fourteen of their canoes were
split and overset, and the men all set
a-swirnmmg; the rest, frightened out of
their wits, scoured away as fast as they
could, taking but little care to save those
whose boats were split or spoiled with our
shot; so I suppose that many of them
were lost.
We were now under sail again, but I
was the most disconsolate creature alive
for want of my man Friday, and would
have been very glad to have gone back to
the island, to have taken one of the rest
from thence for my occasion, but it could
not be; so we went on. Poor honest
Friday! We buried him with all the de-
cency and solemnity possible, by putting
him into a coffin, and throwing him into
the sea; and I caused them to fire eleyen
gnns for him; and so ended the life of the
most grateful, faithful, honest, and affec-
tionate servant that ever man had.
We arrived at the Brazils in about twelve
days' time. My old partner was glad to
see me, and sent me some very handsome

153
presents; and when I told him of the frame
of the sloop I had brought, and that it was
my design to send some supplies to the
people on my island, he offered to attend
to it for me.
Accordingly, he got hands, and finished
the sloop in a very few days; and I gave
the master of her such instructions that he
could not miss the place; nor did he, as I
had an account from my partner after-
who wished to go the island with his wife
and daughters, and we let them go.
Among the rest of the supplies sent to
my tenants on the island, I sent them by
the sloop three milch cows and five calves,
about twenty-two hogs among them, three
sows with pigs, two mares, and a stone-
horse. For my Spaniards, according to
my promise, I engaged three Portugal wo-
men to go, and recommended it to them to

wards. I got him soon loaded with the
cargo I sent them: and one of our seamen,
that had been on shore with me there,
offered to go with the sloop and settle
there, upon my letter to the governor
Spaniard, to allot him a sufficient quantity
of land for a plantation, and giving him
some clothes and tools for- his planting
work. There was also a man that had
fallen into the displeasure of the church,
marry them. All this cargo arrived safe,
and wjis very welcome to my old inhabi-
tants, who were now, with this addition,
between sixty and seventy people, besides
little children, of which there were a great
many. I found letters at London from
them all, by way of Lisbon, when I came
back to England.
I have now done with the island, and all
rnnner of discourse about it; and who-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
ever reads the rest of ray memorandums
would do well to turn his thoughts entirely
from it, and expect to read of the follies of
an old man, not warned by his own harms,
much less by those of other men, to be-
ware.
I had no more business to go to the
East Indies than a man at full liberty has
to go to the turnkey at Newgate and de-
sire him to lock him up among the prison-
good rice, as I might also have done in sis
months' time, and ordered my friends to
have fitted her out again for our supply, I
had at least acted like a man of common
sense; but I was possessed of a wandering
spirit.
From the Brazils, we went directly to
the Cape of Good Hope, when we took in
fresh water, and then made the best of
our way to the coast of Madagascar.

ers there, and starve him. Had I taken a
small vessel from England, and gone
directly to the island; taken a patent from
the Government here to have secured my
property; had I carried over cannon and
ammunition, servants and people to plant,
and taken possession of the place, and in-
creased it with people, as I might easily
have done; had I then settled myself
there, and sent the ship back laden with
Though the people there are fierce and
treacherous, we traded some trifles, such
as knives, scissors, etc., for some fat bul-
locks.
It happened one evening, when we went
on shore, that a greater number of their
people came down than usual, but all very
friendly and civil; and they brought sev-
eral kinds of provisions, for which we
satisfied them with such toys as we had;
155
the women brought us milk and roots,
and several things very acceptable to us,
and all was quiet, and we made us a little
tent or hut of some boughs, and lay on
shore all night. But I was not so well
satisfied to lie on shore as the rest; and
I spread the sail on the bottom of the boat,
and lay all night in the boat.
About two o'clock in the morning, we
heard one of our men make a terrible noise
on the shore, calling out for God's sake to
bring the boat in, and come and help
them. At the same time I heard the fire of
five muskets, which was the number of
guns they had, and then three times over;
for, it seems, the natives here were not so
easily frightened with guns as the savages
were in America, where I had to do with
them. All this while I knew not what
was the matter, but rousing immediately
from sleep with the noise, I caused the
boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with
three fusees we had on board, to land and
assist our men.
We got the boat soon to the shore, but
our men were in too much haste; for being
come to the shore, they plunged into the
water, to get to the boat with all the
expedition they could, being pursued by
between three or four hundred men.


We took up seven of our men, and with,
difficulty enough too, three of them being
very ill wounded; and that which was
still worse was that while we stood in the
boat to take our men in, we were in as
much danger as they were in on shore;
for they poured their arrows in upon us
so thick that we were glad to barricade
the side of the boat up with two or three
loose boards, which we had by mere acci-
dent in the boat. We had, by the light
of the moon, a little sight of them, as they
stood pelting us from the shore with darts
and arrows; and having got ready our fire-
arms, we gave them a volley that we could
hear, by the cries of some of them, had
wounded several; however, thev stood
thus in battle array on the shore till break
of day.
In this condition we lay, and could not
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
tell how to weigh our anchor, or set up
our sail, because we must needs stand up
in the boat, and they were as sure to hit
us as we were to hit a bird in a tree with
small shot. We made signals of distress
to the ship, and the captain, hearing our
firing, pretty well understood us; and
weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as
near the shore as he durst with the ship,
and then sent out another boat, with ten
hands in her, to assist us, and they towed
us back to the ship.
We soon learned the cause of the fray.
It seems that a young woman had been
taken by one of our sailors and carried into
the woods. An old woman, who was with
the young one, made a great outcry, and
that brought on the attack. We had one
man killed, and the rest came off free, ex-
cept the one who was the cause of the
trouble, for he had not come back from the
woods. The third night, in the dark, we
took twenty stout fellows and went quietly
ashore to see if we could find the missing
man. We saw nothing of him, and I re-
solved on going on board; but the boat-
swain and his party were resolved to make
a visit to the Indian town, where these
dogs, as they called them, dwelt, and asked
me to go along with them; and if they
could find them, as they still fancied they
should, they did not doubt of getting a
good booty; and it might be they might
find Tom Jeffry there; that was the man's
name we had lost.
I positively refused it, and rose up, for I
was sitting on the ground, in order to go
to the boat. One or two of the men began

157
to opportune rue to go; and, when I re-
fused, began to grumble, and say they were
not under my command, and they would go.
"Come, Jack," says one of the men, "will
you go with me? I'll go for one." Jack
said he would—and then another—and, in
a word, they all left me but one, whom I
persuaded to stay, and a boy left in the
boat.
When they came to the Indian town,
three of them, who were a little before the
rest, called out and told them that they had
found Tom Jeffry; they all ran up to the
place, where they found the poor fellow
hanging up naked by one arm, and his
throat cut. There was an Indian house
just by the tree, where they found sixteen
or seventeen of the principal Indians, and
two or three of them wounded by our shot;
and our men found they were awake, and
talking one to another in that house, but
knew not their number.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade


so enraged them, as before, that they swore
to one another to be revenged, and that not
an Indian that came into their hands should
have any quarter; and to work they went
immediately, and in a quarter of an hour
they set the town on fire in four or five
places, and murdered so many of the peo-
ple that the rest rest ran off to the woods.
When our men came back, we set sail to
Bengal. On the way I blamed the men
very much for what they had done, and
this led to further trouble. I had gone on
shore at Bengal, and the men came and
told me they were resolved to leave me
there, for if I went back to the ship they
would all leave her. I sent for the captain,
and told him it would be so hard for him
to get sailors, that I had better stay, so he
left me, with all my goods and with plenty
of money.
Here I met an English merchant, and to-
gether we bought a ship and made trading
vovages to the Spice Islands and to China,
with great profit. We then sold our ship,
BOBINSON CRUSOE.

resolved to voyage no more. But one day
a Dutch ship came into port, and the man
who claimed to be the captain offered to
sell her to us cheap, and we bought. All
the crew left her, which we thought very
strange, but we afterwards learned that
they had mutinied and murdered the cap-
tain, and after sailing for a while as pirates
had sold the ship to us. We picked up
some English and some Dutch sailors, and
resolved to go to China again.
In this voyage, being by contrary winds
obliged to beat \ip and down a great while
in the Straits of Malacca, and among the
islands, we were no sooner got clear of
those difficult seas, than we found our ship
had sprung a leak, and we were not able,
by all our industry, to find out where it
was. This forced us to put into the river
of Cambodia, While we were here, and
going often on shore for refreshment, there
comes to me one day an Englishman, and
he was, it seems, a gunner's mate on board
an English East India ship, which rode in
the same liver, and speaking English,
"Sir," says he, "you are a stranger to me,
and I to you; but I have something to tell
you that very nearly concerns you."
I looked steadfastly at him a good while,
and thought at first I had known him, but
I did not. "If it very nearly concerns
me," said I, "and not yourself, what moves
you to tell it to me?" "I am moved,"
says he, "by the imminent danger you are
in, and, for aught I see, you have no know-
ledge of it." "I know no danger I am in,"
says I, "but that my ship is leaky, and I
cannot find it out; but I intend to lay her
aground to-morrow, to see if I can find it."
"Do you know, sir," said he, "the town of
159
Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this
river; and there are two large English ships
about five leagues on this side, and three
Dutch?" I turned short upon him, and
said: "Sir, I wish you would explain
yourself; I cannot imagine what reason I
have to be afraid of any of the Company's
ships, or Dutch ships. What can they
have to say to me?" "Well, sir," says he,
"if you think yourself secure, you must
take your chance; I am sorry your fate
should blind you against good advice; but
assure yourself, if you do not put to sea
immediately, you will the very next tide
be attacked by five long-boats full of men,
and perhaps, if you are taken, you will be
hanged for a pirate."
This led me to question him further, and
I found that he himself took us for pirates,
knowing the story of the killing of the
captain and the seizing of the ship by the
rascal who sold her to us. As soon as I
reached the side of the ship, my partner
told me he had stopped the leak, and we
weighed anchor and set sail at once. It
was not long before we found ourselves
chased by five boats. As they came up
and were making to board us, we poured
in a broadside upon them which sank one
boat, and running out our two long guns,
we kept firing till the rest gave up the
chase. We picked up three of their men
and went on our way, and reached the
coast of Cochin China. As we did not find
the ship so perfectly tight and sound as we
desired, we resolved while we were at this
place to lay her on shore, and take out
what heavy things we had on board, and
clean her bottom, if possible, to find out
where the leaks were.

The inhabitants, who had never been
acquainted with such a sight, came won-
dering down the shore to look at us; and
seeing the ship lie down on one side in
such a manner, and heeling in towards the
shore, and not seeing our men, who were
at work on her bottom with stages, and
with their boats on the off-side, they pre-
sently concluded that the ship was cast
away, and lay fast on the ground. On this
supposition, they all came about us in two
or three hours' time, with ten or twelve
large boats, intending, no doubt, to have
come on board and plundered the ship, and
if they found us there, to have carried us
away for slaves to their king, or whatever
they call him.
When they came up to the ship, and
began to row round her, they discovered
us all hard at work on the outside of the
ship's bottom and side, washing, and grav-
ing and stopping, as every seafaring man
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

knows Low. They stood for a while gaz-
ing at us, and we, who were a little sur-
prised, could not imagine what their de-
sign was; but being willing to be sure, we
took this opportunity to get some of us
into the ship, and others to hand down
arms and ammunition to those that were
at work, to defend themselves with, if
there should be occasion. And it was no
more than need—for they agreed, it seems,
that the ship was really a wreck, and that
we were all at work endeavoring to save
her. Upon this, they took it for granted
we all belonged to them, and away they
came directly upon our men.
Our men, seeing so many of them, began
to be frightened, and cried out to us to
know what they should do. I immediately
called to the men to come on board; and
the few who were on board worked with
all the strength and hands we had to bring
the ahip to rights. But, however, neither
the men upon the stages nor those in the
boats could do as they were ordered, before
the Cochin Chinese were upon them; and
two of their boats boarded, our long-boat,
and began to lay hold of the men as their
prisoners.
The first man they laid hold of was an
English seaman, a stout, strong fellow. He
grappled the pagan, and dragged him out
of their boat into ours, where, taking him
by the ears, he beat his head against the
boat's gunnel; and, in the meantime, a
Dutchman took up a musket, and with the
butt-end of it so laid about him, that he
knocked down five of them. But this was
doing little towards resisting thirty or forty
men, who began to throw themselves into
the long-boat, where we had but five men
in all to defend it; however, the following
accident, which deserved our laughter,
gave our men a complete victory.
Our carpenter being prepared to grave
the outside of the ship, as well as to pay
the seams where he had caulked her to stoj,
the leak, had got two kettles just let down
into the boat, one filled with boiling pitch,
and the other with resin, tallow, and oil,
and such stuff as the shipwrights use for
that work; and the man that attended the
carpenter had a great iron ladle in his

161
hand, with which he supplied the men that
were at work with the hot stuff. Two of
the enemy's men entered the boat just
where this fellow stood, being in the fore-
sheets; he immediately saluted them with
a ladleful of the stuff, boiling hot, which
so burned and scalded them, being half-
While this was being done, my partner
got the ship to rights, and getting a gun
in position, sent a charge of small shot
among their boats, which sent them away
as fast as they could paddle. The next
day we finished our repairs and set sail,
keeping well off the coast of ChJna, so as

nated, that they roared out like bulls, and,
enraged with the fire, leaped both into the
sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out,
"Well done, Jack! give them some more
of it;" and stepping forward himself, takes
one of the mops, and dipping it in the pitch-
pot, he and his man threw it among them
so plentifully that, in short, of all the men
in the three boats, there was not one that
escaped being scalded and burned with it,
a most frightful, pitiful manner, and
in
made such a howling and crying that I
never heard a worse noise.
not to meet any English or Dutch ships.
In latitude of 30 degrees we stood in for
the shore, and a boat came off with an old
Portuguese pilot, whom we took on board.
I told him that we wanted to go to Nan-
quin, at which he smiled and said we would
find a better port of trade at Kingpo, and
then go by the canal to see the great city
of Pekin.
"Well," said I, "Seignior Portuguese,
but that is not our business now; the great
question is, if you can can cariy us up to
the great city of Nanquin, from whence we
SOBINSON CRUSOE.

can travel to Pekin afterwards?" He said
he could do so very well, and that there
wus a great Dutch ship gone up that way
just before. This gave me a little shock,
for a Dutch ship was now our terror. The
old man found me a little confused and
under some concern when he named a
Dutch ship, and said to me," Sir, you need
be under no apprehensions of the Dutch;
I suppose they are not now at war with
your nation? You are no pirates; what
need you fear?" "Why, seignior," said I,
"I hope there are no pirates in these seas.
We are but in an ill condition to meet
with them, for you see we have but a small
force, and are but veiy weakly manned.''
"Oh, sir," says he, "don't be concerned; I
do not know that there have been any
pirates in these seas for fifteen years, except
one, which was seen, as I hear, in the Bay
of Siam, about a month since; but you may
be assured she is gone to the southward;
nor was she a ship of any great force, or
fit for the work. She was not built for a
privateer, but was run away with by a rep-
robate crew that was on board, after the cap-
tain and some of his men had been mur-
dered." "Why, then," said I," they deserve
death." "Nay," said the old man, "they
do deserve it, and they will certainly have
it, if they light upon any English or Dutch
ship; for they have all agreed together^
that if they meet that rogue, they'll give
him no quarter."
After more conversation, I told him the
whole story of how we got the very ship
that he was talking of. He was greatly
surprised, but he said we did well to go to
Nanquin, for if we fell into the hands of
the English or Dutch at that time they
would listen to no explanation. He ad-
vised that we sell the ship at Nanquin and
buy a Chinese junk, and promised to assist
us at both sale and purchase. He promised,
too, to see the Dutch and English masters
and explain all, so that the new owners of
the ship should not have the same trouble
that we had.
While these things were passing between
us, by way of discourse, we went forward
directly for Nanquin, and in about thirteen
days' sail came to an anchor at the south-
west point of the great Gulf, where, by the
way, I came by accident to understand that
two Dutch ships were gone the length be-
fore me and that I should certainly fall into
their hands. I consulted my partner again
in this exigency, and he was as much at a
loss as I was, and would very gladly have
been safe on shore almost anywhere; how-
ever, I was not in such perplexity neither,
but I asked the old pilot if there was no
creek or harbor which I might put into
163
and pursue my business with the Chinese
privately, and be in no danger of the
enemy. He told me if I would sail to the
southward about forty-two leagues, there
was a little port called Quiiichang, where
the fathers of the mission usually landed
from Macao, on their progress to teach
the Christian religion to the Chinese, and
where no European ships ever put in. We
resolved to go to this place, and weighed
at once.
had any experience of, nothing makes man-
kind so co'mpletely miserable as that of be-
ing in constant fear. Well does the Scripture
say, "The fear of man bringeth a snare;"
it is a life of death, and the mind is so en-
tirely oppressed by it, that it is capable of
no relief. Providence began here to clear
up our way a little; and the first thing that
offered was, that our old Portuguese pilot
brought a Japan merchant to us, who in-
quired what goods we had; and, in the

We did not come to the other port (the
wind being contrary) for five days; but it
was very much to our satisfaction; and I
was joyful when I set my foot on shore,
resolving, and my partner too, that if it
were possible to dispose of ourselves and
effects any other way we would never set
one foot on board that unhappy vessel
more. And indeed, I must acknowledge, that
of all the circumstances of life that ever I
first place he bought all our opium, and
gave us a very good price for it, paying us
in gold by weight, some small pieces of
their own coin, and some in small wedges,
of ten or twelve ounces each.
The Japan merchant would not buy the
ship, but he made an offer to .hire her to
take home his wares. I had a young man
with me who offered to go in the ship to
look after my interests, and to account for
JKOBINSON CRUSOE.
everything to me, which he did. The
Japan merchant treated him very fairly,
sending him with goods to the Manillas,
where he treated with the Spaniards and
brought back cloves and other spices.
Having got a good acquaintance at
Manilla, he got his ship made free ship,
and the governor of Manilla hired him to
go to Acapulco, on the coast of Mexico.

He made the voyage to Acapulco very
happily, and there he sold his ship; and
having there also obtained allowance to
travel by land to Porto Bello, he found
means, somehow or other, to get to Jamaica
with all his treasure; and about eight years
after came to England, exceeding rich.
We were now on shore in China: if I
thought myself banished, and remote from
my own country at Bengal, where I had
many ways to get home for my money,
what could I think of myself now, when
I was got about a thousand leagues farther
off. We went ten days' journey to the
city of Nanquin, a city well worth seeing,
indeed. They say it has a million of people
in it; it is regularly built, the streets all
exactly straight, and cross one another in
direct lines, which gives the figure of it
great advantage. But when I came to
compare the miserable people of these
countries with ours, their fabrics, their
manner of living, their government, their
religion, their wealth, and their glory, as
some call it, I must confess that I scarcely
think it worth my while to mention them
here.
We had made the acquaintance of a
Spanish priest, called Father Simon, who
was going to Pekin, and upon his invita-
tion, we accompanied him. We were
fifteen days reaching the great city,
through a country infinitely populous.
Though very poor, the people were very
proud; and my friend Father Simon and
I used to be merry to see the beggarly
pride of these people. For example,
coming by the house of a country gentle-
man, as Father Simon called him, about
ten leagues off the city of Nanquin, we
had first of all the honor to ride with the
master of the house about two miles. The
state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixot-
ism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty.
His habit was very proper for a merry-
andrew, being a dirty calico, with hanging
sleeves; tassels, and cuts, and slashes almost
on every side. It covered a taffety vest, as
greasy as a butcher's, and which testified
that his honor must be a most exquisite
sloven. His horse was but a poor, starved,
hobbling creature, and he had two slaves
following him on foot to drive the poor
creature along. He had a whip in his hand,
and he belabored the beast as fast about
the head as his slaves did about the tail;
and thus he rode by us, with about ten or
twelve servants, going from the city to
165
his country seat about half a league before
us. We traveled on gently, but this figure
of a gentleman rode away before us; and
as we stopped at a village about an hour
to refresh us, when we came by the coun-
try seat of this great man, we saw him in
a little place before his door, eating a
and the other held the dish with one hand,
and scraped off what he let fall upon his
worship's beard and taffety vest.
Thus leaving the poor wretch to please
himself with our looking at him, as if we
admired his pomp, though we really pitied
and contemned him, we pursued our jour-

repast. It was a kind of garden, but he
was easy to be seen; and we were given to
understand that the more we looked at
him the better he would be pleased. He
sat under a tree, something like the pal-
metto, which effectually shaded him over
the head; but under the tree was placed
a large umbrella, which made that part
look well enough. He sat lolling back in
a great elbow-chair, being a heavy, corpu-
lent man, and had his meat brought him
by two women-slaves. He had two more,
one of whom fed the squire with a spoon,
ney; only Father Simon had the curiosity
to stay to inform himself what dainties the
country justice had to feed on in all his
state, which he had the honor to taste of,
and which was, I think, a mess of boiled
rice, with a great piece of garlic in it, and
a little bag filled with green pepper, and
another plant which they have there,
something like our ginger, but smelling
like musk, and tasting like mustard. All
this was put together, and a small piece of
lean mutton boiled in it, and this was his
worship's repast. Four or five servants
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
more attended at a distance, who we sup-
posed were to eat of the same after their
master.
At length we arrived at Pekin. I had
nobody with me but the youth whom my
nephew the captain had given me to attend

me as a servant, and who proved very
trusty and diligent; and my partner had
nobody with him but one servant, who
was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese
pilot, he being desirous to see the court,
we bore, his charges for his company, and ,to
use him as an interpreter, for he under
stood the language of the country, and
spoke good French and a little English.
And indeed this old man was a most useful
implement to us everywhere; for we had
not been above a week at Pekin, when he
came laughing: "Ah, Seignior Inglese,"
says he, "I have something to tell which
will make your heart glad." In short, he
told us there was a great caravan of Mus-
covite and Polish merchants in the city,
* to set out on their journey by
land to Muscovy, within four or five weeks;
and he was sure we would take the oppor-
tunity to go with them.
I confess I was greatly surprised with
this good news, and had scarce power to
speak to him for some time; but at last I
turned to him. "How do you know this?"
said I; "are you sure it is true?" "Yes,"
says he; "I met this morning on the street
an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian,
who is among them." We then went to
consult together what was to be done; and
I asked my partner what he thought of the
pilot's news, and whether it would suit
with his affairs? He told me he would do
just as I would; for he had settled all his
affairs so well at Bengal, and left his effects
in such good hands, that as we had made a
good voyage here, if he could invest it in
China silks, wrought and raw, such as
might be worth the carriage, he would be
content to go to England, and then make
his voyage back to Bengal by the Com-
pany's ships.
The old pilot was of so much service to
us that we agreed to pay him a good price
to accompany us, to which he consented,
and we soon made our arrangements to
start with the caravan.
It was the beginning of February, our
style, when we set out from Pekin. My
partner and the old pilot had gone express
back to the port where we had first put
in, to dispose of some goods which we had
left there; and I, with a Chinese merchant
went to Nanquin, where I bought ninety
pieces of fine damasks, with about two hun-
dred pieces of other very fine silks of sev-
eral sorts, some mixed with gold. Besides
this, we bought a very large quantity of
107

raw silt, and some other goods, our cargo
amounting, in these goods only, to about
three thousand five hundred pounds ster-
ling; which, together' with tea and some
fine calicoes, and three camels' loads of
nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen
camels for our share, besides those we rode
upon; which, with two or three spare
horses, and two horses loaded with pro-
visions, made us, in short, twenty-six
camels and horses in our retinue.
The company was very great, and, as far
as I can remember, made between three
and four hundred horse, and upwards of
one hundred and twenty men, very well
armed, and provided for all events. The
company consisted of people of several
nations; but there were about sixty of
them merchants of Moscow; and to our
particular satisfaction, five of them were
Scots, who appeared also to be men of
great experience in business, and of very
good substance.
When we had travelled one day's jour-
ney, the guides, who were five in number,
called all the gentlemen and merchants—
that is to say, all the passengers except the
servants—to a great council, as they called
it. At this council, every one deposited
a certain quantity of money to a common
stock, for the necessary expense of buying
forage on the way, where it was not other-
wise to be had, and for satisfying the
guides, getting horses, and the like; and
here they constituted the journey, as they
call it, viz., they named captains and officers
to draw us all up, and give the word of
command, in case of an attack, and give
every one their turn of command.
In two days more we passed the great
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
China wall, made for a fortification against
the Tartars; and a very great work it is,
going over hills and mountains in a need-
less track, where the rocks are impassable,
and the precipices such as no enemy could
possibly enter, or indeed climb up. They
tell us its length is near a thousand English
miles, but that the country is five hundred
in a straight measured line, which the wall
bounds, without measuring the windings
eager to hear my opinion of it. I told him
it was a most excellent thing to keep out
the Tartars; which he happened not to
understand as I meant it, and so took it for
a compliment; but the old pilot laughed,
"Oh, Seignior Inglese," says he, "you
speak in colors." "In colors!" said I;
"what do you mean by that?" "Why,
you speak what looks white this way, and
black that way—gay one way, and dull

and turnings it takes. It is about four
fathoms high, and as many thick in some
places.
I stood still an hour or thereabouts with-
out trespassing our orders (for so long the
caravan was in passing the gate), to look at
it on every side, near and far off—I mean
what was within my view; and the guide
of our caravan, who had been extolling it
for the wonder of the world, was mighty
another. You tell him it is a good wall
to keep out Tartars; you tell me by that
it is good for nothing but to keep out
Tartars. I understand you, Seignior
Inglese; but Seignior Chinese understands
you his own way." "Well," says I, "sei-
gnior, do you think it would stand out an
army of our country people, with a good
train of artillery? or our engineers, with
two companies of miners? Would they
169
not batter it down in ten days, that an
army might enter in battalia? or blow it
up in the air, foundation and all, that there
should be no sign of it left?" "Ay, ay,"
says he, " I know that."
Soon after this, as a party of us had
left the caravan to hunt wild sheep, we
met about forty Tartars, and as soon
as they saw us, one of them blew a
kind of horn very loud, but with a bar-
barous sound. We all supposed this was
us up in a line, he asked if we were re-
solved. We told him we were ready to
follow him; so he rode directly towards
them. As soon as they saw us advance,
they let fly their arrows, which, however,
missed us, very happily. It seems they mis-
took not their aim, but their distance; for
their arrows all fell short of us, but with
so true an aim, that had we been about
twenty yards nearer, we must have had
several men wounded, if not killed.

to call their friends about them, and so it
was; for, in less than ten minutes, a troop
of forty or fifty more appeared, at about
a mile distance; but our work was over
first, as it happened.
One of the Scots merchants of Moscow
happened to be with us, and as soon as he
heard the horn, he told us that we had no-
thing to do but to charge them imme-
diately, without loss of time; and drawing
Immediately we halted, and though it
was at a great distance, we fired, and sent
them leaden bullets for wooden arrows,
following our shot full gallop, to fall in
among them sword in hand. As sooa as
we came up to them we fired our pistols in
their faces, and then drew; but they fled
in the greatest confusion imaginable.
We wanted two days' journey of the
city of Naum, on the frontier of the
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

Chinese Empire, when we met messengers
from the governor to tell all caravans to
halt till they had a guard sent for them;
for that a body of Tartars, making ten
thousand in all, had appeared in the way,
about thirty miles beyond the city. Ac-
cordingly, two days after, we had two hun-
dred soldiers sent us from a garrison of the
Chinese, on our left, and three hundred
more from the city of Naum, and with
these we advanced boldly. The three hun-
dred soldiers from Naum marched in our
front, the two hundred in our rear, and our
men on each side of our camels, with our
baggage, and the whole caravan in the
centre. In this order, and well prepared
for battle, we thought ourselves a match
for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartars,
if they had appeared; but the next day,
when they did appear, it was quite an-
other thing.
When we were entered upon a desert of
about fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold,
by a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an
enemy was at band; and they were at
hand, indeed, for they came on upon the
spur. The Chinese, our guard in the
front, who had talked so big the day

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

before, began to stagger; and the soldiers
frequently looked behind them, which is a
certain sign in a soldier that he is just
ready to run away. My old pilot being
near me, called out: "Seignior Inglese,
those fellows must be encouraged, oV they
will ruin us all; for, if the Tartars come
on, they will never stand it." "I am of
your mind," says I; "but what must be
done?" "Done!" says he, "let fifty of
our men advance, and flank them on each
wing, and encourage them, and they will
fight like brave fellows in brave company;
but without this, they will every man turn
his back." Immediately I rode up to our
leader, and told him, and accordingly fifty
of us marched to the right wing, and
fifty to the left.
The Tartars came on, and an innumer-
able company they were; how many we
could not tell, but ten thousand, we
thought, was the least. A party of them
came on first, and viewed our posture;
and, as we found them within gunshot,
our leader ordered the two wings to
advance swiftly, and give them a salvo
on each wing with their shot, which was
done; and they went off, I suppose, back
to give an account of the reception they
were like to meet with. And, indeed, that
salute cloyed their stomachs, for they
immediately halted, stood awhile to con-
sider it, and wheeling off to the left, they
gave over their design.
Two days after, we came to the city of
Naun, or Naurn; we thanked the governor
for his care of us, and collected to the
value of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts,
which we gave to the soldiers sent to guard
us; and here we rested one day.
173
As we were riding through the Musco-
vite dominions, being a little way off from
the caravan, I came upon some people wor-
shiping an idol. It had a head not resem-
bling any creature that the world ever
saw; ears as big as goats' horns, and as
high; eyes as big as a crown piece ; a nose
like a crooked ram's horn, and a mouth ex-
tended four-cornered, like that of a lion,
with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's
under bill. It was dressed up in the filth-
iest manner that you could suppose; its
upper garment was .of sheep-skins, with the
wool outward; a great Tartar bonnet on
the head, with two horns growing through
it. It was about eight feet high, yet had no
feet or legs, nor any other proportion of
parts. I rode up to the image or monster
—call it what you will—and with my
sword made a stroke at the bonnet that
was on its head, and cut it in two; and
one of our men that was with me took hold
of the sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled
at it, when, behold, a most hideous outcry
and howling ran through the village, and
two or three hundred people came about


my ears, BO that I was glad to scour for it,
for we saw some had some bows and ar-
rows. We went back in the night and
destroyed the idol with fire.
We had been almost seven months on
our journey when we arrived at Tobolsk!,
and here I resolved to stop for the winter,
and let the caravan go on. Here I made
the acquaintance of an exiled prince, and
the winter, though very cold, passed very
pleasantly. In the month of May, I began
to pack up to continue my journey with a
caravan that was soon to start, and I won-
dered why the prince could not go with
me. But my wonder was over when I
entered upon that subject with the person
I have mentioned. "Consider, first, sir,"
said he, "the place where we are; and,
secondly, the condition we are in. We are
surrounded with stronger things than bars
or bolts; on the north side, an unnavigable
ocean, where ship never sailed, and boat
never swam; every other way we have a

thousand miles to pass through the Czar's
own dominions, and through the towns
garrisoned by his troops; so that we could
neither pass undiscovered by the rq^d, nor
subsist by any other way; so that it is
vain to attempt it." However, I prevailed
upon him to make the attempt to escape
with me. We did not start till June, and,
after much hardship and fatigue, we finally
entered Europe, having passed the river
Kama, which in these parts is the boundary
between Europe and Asia. The first city
on the European side was called Soloy
Kamskoi, which is as much as to say, the
great city on the river Kama; and here we
thought to see some evident alteration in
the people. But we were mistaken; for as
we had a vast desert to pass, which is near
seven hundred miles long in some places,
but not above two hundred over where we
passed it, so till we came past that hor-
rible place, we found very little difference
between that country and the Mogul Tar-
tar}'. The people are mostly pagans, and
little better than the savages of America;
their houses and towns full of idols, and
their way living was wholly barbarous,
except in the cities, and the villages near
them, where they are Christians, as they
call themselves, of the Greek Church, but
have have their religion mingled with so
many relics of superstition that it is scarce
to be known in some places from mere
sorcery and witchcraft.
In passing this forest, I thought, indeed,
we must (after all our dangers were, to our
imagination, escaped) have been plundered
and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a
175
troop of thieves; of what country they
were, I am yet at a loss to know, but they
were all on horseback, and carried bows
and arrows. We were but sixteen men in
all, but we drew up before our camels, and
they finally went off a little way. We
moved to a little wood, and put up a barri-
cade of branches, and so waited for them.
About two hours before night they came
down directly upon us, when we found
they had been joined by some more.
Our old pilot was our captain, and de-
sired us not to fire upon them till they
came within pistol-shot, that we might be
sure to kill, and that when we did fire we
should be sure to take good aim. We bade
him give the word of command, which he
delayed so long, that there were some of
them within two pikes' length of us when
we let fly. We aimed so true that we
killed fourteen of them, and wounded
several others, as also several of their
horses; for we had all of us loaded our
pieces with two or three bullets at least.
They were tenibly surprised with our
fire, and retreated immediately about one
hundred rods from us; in which time we
loaded our pieces again, and seeing them
keep that distance, we sallied out, and
caught four or five of their horses, whose
riders we supposed were killed; and com-
ing up to the dead, we judged they were
Tartars, but knew not how they came to
make an excursion such an unusual length.
We slept little, you may be sure, but
spent the most part of the night in
strengthening our situation, and barricad-
ing the entrances into the wood, and keep-
ing a strict watch. We waited for day-
light, and when it came, it gave us a very

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
unwelcome discovery indeed; for the
enemy, who we thought were discouraged
with the reception they met with, were
now greatly increased, and had set up
eleven or twelve huts or tents, as if they
were resolved to besiege us.
However, as they did not attack us that
day, at night we left our fires burning in
front, and slipped out the other side of the
wood and so got away. At last we arrived
safely at Archangel, where we were obliged
to wait six weeks for a ship. Finally we
took passage on a Hamburger, and arrived
in the Elbe on the 18th of September, the
young Russian prince traveling safely as
my steward.
Here my partner and I found a very
good sale for our goods, as well those of
China as the sables, etc., of Siberia; and,
dividing the produce, my share amounted
to £3,475 17s. 3d., including about six
hundred pounds' worth of diamonds, which.
I purchased at Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of
us, and went up the Elbe, in order to go
to the court of Vienna, where he resolved
to seek protection, and could correspond
with those of his father's friends who were
left alive. He did not part without testi-
monies of gratitude for my services.
To conclude: having stayed near four
months in Hamburg, I came from thence
by land to the Hague, where I embarked
in the packet, and arrived in London the
10th of January, 1705, having been absent
from England ten years and nine months.
And here I resolved to prepare for a longer
journey than all these, having lived a life
of infinite variety seventy-two years, and
learned sufficiently to know the value of
retirement, and the blessing of ending our
days in peaca

.^c>v/«' '• ''
J Mf . ''''
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
BY DANIEL DEFDE,

A NEW EDITION, EDITED FOR YOUNG READERS BY E. O. CHAPMAH.
HUM UPWARDS OF TWO HUNDRED ILLUSTRATIONS BY DALZIEL, GRISET. J. D. WATSON AND OZHER&
NEW YORK:
WORTHINGTON CO.
1886.
From Frees of
Psnmxa co*pi.ir,
133 Water Street,
New York.

THE story of ROBIN-
SON CRUSOE was writ-
ten by Daniel De Foe,
and first published in
1719, nearly one hundred and seventy years
ago. The author called it "The Life and
Strange Surprising Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe, of York, Mariner: who lived eight-
and-twenty years all alone in an uninhabited
island on the coast of America, near the
mouth of the great river Oroonoque; hav-
ing been cast on shore by shipwreck, where-
in all the men perished but himself. With
an account how he was at last strangely
delivered by Pirates. Written by himself."
They gave their books very long titles
in those days. But the people soon found
that this was a very interesting book, de-
spite its long title. No publisher wanted
to print it at first, but as soon as it was
published, a large number of copies were
sold, and publishers have been printing it
and selling it ever since.
It was at first thought by some to be an
entirely true story, but it is not. It is, nc
doubt, however, founded in part on the real
adventures of Alexander Selkirk, the son
of a shoemaker in Scotland. The following
brief account of him is given by Wilson,
the biographer of De Foe:
"His real name was Selcraig, which he
changed to that of Selkirk, when he went
to sea. He was born at Largo, in the
county of Fife, in 1676, and, after a com-
mon school education, was put to his
father's business, which was that of a shoe-
maker. Being a spoiled child, he soon dis-
covered a waywardness of temper that gave
much uneasiness to his parents; whilst au
early propensity to the sea rendered his
employment irksome. At length an inci-
dent occured that put him upon indulging
his humor; for, being brought under church-
censure for irregular conduct when he was
eighteen years of age, rather than submit,
he suddenly left home, and was never heard
of for six years. It is supposed that he was
with the buccaneers in the South Seas. In
1701 we find him again at Largo, but the
same intractable person as ever, being en-
gaged in constant broils with his family.
As the sea was his favorite element, he did
not continue long in Scotland, but, going
to London, engaged with Captain Dampier
N.
upon a cruising expedition to the South
Seas. This was the voyage that rendered
his subsequent history so interesting to the
lovers of romance.
"Being appointed sailing-master of the
Cinque Ports galley, a companion to the
St. George, commanded by Dampier, he left
England in the spring of 1703, and, after
various adventures, both vessels reached
the island of Juan Fernandez in the follow-
ing February. After staying some time to
re-fit, they sailed again in quest of booty;
but a violent quarrel arising between Sel-
kirk and his commander, Stradling, which
settled into a rooted aaimosity, the former
resolved to take the first opportunity of
leaving the vessel. This occurred at the
beginning of September, 1704, when her
crazy state obliged Stradling to return to
Juan Fernandez for fresh repairs; which
being completed, Selkirk bade a final adieu
to his comrades at the end of the same
month. Upon this island he lived by him-
self four years and four months, until he
was released by Captain Woodes Rogers,
in the month of February, 1709."
It has been said that this wild fellow
wrote a story of his adventures and gave it
to De Foe, and that De Foe made the story
of ROBINSON CRUSOE from it, but this is not
believed to be true.
Whether the story is founded upon that
of Selkirk or not, it is one that every body
finds full of interest. The picture of Crusoe,
with his coat and umbrella of goat skins,
watching day after day for a ship, until the
days pass into months and the months into
years, is one which readers will never tire
of, and is especially attractive to boys and
gills.



WAS BORN in the city
of York, in the year 1632.
My father's right name
was Kreutznaer, and he
had come to England from
Bremen. My mother's re-
lations were named Robin-
son, so I was named Robinson Kreutznaer.
The English people called it, Crusoe, and
after a while we came to write it so.
My father was not rich, but he had
become well to do by trading, and he
wished me to stay at home and be happy;
and all the more because both he and my
mother were getting old, and further, be-
cause one of my elder brothers had been
killed in the war with the Spaniards, and
the other had gone away from home and
had not been heard from; but I would be
satisfied with nothing but going to sea;
and my inclination to this led me so
strongly against the will of my father, and
against all the entreaties of my mothei
that there seemed to be something fatal in
my perversity, tending directly to the life
of misery which was to befall me.
One morning, my father called me into
his chamber, where he was sick with the
gout, and talked to me very seriously
about it. He told me that if I staid at
home, I had a prospect of raising my
fortunes and living a life of happiness.
He said that it was only the very wealthy
on the one hand, or the very desperate on
the other, who went abroad in search of
adventure. Mine was the middle - state,
which he had found by experience was the
best state in the world. This was the
state of life that was envied both by kings
and beggars. This condition of life was
what the wise man meant when he prayed
that he might have neither poverty nor
riches.

Much more he told me to dissuade me
from going to sea, and he ended by saying
that though he should not cease to pray
for me, if I did take this foolish step,
God would not bless me.
I was deeply affected by what my father
said, and I resolved not to think any more
of going abroad. But in a few days my
good resolutions were all given up and I
began to think of running away from
home in spite of the entreaties of my
father and the tears of my mother. How-
ever, as no opportunity presented itself, I
still remained at home, though I refused
to engage in any business or to learn any
trade.
One day, being at Hull, I met one of my
companions who was going by sea to Lon-
don, and he invited me so strongly to go
with him that I consulted neither father
nor mother any more, nor so much as sent
them word of it; but leaving them to hear
of it as they might, without asking God's
blessing, or my father's, without any con-
sideration of circumstances or consequences,
and in an ill hour, God knows, on the 1st
of September, 1651,1 went on board a ship
bound for London.
Never any young adventurer's misfor-
tunes, I believe, began sooner or continued
longer than mine. The ship was no sooner
got out of the Humber than the wind
began to blow, and the sea to rise in a
most frightful manner ; and, as I had never
been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly
sick in body, and terrified in mind. I
began now seriously to reflect upon what I
had done, and how justly I was overtaken
by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked
leaving my father's house, and abandoning
my duty. All the good counsels of my
parents came now fresh into my mind; and
my conscience, which was not yet come to
the pitch of hardness to which it has come
since, reproached me with the contempt of
advice, and the breach of my duty to God
and my father.
I thought that every wave would swallow
us up, and that every time the ship fell
into the hollow or trough of the sea, it
would never rise again. In this agony of
mind I made many vows and resolutions,
that if it would please God to spare my
life in this one voyage, if ever I got once
my foot upon dry land again, I would go
directly home to my father, and never set
made a sight that I thought the most de-
lightful I ever saw.
I had slept well in the night and was
now no more sea-sick, but very cheerful.

it into a ship again while I lived; that I
would take his advice, and never run my-
self into such miseries as these any more.
I had these wise and good thoughts as
long as the storm lasted, and, indeed, for
some time after. But the next day, the
wind abated and the sea grew calmer, and
a fine evening followed. My sea-sickness
and my fears disappeared, and with them
all my thoughts of home and duty. The
sun rose clear the next morning, and his
beams shining upon the sea, which was
quite smooth, there being little or no wind,
looking with wonder upon the sea that
so rough and terrible the day before, and
could be so calm and so pleasant in so little
a time after. And now, lest my good re-
solutions should continue, my companion
who had enticed me away comes to me.
"AVell, Bob," says he, clapping me upon
the shoulder, "how do you do after it? I
warrant you were frightened, wer'n't you,
last night, when it blew but a capful of
wind?"
"A capful d'you call it ?" said I; "'tw*~
a terrible storm."
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

"A storm, you fool!" replies he ; "do you
call that a storm? why, it was nothing at
all; give us but a good ship and sea-room,
and we think nothing of such a squall of
wind as that; but you're but a fresh-water
sailor, Bob. Come, let us make a bowl of
punch, and we'll forget all that."
To make short this sad part of my story,
we went the way of all sailors; the punch
was made, and I was made half-drunk with
it; and in that one night's wickedness I
drowned all my repentance, all my reflec-
tions upon my past conduct, all my resolu-
tions for the future. In a word, as the sea
was returned to its smoothness, so the
hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears
of being swallowed up by the sea being
forgotten, and the current of my former
desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows
and promises that I made in my distress.
I found, indeed, some intervals of reflec-
tion; and the serious thoughts did, as it
were, endeavor to return again sometimes;
but I shook them off, and roused myself
from them, and applying myself to drink-
ing and company, soon mastered the return
of those fits. But I was to have another
trial for it still; and Providence, as in such
cases generally it does, resolved to leave me
entirely without excuse; for if I would
not take this for a deliverance, the next
was to be such a one as the worst and most
hardened wretch among us would confess
both the danger and the mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea, we
came into Yarmouth Roads; the wind
having been contrary, and the weather
calm, we had made but little way since the
etonn. Here we were obliged to come to
an anchor, and here we lay, the wind con-
tinuing contrary, for seven or eight days,
during which time a great many ships from
Newcastle came into the same Roads.
We had not, however, rid here so long
but we should have tided it up the river,
but that the wind blew too fresh, and,
after we had lain four or five days, blew
very hard. However, the Roads being
reckoned as good as an harbor, the anchor-
age good, and our ground-tackle very
strong, our men were unconcerned, and not
in the least apprehensive of danger, but
spent the time in rest and mirth, after the
manner of the sea. But the eighth day, in
the morning, the wind increased, and we
had all hands at work to strike our top-
masts, and make everything snug and close,
that the ship might ride as easy as possible.
By noon the sea went very high indeed,
and our ship rode forecastle in, shipped
11
several seas, and we thought once or twice
our anchor had come home; upon which
our master o rdred out the sheet-anchor.
The storm grew fiercer and fiercer until
I began to see terror in the faces of the
seamen themselves. At first, I was quite
stupid with sickness and fear, and I lay in
the cabin; but now I clambered on deck,
and looked about. Two of the ships near us
had cut their masts, and I heard the sailors
distress, and, the storm somewhat abating,
a boat was put off to us from a ship that
had not been damaged, because she was
light. We had great difficulty in getting
into the boat when it reached us; but we
did it safely and after several hours of
drifting, in danger of being swamped every
minute, we reached the shore, drenched
and destitute. The ship sank soon after
we left her.

say that two more had been blown out to
sea. Finally a great ship foundered before
our eyes, and the ma«ter ordered our masts
to be cut away. Then came a cry that we
had sprang a leak, and we all went to
work at the pumps.
All our efforts were useless; the water
gained rapidly in the hold, and it became
certain that we could not ride out the
storm. Guns were now fired as signals of
At Yarmouth, we were given some money,
and I might easily have gone back to Hull,
but my ill fate pushed me on. With what
money I had, I made my way to London.
There I fell in with the master of a ship
bound for the coast of Guinea on a trading
voyage. He took quite a fancy to me at
once and became my friend. I raised some
forty pounds by corresponding with some
relations, and investing it in trinkets, such
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
as the captain carried to trade with the
natives, we set sail, and made a most suc-
cessful voyage.

My success I owed entirely to my
friend the captain, who first showed me
what things to buy in London, and then
how to trade them with the natives of
Guinea for gold-dust. On the voyage, he
taught me the use of the ship's instruments,
by which an account of our course was
taken every day, and I became a navigator
as well as a Guinea trader.
My friend died soon after his arrival at
home, but I resolved to go the same voy-
age again on the same ship. This was a
most unhappy voyage, for though I left a
good portion of my money with ray friend's
widow, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes.
Our ship making her course towards the
Canary Islands, was surprised, in the gray
of the morning, by a Moorish rover of Sal-
lee, who gave chase to us. We crowded as
much canvas as our yards would spread, or
our masts- carry, to get clear; but finding
the pirate gained upon us, we prepared to
fight, our ship having twelve guns and the
rogue eighteen. About three in the after-
noon he came up with us, and bringing to,
by mistake, just athwart our quarter, we
brought eight of our guns to bear on that
side, and poured in a broadside upon him,
which made him sheer off again, after
returning our fire, and pouring in also his
small shot from near two hundred men
which he had on board. However, we had
not a man touched, all our men keeping
close.
He prepared to attack us again, and we
to defend ourselves; but laying us on board
the next time upon our other quarter, he
entered sixty men upon our decks, who
immediately fell to cutting and hacking
the sails and rigging. We plied them with
small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and

13
such like, and cleared our deck of them
twice. However, to cut short this melan-
choly part of our story, our ship being dis-
abled, and three of our men killed, and
eight wounded, we were obliged to yield,
and were all carried prisoners into Sallee,
a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so
dreadful as I at first feared; nor was I car-
ried up the country to the Emperor's court,
as the rest of our men were, but was kept
by the captain as his proper prize, and
made his slave, being young and nimble,
and fit for his business. At this surpris-
ing change of my circumstances, from a
merchant to a slave, I was perfectly over-
whelmed; and now I looked back upon
my father's prophetic discourse to me, that
I should be miserable; which I thought
was now so effectually brought to pass,
that I could not be worse; for now the
hand of heaven had overtaken me, and I
was undone. But alas! this was but a
taste of the misery I was to go through.
Aa my new patron, or master, had taken
me home to his house, so I was in hopes
that he would take me with him when he
went to sea again, believing that it would
some time or other be his fate to be taken
by a man-of-war, and that then I should
be set at liberty. But this hope of mine
was soon taken away; for when he went
to sea, he left me on shore to look after his
little garden, and do the common drudgery
of slaves about his house.
I had no one to talk to, for, though
there were other slaves, not one of them
could understand my language, nor could
I understand theirs. But while at work
digging in the garden or grinding grain, I
thought of nothing but my escape. But
for a long time no means of escaping pre-
sented itself.
After about two years, my master stayed
at home longer than usual, and two or
three times a week he used to go out
a-fishing in his boat. He always took me
and a young Moresco, besides a Moor, with

him, for we made him very merry, and I
was very dexterous in catching fish.
It happened one time, that, going a-fish-
ing with him in a calm morning, a fog rose
so thick, that though we were not half a
league from the shore, we lost sight of it;
and rowing we knew not whither, we
labored all day and all the next night; and
when the morning came, we found we had
pulled out to sea instead of pulling in for
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the shore. However, we got well in again,
though with a great deal of labor and some
danger, and we were all very hungry. But
our master, warned by this disaster, resolv-
ed to take more care of himself in the
future; and having lying by him the long
boat of our English ship which he had
taken, he resolved he would not go a-fish-
ing any more without a compass and some
provision. So he ordered the carpenter of
Moor to take me and the young Moresco,
whose name was Xury, and go and catch
some fish, as he expected some distinguished
company to sup with him. Now, thought
I, is my chance to get my liberty.
My first contrivance was to speak to the
Moor and ask him if we ought not to take
along some food for our dinner; for I told
him we must not presume to eat of our
master's bread. He said that was true; so

his ship to build a little cabin in the
middle of the long-boat and fit a place for
provisions and water, also for a compass,
and put in a mast and sails. After that,
we used to go a-fishing in the long-boat.
One day my master commanded the
he brought a basket full of their kind, and
three jars with fresh water into the boat
I knew where my master's case of bottles
stood, and I conveyed them into the boat
while the Moor was on shore, as if they
had been there before for our master I
15
conveyed also a great lump of beeswax
into the boat, which weighed about half
an hundred weight, with a parcel of twine
or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer,
all of which were of great use to us after-
wards.
Another trick I
tried upon him, which
he innocently came
into also: "Moely,"
said I, 'our patron's
guns are all on board
the boat; can you not
get a little powder
and shot? It may be
we may kill some
alcamies (a fowl like
our curlews) for our-
selves." "Yes," says
he, "I'll bring some;"
and accordingly, he
brought a great leath-
er pouch, which held
about a pound and a
half of powder, and
another with shot,
that had five or six
pounds, with some
bullets, and put all into the boat. At the
same time, I had found some powder of my
master's in the great cabin, and thus fur-
nished with everything needful, we sailed
out of the port to fish.
The castle, which is at the entrance of the
port, knew who we were, and took no
notice of us; and we were not above a mile
out of the port before we hauled in our
sail, and sat us down to fish. The wind
blew from the N. N. E., which was con-
trary to my desire; for had it blown
southerly, I had been sure to make the
coast of Spain; but my resolutions were,
blow which way it would, I would be gone
from that horrid place where I was, and
leave the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and

caught nothing (for when I had fish on my
hook I would not pull them up, that he
might not see them) I said to the Moor,
"This will not do; our master will not be
thus served; we must stand further off."
He, thinking no harm, agreed, and, being
in the head of the boat, set the sails; and,
as I had the helm, I ran the boat out near
a league farther, and then brought her to,
as if I would fish; when, giving the boy
the helm, I stepped forward to where the
Moor was, and making as if I stooped for
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
something behind him, I took him by sur-
prise with my arm under his waist, and
tossed him clear overboard into the sea.
He rose immediately, for he swam like a
cork, and begged to be taken in.
As he continued to swim after us I
fetched a fowling-piece from the cabin,

and pointing it at him, said: "You can
swim well enough to reach the shore. If
you try to get in the boat, I will shoot
you." He turned about when he saw I
was determined, and swam toward the
shore, which I have no doubt he reached
in safety.
When he was gone, I turned to the boy,
and said to him, "Xiny, if you will be
faithful to me, I'll make you a great man;
but if you will not stroke your face to be
true to me," that is, swear by Mahomet
and his father's beard, " I must throw you
into the sea, too." The boy smiled in my
face, and spoke so innocently, that I could
not mistrust him, and swore to be faithful
to me, and go all over the world with me.
As long as the swimming Moor could
see me, I steered the boat straight out to
sea, for I knew he would tell his master
which way I had gone. But as soon as
I thought the boat waa out of his sight,
I turned her head to the south-east.
With a good breeze and a smooth sea, at
three o'clock on the afternoon of the next
day, I had no doubt that we were one
hundred and fifty miles from Sallee. At
this time we were within sight of the
coast, and I knew that we were were out
of the kingdom of the Moors.
But so afraid was I of being followed
by my late master, that we sailed on
toward the south for five days, without
stopping. At the close of the fifth day,
we anchored at the mouth of a little river;
but I was afraid to go on shore for fear of
the wild beasts, which inhabit that coast
in great numbers. They made hideous
noises in the night, and sometimes we could
see great creatures bathing on the beach.
One of them swam off toward the boat,
but a shot from a fowling-piece sent him
quickly back to the shore.
However, we had to go on shore for
water, for we had not a pint left, so, the
next day, we drew the boat in as close as
we could, and waded ashore, taking our
fowling-pieces and two jars. I staid by
the boat, while Xury soon found some
water and filled the jars. He also shot a
hare, which we roasted on the shore, and
had quite a feast.
Several times I was obliged to land for
fresh water, after we had left this place;
and once in particular, being early in the
17
morning, we came to an anchor under a
little point of land. Xury, whose eyes
were more about him than it seems mine
were, calls softly to me, and tells me that we
had best go farther off the shore; "for,"
says he, "look, yonder lies a dreadful
monster on the side of that hillock, fast
asleep." I looked where he pointed, and
saw a terrible great lion that lay on the
lay so, with his leg raised a little above
his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about
the knee, and broke the bone. He started
up, growling at first, but finding his leg
broke, fell down again; and then got up
upon three legs, and gave the most hideous
roar that ever I heard. I took up the
second piece immediately, and though he
began to move off, fired again, and shot

Bide of the shore, under the shade of a
piece of the hill. I took our biggest gun,
and loaded it with a good charge of pow-
der, and with two slugs, and laid it down;
then I loaded another gun with two bul-
lets; and the third (for we had three
pieces) I loaded with five smaller bullets.
I took the best aim I could with the first
piece to h#ve shot him in the head, but he
him in the head, and had the pleasure to
see him drop.
This was game indeed to us, but this
was no food; and I was very sorry to lose
three charges of powder and shot upon a
creature that was good for nothing to us.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps
the skin of him might, one way or other,
be of some value to us. So Xury and I
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
went to work with him; but Xury was
much the better workman at it, for I knew
very ill how to do it. Indeed, it took us
both the whole day, but at last we got off
the hide of him, and spreading it on the
devour the flesh, making signs to offer me
some. I shook my head, but signified that
I would take the skin, if they would put it
on the shore and go away. This they did,
and I sent Xury for it. They also left on

top of our cabin, the sun effectually dried
it it two days' time, and it afterwards
served me to lie upon.
After sailing on for twelve days more I
found that the land was inhabited by
negroes, who ran along the shore and made
signs to us. As I thought them savages, I
did not venture to go on shore. One day
a great leopard ran down among them to
the water, at which they were greatly
frightened. When I shot him, they were
greatly surprised and very grateful. They
quickly took off the skin and began to
the shore a great jar of water' and some
dried roots and corn for which I was
thankful.
I sailed on for eleven days more without
going near the shore till I saw the land run
out a great way into the sea. This I took
to be Cape de Verde. On sailing out to
the point of the Cape, I saw land far out
to sea which I thought was the Cape de
Verde Islands. I stepped into the cabin
and was thinking whether I ought not to
sail for the Islands when I heard Xury cry
out: "Master, master, a ship with a sail"
1!)
I rushed from the cabin and found Xury
in a great fright, he thinking that it must
needs be a ship of his old master, the
pirate. I saw, however, that it was a
Portuguese ship, and I crowded all sail to
come up to her, and was soon on board.
Upon hearing my story, the captain
offered to take me to the Brazils, whither
he was going, without any pay whatever, and
to take all my goods also. He offered to
give me a good sum for my boat, which I
accepted. He wanted also to buy Xury,
but I was loth to sell the boy's liberty as
soon as he had gained it. But as he offered
to set him free in ten years and to treat
him well, and, moreover, Xury being will-
ing, I let the Captain have him.
We made a good voyage to tbe Brazils,
landing in All Saints' Bay in twenty-two
days. The generous treatment the captain
gave me, I qan never enough remember. He
would take nothing of me for my passage,
gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's
skin, and forty for the lion's skin, which I
had in my boat, and caused everything I
had in the ship to be punctually delivered
to me; such as the case of bottles, two of
my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees'-
wax, for I had made candles of the rest; in
a word, I made about two hundred and
twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo; and
with this stock I went on shore.
I soon learned that the planters of that
country lived well and became rich, so I
bought land and became a planter, raising
sugar and tobacco. When the Portuguese
captain sailed, I sent by him an order for
the money which I had left with the
English captain's widow, and gave him in-
structions to invest it in Lisbon in such
utensils and things ud 7 wanted; which he
did, and brought them to me on his next
voyage.
I was now very prosperous and happy,
but I was not to remain so. I often talked
to the planters about me of my voyage to
the coast of Guinea, and how easy it was to
trade with the natives for gold-dust, or
even for slaves, which were very dear in
the Brazils.
One day some of the planters came to
me and proposed, that, as there was noth-
ing we needed so much as slaves to work
our plantations, they would fit out a ship
to go to the coast of Guinea for slaves, and
that I would take charge of the affair. Al-
though I was very well situated where I
was, I accepted their proposal, providing

they would take care of my property while
I was gone. In short, I obeyed blindly the
dictates of my fancy rather than my reason;
and, accordingly, the ship being fitted out,
and the cargo finished, and all things done
as by agreement, by my partners in the
voyage, I went on board in an evil hour
again, tiie 1st of Sej: toaiber, 1659, being the
satue day eight year? U_a,t I went from my

father and mother at Hull, acting the rebel
to their authority, and the fool to my own
interest.
Our ship was about one hundred and
twenty tons burden, carried six guns, and
fourteen men, besides the master, his boy,
and myself. We had on board no large
cargo of goods, except of such toys as were
fit for our trade with the negroes, such as
beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles,
especially little looking-glasses, knives,
scissors, hatchets, and the like.
We had very good weather, and we
lailed north, at first, along our own coast.
We passed the line in about twelve days'
time, and were, by our last observation, in
eeven degrees twenty-two minutes north
latitude, when a violent tornado took us
quite out of our knowledge. It blew in
such a terrible manner, that for twelve
days together we could do nothing but
drive, and, scudding away before it, let it
carry us wherever fate and the fury of the
waves directed; and during these twelve
days, I need not say that I expected every
day to be swallowed up; nor did any in
the ship expect to save their lives.
At last we perceived lw:d ahead, but be-
fore we could make out whether it was an
island or the mainland, the ship struck on
the sand a long distance from the shore.
Now, we were in a dreadful condition in-
deed, and had nothing to do but to think
of saving our lives as best we could. We
had a boat at our stern just before the
storm, but she was first staved by dashing
against the ship's rudder, and in the next
place she broke away, and either sunk or
was driven off to sea; so there was no hope
from her. We had another boat on board,
but how to get her off into the sea was a
doubtful thing; however, there was no
room to debate, for we fancied the ship
would break in pieces every minute, and
some told us she was actually broken
already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel
lay hold of the boat, and with the help of
the rest of the men, they got her flung over
the ship's side; and getting all into her, let
go, and committed ourselves, being eleven

in number, to God's mercy and the wild
sea; for though the storm was abated con-
siderably, yet the sea went dreadfully high
upon the shore.
21
And now we all saw plainly that the
boat could not escape, and that we should
be drowned. Aa to making sail, we had
none, nor, if we Jiad, could we have done
anything with i(.; so we worked at the oar
towards land, Chough with heavy hearts^
like men going to execution; for we all
knew that w'len the boat came near the
uhore she 'A'mid be dashed in a thousand
perhaps make smooth water. But there
was nothing of this appeared; but as we
made nearer and nearer the shore, the land
looked more frightful than the sea.
At last, a great wave came rolling after
us, overset the boat, and we were all swal-
lowed up in a moment. Nothing can de-
scribe what I felt when I sank into the
water; for though I swam very well, yet I

pieces by the breach of the sea. However,
we committed our souls to God in the most
earnest manner.
What the shore was, whether rock or
sand, whether steep or shoal, we knew not;
the only hope was that we might happen
into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some
river, where by great chance we might run
our boat in under the lee of the land, and
could not deliver myself from the waves so
as to draw breath, till that wave having
driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way
on towards the shore, and having spent
itself, went back, and left me upon the land
almost dry, but half dead with the water I
took in. I had so much presence of mind,
as well as breath left, that seeing myself
nearer the main land thaii I expected, I got
i -' "~'-

upon my feet and ran.
Another wave soon over-
took me and then another, until I was
dashed against a rock with such force as to
make me nearly senseless.
I held on to the rock, however, until the
wave receded, and the next run I took I
got to the mainland, exhausted and bruised,
and, indeed, more dead than alive.
But I was now landed, and safe on
shore, and began to look up and to thank
God that my life was saved. I walked
about the shore, lifting \ip my hands, and
my whole being, I may say, wrapt up in
a contemplation of my deliverance; mak-
ing a thousand gestures and motions, which
I cannot describe; reflecting upon all my
comrades that were drowned, and that
there should not be one soul saved but
myself; for, as for them, I never saw them
afterwards, or any sign of them, except
three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes
that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel,
when, the breach and froth of the sea
being so big, I could hardly see it, it lay
so far off, and considered, Lord! how was
it possible I could get on shore?
After I had solaced my mind with the
comfortable part of my condition, I began
to look around me, to see what kind of
place I was in, and what was next to be
done; and I soon found my comforts abate,
and that, in a word, I had a dreadful de-
liverance; for I was wet, had no clothes to
shift me, nor anything either to eat or
drink, to comfort me. Neither did I see
any prospect before me, but that of per-
ishing with hunger, or being devoured by
wild beasts; and that which was particu-
larly affecting to me was, that I had no
weapon, either to hunt and kill any crea-
ture for my sustenance, or to defend my-
self against any other creature that might
desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I
had nothing about me but a knife, a to-
bacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a box.
This was all my provision; and this threw
me into terrible agonies of mind, that for a
while I ran about like a madman. Night
coming upon me, I began, with a heavy
heart, to consider what would be my lot if
there were any ravenous beasts in that
country, seeing at night they always come
abroad for prey.
All the remedy that offered to my
thoughts, at that time, was to get up into
a thick bushy tree, like a fir, but thorny,
which grew near me, and where I resolved
to sit all night, and consider the next
day what death I should die, for as yet I
saw no prospect of life. I walked about
a furlong from the shore, to see if I could
find any fresh water to drink, which I did
to my great joy; and having drunk, and
put a little tobacco in my mouth to pre-
vent hunger, I went to the tree, and get-
ting up into it) endeavoured to place my-
self so that if I should sleep I might not
fall. And having cut me a short stick,
like a truncheon, for my defence, I took up
my lodging; and being excessively fatigued.
23
I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably
as, I believe, few could have done' in my
condition, and found myself more refreshed
with it than I think I ever was on such an
occasion.
that at least I might save some necessary
things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment
in the tree, I looked about me again, and
the first thing I found was the boat, which

When I waked up it was broad day-
light, the weather clear, and the storm
abated, so that the sea did not rage and
swell as before; but that which surprised
me more was, that the ship was lifted off
in the night from the sand where she lay,
by the swelling of the tide, and was driven
up almost as far as the rock which I at first
mentioned, where I had .been so bruised
by the wave dashing me against it. This
being within about a mile from the shore
where I was, and the ship seeming to stand
upright still, I wished myself on board,
lay, as the wind and sea had tossed her up,
upon the land, about two miles on my right
hand. I walked as far as I could upon
shore to have got to her; but found a neck,
or inlet of water between me and the boat
which was about half a mile broad; so I
came back for the present, being more
intent upon getting at the ship, where I
hoped to find something for my present
subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very
calm, and the tide ebbed so far out, that I
could come within a quarter of a mile of
the ship. And here I found a fresh renew-
ing of my grief ; for I saw evidently, that if
we had kept on board, we had been all
eafe; that is to say, we had all got safe on
shore, and I had not been so miserable as
to be left entirely destitute of all comfort
and company as I now was.
This forced the tears to my eyes again.
As there was little relief in that, I resolved
if possible, to get to the ship; so I pulled
off my clothes, for the weather was hot, and

took to the water. But when I came to the
ship my difficulty was still greater to know
how to get on board, for as she lay high out
of the water, there was nothing within my
reach to lay hold of. I swam around her
twice, and the second time I espied a small
piece of rope hanging down the fore-chains
so low, that with great difficulty I got hold
of it, and by the help of that rope got up
into the forecastle of the ship.
I found that the ship was bulged, and
had a great deal of water in her hold; but
that she lay so on the side of a bank of
hard sand, or rather earth, that her stern lay
lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
almost to the water. By this means all her
quarter was free, and all that was in that
part was dry; for you may be sure my first
work was to search, and to see what was
spoiled and what was free. And, first, I
found that all the ship's provisions were
dry and untouched by the water, and being
very well disposed to eat, I went to the
bread-room and filled my pockets with bis-
cuit, and ate it as I went about other things,
for I had no time to lose. I also found
some rum in the great cabin, of which I
took a large dram, and which I had, indeed,
need enough of, to spirit me for what was
before me.
Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to
furnish myself with many things which I
foresaw would be very necessary to me. It
was in vain to sit still and wish for what
was not to be had; and this extremity
roused my application. We had several
spare yards, and two or three large spars of
wood, and a spare top-mast or two in the
ship. I resolved to fall to work with these,
and I flung as many of them overboard as I
could manage for their weight, tying every
one with a rope, that they might not drive
away. When this was done I went down
the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I
tied four of them together at both ends, as
well as I could, in the form of a raft, and
laying two or three short pieces of plank
upon them, crossways, I found I could
walk upon it very well, but that it was not
able to bear any great weight, the pieces
being too light.
So I went to work, and with the carpen-
ter's saw I cut a spare top-mast into three
lengths, and added them to my raft, with a
great deal of labor and pains. But the
hope of furnishing myself with necessaries
encouraged me to go beyond what I should
have been able to have done upon another
occasion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear
any reasonable weight. My next care was
what to load it with, and how to preserve
what I had laid upon it from the surf of
the sea: but I was not long considering
this.
I first laid all the planks or boards upon
it that I could get, and having considered
well what I most wanted, I first got three
of the seamen's chests, which I had broken
open and emptied, and lowered them down
upon my raft; the first of these I filled
with provisions—viz., bread, rice, three
Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's
flesh (which we lived much upon), and a
little remainder of European corn, which
had been laid by for some fowls which we
brought to sea with us, but the fowls were
killed. There had been some barley and
wheat together; but, to my great disap-
pointment, I found afterwards that the rats
had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors,
I found several cases of bottles belonging
to our skipper, in which were some cordial
wines; and, in all, about five or six gallons
of arrack. These I stowed by themselves,
there being no need to put them into the
chest, nor any room for them.
While I was doing this, I found the tide
began to flow, though very calm; and I had

the mortification to see my coat, shirt and
waistcoat, which I had left on the shore
upon the sand, swim away. As for my
breeches, which were only linen, and open-
kneed, I swam on board in them and my
stockings.
However, this put me \ipon rummaging
for clothes, of which I found enough, but
took no more than what I wanted for pre-
sent use, for I had other things which my
eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work
with on shore; and it was after long
searching that I found out the carpenter's
chest, which was indeed a very useful prize
to me, and much more valuable than a ship-
lading of gold would have been at that
time. I got it down to my raft, whole as
it was, without losing time to look into it,
for I knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition
and arms. There were two fowling-pieces
in the cabin, and two pistols. These I
secured first, with some powder-horns, and
two old, rusty swords. I knew there were
three barrels of powder in the ship and,
with much search, I found them; two of
them were dry and good, and these I got
to my raft, with the arms.
And now I thought myself pretty well
freighted, and I began to think how I
should get to shore with all my things,
having neither sail, oar, nor rudder, and
the least puff of wind would have overset
my raft. But the sea was calm, the tide
was setting toward the shore, and what
little wind there was, blew in that direc-
tion. I found, however, two or three
broken oars, and with these I put to sea.
The raft went very well; but I found
that the tide took me some distance from
the point where I had landed before, by
which I perceived that there was an in-
draft of the water. This led me to think
that there might be a creek or river there;
and so I found there was.
I steered my raft toward it as well as I
could. At the mouth of the little creek I
came very near suffering a second ship-
wreck, which, I verily believe, would have
broken my heart. The raft ran on a shoal,
and nearly upset. I held all the things in
their places, and when the tide rose a little
higher, it floated safely off. I landed at
high tide, when the water covered the
bank, and when it receded, the raft was
high and dry.
My next work was to view the country,
and seek a proper place for my habitation,
and where to stow my goods, to secure
them from whatever might happen. Where
I was, I yet knew not; whether on the
continent or an island; whether inhabited
or not inhabited; whether in danger of
wild beasts or not.
There was a hill not above a mile from
me, which rose up very steep and high,
and which seemed to overtop some other
hills, which lay as in a ridge from it, north-
ward. I took out one of the fowling
O
pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn
of powder; and thus armed, I traveled for
discovery up to the top of that hill, where,
after I had with great labor and difficulty
got to the top, I saw my fate, to my great
affliction—viz., that I was in an island
environed every way with the sea no
land to be seen except some rocks, which
lay a great way off, and two small islands,
less than this, which lay about three
leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was
barren, and, as I saw good reason to
believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts,
of which, however, I saw none. Yet I saw
abundance of fowls, but knew not their
kinds; neither, when I killed them, could
I tell what was fit for food and what not.
At my coming back, I shot at a great
bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree, on
the side of a great wood. I believe it was
the first gun that had been fired there
since the creation of the world. I had no
sooner fired, but from all parts of the wood
there arose an innumerable number of

fowls of many sorts, making a confused
screaming and crying, every one according
to his usual note, but not one of them of
any kind that I knew. As for the creature
I killed, I took it to be a kind of hawk, its
color and beak resembling it, but it had no
talons or claws more than common. Its
flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came
back to my raft, and fell to work to bring
my cargo on shore, which took me all the
rest of the day. What to do with myself
at night I knew not, nor indeed where to
rest, for I was afraid to lie down on the
ground, not knowing but some wild beast
might devour me, though, as I afterwards

found, there was really no need for those
fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricaded
myself round with the chests and boards
that I had brought on shore, and made a
kind of hat for that night's lodging. As
for food, I yet saw not which way to sup-
ply myself, except that I had seen_two or
three creatures, like hares, run out of the
wood where I shot the fowl.
I now began to consider that I might
yet get a great many things out of the
ship, which would be useful to me, and
particularly some of the rigging and sails,
and such other things as might come to
land; and I resolved to make another voy-
age on board the vessel, if possible. And
as I knew that the first storm that blew
must necessarily break her all in pieces, 1
resolved to set all other things apart, till I
got everything out of the ship that I could
get. Then I called a council—that is to
say, in my thoughts—whether I should
take back the raft; but this appeared im-
practicable; so I resolved to go as before,
when the tide was down; and I did so,
only that I stripped before I went from my
hut, having nothing on but a chequered
shirt, a pair of linen drawers, and a pair of
pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and
prepared a second raft; and, having had
experience of the first, I neither made this
so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet
I brought away several things very useful
to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores I
found two or three bags full of nails and
spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two
of hatchets, and, above all, that most useful
thing called a grindstone.
All these I secured, together with seve-
ral things belonging to the gunner, particu-
larly two or three iron crows, and two
barrels of musket bullets, seven muskets,
and another fowling piece, with some small

quantity of powder more; a large bag-full
of small shot, and a great roll of sheet lead;
but this last was so heavy I could not
hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's
clothes that I could find, and a spare fore-
top sail, a hammock, and some bedding;
and with this I loaded my second raft, and
brought them all safe on shore, to my very
great comfort.
I was under some apprehension during
my absence from the land, that at least my
provisions might be devoured on shore;
but when I came back, I found no sign of
any visitor; only there sat a creature like a
wild cat, upon one of the chests, which,
when I came towards it, ran away a little
distance, and then stood still. She sat very
composed and unconcerned, and looked full
in my face, as if she had a mind to be
acquainted with me. I presented my gun
to her, but, as she did not understand it,
she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor
did she offer to stir away; upon which I
tossed her a bit of biscuit, though, by the
way, I was not very free of it, for my store
was not great; however, I spared her a bit,
I say, and she went to it, smelled at it, and
ate it, and looked (as pleased) for more;
but I thanked her, and could spare no
more, so she marched off.
Having got my second cargo on shore—-
though I was obliged to open the barrels of
powder, and bring them by parcels, for they
were too heavy, being large casks—I went
to work to make me a little tent, with the
sail, and some poles which I cut for that
purpose; and into this tent I brought
everything that I knew would spoil either
with rain or sun; and I piled all the empty
chests and casks up in a circle round the
tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt,
either from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the
door of the tent with some boards within,
and an empty chest set up on end without;

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
and spreading one of the beds upon the
ground, laying my two pistols just at my
Lead, and my gun at length by me, I went
to bed for the first time, and slept very
quietly all night. I was very weary and
heavy; for the night before I had slept
little, and had labored hard all day, as
well to fetch those things from the ship, as
to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds
now that ever was laid up, I believe, for one
man; but still I was not satisfied, for while

the ship stood upright in that posture, I
thought I ought to get everything out of
her I could. So every day, at low water, I
vent on board, and brought away some-
thing or other; but particularly the third
time I went, I brought away as much of
the rigging as I could, as also all the small
rope and rope twine I could get, with a
piece of spare canvas, which was to mend
the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of
wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought
away all the sails, first and last; only that
I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring
as much at a time as I could, for they were
no more useful to me for sails, but as mere
canvas only.
But that which comforted me more still,
was, that at last of all, after I had made
five or six such voyages as these, and
thought I had nothing more to expect from
the ship that was worth my meddling with
—I say, after all this, I found a great hogs-
head of bread, three large runlets of rum
or spirits, a box of fine sugar, and a barrel
of fine flour; this was surprising to me, be-
cause I had given over expecting any more
provisions except what was spoiled by the
water. I soon emptied the hogshead of the
bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel,
in pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and,
in a word, I got all this on shore also,
though at several times.
The next day I made another voyage, and
now, having plundered the ship of what
was portable, I cut up the cable in pieces
that I could lift, and gathered all the iron
work that I could move. I cut up the
yards and made a raft to take it all ashore,
but when I got into the little cove, the raft
upset and my load all went to the bottom.
However, when it was low water, I got the
most of it out.
If it had remained calm, I verily believe
that I would have cut up the whole ship
and got it ashore. The twelfth time that
I went on board, I found some money and
some knives. The former was of no worth
to me, but I took it, and as the wind began
to rise I hurried on shore. It blew very
hard that night, and in the morning there
was no more ship to be seen.
I now began to think of securing myself
against wild beasts and savages, by build-

ing a dwelling, and I resolved to make me
both a tent and a cave, and I set about
finding a more healthy and suitable spot
than where I then was.
I consulted several things in my situa-
tion, which I found would be proper for
me: first, health and fresh water; secondly,
shelter from the heat of the sun; thirdly,
security from ravenous creatures, whether
man or beast; fourthly, a view to the sea,
that if God sent any ship in sight, I might
not lose any advantage for my deliverance,
of which I was not willing to banish my
expectation yet.
In search of a place proper for this, I
found a little plain on the side of a rising
hill, whose front towards this little plain
jvas steep as a house side, eo that nothing
could come down upon me from the top.
On the side of the rock there was a hollow
place, worn a little way in, like the en-
trance or door of a cave; but there was
not really any cave, or way into the rock,
at all.
On the flat of the green, just below this
hollow place, I resolved to pitch my tent.
This plain was not above a hundred yards
broad, and about twice as long, and lay
like a green before my door; and, at the
end of it, descended irregularly every way,
down into the low ground by the sea-side.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-
circle before the hollow place, and in this
half-circle I pitched two rows of strong
stakes, driving them into the ground till
they stood very firm, the biggest end being
out of the ground above five feet and a
half, and sharpened on the top. The two
rows did not stand above six inches from
one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I
had cut in the ship, and laid them in rows,
upon one another, within the circle, be-
tween these two rows of stakes, up to the

top, placing other stakes in the inside,
leaning against them, about two feet and a
half high, like a spur to a post; and this
33
fence was so strong, that neither man nor
beast could get into it or over it.
Tbe entrance into this place I made to
be, not by a door, but by a short ladder to
go over the top; which ladder, when I was
in, I lifted over after me; and so I was
completely fenced in and fortified, as I
thought, from all the world, and conse-
quently slept secure in the nigh;, which
year are very violent there. I made it
double—viz., one smaller tent within, and
one larger tent above it; and covered the
uppermost part of it with a large tar-
paulin, which I had saved among the sails.
When I had done all this, I dug a cave
in the hill-side, piling the earth and stones
within my fence so as to raise the ground
nearly to the top. Before I had done all

otherwise I could not have done; though,
as it appeared afterwards, there was no
need of all this caution from the enemies
that I apprehended danger from.
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite
labor, I carried all my riches, all my pro-
visions, ammunition, and stores; and I
made me a large tent also, to preserve me
from the rains, that in one part of the
this, a thunder-storm, accompanied by sharp
flashes of lightning, frightened me very
much for fear that my powder would take
fire. As soon as the storm was over, I
went to work and separated the powder
into small parcels and hid it away in
different places in the rocks.
In the interval of time while this was
doing, I went out at least once every day
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
with my gun, as well to divert myself, as
to see if I could kill anything fit for food;
and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself
with what the island produced. The first
and I was upon the rocks, they took no
notice of me; from whence I concluded,
that by the position of their optics, their
sight was so directed downward, that they

time I went out, I discovered that there
were goats in the island, which was a great
satisfaction to me; but they were so shy,
so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was
the most difficult thing in the world to
come at them; but I was not discouraged
at this. I observed if they saw me In the
valleys, though they were upon the rocks,
they would run away, as in a terrible fright;
but if they were feeding in the valleys,
did not readily see objects that were above
them; so afterwards I always climbed the
rocks first, to get above them, and then
had frequently a fair mark.
The first shot I made among these crea-
tures I killed a she-goat, which had a little
kid by her, which grieved me heartily; for,
when the old one fell, the kid stood stock
still by her, till I came and took her up;
and not only so, but when I carried the
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
old oue with me upon my shoulders, the
kid followed me quite to my enclosure;
upon which I laid down the dam, and took
the kid in my arms, and carried it over my
pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame;
but it would not eat, so I was forced to
kill it and eat it myself.
After I had been there about ten or
twelve days, it came into my thoughts that
I should lose my reckoning of time, and
should even forget the Sabbath-day from
the working-days; but to prevent this, I

mt it with my knife upon a large post, in
Capital letters, and making it into a great
cross, I set it up on the shore where I first
landed, viz., "I came on shore here on the
30th of September, 1659."
Upon the sides of this square post I cut
every day a notch with my knife, and
every seventh notch was as long again as
the rest, and every first day of the month
as long again as that long one; and thus I
kept my calendar.
I had brought from the ship some pens,
ink and paper, and while they lasted I
kept a strict account of everything, but
they were soon gone. We had on the
ship two cats and a dog, and I had brought
both of the cats on shore. As for the dog
he swam ashore, and became my trusty
servant for many years.
The want of tools made every work I
did go on heavily; and it was near a whole
year before I had entirely finished my
little pale, or suiTounded habitation. The
piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I
could well lift, were a long time in cutting
and preparing in the woods, and more, by
far, in bringing home; so that I spent
sometimes two days in cutting and bring-
ing home one of those posts; and a third
day in driving it into the ground. But
what need I have been concerned at the
tediousness of anything I had to do, seeing
I had time enough to do it in? nor had I
any other employment, if that had been
over, at least that I could foresee, except
the ranging the island to seek for food,
and climbing the high rocks to see if any
vessel was within sight.
Having now brought my mind a little
to relish my condition, and given over
looking out to sea, to see if I could spy a
ship; I eay, giving over these things, I
began to apply myself to accommodate my
way of living, and to make things as easy
to me as I could.
I have already described my habitation,
which was a tent under the side of a rock,
surrounded with a strong pale of posts
and cables; but I might now rather call it
a wall, for I raised a kind of wall up
against it of turfs, about two feet thick on
the outside; and after some time (I think
it was a year and a half) I raised rafters
37
from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched
or covered it with boughs of trees, and
such things as I could get to keep out the
rain, which I found at some times of the
year very violent.
I have already observed how I brought
all my goods into this pale, and into this
cave which I had made behind me. But I
must observe, too, that at first this was a
confused heap of goods, which, as they lay
in no order, so they took up all my place.
I had no room to turn myself; so I set my
self to enlarge my cave, and worked far-
ther into the earth, for it was a loose,
sandy rock, which yielded easily to the
labor I bestowed on it; and so when I
found I was pretty safe as to beasts of
prey, I worked sideways, to the right
hand, into the rock; and then turning to
the right again, worked quite out, and
made me a door to come out on the out-
side of my pale or fortification.
And now I began to apply myself to
make such necessary things as I found I
most wanted, particularly a chair and a
table; for without these I was not able to
enjoy the few comforts I had in the world.
I could not write, or eat, or do several
things with so much pleasure without a
table.
I had never handled a tool in my life;
and yet, in time, by labor, application, and
contrivance, I found, at last, that I wanted
nothing but I could have made it, espe-
cially if I had had the tools. However, I
made abundance of things, even without
tools; and some with no more tools than
an adze and a hatchet, which, perhaps,
\\vre never made that way before, and that
with infinite labor. For example, if I

wanted a board, I had no other way but to
cut down a tree, set it on an edge before
me, and hew it flat on either side with my
axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a
plank, and then dub it smooth with my
adze. It is true, by this method I could
make but one board out of a whole tree;
but this I had no remedy for but patience.
However, I made me a table and a chair,
in the first place; and this I did out of the
short pieces of boards that I brought on
my raft from the ship. But when I had
wrought out some boards as above, I made
large shelves, of the breadth of a foot and
an half, one over another, all along oue
side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails
and iron-work on; and, in a word, to sepa-
rate everything at large into their places,
that I might come easily at them; also I
knocked pieces into the wall of the rock,
to hang my guns and all things that would
hang up; so that had my cave been to be
seen, it looked like a general magazine of
all necessary things; and I had everything
so ready at my hand, that it was a great
pleasure to me to see all my goods in such
order.

, As long as my ink
lasted I kept a jour-
nal of all that happened to me, of which I
will now give a part, for much that I wrote
at that time I have already told, and need
not repeat.
September 30, 1659.—I, poor, miserable
Robinson Crusoe, being shipwrecked, dur-
ing a dreadful storm, in the offing, came on
shore on this dismal, unfortunate island,
which I called "The Island of Despair;"
all the rest of the ship's company being
drowned, and myself almost dead.
All the rest of the day I spent in afflict-
ing myself at the dismal circumstances I
was brought to; viz, I had neither food,
house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to;
and, in despair of any relief, saw nothing
but death before me: either that I should
be devoured by wild beasts, or perish by
starvation.
Oct. 25.—It rained all night and all
day, with some gusts of wind; during
which time the ship broke in pieces, the
wind blowing a little harder than before,
and was no more to be seen, except the
wreck of her, and that only at low water.
I spent this day in covering and securing
the goods which I saved, that the rain
might not spoil them.
Oct. 26.— I walked about the shore
almost all day, to find out a place to fix
my habitation, greatly concerned to secure
myself from any attack in the night, either
from wild beasts or men. Towards night
I fixed upon a proper place, under a rock,
and marked out a semicircle for my en-
campment, which I resolved to strengthen
with a work, wall, or fortification, made of
double piles, lined within with cables, and
without with turf.
From the 26th to the 30th, I worked
very hard in carrying all my goods to my
new habitation, though some part of the
time it rained exceeding hard.
Nov. 1.—On this day I made a strict
division of my time, fixing the hours which
I would devote to my several duties, viz.:
every morning, to walk out with my gun
for two or three hours, if it did not rain;
then to employ myself to work till about
eleven o'clock; then to eat what I had to
live on; then to lie down and sleep, the
weather being very hot; then to work
again. The working part of this day was
wholly employed in making my table.
Nov. 5.—This day I went abroad with
my gun and my dog, and killed a wild cat;
her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good for
nothing. Of every creature that I killed,
I took off the skin and preserved it.
Coming back by the seashore, I saw two
or three seals, but not well knowing what
they were at first, while I stood gazing at
them, they got into the sea and escaped me.
39
Nov. 17.—This day I began to dig behind
my tent into the rock, to make room for
my further conveniency.
Note.—Three things I wanted exceed-
ingly for this work, viz., a pickaxe, a
shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket; so I
desisted from my work, and began to con-
sider how to supply that want, and make
me some tools. As for the pickaxe, I
made use of the iron crows, which were
proper enough, though heavy; and the
next thing was a shovel, or spade. This was
so absolutely necessary, that, indeed, I
could do nothing effectually without it; but
what kind of one to make I knew not.
Nov. 18.—The next day, in searching
the woods, I found a tree of that wood,
or like it, which, in the Brazils, they call
the iron-tree, for its exceeding hardness ; of
this, with great labor, and almost spoiling
my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home,
with difficulty enough, for it was exceed-
ingly heavy. The excessive hardness of
the wood, and having no other way, made
me a long while upon this machine, for I
worked it by little and little into the form
of a shovel or spade; the handle exactly
shaped like ours in England, only that the
board part having no iron shod upon it at


bottom, it would not last me so long ; how-
ever, it served well enough for the ase&
which I had occasion to put it to; but
never was a shovel, I believe, made nfter
that fashion or so long making.
I was still deficient, for I wanted a
basket, or a wheelbarrow. A basket I
could not make by any means, having no
such things as twigs that would bend to
make wicker-ware—at least, none yet found
out; and as to the wheelbarrow, I fancied
I could make all but the wheel; but that
I had no notion of; neither did I know
how to go about it; besides, I had no
possible way to make iron gudgeons for the
spindle or axis of the wheel to run in; so
I gave it over, and so, for carrying away
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the earth which I dug out of the cave, I
made a thing like a hod, which the laborers
carry mortar in, when they serve the brick-
layers.
in widening and deepening my cave, that
it might hold my goods commodiously.
Note.—During all this time I worked to
make this room, or cave, spacious enough

This was not so difficult to me as the
making the shovel; and yet this and the
shovel, and the attempt which I made in
vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me no
less than four days, I mean always except-
ing my morning's walk with my gun, which
I seldom failed, and very seldom failed
also of bringing home something fit to eat.
Nov. 23.—My other work having stood
still, because of my making these tools,
when they were finished I went on, and
working every day, as my strength and
time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely
to accommodate me as a warehouse, or
magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a
cellar As for a lodging,-I kept to the
tent; except that sometimes, in the wet
season of the year, it rained so hard, that I
could not keep myself dry, which caused
me afterwards to cover all my place within
my pale with long poles, in the form of
rafters, leaning against the rock, and load
them with flags and large leaves of trees,
like a thatch.
Dec. 10.—I began now to think my cave
or vault finished, when on a sudden (^t
41
seems I had made it too large), a great
quantity of earth fell down from the top.
I now had a great deal of work to do over
again, for I had the loose earth to carry
out, and then I had to prop uo the ceiling.
him upon some goats, but they all faced
about upon him, and he knew his danger
and would not come near them.
All this time it rained hard nearly every
day. I made rounds in the woods for game

Dec. 11.—This day I went to work and
got posts pitched upright to the top, with
boards across over each top, and in a week
I had the roof secured.
Dec. 27.—Killed a young goat, and lamed
another, so that I catcheditand led it home
by a string. When I had it home, I bound
and splintered up its leg, which was broke.
Note.—I took such care of it that it
lived, and the leg grew as strong as ever.
By nursing it so long, it grew tame and
would not go away. This led.me to think
of taming more goats.
Jan. 2.—Went out with my dog, and set
when the rain permitted me, and made fre-
quent discoveries in these walks of some-
thing or other to my advantage; particularly
I found a kind of wild pigeons, which
build, not as wood pigeons in a tree, but
rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the
rocks; and taking some young ones, I en-
deavored to breed them up tame, and did
SQ; but when they grew older they flew all
away, which perhaps was at first for want
of feeding them, for I had nothing to give
them; however, I frequently found their
nests, and got their young ones, which were
very good meat.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
And now, in the managing my household
affairs, I found myself wanting in many
things, which I thought at first it was im-
possible for me to make; as, indeed, as to
some of them it was: for instance, I could
never make a cask to be hooped. I had a
small runlet or two, as I observed before;
but I could never arrive to the capacity of
making one by them, though I spent many
weeks about it; I could never put in the

heads, nor join the staves so true to one an-
other as to make them hold water; so I gave
that also over.
In the next place, I was at a great loss
for candles; so that as soon as it was dark,
which was generally by seven o'clock, I
was obliged to go to bed. I remembered
the lump of bees'-wax with which I made
candles in my African adventure; but I had
none of that now. The only remedy I had
was, that when I had killed a goat, I saved
the tallow, and with a little dish made of
clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I
added a wick of some oakum, I made me
a lamp; and this gave me light, though not
a clear, steady light like a candle.
In the middle of all my labors, it hap-
pened that, rummaging my things, I found
a little bag, which had been filled with corn
for the feeding of poultry. What little re-
mainder of corn had been in the bag was
all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing
in the bag but husks and dust; and being
willing to have the bag for some other use,
I shook the husks of corn out of it on one
side of my fortification, under the rock.
It was a little before the great rains just
now mentioned, that I threw this stuff away,
taking no notice of anything, and not so
much as remembering that I had thrown any-
thing there, when, about a month after, I
saw some few stalks of something green
shooting upon the ground, which I fancied
might be some plant I had not seen. But I
was surprised when, after a little longer
time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come
out, which were perfect green barley, of
the same kind as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonish-
ment and confusion of my thoughts on this
occasion. I had hitherto acted upon no re-
ligious foundation at all; indeed, I had
very few notions of religion in my head,
nor had entertained any sense of anything
that had befallen me, otherwise than as a
43
chance, or, as we lightly say, what pleases
God, without so much as inquiring into the
end of Providence in these things. But
after I saw barley grow there in a climate
which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially that I knew not how it came
there, it startled me strangely, and I began
to suggest that God had miraculously caused
this grain to grow without any help of seed
sown.
This touched my heart a little, and
brought tears out of my eyes, and I began
to bless myself that such a prodigy of
Nature should happen upon my account;
and this was the more strange to me, be-
cause I saw near it still, all along by the
side of the rock, straggling stalks of rice,
and which I knew, because I had seen it
grow in Africa, when I was ashore there.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn,
you may be sure, in their season, which
was about the end of June; and laying up
every corn, I resolved to sow them all
again, hoping in time to have sufficient to
supply me with bread. But it was not
till the fourth year that I would allow
myself the least grain of this corn to eat,
and even then but sparingly; for I lost all
that I sowed the first season, by not
observing the proper time; for I sowed it
just before the dry season, so that it never
came up at all.
Besides this barley, there were twenty
or thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved
with the same care, and whose use was of
the same kind, or to the same purpose,
viz., to make me bread, or rather food;
for I found ways to cook it up without
baking, though I did that also after some
time.
But to return to my Journal:—
April 16.—I finished the ladder; so I
went up the ladder to the top, and then
pulled it up after me, and let it down on
the inside. This was a complete enclosure
to me; for within I had room enough, and
nothing could come at me from without,
unless it could first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was
finished, I had almost had all my labor
overthrown at once, and myself killed.
The case was thus:—As I was busy in the
inside of it, behind my tent, just in the
entrance into my cave, I was terribly
frightened with a most dreadful surpris-
ing thing indeed; for, all on a sudden, I
found the earth came tumbling down from
the roof of my cave, and from the edge of
the hill over my head, and two of the posts
I had set up in the cave cracked in a fright-
ful manner. I was heartily scared; and for
fear I should be buried in it, I ran forward
to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe
there neither, I got over my wall for fear
of the pieces of the hill, which I expected
might roll down upon me. I was no sooner
stepped down upon the firm ground, than
I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake:
JttOBINSON CRUSOE.
for the ground I stood on shook three
times, with such shocks as would have
overturned the strongest building that
could be supposed to have stood upon the
earth; and a great piece of the top of the
rock, which stood about half a mile from
me, next the sea, fell down with such a
terrible noise as I never heard in all my
life. I perceived also the very sea was put
into a violent motion by it.
I was so amazed with the thing itself,
having never felt the like, or discoursed
with any one that had, that I was like one
dead or stupefied; and the motion of the

earth made my stomach sick like one that
was tossed at sea. But the noise of the
falling of the rock awaked me as it were,
and rousing me from the stupefied condi-
tion I was in, filled me with horror, and I
thought of nothing then, but the hill fall-
ing upon my tent and all my household
goods, and burying all at once.
When I found there were no more shocks,
I began to take courage, but I was for a
long time afraid to get over the wall for
fear the hill would fall on me. To make
my situation worse, the rain began to fall
down in torrents, and there came a terrible
hurricane of wind. The sea was lashed to
foam; and trees were torn up by the roots,
and, in short, it was a dreadful storm.
In about three hours the wind abated,
but the rain continued all night and all the
next day. As there were no more shocks,
I climbed over the wall and went into my
cave to escape the rain, but still in great
fear that it would fall upon me.
This led me to a resolve that I would
find a new place for my home, where an
earthquake could not harm me, and I find
this in my journal:
April 22.—I began to consider of means
to put this resolve in execution; but I
was at a great loss about my tools. I
had three large axes, and abundance of
hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for
traffic with the Indians); but with much
chopping and cutting knotty hard wood,
they were all full of notches and dull;
and though I had a grindstone, I could
not turn it and grind my tools too. At
length, I contrived a wheel with a string,
to turn it with my foot, that I might have
both my hands at liberty.
Note.—I had not seen any such thing in
England, or at least not to take notice how
it was done, though since I have observed
it was very common there; besides that,
my grindstone was very large and heavy.
This machine cost me a full week's work
to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29.—These two whole days I
took up in grinding my tools, my machine
for turning my grindstone performing very
well.
April 30.—Having perceived my bread
had been low a great while, I now took a
survey of it, and reduced myself to one
45
biscuit-cake a day, which made my heart
very heavy.
May 1.—In the morning, looking toward
the sea-side, the tide being low, I saw
something lie on the shore like a cask;
when I came to it, I found a small barrel,
and two or three pieces of the wreck of the
ship, which were driven on shore by the
late hurricane; and looking towards the
wreck, I thought it seemed to lie higher
out of the water than it used to do. I
examined the barrel which was driven
on shore, and soon found that it was a bar-
rel of gunpowder; but it had taken water,
and the powder was caked as hard as a
stone; however, I rolled it farther on
shore for the present, and went on to look
for more.
When I came to the ship, I found that
the earthquake or the hurricane had cast it
so close to the shore that I could walk
quite to li at low water. The wreck was
also much broken up, and many things
were washed ashore.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from
moving my habitation, and I busied myself
mightily to make my way into the ship,
which I found was filled with sand. This
I could not do, but I resolved to pull her
in pieces, and to that end I worked every
day.
May 4.—I went a-f.shing, but caught
not one fish that I durst eat of, till I was
weary of my sport; when, just going to
leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had
made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but
I had no hooks; yet I frequently caught
fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all
of which I dried in the sun, and ate them
dry.
May 5.—Worked on the wreck; cut
another beam asunder, and brought three
great fir planks from off the decks, which I
tied together, and made swim on shore
O'
when the tide of flood came in.

May 6.—Worked on the wreck; got
several iron bolts, and other pieces of iron-
work; worked very hard, and came home
very much tired.
May 7.—Went to the wreck again, with
an intent not to work, but found the weight
of the wreck had broken itself down; that
several pieces of the ship seemed to lie
loose, and the inside of the hold lay so.
open that I could see into it.
May 8.—Went to the wreck, and car-
ried an iron crow to wrench up the deck
which lay now quite clear of the water or
sand. I wrenched open two planks, and
brought them on shore also with the tide.
May 9.—Went to the wreck, and with
the crow made way into the body of the
wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened
them with the crow, but could not break
them up. I felt also a roll of English
lead, and could stir it, but it was too heavy
to move.
May 10, 11, 12, 13, 14.—Went every
day to the wreck; and got a good deal of
pieces of timber, and boards, or planks, and
two or three hundredweight of iron.
May 15.—I carried two hatchets, to try
if I could not cut a piece off the roll of
lead, but as it lay about a foot and a half
in the water, I could not make any blow to
drive the hatchet.
May 16.—It had blown hard in the
night, and the wreck appeared more broken
by the force of the water; but I stayed so
long in the woods, to get pigeons for food,
that the tide prevented me going to the
wreck.
I continued this work every day to the
15th of June, except the time necessary to
get food, which I always appointed, during
this part of my employment, to be when
the tide was up, that I might be ready
when it was ebbed out; and by this time
I had gotten timber, and plank, and iron-
work enough to have built a good boat, if
I had known how; and also I got, at seve-
ral times, and in several pieces, near one
hundredweight of the sheet-lead.
June 16.—Going down to the sea-side, I
found a large tortoise, or turtle. This was
the first I had seen, which, it seems, was
only my misfortune; for had I happened
to be on the other side of the island, I
might have had hundreds of them every
day.
June 17 I spent in cooking the turtle. I
found in her threescore eggs; and her flesh
was to me, at that time, the most savory
and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life,
having had no flesh, but of goats and
fowls, since I landed in this horrible place.
June 18.—Rained all the day, and I stayed
within. I thought, at this time, the rain
felt cold, and I was something chilly,
which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19.—Very ill, and shivering, as if
the weather had been cold.
June 20.—No rest all night: violent
pains in my head, and feverish.
June 21.—Very ill; frightened almost to
death with the apprehension of my sad con-
dition—to be sick, and no help; prayed
to God, for the first time since the storm
off of Hull, but scarce knew what I said
or why; my thoughts being all confused.
June 22.—A little better; but under
dreadful apprehensions of sickness.
June 23.—Very bad again; cold and
shivering, and then a violent headache.
June 24.—Much better.
June 25.—An ague very violent: the fit
held me seven hours; cold fit, and hot with
faint sweats after it.
June 26. — Better; and having no
victuals to eat, took my gun, but found my-
self very weak; however, I killed a she-
goat, and with much difficulty got it home,
and broiled some of it, and ate. I would
fain, have stewed it, and made some broth,
but had no ix>t.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
June 27.—The ague again so violent that
I lay a-bed all day, and neither ate nor
drank. I was ready to perish with thirst;
but so weak I had no strength to stand up,
or to get myself any water to drink.
Prayed to God again, but was light-headed;
and when I was not, I was so ignorant I
knew not what to say; only I lay and
cried, "Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity
me! Lord, have mercy upon me!" I sup-
pose I did nothing else for two or three
hours; till, the fit wearing off, I fell asleep,
and did not awake till far in the night.
When I awoke, I found myself much re-
freshed, but weak, and exceeding thirsty;
however, as I had no water in my whole
habitation, I was forced to lie till morning,
and went to sleep again. In this second
sleep, I had this terrible dream: I thought

that I was sitting on the ground, and that'
I saw a man descend from a great black
cloud, in a bright flame of fire. His
countenance was most dreadful. When he
stepped upon the ground, I thought the
earth trembled, just as it had done in the
earthquake. Then I heard a voice so
terrible that it is impossible to express
the terror of it. All that I understood
was this :—'' Seeing all these things have
not brought thee to repentance, now thou
shalt die ;"—at which words, I thought he
lifted up the spear that was in his hand to
kill me.
No one that shall ever read this account
will expect that I should be able to de-
scribe the horrors of my soul at this terrible
vision. Nor is it any more possible to de-
scribe the impression that remained upon
my mind when I awaked, and found it
was but a dream.
1 had, alas! no divine knowledge. What
I had received from my father had been
worn out by eight years of seafaring
wickedness. During all that time I had
never thought seriously of God, nor had I
been thankful to Him for His great mer-
cies. But now I began to pray for the
first time in many years, after which I fell
into a refreshing sleep.
June 28.—Feeling much better, I arose
and cooked three of the turtle's eggs in
the ashes, and ate them. I tried to walk
about with my gun, but was too weak to
go far, and I sat down to think. I knew
that the ague would return the next day,
and then I remembered that the Brazilians
took tobacco for such distempers. I had
some tobacco in one of the chests that I
had saved, and I went to get it. I was
directed by heaven, no doubt, for I found
in the chest a cure both for soul and body.
Packed in with the tobacco was a Bible,
which I had forgotten all about, but which
I was now overjoyed to find. I took it to
my table and read from it a long time, and
having taken a dose of tobacco steeped in
rum, I went to bed.
The next day I had the fever, but not so
bad, and July 3d I missed it for good and
all. I was, however, so weak for many
days that I could do but little more than
sit at the mouth of my cave and try to
make baskets.
It was the 15th of July that I began to
take a more particular survey of the island
itself. I went up the creek first, where, as
I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I
found, after I came about two miles up,
that the tide did not float any higher; and
that it was no more than a little brook.
On its banks were many meadows covered
with grass, and on the higher parts I found
tobacco growing. There were many other
plants that I had never seen before.
On the next day I went farther the same
way, and, much to my joy, found melons
upon the ground in great abundance, and
grapes hanging in great clusters from the
branches of the trees. I staid there all
that night, sleeping in a tree as when I
first landed. In the morning, I traveled on
some four miles farther. Here I found a
delicious valley, where everything appeared
so fresh and green that it looked like a
planted garden. Here were orange, lemon,
lime and cocoa trees, but few of them bore
fruit. I gathered some green limes, and,
mixed with water, I found their juice very
refreshing. I resolved to lay up a store of
all for the wet season.
In order to do this, I gathered a great
heap of grapes in one place, a lesser heap
in another place, and a great parcel of
limes and lemons in another place; and
taking a few of each with me, I traveled
home, but before I got thither, the grapes
were spoiled; the richness of the fruit, and
the weight of the juice, having broken
them and bruised them, they were good for
little or nothing. As to the limes, they were
good, but I could bring but a few.

The next day I went back, having made
me two small bags to bring home my har-
vest; but I was surprised, when, coming to
my heap of grapes, I found them all spread
abroad, trodden to pieces, and dragged
about, some here, some there, and abund-
ance eaten and devoured. By this I con-
cluded there were some wild creatures
thereabouts, which had done this; but
what they were I knew not. However, I
took another course; for I gathered a large
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
quantity of the grapes, and hung them
upon the out branches of the trees, that
they might cure and dry in the sun; and
as for the limes and lemons, I carried as
many back as I could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I
contemplated with great pleasure the fruit-
fulness of that valley, and the pleasantness
of the situation; the security from storm
on that side of the water, and the wood;
and concluded that I had pitched upon a
place to fix my abode, which was by far
the worst part of the country. Upon the
whole, I began to consider of removing my
habitation, and to look out for a place

equally safe as where now I was situate, if
poss'bls, in that pleasant, fruitful part of
the island.
This thought ran long in my head, and
I was exceedingly fond of it for some time,
the pleasantness of the place tempting me;
but when I came to a nearer view of it, I
considered that I was now by the sea-side,
where it was at least possible that some-
thing might happen to my advantage;
and that the same ill fate that brought
me hither, might biing some other un-
happy wretches to the same place; and to
enclose myself among the hills and woods
in the centre of the island, was to antici-
pate my bondage, and to render such an
affair not only improbable, but impossible;
and that therefore I ought not by any
means to remove.
However, I was so enamored with
this place, that I spent much of my time
there for the whole remaining part of the
month of July; and though, upon second
thoughts, I resolved as above not to remove,
yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and
surrounded it at a distance with a strong
fence, being a double hedge, as high as I
could reach, well staked, and filled between
with brushwood; and here I lay very
secure, sometimes two or three nights to-
gether, always going over it with a ladder
us before; so that I fancied now I had my
country house and my sea-coast house.
The 3rd of August, I found the grapes I
had hung up were perfectly dried, and
indeed were excellent good raisins of the
so I began to take them down from the
sun
trees, and it was very happy that I did so,
for the rains which followed would have
spoiled them, and I had lost the better part
of my winter's food; for I had above two
hundred large bunches of them. No sooner
had I taken them all down, and carried
most of them home to my cave, but it began
to rain; and it rained, more or less, every
day, till the middle of October, and some-
times so violently, that I could not stir out
of my cave for several days.

In this season I was much surprised with
the increase of my family. I had been con-
cerned for the loss of one of my cats, who
ran away from me, and I heard no more
tidings of her, till, to my astonishment, she
came home about the end of August, with
three kittens. I afterward came to be so
pestered with cats, that I was forced to
kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, and
to drive them from my house as much as
possible.
From the 14th of August to the L>6th,
incessant rain, so that I could not stir, and
was now very careful not to be much wet.
In this confinement, I began to be strait-
ened for food; but venturing out twice, I
one day killed a goat; and the last day,
which was the 20th, found a very large
tortoise, which was a treat to me, and my
- food was regulated thus:—I ate a bunch of
raisins for my breakfast; a piece of the
goat's flesh, or of the turtle, for my dinner,
broiled (for, to my great misfortune, I had
no vessel to boil or stew anything), and
two or three of the turtle's eggs for supper.
Sept. 30.—I was now come to the un-
happy anniversary of my landing. I cast
up the notches on my post, and found
I had been on shore three hundred and
sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn
fast, setting it apart for religious exercises,
prostrating myself on the ground with the
most serious humiliation, confessing my
sins to God, acknowledging his righteous
judgment upon me, and praying to him to
have mercy upon me through Jesus Christ;
and having not tasted the. least refreshment
for twelve hours, even till the going down
of the sun, I then ate a biscuit-cake and a
bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing
the day as I began it. I now set off every
seventh day as the Sabbath day.
My ink gave out about this time, and I
gave up my journal. After a time I learned
how to divide the rainy season from the
dry season, but at first the lack of this
knowledge came near costing me dear, for
I sowed my grain before the dry season,
and not a stalk came up. Fortunately ]
had not sown it all, and I sowed the few
grains left before the rainy season and it
grew very well, though it was several years
before I had enough to make a crop.
After I had found, by experience, the ill
consequences of being abroad in the rain,
I took care to furnish myself with provi-
sions before hand, that I might not be
obliged to go out, and I sat within doors
as much as possible during the wet months.
In this time I found much employment,
and very suitable also to the time, for I
found great occasion of many things which
I had no way to furnish myself with but
by hard labor and constant application;
particularly, I had tried many ways to
make myself a basket, but all the twigs I
could get for the purpose proved so brittle
that they would do nothing.
It came into my mind that the twigs of
that tree from whence I cut my stakes that
grew might possibly be as tough as the
sallows, willows, and osiers in England,
and I resolved to try. Accordingly, the
next day I went to my country-house, as I
called it, and cutting some of the smaller
twigs, I found them to my purpose as much
as I could desire.. During the next season,
I employed myself in making, as well as
I could, a great many baskets, both to
carry earth or lay up anything, as I had
occasion; and though I did not finish them
very handsomely, yet I made them suffi-
ciently servicable for my purpose; and
thus, afterwards, I took care never to be
without them; and as my wicker-ware
decayed, I made more, especially strong,
deep baskets to place my corn in, instead of
sacks, when I should come to have any
quantity of it.
I now resolved to travel quite across to
the other side of the island, so, taking a
hatchet with my gun and dog, and a larger
quantity of powder and shot than usual,
and putting a great bunch of raisins and
two biscuit cakes in my pouch, I began
my journey.
I saw abundance of parrots, and fain
would I have caught one, if possible, to
have kept it to be tame, and taught it to

speak to me. I did, after some painstak-
ing, catch a young parrot, for I knocked it
down with a stick, and having recovered
it, I brought it home; but it was some
years before I could make him speak;
however, at last, I taught him to call me
by my name very familiarly.

As soon as I came to the seashore, I was
surprised to see that I had taken up my
lot on the worst side of the island, for
here, indeed, the shore was covered with
innumerable turtles, whereas, on the other
side, I had found but three in a year and
a half. Here was also an infinite number
of fowls of many kinds, some of which I
had not seen before, and many of them
very good meat, but such as I knew not
the names of, except those called penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased,
but was very sparing of my powder and
shot, and therefore had more mind to kill
a she-goat, if I could, which I could better
feed on; and though there were many
goats here, more than on the other side of
the island, yet it was with much more
difficulty that I could come near them.
I confess this side of the country was
much pleasanter than mine; but yet I had
not the least inclination to remove, for, as
I was fixed in my habitation, it became
natural to me, and I seemed all the while
I was here to be as it were upon a jour-
ney, and from home. However, I trav-
eled along the shore of the sea towards
the east, I suppose about twelve miles, and
then setting up a great pole upon the shore
for a mark, I concluded I would go home
again.
I took another way going home, and
became bewildered and lost, so that I had
to go back to my post and start again. In
this journey, my dog surprised a kid, which
I caught and led by a string till I came to
my bower, where I left him, securely tied.
I cannot express my satisfaction when I
came to what I called my home and threw
myself in my hammock. I had been gone
a month, and it all appeared so comfortable
that I resolved never to leave it for so lona:
O
a time again, while I remained on the
island.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel
how much more happy the life I now led
was, with all its miserable circumstances,
than the wicked, abominable life I led all
the past part of my days; and now having
changed both my sorrows and my joys;
my very desires altered, and my delights
were perfectly new from what they were
at first coming.
Before, as I walked about, either on my
hunting, or for viewing the country, the
anguish of my soul at my condition would
break out upon me on a sudden, and my
very heart would die within me, to think
of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I
was in, and how I was a prisoner, locked
55
up with the eternal bars and bolts of the
ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, with-
out redemption. In the midst of the
greatest composures of my mind, this
would break out upon me like a storm,
and make me wring my hands, and weep
would go off, and the grief having ex-
hausted itself would abate.
But now I began to exercise myself
with new thoughts. I daily read the Word
of God, and applied all the comforts of it
to my present state. One morning, being

like a child. Sometimes it would take me
in the middle of my work, and I would sit
down and sigh, and look upon the ground
for an hour or two together; and this
was still worse to me, for if I could burst
out into tears, or vent myself by words, it
very sad, I opened the Bible upon these
words, " I will never leave thee, never for-
sake thee." Immediately it occurred that
these words were to me; why otherwise
should they be directed in such a manner,
just at the moment when I was mourning
over ray condition, as one forsakeu of God
and man? "Well, then," said I, "if God
does not forsake me, of what ill conse-
quence can it be, or what matters it, though

the world should all forsake me, seeing, on
the other hand, if I had all the world, and
should lose the favor and blessing of God,
there would be no comparison in the loss?''
'From this moment I began to conclude
in my mind that it was possible for me to
be happy in this forsaken, solitary condi-
tion; and I was going to give thanks to
God for brin£rin<r me to this place. I know
O O -L
not what it was, but something shocked my
mind at that thought, and I durst not
speak the words. "How canst thou become
such a hypocrite," said I, even audibly, "to
pretend to be thankful for a condition,
which, however
thou mayst en-
deavor to be con-
tented with, thou
wouldst rather
pray heartily to be
delivered from?"
So I stopped
there; but though
I could not say I
thanked God for
being there, yet
I sincerely gave
thanks to God for
opening my eyes,
by whatever afflict-
ing providences,
to see the former
condition of my
life, and to mourn
for my wickedness
and repent.
Thus I began
my third year. I
was seldom idle,
dividing my time
according to my daily employments, such as.
first, my duty to God, and the reading the
Scriptures, which I always set apart some
time for, thrice every day; secondly, the
going abroad with my gun for food, which
generally took up three hours in every
morning, when it did not rain; thirdly.
O' v » -
the ordering, curing, preserving and cook-
ing what I had killed or caught for my
supply. These took up great part of the

day. Also, it is to be considered, that in
the middle of the day, when the sun was
in the zenith, the violence of the heat was
too great to stir out; so that about four
hours in the evening was all the time I
could be supposed to work in, with this
exception, that sometimes I changed my
hours of hunting and working, and went
to work in the morning, and abroad with
my gun in the afternoon.
While in-doors, during the rains, I talked
much to my parrot, which now learned her
own name and seemed to repeat it for my
diversion, as it pleased me greatly.
I was now in the months of November
and December, expecting my crop of barley
and rice. The ground I had dug up for

At*.
them was not great; for my seed of each
was not above half a peck, for I had lost
one whole crop by sowing in the dry sea-
son; but now my crop promised very well,
when on a sudden I found I was in danger
of losing it all again by enemies of several
sorts, which it was scarcely possible to keep
from it; as, first the goats, and wild crea-
tures which I called hares, which, tasting
the sweetness of the blade, eat it so close
that it could get no time to shoot up into
stalk.
This I saw no remedy for, but making
an inclosure about it with a hedge, which I
did with a great deal of toil, and the more,
because it required a great deal of speed;
the creatures daily spoiling my corn. How-
ever, as my arable land was but small,
suited to my crop, I got it totally well
fenced in about three weeks' time; and
shooting some of the creatures in the day
time, I set my dog to guard it in the night,
tying him up to a stake at the gate, where
he would stand and bark all night long; so
in a little time the enemies forsook the
place, and the corn grew very strong and
well.
But now I had even greater trouble to
keep the birds from eating all of the
ripening grain. I finally shot three of
them, and hung them up as scarecrows.
This had the effect I desired, and kept the
birds away. In the latter end of Decem-
ber I reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or
sickle to cut it down, and all I could do
was to make one, as well as I could, out of
one of the broad-swords, or cutlasses,
which I saved among the arms out of the
ship. However, as my crop was but
small I had no great difficulty to cut it
down; in short, I reaped it in my way, for
I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried
it away in a great basket which I had
made, and so rubbed it out with mv hands',
59
and at the end of all my harvesting, I
found that out of my half-peck of seed I
had near two bushels of rice, and above
two bushels and a-half of barley; that is
to say, by my guess, for I had no measure
at that time.
I had long studied, by some means or
other, to make myself some earthen vessels,
which, indeed, I wanted sorely. I did not
doubt but if I could find out any clay, I
might 'botch up some such pot as might,
being dried by the sun, be hard enough
and strong enough to bear handling, and
to hold anything that was dry, and re-
quired to be so; and as this was necessary
in preparing corn, meal, &c., which was
the thing that I was upon, I resolved to
make some as large as I could, and fit only
to stand like jars, to hold what should be
put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or
rather laugh at me, to tell how many awk-
ward ways I took to raise this paste; what
odd, misshapen, ugly things I made; how
many of them fell in, and how many fell
out—the clay not being stiff enough to
bear its own weight; how many cracked
by the over-violent heat of the sun, being
set out too hastily; and how many fell to
pieces with only removing, as well before
as after they were dried; and, in a word,
how, after having labored hard to find the
clay—to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it—I could not make
above two large earthen ugly things (I can-
not call them jars) in about two months'
labor.
However, as the sun baked these two
very dry and hard, I lifted them very
gently up, and set them down again in two
great wicker baskets, which I had made on
purpose for them, that they might not
break.
Though miscarried so much in my design
for large pots, yet I made several smaller
things with better success; such as little
round pots, flat dishes, pitchers and pipkins,
and anything my hand turned to; and the
heat of the sun baked them strangely hard.

But all this would not answer my end,
which was to get an earthen pot to hold
what was liquid, and bear the fire; which
none of these could do. It happened after
some time, making a pretty large fire for
cooking my meat, when I went to put it
out after I had done with it, I found a
broken piece of one of my earthenware ves-
sels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone,
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised
to see it, and said to myself that certainly
they might be made to burn whole, if they
would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my
fire so as to 7iiake it burn me some pots. I
had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters
burn in, or of glazing them with lead,
though I had some lead to do it with; but
I placed three large pipkins, two or three

potr-;, in a. pile, one upon another, and placed
my firewood all round it, with a heap of
embers under them. I plied the fire with
fresh fuel round the outside and upon the
top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-hot
quite through, and observed that they did
not crack at all; when I saw them clear
red, I let them stand in that heat about
fiye or six hours, till I found one of them,
though it did not crack, did melt or run;
for the sand which was mixed with the
clay melted with the violence of the heat,
and would have run into glass if I had
gone on. So I slacked my fire gradually till
the pots began to abate of the red color,
and watching them all niffht, that I might
not let the fire abate too fast, in the morn
ing I had three very good (I will not say
handsome) pipkins, and two other earthen
pots, as hard burnt as could be desired, and
one them perfectly glazed with the running
of the sand.
After this experiment, I wanted no sort
of earthenware for my use; but I must
needs say as to the shapes of them they
were very indifferent, as any one may sup-
pose, when I had no way of making them,
but as the children make dirt pies, or as a
woman would make pies that never learned
to raise paste.
I now thought to dig out a stone, and
make myself a mortar; but, after searching
a long while I could find no stone hard
enough, as all the rocks on the island were
soft and crumbling. I got instead a great
block of hard wood, and with much labor
I rounded the outside, and then, with the
help of fire, made a hollow place in it, as
the Indians in Brazil make their canoes.
Then I made a heavy pestle of iron-wood,
and laid them both by till I had my next
crop of corn to grind or pound into flour.
With some muslin taken from the ship, I
made some very good sieves.
The baking part was the next thing to
be considered, but I managed this also.
I made some hollow earthen vessels, which
served as hearths. In there I built hot
fires. Then, raking the ashes and embera
off clean, I put in my loaves and covered
them with earthen jars.
All the while these things were doing,
you may be sure my thoughts ran many
times upon the land which I had seen
from the other side of the island; and I
was not without secret wishes that I was
81
on shore there, fancying that I might find
some way or other to convey myself far-
ther, and perhaps at last find some means
of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance
for the dangers of such a condition, and
how I might fall into the hands of sav-
ages, and perhaps such as I might have
reason to think far worse than the lions
and tigers of Africa; that if I once came
into their power I should run a hazard of
being killed, and perhaps of being eaten;
for I had heard that the people of the
Caribbean coasts were cannibals, or men-
eaters, and I knew by the latitude, that I
could not be far off from that shore. All
these things, I say, which I ought to have
considered well of, and I did cast up in
my thoughts afterwards, yet took up none
of my apprehensions at first, and my head
ran mightily upon the thought of getting
over to that shore.
Now, I wished for my boy Xury and
the long-boat, with the shoulder-of-mutton
sail, with which I sailed above a thousand
miles on the coast of Africa; but this was
in vain. Then I thought I would go and
look at our ship's boat, which was blown
up upon the shore a great way, in the
storm, when we were first cast away. She
lay almost where she did at first, but not
quite, and was turned, by the force of the
waves and the winds, almost bottom up-
ward, against the high ridge of rough
sand, but no water about her as before.
If I had had hands to have refitted her,
and to have launched her into the water,
the boat would have done well enough,
and I might have gone back into the
Brazils with her easily enough; but

might have easily foreseen that I could no
more turn her and set her upright upon
her bottom, than I could remove the
island; however, I went to the wood, and
cut levers and rollers, nnd brought them to
the boat, iesolved to try what I could do.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piec*
of fruitless toil, and spent, I think, three
or four weeks about it; at last, finding it
impossible to heave it up with my little
strength, I fell to digging away the sand,
to undermine it, and so to make it fall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust,
and guide it right in the fall.
But I was unable to stir it, (>f to get
under it, much less to move it forward to-
wards the water; so I was forced to give
it over; and yet, though I gave over the
hopes of the boat, my desire to venture
over for the mainland increased.

This at length set me
upon thinking whether
it was not possible to make myself a
canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of
those climates make, even without tools,
or, as I might say, without hands—viz.,
of the trunk of a great tree. This I not
only thought possible, but easy, and pleased
myself extremely with my thoughts of
making it, and with my having much more
convenience for it than any of the Negroes
or Indians; but not at all considering the
particular inconveniences which I lay
under more than the Indians did, viz.,
want of hands to move it into the water
when it was made.
I went to work upon this boat the most
like a fool that eyer man did, who had any
of his senses awake. I pleased myself
with the design, without determining
O' O
whether I was ever able to undertake it;
not but that the difficulty of launching my
boat came often into my head; but I put
a stop to my inquiries into it, by this
foolish answer which I gave myself: "Let
me first make it; I warrant I shall find
some way to get it along when it is done."
This was a most preposterous method;
but the eagerness of my fancy prevailed,
and to work I went, and felled a cedar-
tree. I question much whether Solomon
ever had such a one for the building the
Temple of Jerusalem. It was five feet ten
inches diameter at the lower part, and four
feet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two feet; after which it lessened
for a while, and then parted into branches.
It was not without infinite labor that I
felled this tree. I was twenty days hack-
ing and hewing at it at the bottom; I was
fourteen more getting the branches and
limbs and the vast spreading head of it cut
off, which I hacked and hewed through
with my axe and hatchet. After this, it
cost me a month to shape it to something
like the bottom of a boat. It cost me
near three months more to clear the inside,
and work it out so as to make an exact
boat of it. This I did, indeed, without fire,
by mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint
of hard labor, till I had brought it to be a
very handsome periagua, and big enough
to have carried six-and-twenty men.
When I had gone through this work, I
was extremely delighted with it. The
boat was really much bigger than ever I
saw a canoe or periagua, that was made of
one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke
it had cost, you may be sure—for there
remained nothing but to get it into the
water; and had I gotten it into the water,
I make no question, but I should have
begun the maddest voyage, and the most
unlikely to be performed that ever was
undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the
water failed me. It lay about one hun-
tired yards from the water, and not more;
but the first inconvenience was, it was up
hill towards the creek. Well, to take
away this discouragement, I resolved to
dig into the surface of the earth, and so
make a declivity. This I began, and it
cost me a prodigious deal of pains (but
who grudge pains that have their deliver-
ance in view ?); but when this was worked
through, and this difficulty managed, it was
still much at one, for I could no more stir
the canoe than I could the other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground,
and resolved to cut a dock or canal, to
bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I
could not bring the canoe down to the
water. I began this work, but upon cal-
culating the amount of digging and what
I could do in a day, I found it would take
twelve years to finish it, so I was obliged
to abandon it.
In the middle of this work I finished my
fourth year in this place, and kept my anni-
versary with the same devotion, and with
as much comfort as ever before; for, by
a constant study and serious application of
the Word of God, and by the assistance of
His grace, I gained a different knowledge
from what I had before. I looked now
upon the world as a thing remote, which I
had nothing to do with, no expectation
from, and, indeed, no desire about; in a
word, I had nothing indeed to do with it,
nor was ever likely to have.
The next thing to my ink being wasted,
was that of my bread, I mean the biscuit
which I brought out of the ship. This I
had husbanded to the last degree, allowing
myself but one cake of bread a day for
above a year; and yet I was quite without
bread for a year before I got any corn of
my own.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily;
as to linen, I had had none for a good
while, except some shirts which I had found
in the chests of the other seamen, and
which I carefully preserved ; because many
times I could bear no other clothes on but
a shirt; and it was a very great help
to me that I had, among all the men's
clothes of the ship, almost three dozen
of shirts. There were also several thick
watch-coats of the seamen's, which were
left behind, but they were too hot to wear;
so I set to work, tailoring, or rather, indeed,
botching, for I made most piteous work of
it. However, I made shift to make two or
three waiscoats, which I hoped would serve
me a great while; as for breeches or
drawers, I made but a very sorry shift till
afterwards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins
of all the creatures that I killed, I mean
four-footed ones, and I had hung them up
stretched out with sticks in the sun, by
which means some of them were so dry and
hard that they were fit for little, but others,
it seems, were very useful. The first thing
made of these was a great cap for my head,
with the hair on the outside, to shoot off
the rain; and this performed so well, that
after, I made me a suit of clothes wholly of
those skins. I must not omit to acknow-
ledge they were wretchedly made; for if I
was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor.
However, they were such as I made a very
good shift with, and when I was abroad, if
it happened to rain, the hair of the waist-
coat and cap being outermost, I was kept
very dry.
After this, I spent a great deal of time
and pains to make an umbrella. I was, in-
deed, in great need of one, and had a great
mind to make one. I had seen them made
in the Brazils, where they are very useful
in the great heats which are there, and I
felt the heats eveiy jot as great here, and
greater too, being nearer the equinox; be-
sides, as I was obliged to be much abroad,
it spread, but if it did not let down too,
and draw in, it would not be portable for
me any way but just over my head, which
would not do. However, at last, as I said,
I made one to answer. I covered it with
skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off
the rain like a pent-house, and kept off
the sun so effectually, that I could walk
out in the hottest of the weather with

it was a most useful thing to me, as well
for the rains as the heats. I took a world
of pains at it, and was a great while before
I could make anything likely to hold: nay,
after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled
two or three before I made one to my mind.
But at last I made one that answered indif-
ferently well; the main difficulty I found
was to make it to let down. I could make
greater advantage than I could before iu
the coolest.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my
mind being entirely composed by resigning
to the will of God, and throwing myself
wholly upon the disposal of His providence.
This made my life better than sociable, for
when I began to regret the want of conver-
sation, I would ask myself whether thus
conversing mutually with my own thoughts,
and (as I hope I may say) with even my
Maker, by ejaculations and petitions, was
not better than the utmost enjoyment of
human society in the world?
I cannot say that, after this, for five
years, any extraordinary thing happened to
me, but I lived on in the same course, in
the same posture and place, just as before.
The chief thing I was employed in, besides
my yearly labor of planting my barley and
rice, and curing my raisins—of both which
I always kept up just enough to have
sufficient stock of the year's provision
beforehand—I had one labor, to make me
a canoe, which at last I finished; so that,
by digging a canal to it of six feet wide
and four feet deep, I brought it into the
creek, almost half a mile.
In building this boat I was wiser than
in building my larger one, and I built it
small enough to get to the sea. I was near
two years in building it, but I never
grudged my labor, in hopes of having a
boat to go off to sea at last.
However, though my little periagua was
finished, yet the size of it was not at all
answerable to the design which I had in
view when I made the first; I mean of
venturing over to the mainland, so that
design was given over for the present. As
I had a boat, my next design was to make
a tour round the island.
For this purpose, I fitted up a little mast
in my boat, and made a sail to it out of
some of the little pieces of the ship's sails
which lay in store. I tried the boat, and
found she would sail very well. Then I
made little lockers or boxes at each end to
put provisions, ammunition, etc., to be
kept dry, either from rain or the spray of
the sea. I made also, a little, long, hollow
place where I could lay my gun, making a
flap to hang down over it to keep it diy.
I fixed my umbrella at the stern, to stand
over my head like an awning. All now
being ready, I loaded my ship for the voy-
age, putting in two dozen loaves of barley
bread, an earthen pot full of parched
rice, a little bottle of rum, and half a goat,
powder and shot for my gun, and two
large coats, one to lie upon and one to
cover me in the night, and thus I set sail.
When I came to the east side of the
island, I found a great ledge of rocks lie
out about two leagues into the sea, and be-
yond that a shoal of sand lying half a
league more. I was afraid to go so far out
to sea, for fear I could not get back again,
so I anchored my boat, and, taking my
gun, went on shore and climbed a big hill,
to get a view of the other side of the
ledge.
From the hill I perceived a strong and
intricate current, which would be very
likely to prevent me from being able to
make the island again. And, indeed, had
I not got first upon this hill, I believe it
would have been so; for there was the
same current on the other side of the
island, only that it set off at a farther dis-
tance, and I saw there was a strong eddy
under the shore; so I had nothing to do
but to get out of the first current, and I
should presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days, because,
the wind blowing pretty fresh at E.S.E.,
and that being just contrary to the current,
made a great breach of the sea upon the
point; so that it was not safe for me to

keep too close to the shore for the breach,
nor to go too far off, because of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind
having abated overnight, the sea was calm,
and I ventured. But I am a warning-piece
to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no
sooner was I come to the point, when I
was not even my boat's length from the
shore, but I found myself in a great depth
of water, and a current like the sluice of
a mill. It carried my boat along with it
with such violence that all I could do
could not keep her so much as on the edge
of it; but I found it hurried me farther
and farther out from the eddy, which was
on my left hand. There was no wind
stirring to help me, and all that I could do
with my paddles signified nothing. And
now I began to give myself over for lost;
for as the current was on both sides of the
island, I knew in a few leagues' distance
they must join again, and then I was irre-

coverably gone; so that
l had no prospect be-
fore me but of perishing, not by the sea,
for that was calm enough, but of starving
from hunger. I had, indeed, found a tor-
toise on the shore, as big almost as I could
lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I
had a great jar of fresh water, that is to
say, one of my earthen pots; but what
was all this to being driven into the vast
ocean, where, to be sure, there was no
shore, no mainland or island, for a thous-
and miles at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the
providence of God to make the most mis-
erable condition that mankind could be in
worse. Now I looked back upon my deso-
late, solitary island as the most pleasant
place in the world, and all the happiness
my heart could wish for was to be there
again. I stretched out my hands to it,
with eager wishes. "O happy desert!"
said I, "I shall never see thee more. O
miserable creature! whither am I going?''
I still worked hard to get my boat out
of the current. About noon, a breeze
sprang up from the S. S. E, which cheered
my heart a little, and especially when, in
about half an hour more, it blew a pretty
small, gentle gale. By this time, I had
got at a frightful distance from the island;
and had the least cloudy or hazy weather
intervened, I had been undone another
way, too; for I had no compass on board,
and should never have known how to have
steered towards the island, if I had but
once lost sight of it. But the weather
continuing clear, I applied myself to get
up my mast again, and spread my sail,
standing away to the north as much as
possible, to get out of the current.
I made such good headway that I soon
found an eddy which carried me about a
league on my way back. The wind con-
tinuing fair, I continued to near the island
and soon got to land. When I was on
shore, I fell on my knees and gave God
thanks for my deliverance. After which, I
drew my boat into a little cove under some
trees, and laid me down to sleep, being
quite spent with the fatigue of the voyage,
which I resolved not to repeat.
I was now at a great loss which way to
get home with my boat I had run so much
hazard, and knew too much of the case, to
think of attempting it by the way I wenl
out; and what might be at the other side 1
knew not, nor had I any mind to run any
more ventures. So I resolved, on the next
morning, to make my way westward along
the shore, and to see if there was no creek
where I might lay up my frigate in safety,
so as to have her again, if I wanted her.
In about three miles, coasting the shore, I
came to a very good inlet or bay, about a
mile over, which narrowed till it came to a
very little rivulet or brook, where I found
a very convenient harbor for my boat.
Here I put in, and, having stored my boat
very safe, I went on shore to look about
me, and see where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by
the place where I had been before, when I
69
travelled on foot to that shore; so, taking
nothing out of nay boat but my gun and
umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot, I
began my march. The way was comfort-
able enough after such a voyage as I had
been upon, and I reached my old bovver in
the evening, where I found everything
standing as I left it.
I got over the fence, and laid me down
to rest my limbs, for I was
very weary, and fell asleep.
But judge you, if you can,
what a surprise I must have
been in when I was awaked
out of my sleep by a voice,
calling me by my name sev-
eral times: "Robin, Robin,
Robin Crusoe! poor Robin
Crusoe! Where are you,
Robin Crusoe? Where are
you? Where have you
been?"
I was so dead asleep at
first, being fatigued with
rowing the first part of the
day and walking the latter
part, that I did not awake
thoroughly; and dozing be-
tween sleeping and waking,
thought I dreamed that
somebody spoke to me; but
as the voice continued to
repeat, "Robin Crusoe!
Robin Crusoe!'' at last I
began to awake more per-
fectly, and was at first
dreadfully frightened, and
started up in the utmost
consternation. No sooner
were my eyes open, but I
saw my poll sitting on the top of the
hedge, and immediately knew that it was
he that spoke to me; for just in such
bemoaning language I had used to talk
to him and teach him.
However, even though I knew it was the
parrot, and that indeed it could be nobody
else, it was a good while before I could
compose myself. Holding out my hand,

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
and calling him by his name, "Poll," the
sociable creature came to me, and sat upon
my thumb, as he used to do, and continued
talking to me, "Poor Robin Crusoe! and
how did I come here! and where had I
been ?" just as if he had been overjoyed to
see me again; and so I carried him home
along with me.
I had now enough of rambling to sea for
some time, and enough to do for many days
to sit still and reflect upon the danger I

had been in. I would have been very glad
to have had my boat again on my side of
the island; but I knew not how it was
practicable to get it about. As to the east
side of the island, which I had gone round,
I knew well enough there was no ventur-
ing that way; my very heart would shrink
and my very blood run chill, but to
think of it; and as to the other side of the
island, I knew there was a current there
quite as dangerous.
I began to think now what I should do
for goat's flesh when my powder should be
all gone. To make provision for this, I set
traps, and caught some young kids, which
I tamed, keeping them in a large enclosure,
securely fenced about. ' It would have
made a stoic smile to see me and my little
family sit down to dinner. There was my
majesty, the prince and lord of the whole
island. I had the lives of all my subjects
at absolute command; I could hang, draw,
give life and liberty and take it away, and
no rebels among all my subjects. Then to
see how like a king I dined too, all alone,
attended by my servants! Poll, as if he
had been my favourite, was the only per-
son permitted to talk to me; my dog, who
was now grown very old and crazy, sat
always at my right hand; and two cats,
one on one side the table, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from
my hand, as a mark of special favor.
I wanted the use of my boat very much,
but I was very loth to run any more risk
at sea. One day I resolved to go by land
to the little hill on the other side where I
had observed how the shore lay and the
current set, and so I started, following the
edge of the shore. Had any of the people
of England met me at that time, I should
either have frightened them or raised a
great deal of laughter.
I had a great, high shapeless cap, made
of goat's skin, with a flap hanging down
behind, as well to keep the sun from me as
to shoot the rain off from running into my
neck; nothing being so hurtful in these
climates as the rain upon the flesh under
the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the
skirts coming down to about the middle
of the thighs, and a pair of open-kneed
breeches of the same. The breeches were
made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose
hair hung down such a length on either
side, that, like pantaloons, it reached to the
middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I
had none, but had made me a pair of some-
things, I scarce know what to call them,
like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace
on either side like spatterdashes, but of a
most barbarous shape, as indeed were all
the rest of "my clothes^---'- _J;? .V
I had on a' broad bel^'of goat's skin
dried, which I drew together with two
thongs of the same, instead of buckles;
and in a kind ofea. frog on.: either- side of
this, instead of-& sword and dagger, "hung
a little saw and~a.:hatchet, one oa one side,
one on the other. . I had another ielt not
so broad, and fastenedrin the sauielnanner
~ " - - —-.' ." --"-—=.-:-
which hung over my sio.ulder; and at the
end of it, under,my left arm, hung two
pouches, both made of goat's skin too, in
one of which-hung,my powder, in the
other my shot. At my-back I earned my
basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over
my head a great, clumsy, ugly goat-skin
umbrella, but which, after all, was the
most necessary thing I had about me next
to my gun> . ._
When I reached the hill, I found the sea
quite: still, which convinced me that the
current^was formed by the ebb and flow
:pf the tide. Still I resolved to leave the
boat for use on that side of the island, and
to make me another boat to use on my
home side.
It happened one day, about noon, going
towards my boat, I was exceedingly sur-
prised with, the print of a man's naked foot
on the shore, which was very plain to be
seen on the sand. I stood like one thun-
derstruck, or as if I had seen an appar-
ition. I listened, I looked around me, but

73
J could hear nothing, nor see anything; I
went up to a rising ground, to look far-
ther; I went up the shore, and down the
shore, but it was all one; I could see no
other impression but that one. I went to
it again to see if there were any more, and
to observe if it might not be my fancy;
but there was no room for that, for there
was exactly the print of a foot—toes, heel,
and every part of a foot. How it came
thither I knew not, nor could in the least
imagine. But after innumerable fluttering
thoughts, like a man perfectly confused
and out of myself, I came home to my for-
tification, not feeling,
as we say, the ground
I went on, but terri-
fied to the last de-
gree, looking behind
me at every two or
three steps, mistaking
every bush and 'tree,
and fancying every
stump at a distance
to be a man. Nor is it
possible to describe
how many various
shapes my affrighted
imagination represent-
ed* things to me in;
how many wild ideas
were formed every
moment in my fancy,
and what strange un-
accountable whimseys
came into my thoughts
by the way.
When I came to
my castle (for so I
think I called it ever
after this), I fled into it like one pur-
sued. Whether I went over by the
ladder, as first contrived, or went in at
the hole in the rock, which I called a
door, I cannot remember; for never frighted
hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with
more terror of mind than I did to this
retreat. 'i- -
I had no sleep that night, but lay
trembling with fright and thinking who or
what it could be that had visited the
island. I fancied all sorts of things, but
finally concluded that some of the savages
of the main land had been there, and this

did not in the least allay my fear, for after-
wards I was in constant dread that I
should meet them. When milking my
goats or gathering my fruit, if I heard the
least noise, I was ready to drop every-
thing and flee to my house.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had
dug my cave so large as to bring a door
through again beyond where my fortifica-
tion joined to the rock. Therefore I re-
solved to draw me a second fortification, in
the same manner of a semicircle, at a dis-
tance from my wall, just where I had
planted a double row of trees about twelve
years before. These trees having been planted
so thick before, there wanted but few piles
to be driven between them, and my wall
would be soon finished. So that I had
now a double wall; and my outer wall
was thickened with pieces of timber, old
cables, and everything I could think
of to make it strong, having in it seven
little holes, about as big as I might put
my arm out at. In the inside of this, I
thickened my wall to about ten feet thick,
continually bringing earth out of my cave,
and laying it at the foot of the wall, and
walking upon it; and through the seven
holes I contrived to plant the muskets like
cannon, so I could fire all the seven guns in
two minutes' time. This wall I was many
a weary month in finishing, and yet never
thought myself safe till it was done.
Then I planted the ground without as
full of trees as could well stand and grow,
so that, in two years' time, I had a grove so
thick that no one would ever imagine there
was any human habitation beyond it.
While I was doing this I thought much of
the safety of my goats; so I made a strong

75
enclosure in a retired part of the island,
and removed to it ten she-goats and two
he-goats and left them there.
One day as I wandered more to the west
part of the island, being on a hill, I thought
I saw a boat far out at sea, but I was not
sure. On coming down from the hill, I
was confounded and amazed to see the
shore spread with skulls and other bones of
human bodies. There was a place where
a fire had been made, and a circle dug in
the earth, where I supposed the savage
wretches had sat down to their inhuman
feast. When I recovered from my horror
at such a sight, I began to thank God that
I was cast ashore upon a part of the island
that was not visited by the cannibals.
In this frame of thankfulness, I went
home to my castle, and began to be much
easier now, as to the safety of my circum-
stances, than ever I was before: for I
observed that these wretches never came to
this island in search of what they could
get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or
not expecting, anything here; and having
often, no doubt, been up in the covered,
woody part of it, without finding anything
to their purpose. I knew I had been here
now almost eighteen years, and never saw
the least footsteps of human creature there
before; and I might be eighteen years
more as entirely concealed as I was now, if
I did not discover myself to them, which I
had no manner of occasion to do; it being
my only business to keep myself entirely
concealed where I was, unless I found a
better sort of creatures than cannibals to
make myself known to. Yet I entertained
such an abhorrence of the savage wretches
that I have been speaking of, and of the

wretched inhuman custom of their devour-
ing and eating one another up, that I con-
tinued pensive and sad, and kept close
within my own circle for almost two years
after this. When I say my own circle, I
mean by it my three plantations, viz., my
castle, my country-seat (which I called my
bower), and my enclosure in the woods;
nor did I look after this for any other use
than as an enclosure for my goats; for the
aversion which nature gave me to these
wretches was such, that I did not so much
as go to look after my boat in all this time,
but began rather to think of making me

another; for I could not think of ever
making any more attempts to bring the
other boat round the island to me, lest I
should meet with some of those creatures
at sea; in which case, if I had happened to
have fallen into their hands, I knew what
would have been my lot.
Night and day, I could think of nothing
now but how I might destroy some of
these monsters, and, if possible, save the
victim they should bring hither to destroy.
It would take up a larger volume than this
whole work is intended to be, to set down
all the contrivances I hatched, or rather
brooded upon, in my thoughts, for the
destroying of these
creatures, or at least
frightening them so as
to prevent their coming
hither any more. But
all was abortive; noth.
ing could be possible
to take effect, unless I
was to be there to do
it myself: and what
could one man do
among them, when
perhaps there might
be twenty or thirty of
them, together with
their darts, or their
bows and arrows, with
which they probably
could shoot as true to
a mark as I could with
my gun?
Sometimes I thought
of digging a hole
under the place where
they made their fire,
and putting in five or six pounds of gun-
powder, which, when they kindled their
fire, would consequently take fire, and blow
up all that was near it: but as, in the first
place, I should be unwilling to waste so
much powder upon them, my being now
within the quantity of one barrel, so neither
could I be sure of its going off at any cer-
tain time, when it might surprise them;
and, at best, that it would do little more
than just blow the fire about their ears and
fright them, but not sufficient to make
them forsake the place; so I laid it aside.
I continually made my tour every morn-
ing to the top of the hill, which was from
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

my castle, as I called it,
about three miles or
more, to see if I could
observe any boats upon the sea, coming near
the island, or standing over towards it; but
I began to tire of this hard duty, after I
had for two or three months constantly
kept my watch, but came always back
without any discovery.
I began to think, too, that it was not
for me to judge these wretches, and for a
year, I gave up watching for them. This
I did, however: I removed my boat and
hid it securely on the east end of the
island, and I kept myself more retired
than ever.
I believe the reader of this will not
think it strange if I confess these anxie-
ties, these constant fears I lived in, and
the concern that was now upon me, put
an end to all invention, and to all the
contrivances that I had laid for my future
accommodations and conveniences. I had
the care of my safety more now upon
hands than that of my food. I cared not
to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood
now, for fear the noise I should make
should be heard; much less would I fire
a gun for the same reason; and, above all,
I was intolerably uneasy at making any
fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at
a great distance in the day, should betray
me. For this reason, I removed that part
of my business which required fire, such
as burning of pots and pipes, etc., into
my new apartment in the woods; where,
after I had been some time, I found, to
my unspeakable consolation, a mere nat-
ural cave in the earth, which went in a
vast way, and where, I dare say, no sav-
age, had he been at the mouth of it, would
be so hardy as to venture in; nor, indeed,
would any man else, but one who, like me,
wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.
On entering with a lighted torch, I stum-
bled over an old he-goat that had crept in
there to die, and who did die the next day.
The entrance to this cave was a small
hole at the base of a large rock, but within
it was large and roomy and quite diy. I
was greatly rejoiced at the discovery, and
I brought here my magazine of powder,
several muskets and other things.

79
It was now the month of December in
my twenty-third year; and this, being the
southern solstice (for winter I cannot call
it), was the particular time of my harvest,
and required me to be pretty much abroad
in the fields, when, going out early in the
morning, I was surprised with seeing a
light of some fire upon the shore, at a dis-
tance from me of about two miles towards
the end of the island where I had observed
some savages had been, as before, and not
on the other side, but, to my great afflic-
tion, it was on my side of the island.
I was, indeed, terribly surprised at the
sight, and stopped short within my grove,
not daring to go out, lest I might be sur-

prised; and yet I had no more peace
within, from the apprehensions I had
that if these savages, in rambling over
the island, should find my com standing
or cut, or any of my works, they would

immediately conclude that there were peo-
ple in the place, and would then never rest
till they had found me out. In this ex-
tremity I went back directly to my castle,
and pulled up the ladder after me, having
made all things without look as wild and
natural as I could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting
myself in a posture of defence; I loaded
all my cannon, as I called them—that is to
say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortifications, and all my
pistols, and resolved to defend myself to
the last gasp—not forgetting seriously to
commend myself to the Divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver
me out of the hands of the barbarians.
And in this posture I continued about
two hours, and began to be impatient for
intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to
send out. I was not able to bear sitting
in ignorance any longer; so setting up my
ladder to the side of the hill, and then
pulling the ladder after me, I set it up
again, and mounted to the top of the hill,
and pulling out my perspective-glass, I laid
me down flat on the ground, and began to
look for the place. I presently found
there were no less than nine naked sav-
ages sitting round a small fire they had
made, not to warm them, for they had no
need of that, the weather being extremely
hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of
their barbarous diet of human flesh which
they had brought with them, whether alive
or dead I could not know.
They had two canoes with them, which
they had hauled up upon the shore; and
as it was then ebb of tide, they seemed to
me to wait the return of the flood to go
away again. As I expected, so it proved;
for, as soon as the tide made to the west-
ward, I saw them all take boat and row
(or paddle, as we call it) away. I should
have observed, that for an hour or more
before they went off they were dancing
and I could easily discern their postures
and gestures by my glass.
As soon as I saw them gone, I took my
guns and pistols and went away to the
81
hill on the other side. I saw there had
been three canoes of savages there, and
they were out at sea, making over for the
main. Going down to the shore I saw
with horror, the marks of their dreadful
feast, in the blood and bones of human
bodies.
I was so filled with indignation at this
sight, that I began to ponder how I could
destroy them when they should come
again. I went often to the hill to look for
them, and if they had come, I should cer-
tainly have attacked them. But more than
a year elapsed and I saw no signs of them,
and I lived on very comfortably. In the

meantime, an event happened which
intensely excited me.
There had been a storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of lightning and thunder,
and a very foul night it was after it. As
I was reading in the Bible, and taken up
with very serious thoughts about my pres-
ent condition, I was surprised with the
noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea.
This was, to be sure, a surprise of a differ-
ent nature from any I had met before; for
the notions this put into my thoughts were
of another kind. I started up in the
greatest haste, and, in a trice, clapped my
ladder to the middle place of the rock, and
pulled it after me; and, mounting it the
second time, got to the top of the hill the
very moment that a flash of fire bid me
listen for a second gun, which, accordingly,

in about half a minute, I heard; and by
the sound, knew that it was from that part
of the sea where I was driven out with the
current, in my boat. I immediately con-
sidered that this must be some ship in dis-
tress. I had the presence of mind, at that
minute, to think, that though I could not
help them, it might be they might help
me; so I brought together all the dry
wood I could get at hand, and, making a
good, handsome pile, I set it on fire upon
the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed
freely; and though the wind blew very
hard, yet it burned fairly out, so that I
was certain, if there was any such thing as
a ship, they must need see it, and no doubt
they did; for as soon as my fire blazed up,
I heard another gun and then several
more.

In the morning I saw to my great sor-
row the wreck of a ship upon the concealed
rocks, far out from shore. I cannot ex-
plain, by any possible energy of words,
what a strange longing I felt in my soul
upon this sight, breaking out sometimes
thus:—" Oh, that there had been but one
or two, nay, or but one soul, saved out of
this ship, to have escaped to me that I
might but have had one companion, one
fellow-creature, to have spoken to me and
to have conversed with!" In all the time
of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest,
And now the thought so pressed upon
me night and day that I must go off to this
wreck, that, at last, I loaded my boat with
everything necessary and ventured to sea,
after making a careful study of the dan-
gerous currents.
When I came close to the ship, a dog
appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming,
yelped and cried; and, as soon as I called
him, jumped into the sea to come to me. I

so strong a desire after the society of my
fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at the
want of it.
But there was no sign of any living
thing on the wreck, and I had only the
affliction, some days after, to see the corpse
of a drowned boy come on shore. He had
nothing in his pockets but two pieces of
eight and a tobacco pipe—the last was to
me of ten times more value than the first.
took him into the boat, but found him
almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gave
him a cake of my bread, and he devoured
it like a ravenous wolf that had been starv-
ing a fortnight in the snow; I then gave
the poor creature some fresh water, with
which, if I would have let him, he would
have burst himself. After this I went on.
board; but the first sight I met with was
with two men drowned in the forecastle.
b3

Besides the dog, there was nothing left in
the ship that had life; nor any goods, that
I could see, but what were spoiled by the
water. I saw several chests, which I
believe belonged to some of the seamen;
and I got two of them into the boat, with-
out examining what was in them.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask
full of liquor, of about twenty gallons,
which I got into my boat with much diffi-
culty. There were several muskets in the
cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about
four pounds of powder in it. As for the
muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
left them, and took the powder-horn. I
took a fire shovel and tongs, which I
wanted extremely; as also two little brass
]«n los, a copper pot to make chocolate,
an«l u gridiron; and with this cargo, and
to me; and about a dozen and a half of
white linen handkerchiefs. Besides this,
when I came to the till in the chest, I
found there three great bags of pieces of
eight; and in one of them, six doubloons

the dog, I came away, and the same even-
ing I reached the island again, weary and
fatigued to the last degree. I reposed that
night in the boat, and in the morning I got
all my cargo on shore. The cask of liquor
I found to be a kind of rum, not at all
good; but when I came to open the chests,
I found several things of great use to me.
For example, I found in one a fine case of
bottles, filled with cordial waters. I found
two pots of very good succades, or sweat-
meats, so fastened on the top that the salt
water had not hurt them. I found some
,very good shirts, which were very welcome
of gold, and some small bars of gold; I
suppose they might all weigh near a pound.
Upon the whole, I got very little by this
voyage that was of any use to me; for as
to the money, I had no manner of occasion
for it; for it was to me as the dirt under
my feet, and I would have given it all for
three or four pair of English shoes and
stockings, which were things I greatly
wanted. I had, indeed, got two pairs of
shoes now, which I took off the feet of the
two drowned men whom I saw in the
wreck, and I found two pairs more in one
of the chests, which were very welcome to
88
me. I found in
this seaman's chest
about fifty pieces
of eight, in rials,
but no gold. Well,
however, I lugged
this money home
to my cave, and
laid it up, as I had
done that before
which I had got
in our own ship.
But it was a great
pity that the other
part of this ship had not come to my
share; for I am satisfied I might have
loaded my canoe several times over
with money; which, if I had ever escaped
to England, would have lain here safe

\\

enough till I might have come again and
fetched it.
After this event, I lived easy enough for
near two years, but I thought constantly
of how I should get away from the island.
One night I dreamed that one of the vic-
tims of the cannibals ran away from them
and came to me. "Now," thought I, in
my dream, "I may venture to the main
land, for this savage will be my pilot."
After this dream, I watched every day for
the cannibals, determined to capture one of
their victims.
I had watched thus for about a year and
a half, when I saw one morning no less
than five canoes on shore, and there were
about thirty of the savages dancing around
a fire. While I looked, I saw two miser-
able wretches dragged from the boats.
One was knocked down immediately and
cut up for their cookery, while the other
was left standing by himself till they
would be ready for him.
This poor wretch, seeing himself a little
at liberty, and unbound, started away from
them, and ran with incredible swiftness
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

along the sands, directly towards me. I
was dreadfully frightened, when I perceived
him run my way; and especially when, as
I thought, I saw him pursued by the whole
body. However, my spirits began to re-
cover when I found that there was not
above three men that followed him; and
still more was I encouraged, when I found
that he outstripped them exceedingly in
running.
There was between them and my castle,
the creek; but he made nothing of it, but,
plunging in, swam through in about thirty
strokes, landed, and ran with exceeding
strength and swiftness. When the three
persons came to the creek, I found that two
of them could swim, but the third went no
farther, and soon after went softly back
again. It came very warmly upon my
thoughts that now was the time to get me
a servant, and perhaps a companion. I
immediately ran down the ladder, fetched
my two guns, and getting up again with
the same haste to the top of the hill, I
crossed towards the sea; and having a
very short cut, and all down hill, clap'd
myself in the way between the pursuers
and the pursued, hallooing aloud to
him that fled, who, looking back, was at
first perhaps as much frightened at me as
at them. But I beckoned with my hand to
him to come back; and, in the mean time,
rushing at once upon the foremost, I
knocked him down with the stock of my
piece. I was loth to fire, because I would
not have the rest hear. Having knocked
this fellow down, the other stopped, as if
he had been frightened, and I advanced
towards him. But as I came nearer, I per-
ceived he had a bow and arrow, and was
fitting it to shoot at me: so I was then
obliged to shoot at him first, which I did,
and killed him at the first shot. The poor
savage who fled, but had stopped, was so
frightened with the fire and noise of my
piece that he stood stock still. I hallooed
again to him, and made signs to come for-
ward, which he easily understood, and

came a little way, and stood, trembling. I
smiled at him pleasantly, and beckoned,
and at length he came close to me, laid his
head upon the ground, and put my foot
upon it. This, it seems, meant that he
would be my slave forever.
But there was more work to do. The
savage that I had knocked down began to
come to himself, and sat up on the ground.
My savage motioned for me to give him my
sword, and when I gave it to him he ran
quickly and cut off his head at a single
stroke. When he had done this, he comes
laughing to me in sign of triumph, and
brought me the sword again. But that
which astonished him most, was to know
how I killed the other Indian so far off.
"When he came to him, he stood like one
amazed, looking at him, turning him first
on one side, then on the other. He took
up his bow and arrows and came back; so
I turned to go away, and beckoned him to
follow me.
Upon this he made signs to me that he
should bury them with sand, that they
might not be seen by the rest, if they fol-
lowed; and so I made signs to him again


to do so. He fell to work; and in an in-
stant he had scraped a hole in the sand
with his hands, big enough to bury the
first in, and then dragged him into it, and
covered him; and did so by the other also.
Then calling him away, I carried him, not
to my castle, but quite away to my cave,
on the farther part of the island. Here I
gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to
eat, and a draught of water, which I found
he was indeed in great distress for, and
having refreshed him, I made signs for
him to go and lie down to sleep, so the
poor creature lay down, and went to sleep.
He was a comely, handsome fellow, with
straight, strong limbs, tall and well shaped;
and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years of
89
age. He had a very good countenance, not
ti fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to
have something very manly in his face.
His hair was long and black, not curled
like wool; his forehead very high and
large; and a great vivacity and sparkling
sharpness in his eyes. The color of his
skin was not quite black, but very tawny.
His face was round and plump; his nose
small, not flat like the Negroes; a very
good mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth
well set, and as white as ivory. After he
had slept about half an hour, he awoke and
came out of the cave to me: for I had been
milking my goats. When he espied me he
came running to me, laying himself down
again upon the ground, with all the pos-
sible signs of an humble, thankful disposi-
tion, making a great many antic gestures
to show it. At last he lays his head flat
upon the ground, close to my foot, and
sets my other foot upon his head, as he had
done before.
I let him know that I understood him
and was very well pleased. In a little
time I began to speak to him, and teach
him to speak to me; and, first, I let him
know his name should be FRIDAY, which
was the day I saved his life. I called him
so for the memory of the time. I likewise
taught him to say Master, and then let him
know that was to be my name; I likewise
taught him to say Yes and No, and to
know the meaning of them. I gave him
some milk in an earthen pot, and let him
see me drink it before him, and sop my
bread in it; and gave him a cake of bread
to do the like, which he quickly complied
with, and made signs that it was very good
for him. I kept there with him all that
night; but, as soon as it was day, I bec-
koned to him to come with me, and let
him know I would give him some clothes;
at which he seemed very glad, for he was

stark naked. As we went by the place
where he had buried the two men, he
pointed exactly to the place, and shovsed
me the marks that he had made to find
them again, making signs to me that we
should dig them up again and eat them.
At this I appeared very angry, made as if
I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and
beckoned with my hand to him to come
away, which he did immediately, with
great submission. I then led him up to
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
the top of the hill, to see if his enemies
were gone, and pulling out my glass, I saw
plainly the place where they had been, but
no appearance of them or their canoe.
We visited the place, and carefully
buried the remains of their horrible feast.
Friday let me know that there had been
a great battle, and that four prisoners, of
which he was one, were brought here to
inside. As to the weapons, I took them
all into my habitation every night. But I
needed none of all this precaution; for
never man had a more faithful, loving,
sincere servant than Friday was to me;
without passions, sullenness, or designs,
perfectly obliged and engaged. His very
affections were tied to me, like those of a
child to a father; and I dare say he would

be eaten. When we came back to our
castle, I fell to work to dress my man,
Friday. I gave him a pair of linen
drawers, and made him a jerkin of goat's
skin, and a very good cap of hare's skin,
and he was mightily pleased to see himself
clothed like his master.
I then made him a little tent between
my two fortifications, and I fixed all my
doors so that I could fasten them on the
have sacrificed his life to save mine,
upon any occasion whatsoever. The many
testimonies he gave me of this put it out
of doubt, and soon convinced me that I
needed no precautions for my safety on his
account.
I was greatly delighted with him, and
made it my business to teach him every-
thing that was proper to make him useful,
handy, and helpful; but especially to

make him speak, and understand me when
I spoke. And he was the aptest scholar
that ever was; and particularly was so
merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased
-when he could but understand me, or make
me understand him, that it was very pleas-
ant to me to talk to him.
After I had been two or three days
returned to my castle, I thought that, in
order to bring Friday of? from his horrid
way of feeding, and from the relish of a
cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste
other flesh; so I took him out with me one
morning to the woods. I went, indeed,
intending to kill a kid out of my own
flock, and bring it home and dress it; but
as I was going, I saw a she-goat lying down
in the shade, and two young kids sitting
by her. I catched hold of Friday and
made signs to him not to stir; immediately
I presented my piece, shot, and killed one
of the kids. The poor creature, who had,
at a distance, indeed, seen me kill his
enemy, but did not know nor could
imagine how it was done, was sensibly
surprised; trembled, and shook, and looked
so amazed that I thought he would have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot
at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped
up his waistcoat, to feel whether he was
not wounded; and, as I found presently,
thought I was resolved to kill him; for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embrac-
ing my knees, said a great many things I
did not understand; but I could easily see
the meaning was, to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him
that I would do him no harm; and taking
him up by the hand, laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid which I had killed,
beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which
he did; and while he was wondering, and
looking to see how the creature was killed,
I loaded my gun again. By-and-by I saw
a great fowl sitting upon a tree within
shot; so, to let Friday understand a little
what I would do, I called him to me again,
pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a
parrot, and to my gun, and to the ground
under the parrot, to let him see I would
make it fall. I fired, and bade him look,
and immediately he saw the parrot fall.
He stood like one frightened again, not-
withstanding all I had said to him; and I
93

believe, if I would have let him, he would
have worshipped me and the gun. As for
the gun itself, he would not so much as
touch it for several days.
When Friday tasted the stewed kid he
let me know that he liked it very much.
The next day I roasted a piece, and when
Friday came to eat it he expressed great
satisfaction, and made me understand that
he would never eat human flesh any more.
I taught him to beat and sift the corn and
to make bread, and in a short time he was
able to do all my work as well as I could
do it myself, and we lived very happily.
I had a mind once to try if he had any
hankering inclination to his own country
again; and having taught him English so
well that he could answer me almost any
question, I asked him whether the nation
he belonged to never conquered in battle.
At which he smiled, and said, "Yes, yes
we always fight the better."
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

Master—How came
you to be taken pris-
oner, then?
Friday—They more many than my na-
tion, in the place where me was; they take
one, two, three, and me; my nation over-
beat them in the yonder place, where me
no was; there my nation tftke one, two,
great thousand.
Master—But why did not your side re-
cover you from your enemies?
Friday—They run, one, two three, and
me, and make me go in the canoe; my
nation have no canoe that time.
Master—Well, Friday, what does your
nation do with the men they take? Do
they carry them away and eat them?
Friday—Yes, my nation eat mans too.
Master—Where do they carry them?
Friday—Go to other place, where they
think.
, Master—Do they come hither?
Friday—Yes, yes, they come hither;
come other else place.
Master—Have you been here with
them?
i Friday—Yes, I been here (points to
the N. W. side of the island, which, it
seems, was their side).
By this I understood that my man,
Friday, had formerly been among the
savages who used to come on shore on
the farther part of the island, on the said
man-eating occasions that he was now
brought for: and, some time after, when
I took the courage to carry him to that
side, being the same I formerly mentioned,
he presently knew the place, and told me
he was there once, when they eat up
twenty men, two women and one child.
He could not tell twenty in English, but
he numbered them, by laying so many
stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell
them over.
I asked Friday a thousand questions
about his country, and he told me all he
knew. He said his sort of people were
called Caribs; but further west,there were
white-bearded men like me, and that they
had killed "much mans;" by all of which,
I knew he meant the Spaniards whose
cruelties in America had spread over the
whole country, and were remembered from
father to son. As the time passed away,
I talked much to Friday about God and
the Saviour, and I verily believe that he
became a better Christian than I was.
When he could understand me well I told
him of the countries of Europe, and how
I came to be on the island. When I
showed him the ship's boat which was
now falling to pieces on the shore, he told
me that such a boat had come ashore in
his country with seventeen white men in it,
and that these white men were then living
with his people.
It was after this some time, that being
upon the top of the hill, at the east side of
the island, Friday, the weather being very
serene, looked very earnestly towards the
main land, then fell to dancing and cried,
"Oh, joy! oh, glad! there see my country."
95

That set me to thinking whether I could
not make the voyage with Friday, or send
Friday alone to see if the white men were
still there.
When I proposed to Friday that he
should go over alone to see his people, he
felt very badly, and said he would like to
go, but would not leave me; so I resolved
to make a large canoe and make the ven-
ture. We felled a large tree near the
water, and. with a month's hard labor, we
shaped a very handsome boat, and in an-
other fortnight we got her into the water.
Though she was large enou*h to carry
twenty men, I was surprised to see with
what dexterity and how swift my man
Friday could manage her, turn her, and
paddle her along. So I asked him if we
would, and if we might venture over in
her. "Yes," he said; "we venture over in
her very well, though great blow wind."
However, I had a farther design that he
knew nothing of, and that was to make a
mast and a sail, and to fit her with an
anchor and cable.

After all this was done, I had my man
Friday to teach as to what belonged to the
navigation of my boat; for, though he
knew very well how to paddle the canoe,
ha knew nothing of what belonged to a
sail and a rudder; and was the most
amazed when he saw me work the boat to
and again in the sea by the rudder, and
how the sail gibbed, and filled this way or
that way, as the course we sailed changed.
However, with a little use I made all these
things familiar to him, and he became an
expert sailor, except that as to the com-
pass I could make him understand very
little of that.
By the time I had the boat finished the
rainy season was upon us, and we had to
keep within doors. When we began to go
out again, I sent Friday down to the shore
one day to find a turtle. In a short time
he came flying over my outer wall in a
great fright, crying out to me, "O, master!
0, master! O, bad!" "What's the matter,
Friday?" said I. "Oh! yonder, there,"
says he; "one, two, three canoes, one,
two, three!" "Well, Friday," says I, "do
not be frightened." So I heartened him
up as well as I could. However, I saw
the poor fellow was most terribly scared,
for nothing ran in his head but that they
were come back to look for him, and would
cut him in pieces and eat him; and the
poor fellow trembled so that I scarcely
knew what to do with him. I comforted
him as well as I could, and told him I was
in as much danger as he, and that they
would eat me as well as him. "But," said
I, "Friday, we must resolve to fight them.
Can you fight, Friday?" "Me shoot,"
says he; "but there come many great num-
ber." "No matter for that," said I, again;
'' our guns will fright them that we do not
kill." So I asked him whether, if I re-
solved to defend him, he would defend
me, and stand by me, and do just as I bid
him. He said, "Me die when you bid die,
master."
I loaded the two fowling-pieces with
swan shot as large as small pistol-bullets.
Then I took four muskets, and loaded
them with two slugs, and five small bullets
each; and my two pistols I loaded with a
brace of bullets each. I hung my great
sword by my side, and gave Friday his
hatchet. When I had thus prepared my-
self, I took my perspective-glass, and went
up to the side of the hill; and I found
quickly by my glass that there were one-
and-twenty savages, three prisoners, and
three canoes; and that their whole busi-
ness seemed to be the triumphant banquet
97
upon these three human bodies. I ob-
served also that they landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his
escape, but nearer to my creek, where the
shore was low, and where a thick wood
came close almost down to the sea. This,
very cheerful, and told me, as before, he
would die when I bid die.
In this fit of fury I gave Friday one pis-
tol to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder, and I took one pistol
and the other three myself; and in this

with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand
these wretches came about, filled me with
such indignation that I came down again
to Friday, and told him I was resolved to
go down to them, and kill them all; and
asked him if he would stand by me. He
had now got over his fright, and he was
posture we marched out. I took a small
bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave
Friday a large bag with more powder and
bullets; and as to orders, I charged him
to keep close behind me, and not to stir,
or shoot, or do anything till I bid him,
and in the meantime not to speak a word.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

In this posture I fetched a compass to my
right hand of near a mile, as well to get
over the creek as to get into the wood, so
that I might come within shot of them
before I should be discovered, Friday fol-
lowing close at my heels. I marched till
I came to the skirt of the wood on the side
which was next to them, only that one cor-
ner of the wood lay between me and them.
Here I called softly to Friday, and show-
ing him a great tree which was just at the
corner of the wood, bade him go to the tree,
and bring me word what they were doing.
He did so, and came immediately back to
me, and told me that they were all about
their fire eating the flesh of one of their pris-
oners, and that another lay bound upon the
sand a little from them, whom he said they
would kill next; and this fired the very
soul within me. He told me it was not
one of their nation, but one of the bearded
men whom he had told me of, that came to
their country in the boat. I was filled with
horror at the very naming of the white
bearded man; and going to the tree, I saw
plainly a white man, who lay upon the
beach of the sea with his hands and feet
tied with flags, or things like rushes.
I had now not a moment to lose, for
nineteen of the dreadful wretches sat upon
the ground, all close huddled together, and
had just sent the other two to butcher the
poor Christian, and bring him perhaps limb
by limb to their fire, and they were stoop-
ing down to untie the bands at his feet. I
turned to Friday: "Now, Friday," said I,
"do exactly as you see me do." So I set
down one of the muskets and the fowling-
piece upon the ground, and Friday did the
like by his, and with the other musket I
took my aim at the savages, bidding him
to do the like; then asking him if he was
ready, he said, "Yes." "Then fire at
them," said I; and at the same moment I
fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than
I, that on the side that he shot he killed

99
two of them, and wounded three more;
and on my side I killed one, and wounded
two. They were, you may be sure, in a
dreadful consternation; and all of them
that were not hurt jumped upon their feet,
but did not know which way to run, or
which way to look. Friday kept his eyes
lets, we found only two drop; but so many
were wounded, that they ran about yelling
and screaming like mad creatures, all
bloody, and most of them miserably
wounded.
"Now, Friday," said I, laying down the
discharged pieces, and taking up the mus-

close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he
might observe what I did; so, as soon as
the first shot was made, I threw down the
piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and
Friday did the like. He saw me cock and
present; he did the same again. "Are you
ready, Friday?" said I. "Yes," says he.
"Let fly, then," said I, "in the name of
God!" and with that I fired again among
the amazed wretches, and so did Friday;
and as our pieces were now loaded with
what I call swan-shot, or small pistol-bul-
ket which was yet loaded, "follow me,"
which he did with a great deal of courage;
upon which I rushed out of the wood and
showed myself, and Friday close at my
foot. As soon as I perceived they saw me,
I shouted as loud as I could, and bade
Friday do so too, and running as fast as I
could, which by the way was not very fast,
being loaded with arms as I was, I made
directly towards the poor victim, who was,
as I said, lying upon the beach. The two
butchers who were going toward him
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
when we first fired had fled in fright to the
sea-side and had jumped into a canoe, and
three more of the rest made the same vay.
I told Friday to run down and fire at

them, which he did, killing two and badly
wounding a third.
I cut the flags that bound the poor vic-
tim, and asked him, in the Portuguese
tongue, what he was. He answered, in
Latin, Christianus; but was so faint and
weak that he could scarce stand or speak.
I gave him a drink from my bottle, and a
piece of bread which he quickly ate. Then
I asked him what countryman he was, and
he said Espagnole; and being a little
recovered, let me know how thankful he
was. "Seignior," said I, in as good
Spanish as I could make up, we must
fight now. Take this sword and pistol, if
you have any strength left." He took
them thankfully and, as if they gave him
new vigor, he flew upon his murderers like
a fury. A. powerful savage once threw
him on his back and was wringing my
sword out of his hands, when he wisely
quitted the sword and shot him through
the body, before I, who was running up to
help him, could come near him. We
killed them all except four who escaped in
the boat, whereof one was wounded, if not
dead.
Those that were in the canoe worked
hard to get out of gunshot, and though
j Friday made two or three shots at them, I
did not- find that he hit any of them.
Friday AVould fain have had me to take one
of their canoes, and pursue them; and,
indeed, I was very anxious about their
escape, lest, carrying the news home to
their people, they should come back per-
haps with two or three hundred of the
canoes, and devour us; se I conssnted to
pursue them by sea, and running to one of
their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday
follow me. But when I was in the canoe,
I was surprised to find another poor crea-
ture lie there, bound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, and almost dead with fear \
for he had not been able to look over the
side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck
and heels, and had been tied so long, that
he had really little life in him.

I immediately cut the tA\risted flags or
rushes, and would have helped him up;
but he could not stand or speak, but
groaned most piteously, believing, it seema,
101
still, that he was only unbound in order
to be killed. When Friday came to him,
I bade him speak to him, and tell him of
his deliverance; and pulling out my bottle,
made him give the poor wretch a dram;
which, with the news of his being de-
livered, revived him, and he sat up in the
boat. But when Friday came to hear him
speak, and look in his face, it would have
moved anyone to tears to have seen how
into the boat, and out of the boat, a great
many times; when he went in to him, he
would sit down, open his breast, and hold
his father's head close to his bosom half an
hour together; then he took hi= arms and
ankles, which were numbed and stiff with
binding, and chafed and rubbed them with
his hands; and I gave him some rum out
of my bottle to rub them with, which did
them a great deal of good.

Friday Kissed him, embraced him, hugged
.him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped
abort, danced, sung; then cried again,
wrung his hands, beat his own face and
head; and then sung and jumped about
again like a distracted creature. It was a,
good while before I could make him speak
to me, or tell me what was the matter;
but when he came a little to himself, he
told me that it was his father. He went
This action put an end to OT:T pursuit of
the canoe with the other savages, who
were now gotten almost out of sight; and
it was happy for us, for it blew so hard
within two hours after, and befoie they
could be got a quarter of their way, and
continued blowing so hard all night, and
that from the north-west, which was against
them, that I could not suppose their boat
could live.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

The Spaniard's limbs were as bad as
those of the savage, but, Friday picked
him up and carried him to the boat, and
paddled it along to the creek, and so we
got home. Neither the savage nor the
Spaniard could climb over the wall, so we
made them a good tent outside. But they
soon got well and as strong as Friday and
myself.
I had Friday ask his father what he
thought of the escape of the savages in
the canoe, and their bringing the whole
nation to destroy us. His opinion was
that they could never live out the storm,
but, if they did, that they were so dread-
fully frightened with the manner of their
being attacked, the noise, and the fire, that
he believed they would tell the people
they were all killed by thunder and light-
ning, not by the hand of man; and that
Friday and I were two heavenly spirits,
or furies, come down to destroy them.
103
This lie said he knew, because he heard
them all cry out so, in their language, one
to another; for it was impossible for them
to conceive that a man could dart fire, and
speak thunder, and kill at a distance. And
this old savage was in the right; for, as
I understood since, by other hands, the
savages never attempted to go over to
the island afterwards; they were so ter-
state of great want. I resolved to increase
our stock of goats and grain, sufficient to
feed them all, and then to send for them.
At the proper season we fell to work dig-
ging, and planted as much grain as we
could. We also gathered more grapes, and
caught a large number of kids. At last, I
victualed the boat and sent the Spaniard
and Friday's father over to the main, agree-

rifled with the accounts given by those
four men (for it seems they did escape the
sea), that they believed whoever went to
that enchanted island would be destroyed
with fire from the gods.
la my discourse with the Spaniard, he
told me how he and thirteen others had
been shipwrecked on the savage coast, and
that his companions were all alive but in a
ing upon a signal which they should show,
upon approaching the island again.
It was no less than eight days I had
waited for them, when a strange and unfore-
seen accident intervened, of which the like
has not, perhaps, been heard of in his-
tory. I was fast asleep in my hutch one
morning, when my man Friday came run-
ning to me, and called aloud, "Master,
BOBINSON CRUSOE.
master, they are come, they are come!"
I jumped up, and went out as soon as I
could get my clothes on, through my little
grove, which, by the way, was by this time
grown to be a very thick wood. But I was
surprised, when, presently, I saw a boat
standing in for the shore, with a shoulder
of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing pretty fair to bring them in; also
I observed, presently, that they did not
come from that side which the shore lay
on, but from the southernmost end of the
island. Upon this I called Friday in, and
bade him lie close, for these were not the
people we looked for, and that we might
not know yet whether they were friends or
enemies. In the next place, I went in to
fetch my perspective glass, to see what I
could make ojit of them. I had scarce set
foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly
discovered a ship lying at anchor, not above
a league and a half from the shore. By my
observation, it appeared plainly to be an
English ship, and the boat appeared to be
an English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in,
though the joy of seeing a ship, and one
that I had reason to believe was manned
by my own countrymen, and consequently
friends, was such as I cannot describe;
but yet I had some secret doubts hanging

about me—I cannot tell from whence they
came—bidding me keep upon my guard.
I was fully satisfied they were English-
men, at least most of them; one or two I

thought were Dutch, but it did not prove
so. There were in all eleven men, whereof
three of them I found were unarmed, and,
as I- thought, bound; and when the first
four or five of them were jumped on shore,
they took those three out of the boat, as
prisoners. One of the three I could per-
ceive using the most passionate gestures of
entreaty, affliction, and despair; the other
two, I could perceive, lifted up their
hands sometimes, and appeared concerned,
indeed, but not to such a degree as the-
first. I was perfectly confounded at the
sight, and knew not what the meaning of
it should be. Friday called out to me in
English, as well as he could, " O master!
you see English mans eat prisoner as well
as savage mans." "Why, Friday," says I,
"do you think they are going to eat them,
then ?"—" Yes," says Friday, "they will
eat them."—" No, no," says I, "Friday; I
am afraid they will murder them, indeed;
but you may be sure they will not eat
them."
All this while I had no thought of what
the matter really was, but stood trembling
with the horror of the sight, expecting
every moment when the three prisoners
should be killed; nay, once I saw one of
105
the villains lift up his arm with a great
cutlass, as the seamen call it, or sword, to
strike one of the poor men; and I expected
to see him fall every moment; at which
all the blood in my body seemed to run
chill in my veins. I wished heartily now
for my Spaniard, and the savage that was
gone with him, or that I had any way to
have come undiscovered within shot of
they pleased; but they sat down all three
upon the ground, very pensive, and looked
like men in despair.
It was just at the top of high water
when these people came on shore; and
while they rambled about to see what kind
of a place they were in, they had carelessly
stayed till the tide was spent, leaving their
boat aground. They had left two men in

them, that I might have secured the three
men, for I saw no fire-arms they had among
them; but it fell out to my mind another
way. After I had observed the outrageous
usage of the three men by the insolent sea-
men, I observed the fellows run scattering
about the land, as if they wanted to see
the country. I observed also that the
three other men had liberty to go where
the boat, who, having drunk a little too
much brandy, fell asleep. When they
awoke and found that the boat was too
fast aground for them to stir it, they hal-
looed out for the rest; upon which they
all came to the boat. Then I heard one of
them say, "Let her alone, Jack; she'll
float next tide."
I knew it would be ten hours before the
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

boat would float again, and by that time it
would be dark. So I kept close. I fitted
myself up for battle as before, and waited
in my castle. About two o'clock, how-
ever, when they had all straggled into the
woods and out of sight, I resolved to
disclose myself to the three distressed
men, who were seated under a tree but a
short distance off.
Friday and I went out, and when we
came near them I called out, "What are
ye, gentlemen?" They all started up, and
were very much frightened at my uncouth
appearance. But I calmed their fears with
a few words, and told them I was ready to
assist them. "What is your case?" said I.
"Our case is too long," said one, "to tell
you now, but, in short, I was commander
of that ship; my men have mutinied
against me; they have been hardly pre-
vailed on not to murder me, and, at last,
have set me on shore in this desolate place,
with these two men with me—one my
mate, the other a passenger, where we ex-
pected to perish, believing the place to be
uninhabited, and know not yet what to
think of it." "Where are these brutes,
your enemies?" said I. "There they lie,
sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees.
"Have they any fire-arms?" said I. He
answered, "They had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the boat." "Well
then," said I, "leave the rest to me. I see
they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to
kill them all; but shall we rather take
them prisoners?" He told me there were
two desperate villains among them, that it
was scarce safe to show any mercy to; but
if they were secured, he believed all the
rest would return to their duty. "Well,"
says I, "let us retreat out of their view or
hearing, lest they awake, and we will re-
solve further." So they willingly went
back with me.
"Look you, sir,'* said I; "if I venture
upon your deliverance, my conditions are
but two; first, that while you stay on
this island with me, you will not pretend
to any authority here, and if I put arms
in your hands, you will, upon all occasions,
give them up to me, and do no prejudice
to me or mine upon this island, and in the

meantime be governed by my orders;
secondly, that if the ship is or may be
recovered, you will carry me and my man
to England, passage free."
He gave me assurance that he would
comply with these most reasonable de-
mands. "Well, then," said I, "here are
the other badly wounded. But he jumped
up and called for help, and then, as I came
up, he, with all the rest, cried out for
mercy. The captain told them he would
three muskets for you, with powder and
ball; tell me next what you think is
proper to be done." He showed all the
testimony of his gratitude that he was
able, but offered to be wholly guided by
me. I told him the best method I could
think of was to fire on them at once as
they lay. He said, very modestly, that he
was loth to kill them, if he could help it;
but that those two were incorrigible vil-
lains, and had been the authors of all the
mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped,
we should be undone still, for they would
go on board and bring the whole ship's
company, and destroy us all.
In the middle of this discourse we heard
some of them awake, and soon after we
saw two of them on their feet. I asked
him if either of them were the men who
he had said were the heads of the mutiny?
He said, "No." "Well, then," said I,
"you may let them escape; if the rest
escape you, it is your fault." Animated
with this, he took the musket I had given
him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt,
and his two comrades with him, with each
man a piece in his hand. The two men
who were with him, going first, made some

noise, at which one of the seamen started
up and cried out to the rest. But he was
too late, for our party fired, aad one of
the two leaders was killed on the spot and

spare their lives if they would give up
their mutiny and obey his orders, which
they promised to do. I was willing they
should be spared; but I told the captain
he should keep them bound while they
were upon the island.
We now laid our plans to get possession
of the ship. As we thought they would be
sending a boat ashore to look for their
comrades, we took every thing from the boat
on shore, and dragged her up beyond the
reach of high tide and stove a hole in her
bottom, so that they could not use her.
After a while another boat put off from
the ship with ten men in her, all armed.
We put some of our prisoners in the cave,
and some we kept with us, securely tied.
So now we kept close and watched the
sailors rowing ashore.
As soon as they got to the place where
their other boat lay, they ran their boat
into the beach and came all on shore, haul-
ing the boat up after them. They all ran
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
to their other boat; and it was easy to see
they were under a great surprise to find her
stripped of all that was in her, and a great
hole in her bottom. After they had mused
awhile upon this, they set up two or three
great shouts, to try if they could make
times. Finding that they were not answered
they came to the conclusion that their com-
panions were all murdered, and they started
for the shore resolved to go back to the
ship and sail away without them.
As soon as I perceived them go towards

their companions hear; but all was to no
purpose. Then they fired a volley of their
small arms; but it was all one; those in
the cave, we were sure, could not hear;
and those in our keeping, though they
Leard it well enough, yet durst give no
answer to them. Then three men got hit >
the boat and put her off a little way from
the shore, while the other seven started to
find their companions.
It seems they were too'much frightened
to go far from the shore, but they went to
the top of a hill and hallooed several
the shore, I imagined it to be as it really
was; but I presently thought of a strata-
gem to fetch them back again, and which
answered »iy end to a tittle. I ordered
Friday and the captain's mate to go over
the little creek to a rising ground, at about
half a mile distance, and halloo out as loud
as they could; and that as soon as ever
they heard the seamen answer them, they
should return it again; and then keeping
out of sight, take a round, always answer-
ing when the others hallooed, to draw them
as far into the island as possible.
109
They were just going into the boat,
when Friday and the mate hallooed; and
they answering, ran along the shore west-
ward, towards the voice they heard, when
they were presently stopped by the creek,
where, the water being up, they could not
get over, and called for the boat to come
up and set them over, as I expected. When
they had set themselves over, I observed
that the boat being gone up a good way
into the creek, they took one of the three
men out of her, to go along with them, and
left only two in the boat, having fastened
her to the stump of a little tree on the
shore. This was what I wished for; and
immediately leaving Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to their business, I took the
rest with me, and crossing the creek out of
their sight, we surprised the two men before
they were aware; one of them lying on
the shore, and the other being in the boat.
The fellow on shore was between sleeping
and waking, and going to start up. The cap-
tain, who was foremost, ran in upon him,
and knocked him down; and then called
out to him in the boat to yield, or he was
a dead man. There needed very few argu-
ments to persuade a single man to yield,
when he saw five men upon him, and
his comrade knocked down. In the
meantime, Friday and the captain's mate
so well managed their business with the
rest, that they drew them, by hallooing and
answering, from one hill to another, till
they not only heartily tired them, but left
them where they could not reach back to

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

the boat before it was dark; and, indeed,
they were heartily tired themselves also,
by the time they came back to us.
When they came back to the boat in
the dark, and found it high on the shore of
the creek, and their two men gone, they
began to complain that they were on an
enchanted island.
I made the man they had left in the
boat, who was now one of us, call them
by name, to try if I could bring them to
a parley. So he calls out as loud as he
could to one of them, "Tom Smith! Tom
Smith! For God's sake, throw down your
arms and yield, or you are all dead men
this moment." "Who must we yield to?
Where are they?"
says Smith quickly.
"Here they are,"
says he; "here's our
captain and fifty men
with him, have been
hunting you these
two hours; the boat-
swain is killed, Will
Frye is wounded, and
I am a prisoner; and
if you do not yield
at once, you are all
lost."
Then the captain
called out that if they
would lay down their
arms, the governor,
by whom he meant
me, would spare all
their lives, except
that of Will Atkins,
who, it seems, was the
first man to mutiny
and lay hold of the captain. They all lay
down their arms at once, and we bound
them and took some to the cave, and the
others to my bower. I mended the hole
that we had made in the first boat, and
after talking with the prisoners, the cap-
tain picked out those that he could trust
and started to retake the ship, reaching her
about midnight.
Those that were on the deck were not
alarmed at seeing their own boats coming
back, and so the captain, after a short
fight, captured them all and put down the
hatches to keep the others below. They
then broke open the door of the round-
house where the new rebel captain lay, and
Ill
as he fired upon them and would not sub-
mit, the mate shot him dead. The next
day his body was hung up at the yard-
arm as a warning to the rest.
When the captain came back, he told
me he had brought me some little refresh-
ments, such as the ship afforded. Upon
this, he called aloud to the boat, and bade
his men bring the things ashore that were
for the governor; and, indeed, it was a
present as if I had been one that was not
to be carried away along with them, but
as if I had been to dwell upon the island
still, and they were to go without me.
First, he had brought me a case of bottles
full of excellent cordial waters, six large
bottles of Madeira wine, two pounds of
excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces
of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork,
with a bag of peas, and about a hundred-
weight of biscuit. He also brought me a
box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full of
lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and
abundance of other things. But besides
these, he brought me six new clean
shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair
of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one
pair of stockings, and a very good suit of
clothes of his own, which had been worn
but very little: in a word, he clothed me
from head to foot. It was a very kind and
agreeable present, as any one may imagine,
to one in my circumstances; but never was
anything in the world of that kind so
unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it was
to me to wear such clothes at their first
putting on.
After dressing in my new clothes, so as
to look more like a real governor than in
my goat skins, I had all the rebels brought
before me, and I told them I had got a full
account how they had run away with the
ship, and were preparing to commit further
robberies. I let them know that by my

direction the ship had been seized; that
she lay now in the road; and they might
see that their new captain had received the
reward of his villany; that, as to them, I
wanted to know what they had to say why
I should not execute them as pirates, as
they could not doubt but I had authority
to do.
One of them answered that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they
were taken, the captain promised them-
their lives, and they humbly implored my
mercy. But I told them I knew not what
mercy to show them; for as for myself I
had resolved to quit the island with all my
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
men, and had taken passage to go to
England. As for them, they could not go
to England in the ship, except as prisoners
in arms, and upon reaching there, they
would surely be hanged.
When I came to England, I was a per-
fect stranger to all the world. My father
and mother were dead, and all my family
except two sisters and two children of one
of my brothers. The captain gave to the

Upon this they begged that I would let
them stay on the island, to which I gave
my consent. Then I told them my whole
history, and how I had managed every-
thing. I left them, all my firearms and
about a barrel and a half of gunpowder,
and I prevailed upon the captain to give
them two barrels more and also some gar-
den seeds. I gave them also the bag of
peas, and the captain sent them their chests
and clothes, for which they seemed very
thankful. And then I left the island, after
being upon it eight-and-twenty years, two
months and nineteen days.
owners a handsome account of my saving
the ship, and they made up a purse of
nearly £200. With this money I resolved
to go to Lisbon and see if I could get any
news from my plantations in Brazil. I
accordingly took shipping and arrived in
Lisbon safely, Friday accompanying me,
and proving a most valuable servant. Here
I found my old friend, the captain, who
took me on the coast of Africa. He was
an old man now, and he told me he had
not been to the Brazils for nine years, but
he assured me that when he was there last,
my partner was alive, and he believed I
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
would have a very good account of my
plantation. I prepared the necessary papers
and sent them by a ship sailing to the
Brazils, and in about seven months I

received a large packet from my surviving
trustees giving a full account of my plan-
tation, which had been so improved that I
was now master of about 50,000 pounds
sterling in money, with a fine estate. The
trustees sent me, besides the gold, 1,200
chests of sugar and 800 rolls of tobacco.
I was so overcome by this news, and the
reception of such great riches, that I fell
sick, but soon recovered. I rewarded my
old benefactor, and appointed him receiver
of the profits of my plantation. Having
settled all my affairs in Lisbon, I resolved
to return to England by land—that is,
except from Calais to Dover. I engaged an-
other servant, and joined a party of mer-
chants, who were going the same way.
In this manner I set out from Lisbon;
and our company being very well mounted
and armed, we made a little troop, where-
of they did me the honor to call me cap-
tain, as well because I was the oldest man,
as because I had two servants.
When we came to the Pyrenean Moun-
tains, I suffered much with the cold, and
there was so much snow that we were
stopped ten days for want of a guide. We
found one, however, and set out again.
We were descending on the northern side
of the mountains, when, our guide being
something before us, out rushed three
monstrous wolves, and after them a bear.
Two of the wolves flew upon the guide,
and, had he been far before us, he would
have been devoured before we could have
helped him. One of them fastened upon
his horse, and the other attacked the man
with such violence that he had not time or
presence of mind enough to draw his pis-
tol, but hallooed and cried out to us most
lustily. My man Friday, like a bold
fellow, rode directly up, and with his
pistol shot the wolf in the head. The
other, when he heard the pistol shot, fled
immediately.
But never was a fight managed so hardily,
and in such a surprising manner, as that
between Friday and the bear. As the

bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does
not gallop as the wolf does, which is
swift and light, so he has two particular
qualities. First, as to men, who are not his
115
proper prey: if you do not meddle with
him he will not meddle with you; but
then you must take care to be very civil to
him, and give him the road, for he is a
very nice gentleman; he will not go a step
out of his way for a prince; nay, if you
are really afraid, your best way is to look
another way and keep going on; for if you
stop, and stand still, and look at him, he
takes it for an affront; but if you throw
or toss anything at him, and it hits him,
though it were but a bit of stick as big as
your finger, he sets all other business aside
to pursue his revenge—that is his first
quality. The next is, that if he be once
affronted, he will never leave you, night or
day, but follow at a good round rate till
he overtakes you.
When, on a sudden, we .espied the bear,
we were a little surprised. "Oh-oh, oh!"
says Friday; "oh, master! you give me te
leave, me shakee te hand with him; me
makee you good laugh."
"You fool," said I, "he will eat you
up." "Eatee me up! eatee me up!" says
Friday, twice over again; "me eatee him
up; me makee you good laugh; you all
stay here, me show you good laugh." So
down he sits, and gets his boots off in a
moment, and puts on a pair of pumps (as
we call the flat shoes they wear, and which
he had in his pocket), gives my other ser-
vant his horse, and with his gun away he
flew, swift like the wind.
The bear was walking softly on, and
offered to meddle with nobody, till Friday
coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the
bear could understand him : "Hark ye, hark
ye," says Friday, "me speakee with you."
We followed at a distance. Friday, who
had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came
up with him quickly, and took up a great
stone, and threw it at him, and hit him
just on the head, but did him no more

harm than if he had thrown it against a
wall. But it answered Friday's end, for the
rogue was so void of fear that he did it
purely to make the bear follow him, and
show us some laugh, as he called it. As
soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw
him, he turns about, and comes after him,
taking very long strides, and shuffling on
at a strange rate, so as would have put a
horse to a middling gallop. Away runs
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
Friday, and seeing a great oak-tree fit for
his purpose, he beckoned us to follow; and
doubling his pace, he got nimbly up the
tree, laying his gun down upon the ground,
at about five or six yards from the bottom
of the tree. The bear soon came to the tree,
and we followed at a distance. The first
thing he did, he stopped at the gun,
Finally, Friday crept to the end of the
limb and dropped to the ground, and the
bear began to come down backward. Fri-
day picked up his gnu, and when the bear
was nearly on the ground he shot him
through the head.
The guide now pressed us forward. We
had one dangerous place to pass, and our

smelled at it, but let it lie, and up he
scrambles into the tree, climbing like a
cat, though so monstrous heavy.
Friday went out on a long branch, and
the bear followed him. "Now," said Fri-
day, "see me make bear dance," and he
began to shake the limb up and down, so
that the bear had all it could do to hold
on. When the bear would move back,
Friday would sit still and tell him to come
farther, and the bear would start toward
him, and get another shaking as before.
guide told us, if there were more wolves
in the country, we should find them there;
and this was a small plain surrounded
with woods on every side, and a long nar-
row defile, or lane, which we were to pass
to get through the wood, and then we
should come to the village where we were
to lodge. It was within half an hour of
sunset when we entered the wood, and a
little after sunset when we came into the
plain. We met with nothing in the first
wood, except that in a little plain we saw
117
five great wolves cross the road, full speed,
one after another. Upon this, our guide,
who was but a faint-hearted fellow, bid us
keep in a ready posture, for he believed

there were more wolves a-coming. We
kept our arms ready and our eyes about us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came
through that wood, and entered the plain.
As soon as we came into the plain, the first
object we met with was a poor horse which
the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen
of them at work picking his bones. We
had not gone half over the plain, when we
began to hear the wolves howl in the wood
on our left in a frightful manner, and pres-
ently we saw about a hundred coming on
directly toward us, all in a body. I scarce
knew in what manner to receive them, but
found to draw ourselves in a close line was
the only way; so we formed in a moment,
but I ordered that only every other man
should fire, and that the others should
stand ready to give them a second volley
immediately. However, at present, we had
no necessity; for upon firing the first vol-
ley, the enemy made a full stop. Four of
them being shot in the head, dropped;
several others were wounded, and went
bleeding off. I found they stopped, but
did not immediately retreat; whereupon I
caused all the company to halloo as loud
as we could; and they began to retire «nd
turn about. I then ordered a second volley
to be fired in their rear, which put them to
the gallop, and away they went to the
woods. We had but little more than loaded
our fusees, when we heard a terrible noise
in the same wood on our left, only that it
was farther onward.
The night was coming on, and the light
began to be dusky, which made it the
worse on our side; and, on a sudden, we
perceived two or three troops of wolves, one
on our left, one behind us, and one in our
front, so that we seemed to be surrounded
with them. However, as they did not fall
upon us, we kept our way forward. At

another opening of the wood, we heard
the noise of a gun, and looking that way,
out rushed a horse, with a saddle and
a bridle on him, flying like the wind, and
sixteen or seventeen wolves after"him full
speed.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
But here we had a most horrible sight;
for, riding up to where the horse came out,
we found the carcases of another horse and
of two men, devoured by the ravenous
creatures. This filled us with horror, and
we knew not what course to take; but the
creatures resolved us soon, for they
gathered about us presently, in hopes of

prey. It happened, very much to our
advantage, that at the entrance into the
wood, there lay some large timber-trees. I
drew my little troop in among those trees,
and placing ourselves in a line behind one
long tree, I advised them all to alight, and
keeping that tree before us for a breast-
work, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts,
inclosing our horses in the centre. We did
so, and it was well we did; for never was
a more furious charge than the creatures
made upon us. They came on us with a
growling kind of a noise, and mounted the
piece of timber. I ordered our men to fire
as before, every other man; and they took
their aim so sure that they killed several of
the wolves at the first volley; but there
was a necessity to keep a continual firing,
for they came on like devils, those behind
pushing on those before. I finally ordered
a train of powder to be poured along the
log, and I set fire to it. This frightened
them so that Avhen we had fired another
volley and gave a great shout, they all
turned tail and left us, and we resumed
our journey.
I reached England and made up my mind
to stop roving. I married a wife not to my
dissatisfaction, and had'three children, two
sons and a daughter, and for seven years
was contented I sold my plantation in
the Brazils and was wealthy and happy.
One of my nephews I bred up as a gentle-
man, the other I placed with a ship
captain, and being a bold and sensible
fellow, in five years I gave him a good
ship and sent him to sea.
But, my wife dying and my nephew
coming home with good success from a
voyage to Spain, the old desire to go
abroad returned, and in my after voyages
I had more adventures of which I shall
give an account in a Second Part of my
history.
119

PART II.

HAT homely proverb, that
what is bred in the bone
will not go out of the flesh,
was never more verified
than in the story of my life.
Any one would think that after
thirty-five years' affliction, and a
variety of unhappy circumstances,
which few men, if any, ever went
through before, and after near seven years
of peace and enjoyment in the fulness of
all things, and grown old, that the native
propensity to rambling should be worn
out, and I might, at sixty-one years of age,
have been a little inclined to stay at home.
Yet all these things had no effect upon
me, or at least not enough to resist the
strong inclination I had to go abroad again.
In particular, the desire of seeing my new
plantation on the island, and the colony \
left there, ran in my head continually. I
dreamed of it all night, and my imagina-
tion ran upon it all day; and my fancy
worked so steadily and strongly upon it
that I talked of it in my sleep.
In this kind of temper I lived some years.
My wife, finally, told me very seriously,
one night, that she believed there was some
powerful impulse of Providence upon me
to visit my island again, and that I ought
logo. This affectionate behavior in my wife
brought me a little out of the vapors, .and
I began to think seriously of my folly,
and to give up my thoughts of going
away. I resolved to divert myself with
other things, and to engage in some busi-
ness that might effectually tie me up from

any more excursions of this kind; for I
found that thing return upon me chiefly
when I was idle, and had nothing to do.
To this purpose, I bought a little farm in
the county of Bedford. I had a little
house upon it, and the land about it, I
found, was capable of great improvement.
In a word, I went down to my farm, settled
my family, bought ploughs, harrows, a
cart, wagon, horses, cows and sheep, and,
setting seriously to work, became in one
half-year a mere country gentleman. My
thoughts were entirely taken up in manag-
ing my servants, cultivating the ground,
enclosing, planting, etc.; and I lived, as I
thought, the most agreeable life that na-
ture was capable of directing.
But in the middle of all this felicity,
one blow from unseen Providence un-
hinged me at once, and drove me into a
deep relapse of the wandering disposition,
which, as I may say, being born in my
very blood, soon recovered its hold of me.
This blow was the loss of my wife. My
thoughts ran all away again into the old
affair; my head was quite turned with the
whimseys of foreign adventures; and all
the pleasant, innocent amusements of my
farm, which before entirely possessed me,
were nothing to me, had no relish, and
were like music to one that- has no ear, or
food to one that has no taste; in a word, I
resolved to let my farm, and return to Lon-
don. When I came to London, I was still
as uneasy as I was before; I had no relish
for the place, no employment in it, nothing
to do but to saunter about.
It was now the beginning of the year
Ib93, when my nephew, whom I had
brought up to the sea, was come home
from a short voyage to Bilboa. He came
to me, and told me that some merchants of
his acquaintance had been proposing to
him to go a voyage for them to the East
Indies, and to China, as private traders.
"And now, uncle," says he, "if you will
go to sea with me, I will engage to land
you upon your old habitation in the island;
for we are to touch at the Brazils."
This so exactly hit with my temper that
I consented, but told him I would go no
further than my own island. He argued
against this, but to little purpose. How-
ever, I and my man Friday went on board
in the Downs, on the 8th of January, 1693.
I took with me the frame of a sloop that
could be easily put together. I also took
with me some servants whom I purposed
to leave on the island, among them two
carpenters, a smith, a very handy, in-
121

g^cious fellow, who could do many things,
and a tailor. In my cargo was an abun-
dance of cloths and wearing apparel, beds,
bedding, and household stuff, particularly
kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter,
brass, etc., and near a hundred pounds more
in iron-work, nails, tools of every kind,
staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary
thing I could think of.
I carried also a hundred spare arms,
muskets, and fusees; besides some pistols,
a considerable quantity of shot of all
sizes, three or four tons of lead, and two
pieces of brass cannon; and, because I
knew not what time and what extremities
I was providing for, I carried a hundred
barrels of powder, besides swords, cut-
lasses, and the iron part of some pikes and
halberts. So that, in short, we had a large
magazine of all sorts of stores; and I
made my nephew carry two small quart*-r-
deck guns more than he wanted for his
.ship, to leave behind if there was occasion;
that when we came there, we might build
a fort, and man it against all sorts of
enemies.
Contrary winds first put us to the north-
ward, and we were obliged to put in at
Galway, in Ireland. Here I took in sev-
eral live hogs, and two cows with their
calves, which I resolved, if I had a good
passage, to put on shore in my island; but
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
we found occasion to dispose otherwise of
them.
We set out on the 5th of February from
Ireland, and had a very fair gale of wind
for some days. As I remember, it might
be about the 20th of February, in the even-
ing late, when the mate, having the watch,
came into the round-house, and told us he
saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired.
I immediately ordered that five guns
should be fired, one soon after another,
that, if possible, we might give notice to
them that there was help for them at hand,
and that they might endeavor to save
themselves in their boat; for though we
could see the flames of the ship, yet they,
it being dark, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, onn

This made us all run out upon the quarter-
deck, where we saw a very great light,
which we concluded must be some ship
on fire at sea; and as, by our hearing the
noise of guns just before, we concluded
that it could not be far off, we stood
directly towards it. In about half an hour's
sailing, the wind being fair and the weather
clearing up a little, we could plainly dis-
cern that it was a great ship on fire.
driving as the burning ship drove, waiting
for daylight; when, on a sudden, to our
great terror, though we had reason to
expect it, the ship blew up in the air; and
in a few minutes the rest of the ship sunk.
About eight o'clock in the morning, we
discovered the ship's boats, and found
there were two of them, both thronged
with people. We immediately spread our
ancient, to let them know we saw them,
123
and hung a waft out, as a signal for them
to come on board; and then made more
sail, standing directly to them. In little
more than half an hour, we came up with
them; and, in a word, took them all in,
being no less than sixty-four men, women
and children.
It is impossible for me to express the
several gestures, the strange ecstasies
which these poor delivered people ran into.
There were some in tears; some raging and
tearing themselves, as if they had been in
the greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark
raving and downright lunatic; some ran

HOB INS ON CRUSOE.

about the ship stamping with their feet,
others wringing their hands; some were
dancing, some singing, some laughing,
more crying, many quite dumb, not able to
speak a word; several swooning and readv
to faint; and a few were crossing them-
selves, and giving God thanks.
There were two priests among them, one
much older than the other. This old priest
went stark mad, but the young one was
very calm, and after he had fallen on his
knees and given thanks, he did much to
quiet the others. In a little more than a
week, we met a barque, which the French
people hired to put them on shore; all
except the young priest, who desired to go
with us. ,
We steered on toward the West Indies
for twenty d&ys, when we came up with a
ship with one mast gone, and quite help-
less. The crew were. in great distress,
being out of provisions, arid nearly starved.
There was a youth, and his mother, and
a maid-servant on board, who were passen-
gers, and having no provisions of their
own, they were in a more deplorable con-
dition than the rest; for the seamen, being
reduced to such an extreme necessity them-
selves, had no compassion for the poor
passengers. We lay by the ship long
enough to supply them with provisions,
and help them put up a new mast, and they
thought they could continue their voyage.
While we lay there, the woman passenger
died, and the son begged that we would
take him and the servant on our ship,
which we did.
I shall trouble nobody with the little in-
cidents of wind, weather, currents, etc., on
the rest of our voyage; but, to shorten my
story, shall observe that I came to my old
habitation, the island, on the 10th of April,
1695. It was with no small difficulty that
I found the place; for, as 1 came to it, and
went from it, before, on the south and east
side of the island, coming from the Brazil*,
KO now, coming in between the main and
the island, I did not know it when I saw it.
We went on shore on several islands,
but none for my purpose; ouV this I
learned by my coasting the shore, that I
was under one great mistake before, viz.
that the continent which I thought I sa\v
from the island I lived in, was really no
continent, but a long island, or rather n
ridge of islands.
Thus, coasting from one island to an-
other, at length I came fair on the south
side of my island, and presently knew the
125
very countenance of the place ; so I brought
the ship safe to an anchor, broadside with
the little creek where my old habitation
was.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for
Friday, and asked him if he knew where
he was? He looked about a little, and,
presently clapping his hands, cried, "Oh,
"Well, well," says I, "Friday, you don't
know; but shall we see anyone else,
then?" The fellow, it seems, had better
eyes than I, and he points to the hill just
above my old house; and, though we lay
half a league off, he cries out, "Me see,
me see, yes, yes, me see much man there,
and there, and there!"

yes; oh, there—oh, yes; oh, there !" point-
ing to our old habitation, and fell dancing
and capering like a mad fellow; and I had
much ado to keep him from jumping into
the sea, to swim ashore to the place.
"Well, Friday," says I, "do you think
we shall find anybody here? and do you
think we shall find your father?" "No,
no," says he, shaking his head, "no see
him more; no, never more see him again.
He long ago die; he much old man."
As soon as Friday told ' ine he saw
people, I caused the English ancient to be
spread, and fired three guns, to give them
notice we were friends; and immediately
ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me;
and went directly on shore, taking with
me the .young friar. We had, besides,
about sixteen men well armed, if we had
found any neXv guests there whi<ih we' did
not know of; but' we - had ' 'HO: need of
weapons.
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
As we went on shore, the first man I
fixed my eye upon was the Spaniard
whose life I had saved. I ordered nobody
to go on shore at first but myself; but
there was no keeping Friday in the boat,
for the affectionate creature had spied his
father at a distance, and if they had not
let him go ashore, he would have jumped
into the sea. He was no sooner on shore,
but he flew away to his father, like an
arrow out of a bow. It would have made
any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest
resolution, to have seen the first transports
of this poor fellow's joy when he came to
his father: how he embraced him, kissed
him, stroked his face, took him up in his


arms, set him down upon a tree, and lay
down by him; then stood and looked at
him for a quarter of an hour together;
then lay down on the ground, and stroked
his legs, and kissed them, and then got up
again, and stared at him; one would have
thought the fellow bewitched. But it
would have made a dog laugh the next
day to see how his passion ran out another
way. In the morning, he walked along the
shore again with his old father, several
hours, always leading him by the hand, as
if he had been a lady; and every now and
then he would come to the boat to fetch
something or other for him, either a lump
of sugar, a dram, a biscuit cake, or some-
thing or other that was good. In the
afternoon, his frolics ran another way; for
then he would set the old man down upon
the ground, and dance about him, and
make a thousand antic postures and ges-
tures; and all the while he did this he
would be talking to him, and telling him
one story or another of his travels, and of
what happened to him abroad, to divert
him. In short, if the same filial affection
was to be found in Christians to their
127
in our pftrt of the world, one
tvould be tempW to say there would
hardly haAre beea any need of the fifth
•iommandment.
The first Spftpiard, whom I said, I knew
very well, tvaa he whose life I had saved.
He came towards the boat, and he not only
iid not know me at first, but he had no
then, beckoning to the person that attended
him, bade him go and call out his com-
rades.
He then asked me if I would walk to
my old habitation, where he would give me
possession of my own house again. So I
walked along with him; but, alas ! I could
no more find the place again than if I had

thoughts, no notion of its being me that
-was come, till I spoke to him. "Seignior,"
said I, in Portuguese, "do you not know
me?" At which he spoke not a word, but
threw his - arms abroad, and saying some-
thing in Spanish that I did not perfectly
hear, came forward and embraced me, tell-
ing me he was inexcusable not to know that
face again that he had once seen as if an
angel from Heaven, sent to save his life;
never been there; for they had planted so
many trees, and in ten years' time they
were grown so big, that, in short, the place
was inaccessible, except by such windings
and blind ways as they themselves only,
who made them, could find.
I asked him what put them upon all
these fortifications. He told me I would say
there was need enough of it, when they
had given me an account how they had
BOBINSON CRUSOE.

passed their time. Nothing that ever befell
him in his life, he said, was so afflicting to
him at first, as the disappointment when he
came back to the island and found I was
not there.
As to the three barbarians (so he called
them) that were left behind, and of whom,
he said, he had a long story to tell me, the
Spaniards all thought themselves much
better among the savages, only that their
number was so small; "and," says he," had
they been strong enough, we had been all
long ago in purgatory;" and with that he
crossed himself on the breast. "But, sir,"
says he, "I hope you will not be displeased
when I shall tell you how, forced by neces-
sity, we were obliged to disarm them, and
make them our subjects, as they would not
be content with being moderately our
masters, but would be our murderers." I
answered, I was afraid of it when I left
them there, and nothing troubled me at
my parting from the island, but that they"
were not come back, that I might have put
them in possession of everything first, and
left the others in a state of subjection, as
they deserved.
While I was saying this, the mail
carne whom he had sent back, and with
him eleven more. In the dress they were
in, it was impossible to guess what nation
they were of; but he made all clear both
to. them and to me. First he turned to
me, and pointing to them, said, "These,
sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to you;" and then turning to
them, and pointing to me, he let them
know who I was; upon which they all
came up, one by one, not as if they had
been sailors, and ordinary fellows, but
really as if they had been noblemen, and I
a monarch.

129
As soon as I had retired with the Span-
iard, I had him relate to me all that had
happened, and first I asked him about his
voyage to the main, as I then thought it,
with Friday's father. He told me they had
a safe voyage and his friends were over-
joyed to see him, and they had thought
him surely dead. They borrowed some
large canoes from the savages under the
way I baked my bread, bred up tame
goats, and planted my corn; and, in a
word, everything I did. They began to
live very sociably; and the head Spaniard,
who had seen pretty much of my methods,
and Friday's father together, managed all
their affairs; but as for the Englishmen,
they did nothing but ramble about the
island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises;

pretense of going a-fishmg, and reached the
island in safety.
The only just thing the rogues did was
that, when the Spaniards came ashore, they
gave my letter to them, and gave them
provisions, as I ordered them; also they
gave them the long paper of directions
which I had left with them, containing
the particular methods which I took for
managing every part of my life there; the
and when they came home at night, the
Spaniards had their suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have heen satisfied
with this, had the others but let them
alone, which, however, they could not find
in their hearts to do long; but, like the dog
in the manger, they would not eat them-
selves, neither would they let the others
eat. The difference, nevertheless, was at
fii-st but trivial, and such as is not worth
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

relating, but at last it broke out into open
war; and though, it is true, the first rela-
tion of it came from the Spaniards them-
selves, whom I may call the accusers, yet
when I came to examine the fellows, they
could not deny a word of it.
But before I come to the particulars of
this part, I must supply a defect in my
former relation; and this Avas, I forgot to
set down, among the rest, that just as we
were weighing the anchor to set sail, there
happened a little quarrel on board of our
ship, and the captain, in separating them,
threatened again to hang them when he
came to England. This so frightened two
of them that they stole the ship's pinnace,
and taking two muskets and some other
weapons, they ran away to their com-
panions on shore. But the other rogues
would not have them to live with them,
but made them go and build huts for
themselves. This they had done when the
Spaniards came. The latter gave them
some corn to plant, and they began to live
pretty well. But the three rogues would
not let them alone, but tore up their crops
and set their hut on fire.
But not to crowd this part with an ac-
count of the lesser part of their rogueries,
such as treading down their corn, shooting
three young kids and a she-goat, which tlto
poor men had got to breed up tame for
their store; and, in a word, plaguing them
night and day in this manner, it forced the
two men to such a desperation, that they
resolved to fight them all three, the first
time they had a fair opportunity.
It happened that the day before, two of
the Spaniards, having been in the woods,
had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom,
for distinction, I called the honest men,
and he had made a sad complaint to the
Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had
met with from their three countrymen.
When the Spaniards came home at night,
and they were all at supper, one of them
took the freedom to reprove the three
Englishmen, though in very gentle and
mannerly terms, and asked them how they
could be so cruel.
One of the Englishmen returned very
briskly, "What had they to do there ? that
they came on shore without leave; and
that they should not plant or build upon
the island; it was none of their ground."
"Why," said the Spaniard, very calmly,
"Seignior Inglese, they must not starve."
The Englishman replied, "They might
starve; they should not plant nor build in
that place. They should be servants,

131
and work for them." "But," says the
Spaniard, "they are not bought with your
money; you have no right to make them
servants." The Englishman answered,
"The island was theirs; the governor had
given it to them, and no man had anything
the Spaniards had given notice of their
coming, and Atkins proposed that they
should take revenge on the Spaniards. ..
As soon as they had made this bloody
bargain, they fell to work with the poor
men's habitation. They did not set fire,

to do there but themselves;" and with
that, swore that they would go and burn
all their new huts. "Why," said the
Spaniard, "by the same rule we would be
your slaves too." "And so you shall,"
says the bold dog, "before we are done
with you." With that, they strode off with
their guns.
They intended to wait till midnight, and
then go murder the two men and burn
their huts; but they fell asleep and did not
awake until their victims were gone abroad
in the morning. Then they concluded that
indeed, to anything, but they pulled down
both their houses, and pulled them so limb
from limb that they left not the least stick
standing, or scarce any sign on the ground
where they stood. They tore all their little
collected household stuff in pieces, and
threw everything about in such a manner,
that the poor men afterwards found some
of their things a mile off their habitation.
When they had done this, they pulled up
all the young trees which the poor men
had planted; pulled up an inclosure they
had made to secure their cattle and their
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
corn; and, in a word, sacked and plundered
everything as completely as a horde of
Tartars would have done.

The two men were, at this juncture, gone
to find them out, and had resolved to fight
them wherever they had been, though they
were but two to three; so that, had they
met, there certainly would have been
bloodshed among them, for they were all
very stout, resolute fellows, to give them
their due.
But Providence took more care to keep
them asunder than they themselves could

do to meet; for, as if they had dogged one
another, when the three were gone thither,
the two were here; and afterwards, when
the two went back to find them, the three
were come to the old habitation again. We
shall see their different conduct presently.
When the three came back like furious
creatures, flushed with the rage, which the
work they had been about had put them
into, they came up to the Spaniards, and
told them what they had done, by way
of scoff and bravado; and one of them

stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if
they had been a couple of boys at play,
takes hold of his hat as it was upon his
head, and giving it a twirl about, fleering
in his face, says to him, "And you, Sei-
gnior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same
sauce, if you do not mend your manners."
The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil
man, was as brave a man as could be,
having no weapon in his hand, stepped
gravely up to him, and, with one blow of
his fist, knocked him down; at which one
1:33
of the rogues, as insolent as the first, fired
his pistol at the Spaniard immediately. He
missed his body, indeed, for the bullets
went through his hair, but one of them
touched the tip of his ear, and he bled
pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard
believe he was more hurt than he really
\vas, and that put him into some heat, for
before he acted all in a perfect calm. But
now, resolving to go through with his work,
he stooped, and took the fellow's musket
whom he had knocked down, and was just
going to shoot the man who had fired at
him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being
in the cave, came out and calling to him
not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the
other two, ami took their arms from them.
The rogues went away swearing ven-
geance, but when they had wandered about
for three days, they came back nearly
starved, and begged to be taken iu. So
the Spaniards took them in again, and gave
them their arms, first making them go and

build up the huts and fences they had
destroyed. They had just begun to be in-
solent again when an accident happened
which made them lay by all private resent-
ments, and look to the preservation of their
lives.
The Spaniard whom I had saved and

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
governor,
who was then the leader or the
feeling restless one night, got up and
wandered abroad to see if anything was
the matter. He had not gone far when he
was surprised to see several fires and a
great number of savages walking about
them. He went back and told the rest,
and they all kept very close till morning.
It seems that the savages had had a great
battle in their own country, and both sides
had come here to eat their prisoners. But
neither party knew that the other was on
the island. In the morning, when they
found it out, they fell to fighting again,
and a great number were killed. Three of
them ran away, right into our habitation
and were captured by the Spaniards.
When the battle was over, the victors
raised a great shout, and took to their
canoes, and shortly after the others fol-
lowed, none of them who went away
having found out that there were inhabi-
tants on the island. The great danger they
had been in tamed even the three English
brutes I have been speaking of; and for a


grcat while after, they were tractable, and
went about the common business of the
whole society well enough. But some time
after this they fell into such simple meas-
ures again, as brought them into a great
deal of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I
observed; and these three being lusty, stout
young fellows, they made them servants,
and taught them to work for them; and
as slaves they did well enough. But they
did not take their measures with them as 1
did by my man Friday, and so they never
had them to assist them and light for them
as I had Friday, who was as true to me as
the very flesh upon my bones.
And now they had another broil with
the three Englishmen; one of whom,
being in a rage at one of the three slaves,
135
the fellow had not done some-
thing right which he bid him do, drew a
hatchet out of a frog-belt, in which he
wore it, and fell upon the poor savage to
kill him. One of the Spaniards, who was
by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous
cut in his shoulder, placed himself between
him and the savage. The fellow, being
enraged the more at this, struck at the
Spaniard with his hatchet, when the
Spaniard knocked him down with a shovel.
The two other Englishmen rushed on the
Spaniard, and the other Spaniards coming
to the rescue, a sharp fight ensued, and
then the three Englishmen were taken
prisoners.
Some of the Spaniards were then for
putting them to death; but the merciful
governor decided that they should be
turned away to live by themselves, and
forbidden to come near them under pain

of being shot. He gave them grain and
provisions and all else that they needed,
except arms and ammunition, and they
went and builded huts on a remote part of
the island. Here they lived for nearly a
year, when they came in one day and
asked for a canoe and arms, and said they
would go over to the mainland and seek
their fortunes. The Spaniards gave them
arms and ammunition and some tools, and

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
having baked bread enough to serve them
a month, and given them as much goats'
flesh as they could eat while it was sweet,
and a great basket of dried grapes, a pot
of fresh water, and a young kid alive, they
boldly set out in the canoe for a voyage
over the sea, where it was at least forty
miles broad. The Spaniards called after
them, "Bon veyajo /" and no man ever
thought of seeing them any more.
battle were eaten. There had been a great
fight, and the king then had a large number
waiting to be killed and eaten. Will
Atkins in fun asked if they might have
some, and the savages brought down to the
boat five women and eleven men.
As brutish as these fellows were at home,
their stomachs turned at this sight, and
they did not know what to do. To refuse
the prisoners would have been the highest

But after two-and-twenty days' absence
they all came back, and upon being ques-
tioned told of their adventures. They had
reached what they thought the main land
and found it only an island. The savages
rushed down to the shore to fight them, so
they did not land. They landed, however,
at another island where they were well
treated. On that island, they were told
that only the men and women taken in
affront to the savage gentry that could be
offered them. After some debate they
resolved to accept of them; and, in return,
they gave the savages one of their hatcbets,
an old key, a knife, and six or seven of
their bullets; which, though they did not
understand their use, they seemed particu-
larly pleased with; and then tying the poor
creatures'hands behind them, they dragged
the prisoners into the boat for our men.
137
On the way back, they stopped at the
first island and set eight of them at lib-
erty, and the others they had brought to
our island and then had them bound in
their huts, so they could not run away.
Upon hearing such a remarkable story, all
went over to the huts to look at them.
Here they Bat, all of them stark naked.
First, there were three men, lusty, comely
fellows, well-shaped, straight and fair limbs,
about thirty and thirty-five years of age;
and five women, whereof two might be
from thirty to forty; two more not above
four or five-and-twenty; and the fifth, a
tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or seven-
teen. The women were well-favored, agree-
able persons, both in shape and features,
only tawny; and two of them, had they
been perfectly white, would have passed
for very handsome women, even in London
itself.
Only one of them, a woman, could
understand Friday's father, but through
her we soon made them understand that
they were not to be eaten, nor even killed.
At this, when we untied them, they all
fell to dancing, and then they all began to
take up things to signify that they would
work. As there were five women and
five Englishmen, the Spaniards let these
last each choose one for a wife, which they
did. And now each one built a hut for
himself, the two honest ones in one place,
and the three rogues in another.
Some time after this, five or six canoes
of savages came on shore. Our men kept
within doors till the canoes were gone,
and then it was discovered that they had
left three of their number behind, and
they lay under a tree fast asleep. After

consultation it was resolved to take them
prisoners; and they did so. The poor
fellows were strangely frightened when
they were seized upon and bound; and
afraid, like the women, that they should be
murdered and eaten for it seems those
people think all the world do as they do;
but they were soon made easy as to that.
One of them ran away to the woods
and was never seen again. He probably

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
escaped with some canoes that came ashore
soon after.
The first testimony they had that this
fellow had given intelligence of them was,
that, about two months after, six canoes of
savages came rowing along the north side
of the island, where they never used to
When our men came out from the tree,
the savage who was not killed began to
make piteous moans for his life, so they
tied him to a tree and ran on to their
wives. Soon after, the other savages went
away as they came. It was five or six
months before they saw any more of the

come before, and landed about a mile from
the habitation of the two Englishmen,
where this escaped man had been kept.
As they were coming directly towards
their huts, the two men sent their wives
and some of their goods into the woods,
and went a little way themselves and hid
in a hollow tree. The savages burned
their huts and then scattered about the
island. A number of them coming up to
the hollow tree, the two Englishmen fired
and killed all but one. Among the killed
was the savage who had escaped.
savages, when, on a sudden, they were
invaded by a fleet of no less than eight-
and-twenty canoes. The savages came on
shore in the evening, so our men had time
to make preparation. In the morning
they came ranging along the shore. Our
army was small, indeed. There were seven-
teen Spaniards, five Englishmen, old Fri-
day (or Friday's father), the three slaves
taken with the women, who proved very
faithful, and three other slaves who lived
with the Spaniards. To arm these, they
had eleven muskets, five pistols, three
139
fowling-pieces, five muskets or fowling-
pieces, two swords and three old halberts.
To their slaves they did not give
either musket or fusee; but they had each
a long staff, with a great spike of iron fas-
tened into each end of it, and by his side
a hatchet; also every one of our men had
a hatchet. Two of the women could not
be prevailed upon, but they would come
into the fight, and they hail bows and
their situation; only that Will Atkins,
who now proved a most useful fellow, with
six men, was planted just behind a small
thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard,
with orders to let the first of them pass by,
and then fire into the middle of them, and
as soon as he had fired, to make his retreat
as nimbly as he could round a part of the
wood, and so come behind the Spaniards.
When the savages came on, they ran

arrows, which the Spaniards had taken
from the savages when the first action hap-
pened, and the women had hatchets too.
The Spaniard governor commanded the
whole; and Will Atkins, who, though a
Dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a
. ioet daring, bold fellow, commanded
under him. The savages came forward
like lions; and our men, which was the
of their fate, had no advantage in
stra<?<7li n of about every way in heaps, out
of all manner of order, and Will Atkins
let about fifty of them pass by him; then
seeing the rest come in a very thick throng,
he orders three of his men to fire, having
loaded their muskets with six or seven bul-
lets apiece. How many they killed or
wounded they knew not, but the conster-
nation and surprise was inexpressible
among the savages. They were frightened
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

to the last degree to hear such a dreadful
noise, and see their men killed, and others
hurt, but see nobody that did it; when, in
the middle of their fright, Will Atkins and
his other three let fly again among the
thickest of them; and in less than a min-
ute, the first three being loaded again, gave
them a third volley.
Had Will Atkins and his men retired
immediately, as they were ordered to do,
or had the rest of the body been at hand,
to pour in their shot continually, the sav-
ages had been effectually routed; for they
thought they were killed by the gods with
thunder and lightning; but some of the
savages who were at a distance spying
them, came upon them behind, and wounded
Atkins himself, and killed one of his fellow
Englishmen with their arrows, as they did
afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the
Indian slaves.
Our men being thus hard laid at,
retreated to a rising ground in the wood;
and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys
upon them, retreated also; for their num-
ber was so great, and they were so desper-
ate, that though above fifty of them were
killed, and more than as many wounded,
yet they came on in the teeth of our men,
fearless of danger, and shot their arrows
like a cloud.
The Spaniard governor having drawn
his little body up together upon a rising
ground, Atkins, though he was wounded,
would have them march and charge again
altogether at once; but the Spaniard re-
plied: "Seignior Atkins, you see how their
wounded men fight; let them alone till
morning; all the wounded men will be
stiff and sore with their wounds, and faint
with the loss of blood; and so we shall
have the fewer to engage." This advice

was good; but Will Atkins replied mer-
rily, "That is true, seignior, and so shall I
too; and that is the reason I would go on
while I am warm." "Well, Seignior
Atkins," says the Spaniard, "you have be-
haved gallantly, and done your part; we
will fight for you if you cannot come on;
but 1 think it best to stay till morning."
So they waited.
But as it was a clear moonlight night,
and they found the savages in great dis-
order about their dead and wounded men,
and a great noise and hurry among them
where they lay, they afterwards resolved
to fall upon them in the night. They
came so near where the thickest of them
lay, that, before they were seen or heard,
eight of them fired in upon them, and did
dreadful execution upon them; in half a
minute more, eight others fired after them,
pouring in their small shot in such a
quantity, that abundance were killed and
wounded; and all this while they were not
able to see who hurt them, or which way
to fly.
They fought desperately, but so many
were killed and wounded, that the rest
soon fled to their boats and put to sea.
But a dreadful storm coming on that even-
ing, many of the canoes were lost and the
others driven back to the island, seeing
which our men went over and fired guns
to frighten them, and they all ran into the
woods. Our men then destroyed all their
boats, so that they could not get back to
their nation to bring another army. The
savages kept hid in the woods most of the
time, but they managed to destroy the
. crops and do much damage. Having no
weapons, they were reduced to a deplor-
able condition, some of them even starv-
ing to death. Friday's father then caught
one, and through him arrangements were
made by which they were given seeds and
tools and a part of the island to live on,
upon condition that they would not leave
their bounds. The kept their promise,
and became very good and peaceful fel-
lows.
This was the condition of things on my

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
return. My coming was a great relief to
them, because we furnished them with
knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pickaxes,
and all things of that kind which they
could want. With the help of those tools,
they came at last to build up their huts or
houses very handsomely, raddling or work-
I measured it by my steps; the walls were
as close worked as a basket, and very strong.
Round the top he laid strong pieces,
pinned together with wooden pins, from
which he raised a pyramid for roof, very
handsome, I assure you, and joined to-
gether very well, though he had 110 nails?

ing it up like basket-work all the way
round. Our men were so taken with it,
that they got the wild savages to come and
do the like for them; so that when I came
to see the two Englishmen's colonies, they
looked, at a distance, as if they all lived
like bees in a hive. As for Will Atkins,
who was now become a very industrious,
useful, and sober fellow, he had made him-
self such a tent of basket-work as, I be-
lieve, was never seen. It was one hundred
and twenty paces round on the outside, as
and only a few iron spikes, which he made
himself too, out of the old iron that I had
left there; and, indeed, this fellow showed
abundance of ingenuity in several things
which he had no knowledge of. He made
him a forge, with a pair of wooden bel-
lows to blow the fire. He made himself
charcoal for his work; and he formed out
of the iron crows a middling good anvil to
hammer upon. In this manner he made
many things, but especially hooks, staples,
and spikes, bolts and hinges.
143
I had many talks with the Spaniards
about their adventures among the savages.
They told me they had given up all hope of
getting away. They were compelled to
go with them to their wars, and in one of
them the Spaniard, whom i had rescued,
was taken prisoner. They were very
grateful to me for sending for them, and
were very polite and kind in every way.
So I called them all together one day. and
O v'
showed them the stores I had brought,
and was going to leave them, for I had
not come to take them away. First, I
asked them, one by one, if they were
willing to stay, and would give up all
animosities, one to another. And each
told me he would.
Will Atkins, with abundance of frank-
ness, said they had met with affliction
enough to make them all sober, and ene-
mies enough to make them all friends;
that, for his part, he would live and die
with them; that they had done nothing to
him, but what his own mad humor made
necessary; and that he would ask them
pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish and
brutish things he had done to them; and
as for going to England, he cared not if
he did not go thither these twenty years.
I cannot express what pleasure sat upon
the countenances of all these poor men,
when they saw the care I had taken of
them. They told me I was a father to
them; and that having such a correspond-
ent as I was in so remote a part of the
world, it would make them forget that
they were left in a desolate place; and
they all engaged to me not to leave the
place without my consent
Then I presented to them the people I

had brought with me, particularly the
tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters,
all of them most necessary people; but,
above all, my general artificer, than whom
they could not name anything that was
more useful to them. And the tailor, to
show his concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made
them every one a shirt, the first thing he
did; and what was still more, he taught
the women not only how to stitch, but he
made them assist to make the shirts for
their husbands, and for all the rest.
As to the carpenters, I scarce need men-
tion how useful they were; for they took
to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things,
and made clever, convenient tables, tools,
bedsteads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and
everything they wanted of that kind. But
to let them see how nature made artificers
at first, I carried the carpenters to see Will
Atkins' basket-house, as I called it; and
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

they both owned they never saw an instance
of such natural ingenuity before, nor any-
thing so regular and handily built, at least
of its kind. And one of them, when he saw
it, after musing a good while, turning about
to me, "I am sure," says he, "that man
has no need of us; you need do nothing
but give him tools."
The young man whose mother was
starved to death, and also the maid
requested leave to remain, so a plot of
ground was given them and a house was
built for them to live in. Before I left the
priest married the maid to my Jack-of-all-
trades, as I call him, and they built another
something of religion; that notwithstand-
ing these English subjects of mine, as he
called them, had lived with these women
almost seven years, had taught them to
speak English, and that they were, as he
perceived, women capable of instruction,
yet they had not, to this hour, taught them

house. This young Catholic priest had
so much true piety that he was beloved by
all He came to me one morning and told
me that the men I was leaving behind
would not have God's blessing if they were
not married to their wives, and further-
more that they should teach their wives
anything of the Christian religion—no, not
so much as to know that there was a God.
"I am persuaded," says he, "had those
men lived in the savage country whence
their wives came, the savages would have
taken more pains to have brought them to
be idolaters, and to worship the devil, than
any of these men, so far as I can see, have
taken with them to teach them the knowl-
edge of the true God." I walked along
and urging how unchristian and irreligious
life it was, I first asked them if they were
married men or bachelors. They soon

toward the Englishmen's houses, and he
walked with me, discoursing by the way.
When we came to the Englishmen, I be-
gan to talk to them of the scandalous life
they led, and gave them a full account of
the notice the clergyman had taken of it;
showed that two of them were widowers,
and the other three were single men, or
bachelors. I asked them with what con-
science they could take these women, and
call them their wives and not be lawfully
marrled to them.
147
They all gave me the answer I expected,
viz., that there was nobody to many them;
that they agreed before the governor to
keep them as their wives, and to maintain
them and own them as their wives; and
that the laws of man being otherwise, they
might desert the poor women and children
hereafter; and that their wives, being
friendless and moneyless, would have to
help themselves.

they thought, as things stood with them,
they were as legally married as if they had
been married by a parson.
I told them that no doubt they were
married in the sight of God, and were
bound to keep them as their wives; but
All this went on as I expected; and
they told me, especially Will Atkins, who
now seemed to speak for the rest, that they
loved their wives as well as if they had
been born in their own native country, and
would not leave them on any account what-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
ever ; and they did verily believe that their
-wives were as virtuous and as modest, ami
did, to the utmost of their skill, as much
for them and for their children as any wo-
men oould possibly do. And Will Atkins,
for his own particular, added, that if any
man would offer to carry him home to Eng-
But when the clergyman came to per-
form the duty which he had suggested, he
would not do it till he had first awakened
in them some sense of their religious duty.
He talked to them with such effect that
two of them promised to live religious
lives and to teach their wives about God •

land, and make him captain of the best
man-of-war in the navy, he would not go
with him if he might not carry his wife
and children with him. In a word, they
all consented to be married by the priest.
and the priest married these two; but
Will Atkins said he would go and talk
with his wife about it. "This man,
Atkins," said the priest, " however wicked
he has been, will be a true convert."
HOBINSON CRUSOE.

After this, my clergyman, turning to me,
said, "I entreat you, sir, let us walk out
and look; I daresay we shall find this poor
man somewhere or other talking seriously
to his wife, and teaching her already some-
thing of religion." We went out together,
and I carried him a way which none knew
but myself, and where the trees were very
thick, when, coming to the edge of the
wood, I saw Atkins and his tawny wife
sitting under the shade of a bush, very
eager in discourse, pointing up to the sun,
and to every quarter of the heavens, and
then down to the earth, then out to the
sea, then to himself, then to her, to the
woods, to the trees. •' Now," says the
clergyman, "you see my words are made
good. The man preaches to her; mark him,
now, he is telling her that our God has
7 O
made him and her, and the heavens, the
earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, etc."
"I believe he is," said I. Immediately, we
perceived Will Atkins start upon his feet,
fall down on his knees, and lift up both
his hands.
We went back, and after a while Will
Atkins and his wife came in. Upon ques-
tioning him, he told me that he had tried
to talk to his wife about God. She would
not believe him at first, because she could
not understand why he did not worship so
great and good a being. This so shocked
him that he realized what a great sinner he
had been, and he had resolved to be a
Christian. Both he and his wife were
ready to be baptized, and the priest per-
formed that office, and then married them.
The last thing I did before I went away
was to take a Bible to Will Atkins. The
man was so confounded, that he was not
able to speak for some time; but recover-
ing himself, he takes it with both his
hands, and turning to his wife, "Here,

151

my dear," says he, "did I not tell you
our God, though he lives above, could
hear what we have said? Here's the
book I prayed for when you and I
kneeled down under the bush; now God
has heard us and sent it." When he had
said so, the man fell into transports of
passionate joy.
Having now done with the island, I left
them all in good circumstances, and in a
flourishing condition, and went on board
my ship again on the 6th of May. I prom-
ised to send them farther relief from the
Brazils, and particularly I promised to
send them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs
and cows. As to the two cows and calves
which I brought from England, we had
been obliged to kill them at sea, for want
of hay to feed them.
About three days after we had sailed,
while we were becalmed, a great fleet of
canoes were seen approaching us. I had the
ship brought to an anchor; the boats were
put overboard and manned, for I was afraid
only that they would set the ship on fire.
When they came nearer to us, they seemed
to be struck with wonder and astonishment,
as at a sight which doubtless they had
never seen before. They came up, how-
ever, very near to us, and seemed to go
about to row round us; but we called to
our men in the boats not to let them come
too near them. Our men beckoned with
their hands to keep them back, which they
understood very well, and went back; but
at their retreat about fifty arrows canie on
board us from those boats, and one of our
men in the long-boat was wounded. How-
ever, I called to them not to fire by any
means; but we handed down some deal
boards into the boat, with which they made
a kind of fence to cover them. They
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

rowed a little farther out to sea, till they
came directly broadside with us, and then
rowed down straight upon us. Upon this
I ordered all my men to keep close, lest
they should shoot any more arrows, and
made till our guns ready. I made Friday
go out upon the deck, and call out aloud
to them in his language, to know what
they meant; which accordingly he did.
Whether they understood him or not, that
I knew not; but immediately Friday cried
out they were going to shoot, and, unhap-
pily for him, poor fellow, they let fly
about three hundred of their arrows, and,
to my inexpressible grief, killed poor
Friday, no other man being in their sight. I
was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty
servant and companion, that I immediately
ordered five guns to be loaded with small
shot, and four with great, and gave them
such a broadside as they had never heard
in their lives before. They were not above
half a cable's length off when we fired;
and our gunners took the aim so well that
thirteen or fourteen of their canoes were
split and overset, and the men all set
a-swirnmmg; the rest, frightened out of
their wits, scoured away as fast as they
could, taking but little care to save those
whose boats were split or spoiled with our
shot; so I suppose that many of them
were lost.
We were now under sail again, but I
was the most disconsolate creature alive
for want of my man Friday, and would
have been very glad to have gone back to
the island, to have taken one of the rest
from thence for my occasion, but it could
not be; so we went on. Poor honest
Friday! We buried him with all the de-
cency and solemnity possible, by putting
him into a coffin, and throwing him into
the sea; and I caused them to fire eleyen
gnns for him; and so ended the life of the
most grateful, faithful, honest, and affec-
tionate servant that ever man had.
We arrived at the Brazils in about twelve
days' time. My old partner was glad to
see me, and sent me some very handsome

153
presents; and when I told him of the frame
of the sloop I had brought, and that it was
my design to send some supplies to the
people on my island, he offered to attend
to it for me.
Accordingly, he got hands, and finished
the sloop in a very few days; and I gave
the master of her such instructions that he
could not miss the place; nor did he, as I
had an account from my partner after-
who wished to go the island with his wife
and daughters, and we let them go.
Among the rest of the supplies sent to
my tenants on the island, I sent them by
the sloop three milch cows and five calves,
about twenty-two hogs among them, three
sows with pigs, two mares, and a stone-
horse. For my Spaniards, according to
my promise, I engaged three Portugal wo-
men to go, and recommended it to them to

wards. I got him soon loaded with the
cargo I sent them: and one of our seamen,
that had been on shore with me there,
offered to go with the sloop and settle
there, upon my letter to the governor
Spaniard, to allot him a sufficient quantity
of land for a plantation, and giving him
some clothes and tools for- his planting
work. There was also a man that had
fallen into the displeasure of the church,
marry them. All this cargo arrived safe,
and wjis very welcome to my old inhabi-
tants, who were now, with this addition,
between sixty and seventy people, besides
little children, of which there were a great
many. I found letters at London from
them all, by way of Lisbon, when I came
back to England.
I have now done with the island, and all
rnnner of discourse about it; and who-
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
ever reads the rest of ray memorandums
would do well to turn his thoughts entirely
from it, and expect to read of the follies of
an old man, not warned by his own harms,
much less by those of other men, to be-
ware.
I had no more business to go to the
East Indies than a man at full liberty has
to go to the turnkey at Newgate and de-
sire him to lock him up among the prison-
good rice, as I might also have done in sis
months' time, and ordered my friends to
have fitted her out again for our supply, I
had at least acted like a man of common
sense; but I was possessed of a wandering
spirit.
From the Brazils, we went directly to
the Cape of Good Hope, when we took in
fresh water, and then made the best of
our way to the coast of Madagascar.

ers there, and starve him. Had I taken a
small vessel from England, and gone
directly to the island; taken a patent from
the Government here to have secured my
property; had I carried over cannon and
ammunition, servants and people to plant,
and taken possession of the place, and in-
creased it with people, as I might easily
have done; had I then settled myself
there, and sent the ship back laden with
Though the people there are fierce and
treacherous, we traded some trifles, such
as knives, scissors, etc., for some fat bul-
locks.
It happened one evening, when we went
on shore, that a greater number of their
people came down than usual, but all very
friendly and civil; and they brought sev-
eral kinds of provisions, for which we
satisfied them with such toys as we had;
155
the women brought us milk and roots,
and several things very acceptable to us,
and all was quiet, and we made us a little
tent or hut of some boughs, and lay on
shore all night. But I was not so well
satisfied to lie on shore as the rest; and
I spread the sail on the bottom of the boat,
and lay all night in the boat.
About two o'clock in the morning, we
heard one of our men make a terrible noise
on the shore, calling out for God's sake to
bring the boat in, and come and help
them. At the same time I heard the fire of
five muskets, which was the number of
guns they had, and then three times over;
for, it seems, the natives here were not so
easily frightened with guns as the savages
were in America, where I had to do with
them. All this while I knew not what
was the matter, but rousing immediately
from sleep with the noise, I caused the
boat to be thrust in, and resolved, with
three fusees we had on board, to land and
assist our men.
We got the boat soon to the shore, but
our men were in too much haste; for being
come to the shore, they plunged into the
water, to get to the boat with all the
expedition they could, being pursued by
between three or four hundred men.


We took up seven of our men, and with,
difficulty enough too, three of them being
very ill wounded; and that which was
still worse was that while we stood in the
boat to take our men in, we were in as
much danger as they were in on shore;
for they poured their arrows in upon us
so thick that we were glad to barricade
the side of the boat up with two or three
loose boards, which we had by mere acci-
dent in the boat. We had, by the light
of the moon, a little sight of them, as they
stood pelting us from the shore with darts
and arrows; and having got ready our fire-
arms, we gave them a volley that we could
hear, by the cries of some of them, had
wounded several; however, thev stood
thus in battle array on the shore till break
of day.
In this condition we lay, and could not
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
tell how to weigh our anchor, or set up
our sail, because we must needs stand up
in the boat, and they were as sure to hit
us as we were to hit a bird in a tree with
small shot. We made signals of distress
to the ship, and the captain, hearing our
firing, pretty well understood us; and
weighing anchor with all speed, he stood as
near the shore as he durst with the ship,
and then sent out another boat, with ten
hands in her, to assist us, and they towed
us back to the ship.
We soon learned the cause of the fray.
It seems that a young woman had been
taken by one of our sailors and carried into
the woods. An old woman, who was with
the young one, made a great outcry, and
that brought on the attack. We had one
man killed, and the rest came off free, ex-
cept the one who was the cause of the
trouble, for he had not come back from the
woods. The third night, in the dark, we
took twenty stout fellows and went quietly
ashore to see if we could find the missing
man. We saw nothing of him, and I re-
solved on going on board; but the boat-
swain and his party were resolved to make
a visit to the Indian town, where these
dogs, as they called them, dwelt, and asked
me to go along with them; and if they
could find them, as they still fancied they
should, they did not doubt of getting a
good booty; and it might be they might
find Tom Jeffry there; that was the man's
name we had lost.
I positively refused it, and rose up, for I
was sitting on the ground, in order to go
to the boat. One or two of the men began

157
to opportune rue to go; and, when I re-
fused, began to grumble, and say they were
not under my command, and they would go.
"Come, Jack," says one of the men, "will
you go with me? I'll go for one." Jack
said he would—and then another—and, in
a word, they all left me but one, whom I
persuaded to stay, and a boy left in the
boat.
When they came to the Indian town,
three of them, who were a little before the
rest, called out and told them that they had
found Tom Jeffry; they all ran up to the
place, where they found the poor fellow
hanging up naked by one arm, and his
throat cut. There was an Indian house
just by the tree, where they found sixteen
or seventeen of the principal Indians, and
two or three of them wounded by our shot;
and our men found they were awake, and
talking one to another in that house, but
knew not their number.
The sight of their poor mangled comrade


so enraged them, as before, that they swore
to one another to be revenged, and that not
an Indian that came into their hands should
have any quarter; and to work they went
immediately, and in a quarter of an hour
they set the town on fire in four or five
places, and murdered so many of the peo-
ple that the rest rest ran off to the woods.
When our men came back, we set sail to
Bengal. On the way I blamed the men
very much for what they had done, and
this led to further trouble. I had gone on
shore at Bengal, and the men came and
told me they were resolved to leave me
there, for if I went back to the ship they
would all leave her. I sent for the captain,
and told him it would be so hard for him
to get sailors, that I had better stay, so he
left me, with all my goods and with plenty
of money.
Here I met an English merchant, and to-
gether we bought a ship and made trading
vovages to the Spice Islands and to China,
with great profit. We then sold our ship,
BOBINSON CRUSOE.

resolved to voyage no more. But one day
a Dutch ship came into port, and the man
who claimed to be the captain offered to
sell her to us cheap, and we bought. All
the crew left her, which we thought very
strange, but we afterwards learned that
they had mutinied and murdered the cap-
tain, and after sailing for a while as pirates
had sold the ship to us. We picked up
some English and some Dutch sailors, and
resolved to go to China again.
In this voyage, being by contrary winds
obliged to beat \ip and down a great while
in the Straits of Malacca, and among the
islands, we were no sooner got clear of
those difficult seas, than we found our ship
had sprung a leak, and we were not able,
by all our industry, to find out where it
was. This forced us to put into the river
of Cambodia, While we were here, and
going often on shore for refreshment, there
comes to me one day an Englishman, and
he was, it seems, a gunner's mate on board
an English East India ship, which rode in
the same liver, and speaking English,
"Sir," says he, "you are a stranger to me,
and I to you; but I have something to tell
you that very nearly concerns you."
I looked steadfastly at him a good while,
and thought at first I had known him, but
I did not. "If it very nearly concerns
me," said I, "and not yourself, what moves
you to tell it to me?" "I am moved,"
says he, "by the imminent danger you are
in, and, for aught I see, you have no know-
ledge of it." "I know no danger I am in,"
says I, "but that my ship is leaky, and I
cannot find it out; but I intend to lay her
aground to-morrow, to see if I can find it."
"Do you know, sir," said he, "the town of
159
Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this
river; and there are two large English ships
about five leagues on this side, and three
Dutch?" I turned short upon him, and
said: "Sir, I wish you would explain
yourself; I cannot imagine what reason I
have to be afraid of any of the Company's
ships, or Dutch ships. What can they
have to say to me?" "Well, sir," says he,
"if you think yourself secure, you must
take your chance; I am sorry your fate
should blind you against good advice; but
assure yourself, if you do not put to sea
immediately, you will the very next tide
be attacked by five long-boats full of men,
and perhaps, if you are taken, you will be
hanged for a pirate."
This led me to question him further, and
I found that he himself took us for pirates,
knowing the story of the killing of the
captain and the seizing of the ship by the
rascal who sold her to us. As soon as I
reached the side of the ship, my partner
told me he had stopped the leak, and we
weighed anchor and set sail at once. It
was not long before we found ourselves
chased by five boats. As they came up
and were making to board us, we poured
in a broadside upon them which sank one
boat, and running out our two long guns,
we kept firing till the rest gave up the
chase. We picked up three of their men
and went on our way, and reached the
coast of Cochin China. As we did not find
the ship so perfectly tight and sound as we
desired, we resolved while we were at this
place to lay her on shore, and take out
what heavy things we had on board, and
clean her bottom, if possible, to find out
where the leaks were.

The inhabitants, who had never been
acquainted with such a sight, came won-
dering down the shore to look at us; and
seeing the ship lie down on one side in
such a manner, and heeling in towards the
shore, and not seeing our men, who were
at work on her bottom with stages, and
with their boats on the off-side, they pre-
sently concluded that the ship was cast
away, and lay fast on the ground. On this
supposition, they all came about us in two
or three hours' time, with ten or twelve
large boats, intending, no doubt, to have
come on board and plundered the ship, and
if they found us there, to have carried us
away for slaves to their king, or whatever
they call him.
When they came up to the ship, and
began to row round her, they discovered
us all hard at work on the outside of the
ship's bottom and side, washing, and grav-
ing and stopping, as every seafaring man
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

knows Low. They stood for a while gaz-
ing at us, and we, who were a little sur-
prised, could not imagine what their de-
sign was; but being willing to be sure, we
took this opportunity to get some of us
into the ship, and others to hand down
arms and ammunition to those that were
at work, to defend themselves with, if
there should be occasion. And it was no
more than need—for they agreed, it seems,
that the ship was really a wreck, and that
we were all at work endeavoring to save
her. Upon this, they took it for granted
we all belonged to them, and away they
came directly upon our men.
Our men, seeing so many of them, began
to be frightened, and cried out to us to
know what they should do. I immediately
called to the men to come on board; and
the few who were on board worked with
all the strength and hands we had to bring
the ahip to rights. But, however, neither
the men upon the stages nor those in the
boats could do as they were ordered, before
the Cochin Chinese were upon them; and
two of their boats boarded, our long-boat,
and began to lay hold of the men as their
prisoners.
The first man they laid hold of was an
English seaman, a stout, strong fellow. He
grappled the pagan, and dragged him out
of their boat into ours, where, taking him
by the ears, he beat his head against the
boat's gunnel; and, in the meantime, a
Dutchman took up a musket, and with the
butt-end of it so laid about him, that he
knocked down five of them. But this was
doing little towards resisting thirty or forty
men, who began to throw themselves into
the long-boat, where we had but five men
in all to defend it; however, the following
accident, which deserved our laughter,
gave our men a complete victory.
Our carpenter being prepared to grave
the outside of the ship, as well as to pay
the seams where he had caulked her to stoj,
the leak, had got two kettles just let down
into the boat, one filled with boiling pitch,
and the other with resin, tallow, and oil,
and such stuff as the shipwrights use for
that work; and the man that attended the
carpenter had a great iron ladle in his

161
hand, with which he supplied the men that
were at work with the hot stuff. Two of
the enemy's men entered the boat just
where this fellow stood, being in the fore-
sheets; he immediately saluted them with
a ladleful of the stuff, boiling hot, which
so burned and scalded them, being half-
While this was being done, my partner
got the ship to rights, and getting a gun
in position, sent a charge of small shot
among their boats, which sent them away
as fast as they could paddle. The next
day we finished our repairs and set sail,
keeping well off the coast of ChJna, so as

nated, that they roared out like bulls, and,
enraged with the fire, leaped both into the
sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out,
"Well done, Jack! give them some more
of it;" and stepping forward himself, takes
one of the mops, and dipping it in the pitch-
pot, he and his man threw it among them
so plentifully that, in short, of all the men
in the three boats, there was not one that
escaped being scalded and burned with it,
a most frightful, pitiful manner, and
in
made such a howling and crying that I
never heard a worse noise.
not to meet any English or Dutch ships.
In latitude of 30 degrees we stood in for
the shore, and a boat came off with an old
Portuguese pilot, whom we took on board.
I told him that we wanted to go to Nan-
quin, at which he smiled and said we would
find a better port of trade at Kingpo, and
then go by the canal to see the great city
of Pekin.
"Well," said I, "Seignior Portuguese,
but that is not our business now; the great
question is, if you can can cariy us up to
the great city of Nanquin, from whence we
SOBINSON CRUSOE.

can travel to Pekin afterwards?" He said
he could do so very well, and that there
wus a great Dutch ship gone up that way
just before. This gave me a little shock,
for a Dutch ship was now our terror. The
old man found me a little confused and
under some concern when he named a
Dutch ship, and said to me," Sir, you need
be under no apprehensions of the Dutch;
I suppose they are not now at war with
your nation? You are no pirates; what
need you fear?" "Why, seignior," said I,
"I hope there are no pirates in these seas.
We are but in an ill condition to meet
with them, for you see we have but a small
force, and are but veiy weakly manned.''
"Oh, sir," says he, "don't be concerned; I
do not know that there have been any
pirates in these seas for fifteen years, except
one, which was seen, as I hear, in the Bay
of Siam, about a month since; but you may
be assured she is gone to the southward;
nor was she a ship of any great force, or
fit for the work. She was not built for a
privateer, but was run away with by a rep-
robate crew that was on board, after the cap-
tain and some of his men had been mur-
dered." "Why, then," said I," they deserve
death." "Nay," said the old man, "they
do deserve it, and they will certainly have
it, if they light upon any English or Dutch
ship; for they have all agreed together^
that if they meet that rogue, they'll give
him no quarter."
After more conversation, I told him the
whole story of how we got the very ship
that he was talking of. He was greatly
surprised, but he said we did well to go to
Nanquin, for if we fell into the hands of
the English or Dutch at that time they
would listen to no explanation. He ad-
vised that we sell the ship at Nanquin and
buy a Chinese junk, and promised to assist
us at both sale and purchase. He promised,
too, to see the Dutch and English masters
and explain all, so that the new owners of
the ship should not have the same trouble
that we had.
While these things were passing between
us, by way of discourse, we went forward
directly for Nanquin, and in about thirteen
days' sail came to an anchor at the south-
west point of the great Gulf, where, by the
way, I came by accident to understand that
two Dutch ships were gone the length be-
fore me and that I should certainly fall into
their hands. I consulted my partner again
in this exigency, and he was as much at a
loss as I was, and would very gladly have
been safe on shore almost anywhere; how-
ever, I was not in such perplexity neither,
but I asked the old pilot if there was no
creek or harbor which I might put into
163
and pursue my business with the Chinese
privately, and be in no danger of the
enemy. He told me if I would sail to the
southward about forty-two leagues, there
was a little port called Quiiichang, where
the fathers of the mission usually landed
from Macao, on their progress to teach
the Christian religion to the Chinese, and
where no European ships ever put in. We
resolved to go to this place, and weighed
at once.
had any experience of, nothing makes man-
kind so co'mpletely miserable as that of be-
ing in constant fear. Well does the Scripture
say, "The fear of man bringeth a snare;"
it is a life of death, and the mind is so en-
tirely oppressed by it, that it is capable of
no relief. Providence began here to clear
up our way a little; and the first thing that
offered was, that our old Portuguese pilot
brought a Japan merchant to us, who in-
quired what goods we had; and, in the

We did not come to the other port (the
wind being contrary) for five days; but it
was very much to our satisfaction; and I
was joyful when I set my foot on shore,
resolving, and my partner too, that if it
were possible to dispose of ourselves and
effects any other way we would never set
one foot on board that unhappy vessel
more. And indeed, I must acknowledge, that
of all the circumstances of life that ever I
first place he bought all our opium, and
gave us a very good price for it, paying us
in gold by weight, some small pieces of
their own coin, and some in small wedges,
of ten or twelve ounces each.
The Japan merchant would not buy the
ship, but he made an offer to .hire her to
take home his wares. I had a young man
with me who offered to go in the ship to
look after my interests, and to account for
JKOBINSON CRUSOE.
everything to me, which he did. The
Japan merchant treated him very fairly,
sending him with goods to the Manillas,
where he treated with the Spaniards and
brought back cloves and other spices.
Having got a good acquaintance at
Manilla, he got his ship made free ship,
and the governor of Manilla hired him to
go to Acapulco, on the coast of Mexico.

He made the voyage to Acapulco very
happily, and there he sold his ship; and
having there also obtained allowance to
travel by land to Porto Bello, he found
means, somehow or other, to get to Jamaica
with all his treasure; and about eight years
after came to England, exceeding rich.
We were now on shore in China: if I
thought myself banished, and remote from
my own country at Bengal, where I had
many ways to get home for my money,
what could I think of myself now, when
I was got about a thousand leagues farther
off. We went ten days' journey to the
city of Nanquin, a city well worth seeing,
indeed. They say it has a million of people
in it; it is regularly built, the streets all
exactly straight, and cross one another in
direct lines, which gives the figure of it
great advantage. But when I came to
compare the miserable people of these
countries with ours, their fabrics, their
manner of living, their government, their
religion, their wealth, and their glory, as
some call it, I must confess that I scarcely
think it worth my while to mention them
here.
We had made the acquaintance of a
Spanish priest, called Father Simon, who
was going to Pekin, and upon his invita-
tion, we accompanied him. We were
fifteen days reaching the great city,
through a country infinitely populous.
Though very poor, the people were very
proud; and my friend Father Simon and
I used to be merry to see the beggarly
pride of these people. For example,
coming by the house of a country gentle-
man, as Father Simon called him, about
ten leagues off the city of Nanquin, we
had first of all the honor to ride with the
master of the house about two miles. The
state he rode in was a perfect Don Quixot-
ism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty.
His habit was very proper for a merry-
andrew, being a dirty calico, with hanging
sleeves; tassels, and cuts, and slashes almost
on every side. It covered a taffety vest, as
greasy as a butcher's, and which testified
that his honor must be a most exquisite
sloven. His horse was but a poor, starved,
hobbling creature, and he had two slaves
following him on foot to drive the poor
creature along. He had a whip in his hand,
and he belabored the beast as fast about
the head as his slaves did about the tail;
and thus he rode by us, with about ten or
twelve servants, going from the city to
165
his country seat about half a league before
us. We traveled on gently, but this figure
of a gentleman rode away before us; and
as we stopped at a village about an hour
to refresh us, when we came by the coun-
try seat of this great man, we saw him in
a little place before his door, eating a
and the other held the dish with one hand,
and scraped off what he let fall upon his
worship's beard and taffety vest.
Thus leaving the poor wretch to please
himself with our looking at him, as if we
admired his pomp, though we really pitied
and contemned him, we pursued our jour-

repast. It was a kind of garden, but he
was easy to be seen; and we were given to
understand that the more we looked at
him the better he would be pleased. He
sat under a tree, something like the pal-
metto, which effectually shaded him over
the head; but under the tree was placed
a large umbrella, which made that part
look well enough. He sat lolling back in
a great elbow-chair, being a heavy, corpu-
lent man, and had his meat brought him
by two women-slaves. He had two more,
one of whom fed the squire with a spoon,
ney; only Father Simon had the curiosity
to stay to inform himself what dainties the
country justice had to feed on in all his
state, which he had the honor to taste of,
and which was, I think, a mess of boiled
rice, with a great piece of garlic in it, and
a little bag filled with green pepper, and
another plant which they have there,
something like our ginger, but smelling
like musk, and tasting like mustard. All
this was put together, and a small piece of
lean mutton boiled in it, and this was his
worship's repast. Four or five servants
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
more attended at a distance, who we sup-
posed were to eat of the same after their
master.
At length we arrived at Pekin. I had
nobody with me but the youth whom my
nephew the captain had given me to attend

me as a servant, and who proved very
trusty and diligent; and my partner had
nobody with him but one servant, who
was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese
pilot, he being desirous to see the court,
we bore, his charges for his company, and ,to
use him as an interpreter, for he under
stood the language of the country, and
spoke good French and a little English.
And indeed this old man was a most useful
implement to us everywhere; for we had
not been above a week at Pekin, when he
came laughing: "Ah, Seignior Inglese,"
says he, "I have something to tell which
will make your heart glad." In short, he
told us there was a great caravan of Mus-
covite and Polish merchants in the city,
* to set out on their journey by
land to Muscovy, within four or five weeks;
and he was sure we would take the oppor-
tunity to go with them.
I confess I was greatly surprised with
this good news, and had scarce power to
speak to him for some time; but at last I
turned to him. "How do you know this?"
said I; "are you sure it is true?" "Yes,"
says he; "I met this morning on the street
an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian,
who is among them." We then went to
consult together what was to be done; and
I asked my partner what he thought of the
pilot's news, and whether it would suit
with his affairs? He told me he would do
just as I would; for he had settled all his
affairs so well at Bengal, and left his effects
in such good hands, that as we had made a
good voyage here, if he could invest it in
China silks, wrought and raw, such as
might be worth the carriage, he would be
content to go to England, and then make
his voyage back to Bengal by the Com-
pany's ships.
The old pilot was of so much service to
us that we agreed to pay him a good price
to accompany us, to which he consented,
and we soon made our arrangements to
start with the caravan.
It was the beginning of February, our
style, when we set out from Pekin. My
partner and the old pilot had gone express
back to the port where we had first put
in, to dispose of some goods which we had
left there; and I, with a Chinese merchant
went to Nanquin, where I bought ninety
pieces of fine damasks, with about two hun-
dred pieces of other very fine silks of sev-
eral sorts, some mixed with gold. Besides
this, we bought a very large quantity of
107

raw silt, and some other goods, our cargo
amounting, in these goods only, to about
three thousand five hundred pounds ster-
ling; which, together' with tea and some
fine calicoes, and three camels' loads of
nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen
camels for our share, besides those we rode
upon; which, with two or three spare
horses, and two horses loaded with pro-
visions, made us, in short, twenty-six
camels and horses in our retinue.
The company was very great, and, as far
as I can remember, made between three
and four hundred horse, and upwards of
one hundred and twenty men, very well
armed, and provided for all events. The
company consisted of people of several
nations; but there were about sixty of
them merchants of Moscow; and to our
particular satisfaction, five of them were
Scots, who appeared also to be men of
great experience in business, and of very
good substance.
When we had travelled one day's jour-
ney, the guides, who were five in number,
called all the gentlemen and merchants—
that is to say, all the passengers except the
servants—to a great council, as they called
it. At this council, every one deposited
a certain quantity of money to a common
stock, for the necessary expense of buying
forage on the way, where it was not other-
wise to be had, and for satisfying the
guides, getting horses, and the like; and
here they constituted the journey, as they
call it, viz., they named captains and officers
to draw us all up, and give the word of
command, in case of an attack, and give
every one their turn of command.
In two days more we passed the great
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
China wall, made for a fortification against
the Tartars; and a very great work it is,
going over hills and mountains in a need-
less track, where the rocks are impassable,
and the precipices such as no enemy could
possibly enter, or indeed climb up. They
tell us its length is near a thousand English
miles, but that the country is five hundred
in a straight measured line, which the wall
bounds, without measuring the windings
eager to hear my opinion of it. I told him
it was a most excellent thing to keep out
the Tartars; which he happened not to
understand as I meant it, and so took it for
a compliment; but the old pilot laughed,
"Oh, Seignior Inglese," says he, "you
speak in colors." "In colors!" said I;
"what do you mean by that?" "Why,
you speak what looks white this way, and
black that way—gay one way, and dull

and turnings it takes. It is about four
fathoms high, and as many thick in some
places.
I stood still an hour or thereabouts with-
out trespassing our orders (for so long the
caravan was in passing the gate), to look at
it on every side, near and far off—I mean
what was within my view; and the guide
of our caravan, who had been extolling it
for the wonder of the world, was mighty
another. You tell him it is a good wall
to keep out Tartars; you tell me by that
it is good for nothing but to keep out
Tartars. I understand you, Seignior
Inglese; but Seignior Chinese understands
you his own way." "Well," says I, "sei-
gnior, do you think it would stand out an
army of our country people, with a good
train of artillery? or our engineers, with
two companies of miners? Would they
169
not batter it down in ten days, that an
army might enter in battalia? or blow it
up in the air, foundation and all, that there
should be no sign of it left?" "Ay, ay,"
says he, " I know that."
Soon after this, as a party of us had
left the caravan to hunt wild sheep, we
met about forty Tartars, and as soon
as they saw us, one of them blew a
kind of horn very loud, but with a bar-
barous sound. We all supposed this was
us up in a line, he asked if we were re-
solved. We told him we were ready to
follow him; so he rode directly towards
them. As soon as they saw us advance,
they let fly their arrows, which, however,
missed us, very happily. It seems they mis-
took not their aim, but their distance; for
their arrows all fell short of us, but with
so true an aim, that had we been about
twenty yards nearer, we must have had
several men wounded, if not killed.

to call their friends about them, and so it
was; for, in less than ten minutes, a troop
of forty or fifty more appeared, at about
a mile distance; but our work was over
first, as it happened.
One of the Scots merchants of Moscow
happened to be with us, and as soon as he
heard the horn, he told us that we had no-
thing to do but to charge them imme-
diately, without loss of time; and drawing
Immediately we halted, and though it
was at a great distance, we fired, and sent
them leaden bullets for wooden arrows,
following our shot full gallop, to fall in
among them sword in hand. As sooa as
we came up to them we fired our pistols in
their faces, and then drew; but they fled
in the greatest confusion imaginable.
We wanted two days' journey of the
city of Naum, on the frontier of the
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

Chinese Empire, when we met messengers
from the governor to tell all caravans to
halt till they had a guard sent for them;
for that a body of Tartars, making ten
thousand in all, had appeared in the way,
about thirty miles beyond the city. Ac-
cordingly, two days after, we had two hun-
dred soldiers sent us from a garrison of the
Chinese, on our left, and three hundred
more from the city of Naum, and with
these we advanced boldly. The three hun-
dred soldiers from Naum marched in our
front, the two hundred in our rear, and our
men on each side of our camels, with our
baggage, and the whole caravan in the
centre. In this order, and well prepared
for battle, we thought ourselves a match
for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartars,
if they had appeared; but the next day,
when they did appear, it was quite an-
other thing.
When we were entered upon a desert of
about fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold,
by a cloud of dust they raised, we saw an
enemy was at band; and they were at
hand, indeed, for they came on upon the
spur. The Chinese, our guard in the
front, who had talked so big the day

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

before, began to stagger; and the soldiers
frequently looked behind them, which is a
certain sign in a soldier that he is just
ready to run away. My old pilot being
near me, called out: "Seignior Inglese,
those fellows must be encouraged, oV they
will ruin us all; for, if the Tartars come
on, they will never stand it." "I am of
your mind," says I; "but what must be
done?" "Done!" says he, "let fifty of
our men advance, and flank them on each
wing, and encourage them, and they will
fight like brave fellows in brave company;
but without this, they will every man turn
his back." Immediately I rode up to our
leader, and told him, and accordingly fifty
of us marched to the right wing, and
fifty to the left.
The Tartars came on, and an innumer-
able company they were; how many we
could not tell, but ten thousand, we
thought, was the least. A party of them
came on first, and viewed our posture;
and, as we found them within gunshot,
our leader ordered the two wings to
advance swiftly, and give them a salvo
on each wing with their shot, which was
done; and they went off, I suppose, back
to give an account of the reception they
were like to meet with. And, indeed, that
salute cloyed their stomachs, for they
immediately halted, stood awhile to con-
sider it, and wheeling off to the left, they
gave over their design.
Two days after, we came to the city of
Naun, or Naurn; we thanked the governor
for his care of us, and collected to the
value of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts,
which we gave to the soldiers sent to guard
us; and here we rested one day.
173
As we were riding through the Musco-
vite dominions, being a little way off from
the caravan, I came upon some people wor-
shiping an idol. It had a head not resem-
bling any creature that the world ever
saw; ears as big as goats' horns, and as
high; eyes as big as a crown piece ; a nose
like a crooked ram's horn, and a mouth ex-
tended four-cornered, like that of a lion,
with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's
under bill. It was dressed up in the filth-
iest manner that you could suppose; its
upper garment was .of sheep-skins, with the
wool outward; a great Tartar bonnet on
the head, with two horns growing through
it. It was about eight feet high, yet had no
feet or legs, nor any other proportion of
parts. I rode up to the image or monster
—call it what you will—and with my
sword made a stroke at the bonnet that
was on its head, and cut it in two; and
one of our men that was with me took hold
of the sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled
at it, when, behold, a most hideous outcry
and howling ran through the village, and
two or three hundred people came about


my ears, BO that I was glad to scour for it,
for we saw some had some bows and ar-
rows. We went back in the night and
destroyed the idol with fire.
We had been almost seven months on
our journey when we arrived at Tobolsk!,
and here I resolved to stop for the winter,
and let the caravan go on. Here I made
the acquaintance of an exiled prince, and
the winter, though very cold, passed very
pleasantly. In the month of May, I began
to pack up to continue my journey with a
caravan that was soon to start, and I won-
dered why the prince could not go with
me. But my wonder was over when I
entered upon that subject with the person
I have mentioned. "Consider, first, sir,"
said he, "the place where we are; and,
secondly, the condition we are in. We are
surrounded with stronger things than bars
or bolts; on the north side, an unnavigable
ocean, where ship never sailed, and boat
never swam; every other way we have a

thousand miles to pass through the Czar's
own dominions, and through the towns
garrisoned by his troops; so that we could
neither pass undiscovered by the rq^d, nor
subsist by any other way; so that it is
vain to attempt it." However, I prevailed
upon him to make the attempt to escape
with me. We did not start till June, and,
after much hardship and fatigue, we finally
entered Europe, having passed the river
Kama, which in these parts is the boundary
between Europe and Asia. The first city
on the European side was called Soloy
Kamskoi, which is as much as to say, the
great city on the river Kama; and here we
thought to see some evident alteration in
the people. But we were mistaken; for as
we had a vast desert to pass, which is near
seven hundred miles long in some places,
but not above two hundred over where we
passed it, so till we came past that hor-
rible place, we found very little difference
between that country and the Mogul Tar-
tar}'. The people are mostly pagans, and
little better than the savages of America;
their houses and towns full of idols, and
their way living was wholly barbarous,
except in the cities, and the villages near
them, where they are Christians, as they
call themselves, of the Greek Church, but
have have their religion mingled with so
many relics of superstition that it is scarce
to be known in some places from mere
sorcery and witchcraft.
In passing this forest, I thought, indeed,
we must (after all our dangers were, to our
imagination, escaped) have been plundered
and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a
175
troop of thieves; of what country they
were, I am yet at a loss to know, but they
were all on horseback, and carried bows
and arrows. We were but sixteen men in
all, but we drew up before our camels, and
they finally went off a little way. We
moved to a little wood, and put up a barri-
cade of branches, and so waited for them.
About two hours before night they came
down directly upon us, when we found
they had been joined by some more.
Our old pilot was our captain, and de-
sired us not to fire upon them till they
came within pistol-shot, that we might be
sure to kill, and that when we did fire we
should be sure to take good aim. We bade
him give the word of command, which he
delayed so long, that there were some of
them within two pikes' length of us when
we let fly. We aimed so true that we
killed fourteen of them, and wounded
several others, as also several of their
horses; for we had all of us loaded our
pieces with two or three bullets at least.
They were tenibly surprised with our
fire, and retreated immediately about one
hundred rods from us; in which time we
loaded our pieces again, and seeing them
keep that distance, we sallied out, and
caught four or five of their horses, whose
riders we supposed were killed; and com-
ing up to the dead, we judged they were
Tartars, but knew not how they came to
make an excursion such an unusual length.
We slept little, you may be sure, but
spent the most part of the night in
strengthening our situation, and barricad-
ing the entrances into the wood, and keep-
ing a strict watch. We waited for day-
light, and when it came, it gave us a very

ROBINSON CRUSOE.
unwelcome discovery indeed; for the
enemy, who we thought were discouraged
with the reception they met with, were
now greatly increased, and had set up
eleven or twelve huts or tents, as if they
were resolved to besiege us.
However, as they did not attack us that
day, at night we left our fires burning in
front, and slipped out the other side of the
wood and so got away. At last we arrived
safely at Archangel, where we were obliged
to wait six weeks for a ship. Finally we
took passage on a Hamburger, and arrived
in the Elbe on the 18th of September, the
young Russian prince traveling safely as
my steward.
Here my partner and I found a very
good sale for our goods, as well those of
China as the sables, etc., of Siberia; and,
dividing the produce, my share amounted
to £3,475 17s. 3d., including about six
hundred pounds' worth of diamonds, which.
I purchased at Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of
us, and went up the Elbe, in order to go
to the court of Vienna, where he resolved
to seek protection, and could correspond
with those of his father's friends who were
left alive. He did not part without testi-
monies of gratitude for my services.
To conclude: having stayed near four
months in Hamburg, I came from thence
by land to the Hague, where I embarked
in the packet, and arrived in London the
10th of January, 1705, having been absent
from England ten years and nine months.
And here I resolved to prepare for a longer
journey than all these, having lived a life
of infinite variety seventy-two years, and
learned sufficiently to know the value of
retirement, and the blessing of ending our
days in peaca

J Mf . ''''
