
J
THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
THE LIFE
AND
STRANGE SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER,
WHO LIVED EIGHT AND TWENTY YEARS ALL ALONE IN AN UNIN-
HABITED ISLAND ON THE COAST OF AMERICA, NEAR THE
MOUTH OF THE GREAT RIVER OF ORONOOQUE; HAVING
BEEN CAST ON SHORE BY SHIPWRECK, WHEREIN
ALL THE MEN PERISHED BUT HIMSELF. WITH
AN ACCOUNT HOW HE WAS AT LAST AS
STRANGELY DELIVERED BY PIRATES. ALSO
THE FURTHER ADVENTURES, WRIT-
TEN BY HIMSELF.
BY DANIEL DEFOE.
WITH EIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS BY THOMAS NAST.

NEW YORK:
PUBLISHED BY KURD AND HOUGHTON.
XUbetsftte JJtesx.
1873.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by
KURD AND HOUGHTON,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of
New York.
RIVERSIDE, CAMBRIDGE:
STEREOTYPED AND PRINTED BY
H. O. HOUGHTON AND COMPANY.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
or
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of
a good family, though not of that country, my father
being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at
Hull: he got a good estate by merchandise, and leaving off
his trade, lived afterward at York; from whence he had mar-
ried my mother, whose relations were named Robinson, a very
good family in that country, and from whom I was called
Robinson Kreutznaer; but by the usual corruption of words in
England, we are now called, nay, we call ourselves, and write
our name Crusoe; and so my companions always called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-colo-
nel to an English regiment of Foot in Flanders, formerly com-
manded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at
the battle near Dunkirk against the Spaniards. What became
of my second brother I never knew, any more than my father
or mother knew what became of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade,
my head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts.
My father, who was very ancient, had given me a competent
share of learning, as far as house education and a country
free school generally goes, and designed me for the law; but
I would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea; and my
inclination to this led me so strongly against the will, nay, the
commands of my father, and against all the entreaties and
persuasions of my mother and other friends, that there seemed
to be something fatal in that propension of nature tending
directly to the life of misery which was to befall me.
2 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and ex-
cellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He
called me one morning into his chamber, where he was con-
fined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with me upon
this subject: he asked me what reasons, more than a mere
wandering inclination, I had for leaving my father's house and
my native country, where I might be well introduced, and had
a prospect of raising my fortune by application and industry,
with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me it was for men
of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring superior for-
tunes on the other, who went abroad upon adventures, to rise
by enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertakings
of a nature out of the common road; that these things were
all either too far above me, or too far below me; that mine
was the middle state, or what might be called the upper sta-
tion of low life, which he had found by long experience was
the best state in the world, the most suited to human happi-
ness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships, the labor and
sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind, and not embar-
rassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the upper
part of mankind. He told me, I might judge of the happi-
ness of this state, by this one thing, namely, that this was the
state of life which all other people envied; that kings have
frequently lamented the miserable consequences of being born
to great things, and wish they had been placed in the middle
of the two extremes, between the mean and the great; that the
wise man gave his testimony to this, as the just standard of true
felicity, when he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.
He bade me observe it, and I should always find, that the
calamities of life were shared among the upper and lower part
of mankind; but that the middle station had the fewest dis-
asters, and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the
higher or lower part of mankind; nay, they were not sub-
jected to so many distempers and uneasinesses either of body
or mind, as those were who, by vicious living, luxury, and
extravagances on one hand, or by hard labor, want of nec-
essaries, and mean or insufficient diet on the other hand,
bring distempers upon themselves by the natural conse-
quences of their way of living; that the middle station of
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3
life was calculated for all kind of virtues and all kind of
enjoyments; that peace and plenty were the handmaids of
a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quietness,
health, society, all agreeable diversions, and all desirable
pleasures, were the blessings attending the middle station
of life; that this way men went silently and smoothly through
the world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with the
labors of the hands or of the head, not sold to the life of
slavery for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed circum-
stances, which rob the soul of peace, and the body of rest;
not enraged with the passion of envy, or secret burning lust
of ambition for great things ; but in easy circumstances sliding
gently through the world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of
living without the bitter, feeling that they are happy, and
learning by every day's experience to know it more sensibly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affec-
tionate manner, not to play the young man, not to precipitate
myself into miseries which nature and the station of life I
was born in, seemed to have provided against; that I was
under no necessity of seeking my bread; that he would do
well for me, and endeavor to enter me fairly into the station
of life which he had been just recommending to me; and
that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it must be
my mere fate or fault that must hinder it, and that he should
have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty
in warning me against measures which he knew would be to
my hurt; in a word, that as he would do very kind things for
me if I would stay and settle at home as he directed, so he
would not have so much hand in my misfortunes, as to give
me any encouragement to go away; and to close all, he told
me I had my elder brother for an example, to whom he had
used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from going
into the Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his young
desires prompting him to run into the army, where he was
killed; and though he said he would not cease to pray for me,
yet he would venture to say to me, that if I did take this fool-
ish step, God would not bless me, and I would have leisure
hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his counsel when
there might be none to assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, — which was
truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did not know it to
be so himself, — I say, I observed the tears run down his face
very plentifully, and especially when he spoke of my brother
who was killed; and that when he spoke of my having leisure
to repent, and none to assist me, he was so moved, that he
broke off the discourse, and told me his heart was so full, he
could say no more to me.
I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as, indeed, who
could be otherwise, and I resolved not to think of going
abroad any more, but to settle at home according to my fa-
ther's desire. But, alas! a few days wore it all off; and, in
short, to prevent any of my father's further importunities, in a
few weeks after I resolved to run quite away from him. How-
ever, I did not act so hastily neither, as my first heat of res-
olution prompted, but I took my mother, at a time when I
thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told her that
my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that
I should never settle to anything with resolution enough to go
through with it, and my father had better give me his consent
than force me to go without it; that I was now eighteen
years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or
clerk to an attorney; that I was sure, if I did, I should never
serve out my time, and I should certainly run away from my
master before my time was out, and go to sea; and if she
would speak to my father to let me go but one voyage abroad,
if I came home again and did not like it, I would go no more,
and I would promise by a double diligence to recover that
time I had lost.
This put ray mother into a great passion: she told me, she
knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon
any such subject; that he knew too well what was my interest
to give his consent to anything so much for my hurt, and that
she wondered how I could think of any such thing after such
a discourse as I had had from my father, and such kind and
tender expressions as she knew my father had used to me, and
that, in short, if I would ruin myself, there was no help for
me; but I might depend I should never have their consent to
it; that for her part she would not have so much hand in my
destruction; and I should never have it to say, that my
mother was willing when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as
I heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him, and
that my father, after showing a great concern at it, said to her,
with a sigh, "That boy might be happy if he would stay at
home, but if he goes abroad, he will be the most miserable
wretch that was ever born; I can give no consent to it."
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose,
though in the mean time I continued obstinately deaf to all
proposals of settling to business, and frequently expostulating
with my father and mother about their being so positively de-
termined against what they knew my inclinations prompted
me to. But being one day at Hull, where I went casually,
and without any purpose of making an elopement that time
— but I say, being there, and one of my companions being
about to sail to London, in his father's ship, and prompting
me to go with them, with the common allurement of seafaring
men, namely, that it should cost me nothing for my passage, I
consulted neither father nor mother any more, nor so much as
sent them word of it; but leaving them to hear of it as they
might, without asking God's blessing, or my father's, without
any consideration of circumstances or consequences, and in
an ill hour—God knows — on the first of September, 1651,
I went on board a ship bound for London. Never any young
adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or contin-
ued longer than mine. The ship was no sooner gotten out of
the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and the waves to
rise in a most frightful manner; and as I had never been at
sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terri-
fied in mind. I began now seriously to reflect upon what I
had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of
Heaven for my wicked leaving my father's house, and aban-
doning my duty; all the good counsel of my parents, my
father's tears and my mother's entreaties, came now fresh into
my mind, and my conscience, which was not yet come to the
pitch of hardness to which it has been since, reproached me
with the contempt of advice, and the breach of my duty to
God and my father.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had
never been upon before, went very high, though nothing like
what I have seen many times since; no, nor like what I saw a
few days after: but it was enough to affect me then, who was
but a young sailor, and had never known anything of the
matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed us up,
and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought, in the
trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more; and
in this agony of mind I made many vows and resolutions,
that if it would please God here to spare my life this one voy-
age, if ever I got once my foot upon dry land again I would
go directly home to my father, and never set it into a ship
again while I lived; that I would take his advice, and never
run myself into such miseries as these any more. Now I saw
plainly the goodness of his observations about the middle
station of life, how easy, how comfortably he had lived all his
days, and never had been exposed to tempests at sea, or
troubles on shore; and I resolved that I would, like a true re-
penting prodigal, go home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the
storm continued, and indeed some time after; but the next
day the wind was abated and the sea calmer, and I began to
be a little inured to it: however, I was very grave for all that
day, being also a little sea-sick still; but towards night the
weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charming
fine evening followed; the sun went down perfectly clear, and
rose so the next morning; and having little or no wind, and a
smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought,
the most delightful that ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick,
but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea that was
so rough and terrible the day before, and could be so calm
and so pleasant in so little time after. And now, lest my
good resolutions should continue, my companion, who had
indeed enticed me away, comes to me. "Well, Bob," says he
(clapping me upon the shoulder), "how do you do after it? I
warrant you were frighted, wan't you, last night, when it blew
but a cap full of wind?" "A cap full do you call it?" said
I. "It was a terrible storm." "A storm, you fool you," re-
plies he; "do you call that a storm? why it was nothing at
all; give us but a good ship and sea-room, and we think noth-
ing of such a squall of wind as that; but you're but a fresh-
water sailor, Bob: come, let us make a bowl of punch, and
we'll forget all that . Do you see what charming weather it is
now?" To make short this sad part of my story, we went
the old way of all sailors; the punch was made, and I was
made drunk with it, and in that one night's wickedness I
drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon my past
conduct, and all my resolutions for my future. In a word, as
the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and settled
calmness by the abatement of that storm, so the hurry of my
thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being
swallowed up by the sea being forgotten, and the current of
my former desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and
promises that I made in my distress. I found indeed some
intervals of reflection, and the serious thoughts did, as it were,
endeavor to return again sometimes; but I shook them off,
and roused myself from them as it were from a distemper,
and applying myself to drink and company, soon mastered
the return of those fits, for so I called them, and I had in five
or six days got as complete a victory over conscience as any
young fellow that resolved not to be troubled with it could de-
sire. But I was to have another trial for it still; and Provi-
dence, as in such cases generally it does, resolved to leave me
entirely without excuse. For if I would not take this for a
deliverance, the next was to be such a one as the worst and
most hardened wretch among us would confess both the dan-
ger and the mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth
Roads; the wind having been contrary, and the weather calm,
we had made but little way since the storm. Here we were
obliged to come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind con-
tinuing contrary, namely, at southwest, for seven or eight
days, during which time a great many ships from Newcastle
came into the same roads, as the common harbor where the
ships might wait for a wind from the river.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but should have
tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too fresh, and
after we had lain four or five days blew very hard. However,
the roads being reckoned as good as a harbor, the anchorage
good, and our ground-tackle very strong, our men were un-
concerned, and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but
spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the sea;
but the eighth day in the morning, the wind increased, and we
had all hands at work to strike our topmasts, and make every-
thing snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy as pos-
sible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship
rid forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or
twice our anchor had come home; upon which our master or-
dered out the sheet-anchor, so that we rode with two anchors
ahead, and the cables veered out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I
began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of the
seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant in the busi-
ness of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and out of his
cabin by me, I could hear him softly to himself say several
times, "Lord, be merciful to us; we shall be all lost, we shall
be all undone," and the like. During these first hurries, I was
stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the steerage, and
cannot describe my temper. I could ill reassume the first
penitence which I had so apparently trampled upon, and
hardened myself against: I thought the bitterness of death
had been past, and that this would be nothing like the first.
But when the master himself came by me, as I said just now,
and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully frighted; I
got up out of my cabin, and looked out; but such a dismal
sight I never saw: the sea went mountains high, and broke
upon us every three or four minutes: when I could look about,
I could see nothing but distress round us: two ships that rid
near us, we found, had cut their masts by the board, being
deep loaden; and our men cried out, that a ship which rid
about a mile ahead of us was foundered. Two more ships
being driven from their anchors, were run out of the roads to
sea at all adventures, and that with not a mast standing. The
light ships fared the best, as not so much laboring in the sea;
but two or three of them drove, and came close by us, run-
ning away with only their spritsail out before the wind.
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the mas-
ter of our ship to let them cut away the foremast, which he
was very unwilling to do; but the boatswain protesting to him,
that if he did not, the ship would founder, he consented; and
when they had cut away the foremast, the mainmast stood
so loose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged to
cut her away also, and make a clear deck.
Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all
this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been in such a
fright before at but a little. But if I can express at this dis-
tance the thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in ten-
fold more horror of mind upon account of my former convic
tions, and the having returned from them to the resolutions I
had wickedly taken at first, than I was at death itself; and
these, added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a
condition, that I can by no words describe it. But the worst
was not come yet: the storm continued with such fury, that
the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never known a
worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep loaden, and
wallowed in the sea, that the seamen every now and then
cried out she would founder. It was my advantage in one
respect, that I did not know what they meant by founder,
till I inquired. However, the storm was so violent, that I
saw what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and
some others more sensible than the rest, at their prayers,
and expecting every moment when the ship would go to the
bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all the rest
of our distresses, one of the men that had been down on pur-
pose to see, cried out, we had sprung a leak; another said
there was four foot water in the hold. Then all hands were
called to the pump. At that very word my heart, as I thought,
died within me, and I fell backwards upon the'side of my bed
where I sat, into the cabin. However, the men roused me,
and told me, that I who was able to do nothing before, was as
well able to pump as another: at which I stirred up, and went
to the pump and worked very heartily. While this was doing,
the master seeing some light colliers, who, not able to ride out
the storm, were obliged to slip and run away to sea, and would
not come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress.
I, who knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised, that
I thought the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing hap-
pened. In a word I was so surprised, that I fell down in a
swoon. As this was a time when everybody had his own life
to think of, nobody minded me, or what was become of me;
but another man stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me
aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead, and it
was a great while before I came to myself.
We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder; and though the storm
began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could swim
till we might run into a port, so the master continued firing
guns for help; and a light ship who had rid it out just ahead
of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the
utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it was impossible
for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's
side; till at last, the men rowing very heartily, and venturing
their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the
stern with the buoy to it, and then veered it out a great
length, which they, after great labor and hazard, took hold of,
and we hauled them close under our stern and got all into
their boat. It was to no purpose for them or us after we were
in the boat to think of reaching to their own ship, so all agreed
to let her drive, and only to pull her in towards shore as
much as we could, and our master promised them, that if the
boat was staved upon shore he would make it good to their
master; so partly rowing and partly driving, our boat went
away to the northward, sloping towards the shore almost as
far as Winterton-Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of
our ship before we saw her sink, and then I understood for
the first time what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea.
I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up when the
seamen told me she was sinking; for from that moment they
rather put me into the boat than that I might be said to go
in: my heart was as it were dead within me, partly with fright,
partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet
before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet laboring at the
oars to bring the boat near the shore, we could see (when our
boat mounting the waves we were able to see the shore) a
great many people running along the shore to assist us when
we should come near; but we made but slow way towards the
shore, nor were we able to reach the shore, till being past the
light-house at Winterton, the shore falls off to the westward
towards Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the violence
of the wind: here we got in, and, though not without much
difficulty, got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards on foot
to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were used with
great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by particular merchants and
owners of ships, and had money given us sufficient to carry us
either to London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have
gone home, I had been happy, and my father, an emblem of
our blessed Saviour's parable, had even killed the fatted calf
for me; for hearing the ship I went away in was cast away in
Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before he had any as-
surance that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that
nothing could resist; and though I had several times loud
calls from my reason and my more composed judgment to go
home, yet I had no power to do it. I know not what to call
this, nor will I urge that it is a secret overruling decree that
hurries us on to be the instruments of our own destruction,
even though it be before us, and that we rush upon it with our
eyes open. Certainly nothing but some such decreed una-
voidable misery attending, and which it was impossible for me
to escape, could have pushed me forward against the calm
reasonings and persuasions of my most retired thoughts, and
against two such visible instructions as I had met with in my
first attempt.
My comrade who had helped to harden me before, and who
was the master's son, was now less forward than I. The first
time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was
not till two or three days, for we were separated in the town
to several quarters, — I say, the first time he saw me, it ap-
peared his tone was altered; and looking very melancholy,
and shaking his head, asked me how I did, and telling his
father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only for a
trial, in order to go farther abroad; his father, turning to me
with a very grave and concerned tone, " Young man," says he,
"you ought never to go to sea any more; you ought to take
this for a plain and visible token that you are not to be a sea-
faring man." "Why, sir," said I, "will you go to sea no
more?" "That is another case," said he; "it is my calling,
and therefore my duty; but as you made this voyage for a
trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given you of what you
are to expect if you persist; perhaps this is all befallen us on
your account, like Jonah, in the ship of Tarshish. Pray," con-
tinued he, "what are you? and on what account did you go
to sea?" Upon that I told him some of my story; at the
end of which he burst out with a strange kind of passion:
"What had I done," says he, " that such an unhappy wretch
should come into my ship? I would not set my foot in the
same ship with thee again for a thousand pounds." However,
he afterwards talked very gravely to me, and exhorted me to
go back to my father and not tempt Providence to my ruin;
told me I might see a visible hand of Heaven against me.
"And, young man," said he, "depend upon it if you do not
go back, wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but
disasters and disappointments, till your father's words are ful-
filled upon you."
We parted soon after; for I made him little answer, and I
saw him no more; which way he went, I know not. As for
me, having some money in my pocket, I travelled to London
by land; and there, as well as on the road, had many strug-
gles with myself, what course of life I should take, and whether
I should go home, or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that
offered to my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me
how I should be laughed at among the neighbors, and should
be ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even
everybody else; from whence I have since often observed,
how incongruous and irrational the common temper of man-
kind is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to
guide them in such cases, namely, that they are not ashamed
to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the
action for which they ought justly to be esteemed fools, but
are ashamed of the returning, which only can make them be
esteemed wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncer-
tain what measures to take, and what course of life to lead.
An irresistible reluctance continued to going home; and as I
stayed a while, the remembrance of the distress I had been in
wore off, and as that abated, the little motion I had in my de-
sires to a return wore off with it, till at last I quite laid aside
the thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.
That evil influence which carried me first away from my
father's house, that hurried me into the wild notion of raising
my fortune, and that imprest those conceits so forcibly upon me,
as to make me deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties
and even the command of my father, — I say, the same influ-
ence, whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate of all
enterprises to my view; and I went on board a vessel bound
to the coast of Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voy-
age to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures I
did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though I might
indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet at the
same time I had learned the duty and office of a foremast
man, and in time might have qualified myself for a mate or
lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was always my fate
to choose for the worse, so I did here; for having money in
my pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I would always
go on board in the habit of a gentleman, and so I neither had
any business in the ship, nor learned to do any.
It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good company in
London, which does not always happen to such loose and un-
guided young fellows as I then was; the devil generally not
omitting to lay some snare for them very early: but it was
not so with me. I first fell acquainted with the master of a
ship who had been on the coast of Guinea, and who, having
had very good success there, was resolved to go again; and
who, taking a fancy to my conversation, which was not at all
disagreeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind to see
the world, told me if I would go the voyage with him I should
be at no expense; I should be his messmate and his compan-
ion, and if I could carry anything with me, I should have all
the advantage of it that the trade would admit, and perhaps
I might meet with some encouragement.
I embraced the offer, and entering into a strict friendship
with this captain, who was an honest and plain-dealing man, I
went the voyage with him, and carried a small adventure with
me, which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend the cap-
tain, I increased very considerably; for I carried about 4o/.
in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy.
This 4o/. I had mustered together by the assistance of some
of my relations whom I corresponded with, and who, I be-
lieve, got my father, or at least my mother, to contribute so
much as that to my first adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was successful
in all my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and
honesty of my friend the captain, under whom also I got a
competent knowledge of the mathematics, and the rules of
navigation, learned how to keep an account of the ship's
course, take an observation, and, in short, to understand some
things that were needful to be understood by a sailor; for, as
he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn, and, in
a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant;
for I brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold dust for
my adventure, which yielded me in London at my return,
almost 3oo/., and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts
which have since so completed my ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too; partic-
ularly, that I was continually sick, being thrown into a violent
fever by the excessive heat of the climate; our principal trad-
ing being upon the coast, from the latitude of fifteen degrees
north even to the line itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to
my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to
go the same voyage again, and I embarked in the same vessel
with one who was his mate in the former voyage, and had now•
got the command of the ship. This was the unhappiest voy-
age that ever man made ; for though I did not carry quite TOO/.
of my new gained wealth, so that I had 2oo/. left, and which I
lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet
I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first
was this, namely: Our ship, making her course towards the
Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and the Afri-
can shore, was surprised in the gray of the morning by a
Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail
she could make. We crowded also as much canvas as our
yards would spread, or our masts carry, to have got clear;
but finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly
come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight; our
ship having twelve guns, and the rogue eighteen. About three
in the afternoon he came up with us, and bringing to, by mis-
take, just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as
he intended, we brought eight of our guns to bear on that
side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which made him
sheer off again, after returning our fire, and pouring in also
his small shot from near 200 men which he had on board.
However, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping•
close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to defend our-
selves; but laying us on board the next time upon our othei
quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who immedi-
ately fell to cutting and hacking the decks and rigging. We
plied them with small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and such
like, and cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut
short this melancholy part of our story, our ship being dis-
abled, and three of our men killed, and eight wounded, we
were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sal-
lee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I ap-
prehended, nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's
court, as the rest of our men were, but was kept by the cap-
tain of the rover as his proper prize, and made his slave,
being young and nimble, and fit for•his business. At this sur-
prising change of my circumstances, from a merchant to a
miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I
looked back upon my father's prophetic discourse to me, that
I should be miserable, and have none to relieve me, which,
I thought, was now so effectually brought to pass, that I could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken
me, and I was undone without redemption. But, alas! this
was but a taste of the misery I was to go through, as will
appear in the sequel of the story.
As my new patron or master had taken me home to his
house, so I was in hopes that he would take me with him
when he went to sea again, believing that it would some time
or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portuguese
man-of-war, and that then I should be set at liberty. But
this hope of mine was soon taken away; for when he went
to sea, he left me on shore to look after his little garden, and
do the common drudgery of slaves about his house; and when
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in
the cabin to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method
I might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least
probability in it: nothing presented to make the supposition
of it rational; for I had nobody to communicate it to, that
would embark with me; no fellow-slave, no Englishman,
Irishman, or Scotchman, there but myself; so that for two
years, though I often pleased myself with the imagination, yet
I never had the least encouraging prospect of putting it in
practice.
After about two years an odd circumstance presented itself,
which put the old thought of making some attempt for my
liberty again in my head: my patron lying at home longer
than usual, without fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was
for want of money, he used constantly, once or twice a week,
sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's
pinnace, and go out into the road a fishing; and as he always
took me and a young Maresco with him to row the boat, we
made him very merry, and I proved very dexterous in catch-
ing fish: insomuch, that sometimes he would send me with a
Moor, one of his kinsmen, •and the youth, the Maresco as they
called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a
league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing we
knew not whither or which way, we labored all day, and all
the next night, and when the morning came we found we had
pulled off to sea instead of pulling in for the shore, and that
we were at least two leagues from the shore; however, we got
well in again, though with a great deal of labor, and some
danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morn-
ing, but particularly we were all very hungry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take
more care of himself for the future; and having lying by him
the long boat of our English ship he had taken, he resolved
he would not go a fishing any more without a compass and
some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship, who
also was an English slave, to build a little state-room or cabin
in the middle of the long boat, like that of a barge, with a
place to stand behind it to steer and hale home the main-
sheet, and room before for a hand or two to stand and work
the sails. She sailed with what we call a shoulder-of-mutton
sail; and the boom gibed over the top of the cabin, which
lay very snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with
a slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some small lockers
to put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink,
particularly his breac}, rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a fishing, and as I
was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went with-
out me. It happened that he had appointed to go out in
this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with two or three
Moors of some distinction in that place, and for whom he had
provided extraordinarily; and had therefore sent on board the
boat over night a larger store of provisions than ordinary, and
had ordered me to get ready three fusees with powder and
shot, which were on board his ship, for that they designed
some sport of fowling as well as fishing.
I got all things ready as he directed, and waited the next
morning with the boat washed clean, her flag and pendants
out, and everything to accommodate his guests; when by and
by my patron came on board alone, and told me his guests
had put off going, upon some business that fell out, and or-
dered me with the man and boy, as usual, to go out with the
boat and catch them some fish, for that his friends were to sup
at his house; and commanded that as soon as I got some fish
I should bring it home to his house; all which I prepared to
do.
This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into
my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship
at my command; and my master being gone, I prepared to
furnish myself, not for a fishing business, but for a voyage;
though I knew not, neither did I so much as consider, whither
I should steer; for anywhere to get out of that place was my
way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretense to speak to
this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board; for
I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron's bread:
he said, that was true; so he brought a large basket of rusk
or biscuit of their kind, and three jars with fresh water, into
the boat. I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood,
which it was evident by the make were taken out of some
English prize; and I conveyed them into the boat while the
Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before for our
master. I conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax into the
boat, which weighed above half a hundredweight, with a par-
cel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all
which were of great use to us afterwards; especially the wax
to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which he
innocently came into also ; his name was Ismael, who they call
Muly, or Moley; so I called to him, — " Moley," said I, "our
patron's guns are on board the boat; can you not get a little
powder and shot, it may be we may kill some alcamies (a fowl
like our curlews) for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gun-
ner's stores in the ship?" "Yes," says he, "I'll bring some ;"
and accordingly he brought a great leather pouch which held
about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more; and an-
other with shot, that had five or six pounds, with some bullets,
and put all into the boat; at the same time I had found some
powder of my master's in the great cabin, with which I filled
one of the large bottles in the case, which was almost empty;
pouring what was in it into another: and thus furnished with
everything needful, we sailed out of the port to fish. The
castle which is at the entrance of the port knew who we were,
and took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out
of the port before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to
fish. The wind blew from the N. N. E. which was contrary to
my desire; for had it blown southerly I had been sure to have
made the coast of Spain, and at least reached to the bay of
Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which way it would, I
would be gone from that horrid place where I was, and leave
the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and catched nothing, for
when I had fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that
he might not see them, I said to the Moor, "This will not
do; our master will not be thus served; we must stand farther
off:" he thinking no harm agreed, and being in the head of
the boat set the sails; and as I had the helm I run the boat
out near a league farther, and then brought her to as if I would
fish, when giving the boy the helm, I slept forward to where
the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for something be-
hind him, I took him by surprise with my arm under his legs,
and tossed him clear overboard into the sea. He rose immedi-
ately, for he swam like a cork, and calling to me, begged to be
taken in : told me he would go all over the world with me; he
swam so strong after the boat that he would have reached me
very quickly, there being but little wind; upon which I
stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling-
pieces, I presented it at him, and told him I had done him
no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him none:
"but," said I, "you swim well enough to reach the shore, and
the sea is calm ; make the best of your way to shore, and I will
do you no harm, but if you come near the boat I'll shoot you
through the head; for I am resolved to have my liberty : " so
he turned himself about and swam for the shore, and I make
no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was an excellent
swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me,
and have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to
trust him. When he was gone I turned to the boy, who they
called Xury, and said to him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to
me I'll make you a great man; but if you will not stroke your
face to be true to me," that is swear by Mahomet and his
father's beard, "I must throw you into the sea too ;" the boy
smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently that I could not
mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, and go all over
the world with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I
stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to
windward, that they might think me gone towards the Straits'
mouth (as indeed any one that had been in their wits must
have been supposed to do), for who would have supposed we
were sailed on to the southward to the truly Barbarian coast,
where whole nations of negroes were sure to surround us with
their canoes, and destroy us; where we could never once go
on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more
merciless savages of human kind? ,
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my
course, and steered directly south and by east, bending my
course a little toward the east, that I might keep in with the
shore; and having a fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth
quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe by the next day at
three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made the land, I
could not be less than 150 miles south of Sallee ; quite beyond
the emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any other
king thereabouts, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the
dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that
I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor. The
wind continuing fair till I had sailed in that manner five days,
and the wind shifting to the southward, I concluded also that
if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also would
now give over; so I ventured to make the coast, and came to
an anchor in the mouth of a little river, I knew not what, or
where; neither what latitude, what country, what nation, or
what river: I neither saw, or desired to see any people, the
principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into this
creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as
it was dark, and discover the country; but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the barking,
roaring, and howling of wild creatures of we knew not what
kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and
begged of me not to go on shore till day. "Well, Xury," said
I, "then I won't, but it may be we may see men by day, who
will be as bad to us as those lions." "Then we give them the
shoot gun," says Xury, laughing ; "make them run way." Such
English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. How-
ever I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a
dram (out of our patron's case of bottles) to cheer him up:
after all Xury's advice was good, and I took it; we dropped
our little anchor and lay still all night; I say still, for we
slept none; for in two or three hours we saw vast great crea-
tures (we knew not what to call them) of many sorts, come
down to the sea-shore and run into the water, wallowing and
washing themselves for the pleasure of cooling themselves;
and they r^de such hideous howlings and yellings that I
never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too; but
we were both more frighted when we heard one of these
mighty creatures come swimming towards our boat: we could
not see him, but we might hear him by his blowing to be a
monstrous huge and furious beast. Xury said it was a lion,
and it might be so for aught I know; but poor Xury cried to
me to weigh the anchor and row away. "No," says I, "Xury,
we can slip our cable with a buoy to it and go off to sea; they
cannot follow us far." I had no sooner said so, but I per-
ceived the creature (whatever it was) within two oars' length,
which something surprised me; however I immediately stept
to the cabin-door, and taking up my gun fired at him, upon
which he immediately turned about and swam towards the
shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and hid-
eous cries and howlings, that were raised, as well upon the
edge of the shore, as higher within the country, upon the
noise or report of the gun; a thing I have some reason to be-
lieve those creatures had never heard before: this convinced
me that there was no going on shore for us in the night upon
that coast, and how to venture on shore in the day was an-
other question too; for to have fallen into the hands of any
of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the
hands of lions and tigers; at least we were equally apprehen-
sive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore some-
where or other for water, for we had not a pint left in the
boat; when or where to get it was the point . Xury said, if I
would let him go on shore with one of the jars, he would find
if there was any water, and bring some to me. I asked him
why he would go? why I should not go, and he stay in the
boat? The boy answered with so much affection that made
me love him ever after. Says he, " If wild mans come, they
eat me, you go way." "Well, Xury," said I, "we will both go,
and if the wild mans come, we will kill them: they shall eat
neither of us ;" so I gave Xury a piece of rusk-bread to eat,
and a dram out of our patron's case of bottles which I men-
tioned before; and we hauled the boat in as near the shore as
we thought was proper, and waded on shore; carrying noth-
ing but our guns, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the
coming of canoes with savages down the river: but the boy,
seeing a low place about a mile up the country, rambled to it;
and by and by I saw him come running towards me. I
thought he was pursued by some savage, or frighted with some
wild beast, and I ran forward towards him to help him; but
when I came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over
his shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot, like a
hare, but different in color, and longer legs; however we were
very glad of it, and it was very good meat ; but the great joy
that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good
water, and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains
for water; for a little higher up the creek where we were, we
found the water fresh when the tide was out, which flowed but
a little way up; so we filled our jars and feasted on the hare
we had killed, and prepared to go on our way, having seen no
footsteps of any human creature in that part of the country.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very
well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verde
Islands also, lay not far off from the coast. But as I had no
instruments to take an observation to know what latitude we
were in, and did not exactly know, or at least remember, what
latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for them, or
when to stand off to sea towards them; otherwise I might
now easily have found some of these islands. But my hope
was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to that part
where the English traded, I should find some of their vessels
upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take
us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was,
must be that country, which, lying between the emperor of
Morocco's dominions and the Negroes, lies waste, and unin-
habited, except by wild beasts, the Negroes having abandoned
it, and gone farther south for fear of the Moors; and the
Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its bar-
renness; and indeed both forsaking it because of the prodi-
gious number of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious
creatures which harbor there; so that the Moors use it for
their hunting only, where they go like an army, two or three
thousand men at a time; and indeed for near an hundred
miles together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste
uninhabited country by day; and heard nothing but bowlings
and roaring of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the day-time I thought I saw the Peak of
Teneriffe, being the high top of the mountain Teneriffe in the
Canaries; and had a great mind to venture out in hopes of
reaching thither; but having tried twice, I was forced in again
by contrary winds, the sea also going too high for my little
vessel, so I resolved to pursue my first design and keep along
the shore.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water after we
had left this place; and once in particular, being early in the
morning, we came to an anchor under a little point of land
which was pretty high, and the tide beginning to flow, we lay
still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him
than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me that
we had best go farther off the shore; "for," says he, "look,
yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock fast
asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful mon-
ster indeed, for it was a terrible great lion that lay on the side
of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that hung
as it were a little over him. "Xury," says I, "you shall go on
shore and kill him : Xury looked frighted, and said, " Me kill 1
he eat me at one mouth ;" one mouthful he meant. However,
I said no more to the boy, but bade him lie still; and took
our biggest gun, which was almost musquet-bore, and • loaded
it with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid
it down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets; and the
third, for we had three pieces, I loaded with five smaller bul-
lets. I took the best aim I could with the first piece, to have
shot him into the head; but he lay so with his leg raised a
little above his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee,
and broke the bone. He started up growling at first, but
finding his leg broke, fell down again, and then got up upon
three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard.
I was a little surprised that I had not hit him on the head;
however, I took up the second piece immediately, and though
he began to move off, fired again, and shot him into the head,
and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make but little
noise, but lay struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and
would have me let him go on shore. "Well, go," said I. So
the boy jumped into the water, and taking a little gun in one
hand, swam to the shore with the other hand, and coming
close to the creature, put the muzzle of the piece to his
ear, and shot him into the head again, which dispatched him
quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food: and I
was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon
a creature that was good for nothing to us. However, Xury
said he would have some of him; so he comes on board, and
asked me to give him the hatchet. "For what, Xury?" said I.
"Me cut off his head," said he. However, Xury could not cut
off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him,
and it was a monstrous great one.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of him
might one way or other be of some value to us; and I re-
solved to take off his skin, if I could. So Xury and I went
to work with him; but Xury was much the better workman at
it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed it took us up both
the whole day; but at last we got the hide off him, and
spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun effectually
dried it in two days' time, and it afterwards served me to lie
upon.
After this stop, we made pn to the southward continually
for ten or twelve days, living very sparing on our provisions,
which began to abate very much, and going no oftener into
the shore than we were obliged to for fresh water: my design
in this was, to make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is to
say anywhere about the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes
to meet with some European ship ; and if I did not, I knew not
what course I had to take, but to seek for the Islands, or per-
ish there among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, which sailed either to the coast of Guinea or to Bra-
zil, or to the East Indies, made this Cape, or those Islands;
and, in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this
single point, either that I must meet with some ship or must
perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer,
as I have said, I began to see that the land was inhabited;
and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw people
stand upon the shore to look at us; we could also perceive
they were quite black, and stark naked. I was once inclined
to have gone on shore to them; but Xury was my better coun-
sellor, and said to me, '• No go, no go :" however I hauled in
nearer the shore that I might talk to them, and I found they
ran along the shore by me a good way. I observed they had
no weapons in their hands except one, who had a long slender
stick, which Xury said was a lance, and that they would throw
them a great way with good aim. So I kept at a distance, but
talked with them by signs as well as I could; and particularly
made signs for something to eat: they beckoned to me to
stop my boat, and they would fetch me some meat; upon this
I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran
up into the country, and in less than half an hour came back,
and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and some corn,
as is the produce of their country; but we neither knew what
the one nor the other was: however, we were willing to ac-
cept it, but how to come at it was our next dispute, for I was
not for venturing on shore to them, and they were as much
afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us all, for they
brought it to the shore and laid it down, and went and stood
a great way off till we fetched it on board, and then came
close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to
make them amends; but an opportunity offered that very in-
stant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we were lying by
the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the other
(as we took it) with great fury, from the mountains towards the
sea: whether it was the male pursuing the female, or whether
they were in sport or in rage, we could not tell, any more than
we could tell whether it was usual or strange, but I believe it
was the latter; because, in the first place, those ravenous crea-
tures seldom appear but in the night; and in the second
place, we found the people terribly frighted, especially the
women. The man that had the lance or dart did not fly from
them, but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran di-
rectly into the water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon
any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea, and
swam about as if they had come for their diversion. At last
one of them began to come nearer our boat than at first I ex-
pected, but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with
all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both the others.
As soon as he came fairly within my reach, I fired, and shot
him directly into the head. Immediately he sunk down into
the water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down as if
he was struggling for life; and so indeed he was: he imme-
diately made to the shore, but between the wound, which was
his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died just
before he reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor
creatures at the noise and the fire of my gun; some of them
were even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with
the very terror. But when they saw the creature dead, and
sunk in the water, and that I made signs to them to come to
the shore, they took heart and came to the shore, and began
to search for the creature. I found him by his blood staining•
the water; and by the help of a rope, which I slung round
him, and gave the negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore,
and found that it was a most curious leopard, spotted and fine
to an admirable degree, and the Negroes held up their hands
with admiration to think what it was I had killed him
with.
The • other creature, frighted with the flash of fire and the
noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the
mountains from whence they came, nor could I at that dis-
tance know what it was. I found quickly the Negroes were
for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have
them take it as a favor from me, which when I made signs to
them that they might take him, they were very thankful for.
Immediately they fell to work with him, and though they had
no knife, yet with a sharpened piece of wood they took off his
skin as readily, and much more readily, than we could have
done with a knife: they offered me some of the flesh, which I
declined, making as if I would give it them, but made signs
for the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought me
a great deal more of their provision, which, though I did not
understand, yet I accepted; then I made signs to them for
some water, and held out one of my jars to them, turning it
bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and that I wanted
to have it filled. They called immediately to some of their
friends, and there came two women, and brought a great ves-
sel made of earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun; this
they set down for me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore
with my jars, and filled them all three.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was,
and water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward
for about eleven days more, without offering to go near the
shore, till I saw the land run out a great length into the sea, at
about the distance of four or five leagues before me; and, the
sea being very calm, I kept a large offing to make this point:
at length, doubling the point at about two leagues from the
land, I saw plainly land on the other side to seaward; then I
concluded, as it was most certain indeed, that this was the
Cape de Verd, and those the islands, called from thence Cape
de Verd Islands. However, they were at a great distance,
and I could not tell what I had best do, for if I should be
taken with a fresh of wind I might neither reach one nor the
other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stept into the
cabin and set me down, Xury having the helm, when on a
sudden the boy cried out, " Master, master, a ship with a sail;"
and the foolish boy was frighted out of his wits, thinking it
must needs be some of his master's ships sent to pursue us,•
when I knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach.
I jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw not only the
ship, but that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was
bound to the coast of Guinea for Negroes. But when I ob-
served the course she steered, I was soon convinced they were
bound some other way, and did not design to come any nearer
to the shore; upon which I stretched out to sea as much as I
could, resolving to speak with them if possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be
able to come in their way, but they would be gone by before
I could make any signal to them. But after I had crowded
to the utmost, and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by
the help of their perspective-glasses, and that it was some
European boat, which, as they supposed, must belong to some
ship that was lost; so they shortened sail to let me come up.
I was encouraged with this, and as I had my patron's flag on
board, I made a waft of it to them for a signal of distress, and
fired a gun, both which they saw; for they told me they saw
the smoke, though they did not hear the gun. Upon these
signals they very kindly•brought-to, and lay-by for me, and in
about three hours' time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish,
and in French ; but I understood none of them; but at last
a Scottish sailor, who was on board, called to me, and I an-
swered him, and told him I was an Englishman, that I had
made my escape out of slavery from the Moors at Sallee.
Then they bade me come on board, and very kindly took me
in, and all my goods.
It was inexpressible joy to me, that any one would believe,
that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a mis-
erable and almost hopeless condition as I was in, and imme-
diately offered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a return
for my deliverance; but he generously told me he would take
nothing from me, but that all I had should be delivered safe to
me when I came to the Brazils ; "for," says he, " I have saved
your life on no other terms than I would be glad to be sayed
myself; and it may one time or other be my lot to be taken up
in the same condition: besides," says he, "when I carry you
to the Brazils, so great a way from your own country, if I
should take away from you what you have, you will be starved
there, and then I only take away that life I have given. No,
no, Seignor, Mr. Englishman, I will carry you thither in
tharity, and those things will help you to buy your subsistence
Aere, and your passage home again."
As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was just in the
performance to a tittle, for he ordered the seamen that none
should offer to touch anything I had; then he took everything
into his own possession, and gave me back an exact inventory
of them, that I might have them; even so much as my earthen
jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he saw, and
told me he would buy it of me for the ship's use, and asked
me what I would have for it? I told him he had been so gen-
erous to me in everything that I could not offer to make any
price of the boat, but left it entirely to him; upon which he
told me he would give me a note of his hand to pay me 80
pieces of eight for it at Brazil; and when it came there, if any
one offered to give more, he would make it up; he offered me
also 60 pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which I was
loth to take; not that I was not willing to let the captain
have him, but I was very loth to sell the poor boy's liberty,
who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring my own.
However, when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be
just, and offered me this medium, that he would give the boy
an obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Chris-
tian. Upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to
him, I let the captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in
All-Saints-Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I
was once more delivered from the most miserable of all con-
ditions of life, and what to do next with myself I was now to
consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never
enough remember; he would take nothing of me for my pas-
sage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty
for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and caused
everything I had in the ship to be punctually delivered me;
and what I was willing to sell he bought, such as the case of
bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees-wax,
for I had made candles of the rest; in a word, I made about
220 pieces of eight of all my cargo, and with this stock I went
on shore in the Brazils.
I had not been long here, but being recommended to the
house of a good honest man like himself, who had an Ingenio,
as they call it, that is, a plantation and a sugar house; I
lived with him some time, and acquainted myself by that
means with the manner of their planting and making of sugar;
and seeing how well the planters lived, and how they grew
rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get license to settle there,
I would turn planter among them, resolving in the mean time to
find out some way to get my money, which I had left in Lon-
don, remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of a letter
of naturalization, I purchased as much land that was uncured
as my money would reach, and formed a plan for my planta-
tion and settlement, and such a one as might be suitable to the
stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England.
I had a neighbor, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. I call him neighbor, because his
plantation lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably
together. My stock was but low, as well as his; and we
rather planted for food, than anything else, for about two
years. However, we began to increase, and our land began
to come into order; so that the third year we planted some
tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground ready
for planting canes in the year to come; but we both wanted
help; and now I found more than before, I had done wrong
in parting with my boy Xury.
But alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right, was no
great wonder: I had no remedy but to go on; I was gotten
into an employment quite remote to my genius, and directly
contrary to the life I delighted in, and for which I forsook my
father's house, and broke through all his good advice; nay, I
was coming into the very middle station, or upper degree of
low life, which my father advised me to before; and which if
I resolved to go on with, I might as well have staid at home,
and never have fatigued myself in the world as \ had done:
and I used often to say to myself, I could have done this as
well in England among my friends, as have gone five thou-
sand miles off to do it among strangers and savages in a wil-
derness, and at such distance as never to hear from any part
of the world that had the least knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the
utmost regret . I had nobody to converse with, but now and
then this neighbor: no work to be done, but by the labor of
my hands; and I used to say, I lived just like a man cast
away upon some desolate island, that had nobody there but
himself. But how just has it been, and how should all men
reflect, that, when they compare their present conditions with
others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to make the
exchange, and be convinced of their former felicity, by their
experience; I say how just has it been, that the truly solitary
life I reflected on in an island of mere desolation should be
my lot, who had so often unjustly compared it with the life
which I then led, in which, had I continued, I had in all prob-
ability been exceeding prosperous and rich.
I was in some degree settled in my measures for carrying
on the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the
ship that took me up at sea, went back ; for the ship remained
there, providing his loading and preparing for his voyage,
near three months; when, telling him what little stock I had
left behind me in London, he gave me this friendly and sincere
advice: "Seignor Inglese," says he (for so he always called
me), "if you will give me letters, and a procuration here in
form to me, with orders to the person who has your money
in London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as
I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this coun-
try, I will bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my
return; but since human affairs are all subject to changes and
disasters, I would have you give orders but for one hundred
pounds sterling, which you say is half your stock, and let the
hazard be run for the first; so that if it come safe, you may
order the rest the same way; and if it miscarry, you may have
the other half to have recourse to it for your supply."
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that
I could not. but be convinced it was the best course I could
take ; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman
with whom I had left my money, and a procuration to the
Portuguese captain, as he desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all
my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I had met with
the Portugal captain at sea, the humanity of his behavior, and
what condition I was now in, with all other necessary direc-
tions for my supply; and when this honest captain came to
Lisbon, he found means, by some of the English merchants
there, to send over, not the order only, but a full account of
my story, to a merchant at London, who represented it effect-
ually to her; whereupon, she not only delivered the money,
but out of her own pocket sent the Portugal captain a very
handsome present for his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vesting this hundred pounds in
English goods, such as the captain had written for, sent them
directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me
to the Brazils; among which, without my directions (for I was
too young in my business to think of them), he had taken care
to have all sorts of tools, iron-work, and utensils necessary for
my plantation, and which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived I thought my fortune made, for I
was surprised with joy of it; and my good steward the cap-
tain had laid out the five pounds which my friend had sent him
for a present for himself, to purchase, and bring me over a ser-
vant under bond for six years service, and would not accept of
any consideration, except a little tobacco, which I would have
him accept, being of my own produce.
Neither was this all; but my goods being all English man-
ufactures, such as cloth, stuffs, baize, and things particularly
valuable and desirable in the country, I found means to sell
them to a very great advantage, so that I may say I had more
than four times the value of my first cargo, and was now infi-
nitely beyond my poor neighbor, I mean in the advancement
of my plantation: for the first thing I did, I bought me a
Negro slave, and an European servant also; I mean another
besides that which the captain brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means
of our greatest adversity, so it was with me. I went on the
next year with great success in my plantation; I raised fifty
great rolls of tobacco on my own ground, more than I had
disposed of for necessaries among my neighbors; and these
fifty rolls, being each of above an hundred-weight, were well
cured and laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon.
And now, increasing in business and in wealth, my head began
to be full of projects and undertakings beyond my reach;
such as are indeed often the ruin of the best heads in busi-
ness.
Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had room
for all the happy things to have yet befallen me, for which my
father so earnestly recommended a quiet retired life, and of
which he had so sensibly described the middle station of life
to be full; but other things attended me, and I was still to be
the willful agent of all my own miseries; and particularly to
increase my fault, and double the reflections upon myself,
which in my future sorrows I should have leisure to make.
All these miscarriages were procured by my apparent obsti-
nate adhering to my foolish inclination of wandering abroad,
and pursuing that inclination in contradiction to the clearest
views of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of
those prospects and those measures of life, which nature and
Providence concurred to present me with, and to make my
duty.
As I had done thus in breaking away from my parents, so I
could not be content now, but I must go and leave the happy
view I had of being a rich and thriving man in my new plan-
tation, only to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising
faster than the nature of the thing admitted; and thus I cast
myself down again into the deepest gulf of human misery
that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be consistent with
life and a state of health in the world.
To come then by the just degrees to the particulars of this
part of my story; you may suppose, that having now lived
almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning to thrive and
prosper very well upon my plantation, I had not only learned
the language, but had contracted acquaintance and friendship
among my fellow planters, as well as among the merchants at
St. Salvadore, which was our port; and that in my discourses
among them I had frequently given them an account of my
two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading
with the Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase upon
the coast, for trifles, such as beads, toys, knives, scissors,
hatchets, bits of glass, and the like, not only gold dust,
Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, &c., but Negroes for the ser-
vice of the Brazils, in great numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my discourses on
these heads, but especially to that part which related to the
buying Negroes, which was a trade at that time not only not
far entered into, but as far as it was, had been carried on by
the Assientos, or permission of the kings of Spain and Portu-
gal, and engrossed in the public, so that few Negroes were
bought, and those excessively dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very
earnestly, three of them came to me the next morning, and
told me they had been musing very much upon what I had
discoursed with them of the last night, and they came to
make a secret proposal to me ; and after enjoining me secrecy,
they told me that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to
Guinea; that they had all plantations as well as I, and were
straitened for nothing so much as servants; that as this was a
trade that could not be carried on, because they could not
publicly sell the Negroes when they came home: so they de-
sired to make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore
privately, and divide them among their own plantations; and
in a word, the question was, whether I would go as their su-
percargo in the ship, to manage the trading part upon the
coast of Guinea; and they offered me that I should have my
equal share of the Negroes, without providing any part of the
stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it been
made to any one that had not had a settlement and plantation
of his own to look after, which was in a fair way of becoming
very considerable, and with a good stock upon it. But for me,
that was thus entered and established, and had nothing to do
but go on as I had begun, for three or four years more, and to
have sent for the other hundred pounds from England, and
who in that time, and with that little addition, could scarce
have failed of being worth three or four thousand pounds ster-
ling, and that increasing too; for me to think of such a voy-
age, was the most preposterous thing that ever man in such
circumstances could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no
more resist the offer, than I could restrain my first rambling
designs, when my father's good counsel was lost upon me. In
a word, I told them I would go with all my heart, if they
would undertake to look after my plantation in my absence,
and would dispose of it to such as I should direct if I mis-
carried. This they all engaged to do, and entered into writ-
ings or covenants to do so; and I made a formal will, dispos-
ing of my plantation and effects, in case of my death, making
the captain of the ship that saved my life, as before, my uni-
versal heir; but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I
had directed in my will, one half of the produce being to
himself, and the other to be shipped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects,
and keep up my plantation. Had I used half as much pru-
dence to have looked into my own interest, and have made a
judgment of what I ought to have done and not to have done,
I had certainly never gone away from so prosperous an under-
taking, leaving all the probable views of a thriving circum-
stance, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its
common hazards; to say nothing of the reasons I had to ex-
pect particular misfortunes to myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of
my fancy rather than my reason; and accordingly, the ship
being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things done
as by agreement by my partners in the voyage, I went on
board in an evil hour, the 1st of September — being the same
day eight years that I went from my father and mother at
Hull, in order to act the rebel to their authority, and the fool
to my own interest.
Our ship was about 120 tons burden, carried 6 guns, and
14 men, besides the master, his boy, and myself. We had on
board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit
for our trade with the Negroes, such as beads, bits of glass,
shells, and odd trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives,
scissors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away
to the northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch
over for the African coast when they came about ten or twelve
degrees of northern latitude, which it seems was the manner
of their course in those days. We had very good weather,
only excessive hot, all the way upon our own coast till we
came the height of Cape St. Augustino; from whence, keep-
ing farther off at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if
we were bound for the isle Fernand de Noronha, holding our
course N. E. by N. and leaving those isles on the east. In
this course we passed the line in about twelve days' time, and
were by our last observation in seven degrees twenty-two min-
utes northern latitude, when a violent tornado or hurricane
took us quite out of our knowledge. It began from the south-
east, came about to the north-west, and then settled into the
north-east, from whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that
for twelve days together we could do nothing but drive, and
scudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and
the fury of the winds directed; and during these twelve days
I need not say that I expected every day to be swallowed up,
nor indeed did any in the ship expect to save their lives.
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm, one
of our men died of fever, and one man and the boy washed
overboard. About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little,
the master made an observation as well as he could, and
found he was in about eleven degrees north latitude, but that
he was twenty-two degrees of longitude difference west from
Cape St. Augustino: so that he found he was gotten upon the
coast of Guinea, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river
Amazones, toward that of the river Oronoque, commonly
called the Great River, and began to consult with me what
course he should take, for the ship was leaky and very much
disabled, and he was going directly back to the coast of
Brazil.
I was positively against that; and looking over the charts
of the sea-coast of America with him, we concluded there
was no inhabited country for us to have recourse to, till we
came within the circle of the Caribbee Islands, and therefore
resolved to stand away for Barbadoes, which, by keeping off
at sea, to avoid the indraught of the bay or gulf of Mexico,
we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days'
sail; whereas, we could not possibly make our voyage to the
coast of Africa without some assistance, both to our ship and
to ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and steered away
N. W. by W in order to reach some of our English islands,
where I hoped for relief; but our voyage was otherwise de-
termined; for being in the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen
minutes, a second storm came upon us, which carried us away
with the same impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of
the very way of all human commerce, that had all our lives
been saved, as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being
•devoured by savages than ever returning to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our
men early in the morning cried out, " Land "! and we had no
sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing
whereabouts in the world we were, but the ship struck upon a
sand, and in a moment, her motion being so stopped, the sea
broke over her in such a manner, that we expected we should
all have perished immediately; and we were immediately
driven into our close quarters, to shelter us from the very
foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the like con-
dition, to describe or conceive the consternation of men in
such circumstances. We knew nothing where we were, or
upon what land it was we were driven, whether an island or
the main, whether inhabited or not inhabited; and as the rage
of the wind was still great, though rather less than at first, we
could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many min-
utes without breaking in pieces, unless the winds, by a kind
of miracle, should turn immediately about. In a word, we
sat looking one upon another, and expecting death every mo-
ment, and every man acting accordingly as preparing for
another world, for there was little or nothing more for us to do
in this. That which was our present comfort, and all the
comfort we had, was, that contrary to our expectation the ship
did not break yet, and that the master said the wind began to
abate.•
Now, though we found that the wind did a little abate, yet
the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too
fast for us to expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful con-
dition indeed, and had nothing to do but to think of saving
our lives as well as we could. We had a boat af our stern
just before the storm, but she was first staved by dashing
against the ship's rudder, and in the next place she broke
away, and either sunk or was driven off to sea, so there was
no hope from her. We had another boat on board but how
to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing; however
there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would
break in pieces every minute, and some told us she was ac-
tually broken already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the
boat, and with the help of the rest of the men, they got her
slung over the ship's side, and getting all into her, let go, and
committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy
and the wild sea; for though the storm was abated consider-
ably, yet the sea went dreadful high upon the shore, and might
well be called den wild zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a
storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw
plainly that the sea went so high, that the boat could not live,
and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to making
sail, we had none, nor, if we had, could we have done any-
thing with it, so we worked at the oar towards the land,
though with heavy hearts, like men going to execution; for
we all knew that when the boat came nearer the shore she
would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the
sea. However, we committed our souls to God in the most
earnest manner, and the wind driving us towards the shore,
we hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling as
well as we could towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether steep or
shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could rationally give
us the least shadow of expectation was, if we might happen
into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where by
great chance we might have run our boat in, or got under the
lee of the land, and perhaps made smooth water. But there
was nothing of this appeared; but as we made nearer and
nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a
half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came
rolling a-stern of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup-de-
grace. In a word, it took us with such a fury, that it overset
the boat at once; and separating us, as well from the boat as
from one another, gave us not time hardly to say, O God! for
we were all swallowed up in a moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt
when I sunk into the water; for though I swam very well, yet
I could not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw
breath, till that wave having driven me, or rather carried me,
a vast way on towards the shore, and having spent itself, went
back, and left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead
with the water I took in. I had so much presence of mind,
as well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the main land
than I expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavored to make
on towards the land as fast as I could, before another wave
should return and take me up again. But I soon found it was
impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as
high as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had
no means or strength to contend with. My business was to
hold my breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I could;
and so by swimming to preserve my breathing, and pilot my-
self towards the shore, if possible. My greatest concern now
being that the sea, as it would carry me a great way towards
the shore when it came on, might not carry me back again
with it when it gave back towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me at once 20
or 30 feet deep in its own body, and I could feel myself car-
ried with a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore a
very great way; but I held my breath, and assisted myself to
swim still forward with all my might. I was ready to burst
with holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising up, so,
to my immediate relief, I found my head and hands shoot out
above the surface of the water; and though it was not two
seconds of time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved
me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was covered
again with water a good while, but not so long but I held it
out; and finding the water had spent itself, and began to re-
turn, I struck forward against the return of the waves, and
felt ground again with my feet. I stood still a few moments
to recover breath, and till the water went from me, and then
took to my heels and ran with what strength I had far-
ther towards the shore. But neither would this deliver me
from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me
again, and twice more I was lifted up by the waves and car-
ried forwards as before, the shore being very flat.
The last time of these two had well near been fatal to me;
for the sea having hurried me along as before, landed me, or
rather dashed me, against a piece of a rock, and that with
such force, as it left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to
my own deliverance; for the blow taking my side and breast,
beat the breath as it were quite out of my body; and had it not
returned again immediately, I must have been strangled in the
water; but I recovered a little before the return of the waves,
and seeing I should be covered again with the water, I resolved
to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so hold my breath,
if possible, till the wave went back. Now as the waves were
not so high as at first, being near land, I held my hold till the
wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me
so near the shore that the next wave, though it went over me,
yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the
next run I took I got to the main-land, where, to my great
comfort, I clambered up the clefts of the shore, and sat me
down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite out of the
reach of the water.
I was now landed and safe on shore, and began to look up
and thank God that my life was saved in a case wherein there
was some minutes before scarce any room to hope. I believe
it is impossible to express to the life what the ecstasies and
transports of the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say,
out of the very grave. I walked about on the shore, lifting
up my hands, and my whole being; as I may say, wrapt up in
the contemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand
gestures and motions which I cannot describe, reflecting upon
all my comrades that were drowned, and that there should
not be one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I never
saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three of
their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach and
froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it lay so
far off, and considered, Lord! how was it possible I could get
on shore!
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of
my condition, I began to look around me, to see what kind of
place I was in, and what was next to be done; and I soon
found my comforts abate, and that, in a word, I had a dread-
ful deliverance. For I was wet, had no clothes to shift me,
nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort me; neither
did I see any prospect before me, but that of perishing with
hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts ; and that which
was particularly afflicting to me, was, that I had no weapon
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to
defend myself against any other creature that might desire to
kill me for theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a
knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a box; this was
all my provision, and this threw me into terrible agonies of
mind, that for a while I ran about like a madman. Night
coming upon me, I began with a heavy heart to consider what
would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that
country, seeing at night they always come abroad for their
prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time was,
to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but thorny, which
grew near me, and where I resolved to sit all night, and con-
sider the next day what death I should die, for as yet I saw
no prospect of life. I walked about a furlong from the shore,
to see if I could find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to
my great joy; and having drank, and put a little tobacco in
my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and getting
up into it endeavored to place myself so as that if I should
sleep I might not fall; and having cut me a short stick, like
a truncheon, for my defense, I took up my lodging, and having
been excessively fatigued I fell fast asleep, and slept as com-
fortably as, I believe, few could have done in my condition,
and found myself the most refreshed with it that I think I ever
was on such an occasion.
When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the
storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before;
but that which surprised me most was, that the ship was
lifted off in the night from the sand where she lay by the
swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the
rock which I first mentioned, where I had been so bruised by
the dashing me against it. This being within about a mile
from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to stand
upright still, I wished myself on board, that, at least, I might
save some necessary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked
about me again, and the first thing I found was the boat,
which lay as the wind and the sea had tossed her, up upon
the land, about two miles on my right hand. I walked as far
as I could upon the shore to have got to her, but found a
neck or inlet of water between me and the boat, which was
about half a mile broad; so I came back for the present,
being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to
find something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the tide
ebbed so far out that I could come within a quarter of a mile
of the ship, and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief;
for I saw evidently, that if we had kept on board, we had
been all safe, that is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and
I had not been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of
all comfort and company, as I now was. This forced tears
from my eyes again, but as there was little relief in that, J
resolved, if possible, to get to the ship, so I pulled off my
clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and took the
water; but when I came to the ship, my difficulty was still
greater to know how to get on board, for as she lay aground,
and high out of the water, there was nothing within my reach
to lay hold of. I swam round her twice, and the second time
I spied a small piece of rope, which I wondered I did not see
at first, hang down by the fore-chains so low as that with great
difficulty I got hold of it, and by the help of that rope got up
into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the ship
was bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold, but
that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her
head low almost to the water. By this means all her quarter
was free, and all that was in that part was dry ; for you may
be sure my first work was to search and to see what was
spoiled and what was free; and first I found that all the
ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the water; and
being very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-room and
filled my pockets with biscuit, and eat it as I went about
other things, for I had no time to lose. I also found some
rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and1
which I had indeed need enough of to spirit me for what was
before me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat to furnish my-
self with many things which I foresaw would be very neces-
sary to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be
had, and this extremity roused my application. We had sev-
eral spare yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and a
spare topmast or two in the ship. I resolved to fall to work
with these, and flung as many of them overboard as I could
manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope that they
might not drive away; when this was done I went down the
ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast
together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a raft,
and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them
cross-ways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it
was not able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too
light; so I went to work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut
a spare topmast into three lengths, and added them to my
raft, with a great deal of labor and pains: but hope of fur-
nishing myself with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond
what I should have been able to have done upon another oc-
casion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable
weight; my next care was what to load it with, and how to
preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I
was not long considering this. I first laid all the planks or
boards upon it that I could get, and having considered well
what I most wanted, I first got three of the seamen's chests,
which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered them
down upon my raft. The first of these I filled with provis-
ions, namely, bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of
dried goat's flesh, which we lived much upon, and a little re-
mainder of European corn which had been laid by for some
fowls which we brought to sea with us, but the fowls were
killed. There had been some barley and wheat together;
but, to my great disappointment, I found afterwards that the
rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found sev-
eral cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were
some cordial waters, and in all about five or six gallons of
rack; these I stowed by themselves, there being no need to
put them into the chest, nor no room for them. While I was
doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though very calm;
and I had the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waist-
coat, which I had left on shore, upon the sand, swim away;
as for my breeches, which were only linen and open-kneed, I
swam on board in them and my stockings. However, this put
me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough, but
took no more than I wanted for present use; for I had other
things which my eye was more upon — as, first, tools to work
with on shore; and it was after long searching that I found
out the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize
to me, and much more valuable than a ship-loading of gold
would have been at that time. I got it down to my raft, even
whole as it was, without losing time to look into it, for I knew
in general what it contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There
were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two
pistols; these I secured first, with some powder-horns, and a
small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there
were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where
our gunner had stowed them; but with much search I found
them, two of them dry and good, the third had taken water.
Those two I got to my raft, with the arms ; and now I thought
myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how I should
get to shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor rudder,
and the least capful of wind would have overset all my navi-
gation.
I had three encouragements: a smooth, calm sea, the tide
rising and setting into the shore, and what little wind there
was blew me towards the land; and thus, having found two
or three broken oars belonging to the boat, and besides the
tools which were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe and a
hammer, and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or
thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I found it drive a
little distant from the place where I had landed before, by
which I perceived that there was some indraft of the water,
and consequently I hoped to find some creek or river there,
which I might make use of as a port to get to land with my
cargo.
As I imagined, so it was. There appeared before me a
little opening of the land, and I found a strong current of the
tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well as I could to keep
in the middle of the stream; but here I had like to have suf-
fered a second shipwreck, which, if I had, I think verily
would have broke my heart; for knowing nothing of the coast,
my raft run aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and not
being aground at the other end, it. wanted but a little that all
my cargo had slipped off towards that end that was afloat, and
so fallen into the water. I did my utmost, by setting my back
against the chests, to keep them in their places, but could not
thrust off the raft with all my strength, neither durst I stir
from the posture I was in; but holding up the chests with all
my might, stood in that manner near half an hour, in which
time the rising of the water brought me a little more upon 3
level; and a little after, the water still rising, my raft floated
again, and I thrust her off with the oar I had into the chan-
nel; and then driving up higher, I at length found myself in
the mouth of a little river, with land on both sides, and a
strong current or tide running up. I looked on both sides for
a proper place to get to shore, for I was not willing to be
driven too high up the river, hoping in time to see some ship
at sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as near the
coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the
creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I'guided my
raft, and at last got so near, as that, reaching ground with my
oar, I could thrust her directly in. But here I had liked to
have dipped all my cargo in the sea again: for that shore ly-
ing pretty steep, that is to say sloping, there was no place to
land, but where one end of the float, if it run on shore, would
lie so high, and the other sink lower as before, that it would
endanger my cargo again. All that I could do, was to wait
till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft with my oar
like an anchor to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a
flat piece of ground, which I expected the water would flow
over; and so it did. As soon as I found water enough (for
my raft drew about a foot of water), I thrust her on upon that
flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her by
sticking my two broken oars into the ground; one on one side
near one end, and one on the other side near the other end;
and thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and
all my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper
place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods to secure
them from whatever might happen. Where I was I yet knew
not; whether on the continent or on an island, whether inhab-
ited or not inhabited, whether in danger of wild beasts or not.
There was a hill not above a mile from me, which rose up very
steep and high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills
which lay as in a ridge from it northward. I took out one of
the fowling-pieces, and one of the pistols, and an horn of pow-
der, and thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to the top of
that hill; where, after I had with great labor and difficulty
got to the top, I saw my fate to my great affliction, namely,
that I was in an island environed every way with the sea, no
land to be seen, except some rocks which lay a great way oflfj
and two small islands less than this, which lay about three
leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I
saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of whom however I saw none ; yet I saw abundance
of fowls, but knew not their kinds, neither when I killed them
could I tell what was fit for food, and what not. At my com-
ing back, I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a
tree on the side of a great wood — I believe it was the first
gun that had been fired there since the creation of the world.
I had no sooner fired, but from all parts of the wood there
arose an innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, making
a confused screaming, and crying every one according to his
usual note; but not one of them of any kind that I knew.
As for the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of hawk,
its color and beak resembling it, but had no talons or claws
more than common; its flesh was carrion and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and
fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up
the rest of that day; and what to do with myself at night I
knew not, nor- indeed where to rest; for I was afraid to lie
down on the ground, not knowing but some wild beast might
devour me, though, as I afterwards found, there was really no
need for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round
with the chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and
made a kind of a hut for that night's lodging. As for food, I
yet saw not which way to supply myself, except that I had
seen two or three creatures, like hares, run out of the wood
where I shot the bird.
I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many
things out of the ship which would be useful to me, and par-
ticularly some of the rigging and sails, and such other things
as might come to land, and I resolved to make another voy-
age on board the vessel, if possible; and as I knew that the
first storm that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces,
I resolved to set all other things apart till I got everything
out of the ship that I could get. Then I called a council,
that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should take back the
raft; but this appeared impracticable, so I resolved to go as
before, when the tide was down, and I did so, only that I
stripped before I went from my hut, having nothing on but a
checkered shirt, and a pair of linen trousers, and a pair of
pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship, as before, and prepared a second
raft, and having had experience of the first, I neither made
this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard ; but yet I brought
away several things very useful to me; as first, in the carpen-
ter's stores, I found two or three bags full of nails and spikes,
a great screw jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and above all,
that most useful thing called a grindstone. All these I se-
cured, together with several things belonging to the gunner,
particularly two or three iron crows, and two barrels of mus-
ket-bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with
some small quantity of powder more, a large bag full of small
shot, and a great roll of sheet lead; but this last was so
heavy, I could not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I
could find, and a spare foretop-sail, hammock, and some bed-
ding; and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought
them all safe on shore, to my very great comfort.
I was under some apprehensions during my absence from the
land, that at least my provisions might be devoured on shore;
but when I came back, I found no sign of any visitor, only
there sat a creature like a wild cat upon one of the chests,
which, when I came towards it, ran away a little distance, and
then stood still. She sat very composed and unconcerned,
and looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be ac-
quainted with me. I presented my gun at her, but as she did
not understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did
she offer to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of bis-
cuit, though by the way I was not very free of it, for my store
was not great. However, I spared her a bit, I say, and she
went to it, smelled it, ate it, and looked, as pleased, for more;
but I thanked her, and could spare no more, so she marched
off.
Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was fain to
open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels (for
they were too heavy, being large casks), I went to work to
make me a little tent with the sail and some poles which I cut
for that purpose; and into this tent I brought everything that
I knew would spoil, either with rain or sun, and I piled all the
empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent, to for-
tify it from any sudden attempt, either from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent
with some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end
without; and spreading one of the beds on the ground, laying
my two pistols just at my head, and my gun at length by me,
I went to bed for the first time, and slept very quietly all
night, for I was very weary and heavy; for the night before
I had slept little, and had labored very hard all day, as well
to fetch all those things from the ship as to get them on
shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever were
laid up, I believe, for one man, but I was not satisfied still;
for while the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I
ought to get everything out of her that I could: so every day
at low water I went on board, and brought away something or
other; but particularly the third time I went, I brought away
as much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small ropes
and rope twine I could get, with a piece of spare canvas,
which was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of
wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought away all the sails first
and last, only that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring
as much at a time as I could; for they were no more useful
to be sails, but as mere canvas only.
But that which comforted me more still, was that, last of
all, after I had made five or six such voyages as these, and
thought I had nothing more to expect from the ship that was
worth my meddling with; I say, after all this, I found a great
hogshead of bread, and three large runlets of rum or spirits,
and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour. This was sur-
prising to me, because I had given over expecting any more
provisions, except what was spoiled by the water. I soon
emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up, par-
cel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and, in
a word, I got all this safe on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage; and now, having
plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out,
I began with the cables; and cutting the great cable into
pieces, such as I could move, I got two cables and a hawser
on shore, with all the iron-work I could get; and having cut
down the spritsail-yard, and the mizzen-yard, and everything I
could to make a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy
goods and came away. But my good luck began now to leave
me; for this raft was so unwieldy and so overladen, that after
I had entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of
my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the
other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the
water. As for myself it was no great harm, for I was near
the shore; but as to my cargo, it was great part of it lost,
especially the iron, which I expected would have been of
great use to me. However, when the tide was out, I got
most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron,
though with infinite labor; for I was fain to dip for it into
the water — a work which fatigued me very much. After this,
I went every day on board and brought away what I could
get.
I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship, in which time I had brought
away all that one pair of hands could be well supposed capa-
ble to bring; though I believe verily, had the calm weather
held, I should have brought away the whole ship, piece by
piece. But preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I
found the wind begin to rise; however, at low water I went
on board, and though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so
effectually, as that nothing more could be found, yet I discov-
ered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two
or three razors, and one pair of large scissors, with some ten
or a dozen of good knives and forks; in another I found
about thirty-six pounds value in money, some European coin,
some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. "O Drug!"
said I, aloud, "what art thou good for? thou art not worth to
me, no, not the taking off the ground. One of these knives
is worth all this heap. I have no manner of use for thee,
even remain where thou art and go to the bottom, as a crea-
ture whose life is not worth saving." However, upon second
thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a piece of
canvas, I began to think of making another raft; but while I
was preparing this, I found the sky overcast, and the wind
began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh
gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me, that it was
in vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind off shore, and
that it was my business to be gone before the tide of flood
began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at
all: accordingly I let myself down into the water, and swam
across the channel, which lay between the ship and the sands,
and even that with difficulty enough, partly with the weight
of things I had about me, and partly the roughness of the
water; for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite
high water it blew a storm.
But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay with
all my wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard
all that night; and in the morning when I looked out, be-
hold no more ship was to be seen. I was a little surprised,
but recovered myself with this satisfactory reflection; namely,
that I had lost no time, nor abated any diligence, to get
everything out of her that could be useful to me ; and that
indeed there was little left in her that I was able to bring
away, if I had had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of any-
thing out of her, except what might drive on shore from her
wreck, as indeed divers pieces of her afterwards did; but
those things were of small use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing
myself against either savages (if any should appear) or wild
beasts, if any were in the island; and I had many thoughts
of the method how to do this, and what kind of dwelling to
make; whether I should make me a cave in the earth, or a
tent upon the earth; and, in short, I resolved upon both, of
the manner, and description of which it may not be improper
to give an account.
I soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement,
particularly because it was upon a low moorish ground near the
sea, and I believed would not be wholesome, and more par-
ticularly because there was no fresh water near it, so I resolved
to find a more healthy and more convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation which I found
would be proper for me. Health, and fresh water, I just now
mentioned; shelter from the heat of the sun; security from
ravenous creatures, whether man or beast; a view to the sea,
that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any ad-
vantage for my deliverance, of which I was not willing to
banish all my expectation yet.
In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain
on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little
plain was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could come
down upon me from .the top; on the side of this rock there
was a hollow place, worn a little way in, like the entrance or
door of a cave: but there was not really any cave or way
into the rock at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I
resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above an hun-
dred yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a
green before my door, and at the end it descended irregularly
every way down into the low grounds by the sea-side. It
was on the N. N. W. side of the hill, so that I was sheltered
from the heat every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun, or
thereabouts, which in those countries is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diam-
eter, from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its
beginning and ending.
In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driv-
ing them into the ground till they stood very firm, like piles, the
biggest end being out of the ground about five foot and a half,
and sharpened on the top; the two rows did not stand above
six inches from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship,
and laid them in rows one upon another, within the circle
between these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing
other stakes in the inside, leaning against them, about two
foot and a half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence was
so strong, that neither man nor beast could get into it or over
it. This cost me a great deal of time and labor, especially to
cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the place, and drive
them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door,
but by a short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when
I was in, I lifted over after me: and so I was completely
fenced in and fortified, as I thought, from all the world, and
consequently slept secure in the night, which otherwise I
could not have done; though, as it appeared afterward, there
was no need of all this caution from the enemies that I appre-
hended danger from.
Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labor, I carried all
my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which
you have the account above; and I made me a large tent,
which, to preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the
year are very violent there, I made double, namely, one
smaller tent within, and one larger tent above it, and covered
the uppermost with a large tarpaulin which I had saved among
the sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had
brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a
very good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything
that would spoil by the wet; and having thus inclosed all my
goods I made up the entrance, which till now I had left open,
and so passed and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into the
rock ; and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out
through my tent, I laid them up within my fence in the nature
of a terrace, that so it raised the ground within about a foot
and a half; and thus I made me a cave just behind my tent,
which served me like a cellar to my house.
It cost me much labor, and many days, before all these
things were brought to perfection, and therefore I must go
back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts.
At the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for
the setting up my tent and making the cave, that a storm of
rain falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of light-
ning happened, and after that a great clap of thunder, as is
naturally the effect of it. I was not so much surprised with
the lightning, as I was with a thought which darted into my
mind as swift as the lightning itself: O my powder! my very
heart sunk within me, when I thought that at one blast all
my powder might be destroyed; on which, not my defense
only, but the providing me food, as I thought, entirely de-
pended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own dan-
ger, though, had the powder took fire, I had never known
who had hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that after the
storm was over I laid aside all my works, my building, and
fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes to
separate the powder, and to keep it a little and a little in a
parcel, in hope, that whatever might come, it might not all
take fire at once; and to keep it so apart, that it should not
be possible to make one part fire another. I finished this
work in about a fortnight; and I think my powder, which in
all was about 240 pounds weight, was divided in not less than
a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had been wet, I did
not. apprehend any danger from that, so I placed it in my new
cave, which in my fancy I called my kitchen; and the rest I
hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet
might come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out
once at least every day with my gun, as well to divert myself
as to see if I could kill anything fit for food, and, as near as
I could, to acquaint myself with what the island produced.
The first time I went out I presently discovered that there
were goats in the island, which was a great satisfaction to me;
but then it was attended with this misfortune to me, namely,
that they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it
was the most difficult thing in the world to come at them.
But I was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might
now and then shoot one, as it soon happened; for after I had
found their haunts a little, I laid wait in this manner for
them: I observed, if they saw me in the valleys, though they
were upon the rocks, they would run away as in a terrible
fright; but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me: from whence I
concluded, that by the position of their optics, their sight was
so directed downward, that they did not readily see objects
that were above them; so afterwards I took this method: I
always climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and then
I had frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made among
these creatures I killed a she-goat, which had a little kid by
her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily; but
when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her till I
came and took her up; and not only so, but when I carried
the old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid followed me
quite to my inclosure, upon which I laid down the dam, and
took the kid in my arms and carried it over my pale, in hopes
to have bred it up tame, but it would not eat, so I was forced
to kill it and eat it myself. These two supplied me with flesh
a great while, for I eat sparingly, and saved my provisions
(my bread especially) as much as possibly I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to
burn; and what I did for that, as also how I enlarged my
cave, and what conveniences I made, I shall give a full ac-
count of in its place; but I must first give some little account
of myself, and of my thoughts about living, which it may well
be supposed were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I was not
cast away upon that island without being driven, as is said,
by a violent storm quite out of the course of our intended
voyage, and a great way, some hundreds of leagues, out of
the ordinary course of the trade of mankind, I had great
reason to consider it as a determination of Heaven that in
this desolate place and in this desolate manner, I should end
my life. The tears would run plentifully down my face when
I made these reflections, and sometimes I would expostulate
with myself, why Providence should thus completely ruin his
creatures, and render them so absolutely miserable, so without
help abandoned, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be
rational to be thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to check
these thoughts and reprove me; and particularly one day,
walking with my gun in my hand by the sea-side, I was very
pensive upon the subject of my present condition, when rea-
son as it were expostulated with me the other way, thus:
Well, you are in a desolate condition, it is true; but pray
remember, where are the rest of you? Did not you come
eleven of you into the boat? Where are the ten? Why were
they not saved and you lost? Why were you singled out? Is
it better to be here or there? and then I pointed to the sea.
All evils are to be considered with the good that is in them,
and with what worse attends them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for
my subsistence, and what would have been my case if it had
not happened, which was a hundred thousand to one, that the
ship floated from the place where she first struck, and was
driven so near the shore that I had time to get all these
things out of her? What would have been my case if I had
been to have lived in the condition in which I at first came
on shore, without necessaries of life or necessaries to supply
and procure them? Particularly, said I aloud (though to
myself), what should I have done without a gun, without am-
munition, without any tools to make anything, or to work
with; without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner of cov-
ering? And that now I had all these to a sufficient quantity,
and was in a fair way to provide myself in such a manner, as
to live without my gun when my ammunition was spent, so
that I had a tolerable view of subsisting, without any want,
as long as I lived; for I considered from the beginning how
I should provide for the accidents that might happen and for
the time that was to come, even not only after my ammuni-
tion should be spent, but even after my health or strength
should decay. \• \
I confess I had not entertained any notion of my ammuni-
tion being destroyed at one blast, I mean, my powder being
blown up by lightning; and this made the thoughts of it so
surprising to me when it lightened and thundered, as I ob-
served just now.
And now being about to enter into a melancholy relation
of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of
in the world before, I shall take it from its beginning, and
continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the 3oth of
September, when, in the manner as above said, I first set foot
upon this horrid island, when the sun being, to us, in its au-
tumnal equinox, was almost just over my head; for I reck-
oned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees
and 22 minutes north of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came
into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for
want of books, and pen and ink, and should even forget the
Sabbath days from the working days; but to prevent this, I
cut it with my knife upon a large post in capital letters, and
making it into a great cross, I set it up on the shore where I
first landed, namely, I CAME ON SHORE HERE ON THE 30™ OF
SEPT. 1659. Upon the sides of this square post I cut every
day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as
long again as the rest, and every first day of the month as
long again as that long one; and thus I kept my calendar, or
weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place we are to observe, that among the many
things which I brought out of the ship in the several voyages,
which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I got several things of
less value, but not all less useful to me, which I omitted setting
down before; as in particular, pens, ink, and paper; several
parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's
keeping; three or four compasses, some mathematical in-
struments, dials, perspective glasses, charts, and books of
navigation; all which I huddled together, whether I might
want them or no; also, I found three very good Bibles which
came to me in my cargo from England, and which I had
packed up among my things; some Portuguese books also,
and among them two or three Popish prayer-books, and
several other books, all which I carefully secured. And I
must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog and two cats,
of whose eminent history I may have occasion to say some-
thing in its place; for I carried both the cats with me; and
as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, and
swam on shore to me the day after I went on shore with my
first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many years. I
wanted nothing that he could fetch me, or any company that
he could make up to me; I only wanted to have him talk to
me, but that he could not do. As I observed before, I found
pen, ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost;
and I shall show, that while my ink lasted, I kept things very
exact; but after that was gone I could not, for I could not
make any ink, by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, not-
withstanding all that I had amassed together; and of these
this of ink was one, as also spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to
dig or remove the earth; needles, pins, and thread; as for
linen, I soon learned to want that without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily,
and it was near a whole year before I had entirely finished
my little pale or surrounded habitation. The piles or stakes,
which were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in
cutting and preparing in the woods, and more by far in bring-
ing home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting and
bringing home one of those posts, and a third day in driving
it into the ground; for which purpose I got a heavy piece of
wood at first, but at last bethought myself of one of the iron
crows, which, however, though I found it, yet it made driving
those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work.
But what need I have been concerned at the tediousness of
anything I had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in,
nor had I any other employment if that had been over, at
least, that I could foresee, except the ranging the island to
seek for food, which I did more or less every day.
I have already described my habitation, which was a tent
under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of
posts and cables, but I might now rather call it a wall, for I
raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs, about two feet
thick on the outside, and after some time, I think it was a
year and a half, I raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock,
and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, and such
things as I could get to keep out the rain, which I found at
some times of the year very violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my goods into
this pale, and into the cave which I had made behind me;
but I must observe too, that at first this was a confused heap
of goods, which, as they lay in no order, so they took up all my
place, I had no room to turn myself; so I set to work to enlarge
my cave and work farther into the earth; for it was a loose,
sandy rock, which yielded easily to the labor I bestowed on it.
And so when I found I was pretty safe as to beasts of prey, I
worked sideways to the right hand into the rock; and then
turning to the right again, worked quite out, and made me a
door to come out, on the outside of my pale or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were a
back way to my tent and to my store-house, but gave me room
to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary
things as I found I most wanted, as particularly a chair and a
table; for without these I was not able to enjoy the few com-
forts I had in the world. I could not write or eat, or do sev-
eral things with so much pleasure without a table.
So I went to work; and here I must needs observe, that as
reason is the substance and original of the mathematics, so
by stating and squaring everything by reason, and by making
the most rational judgment of things, every man may be in
time master of every mechanic art. I had never handled a
tool in my life, and yet in time by labor, application, and con-
trivance, I found at last that I wanted nothing but I could
have made it, especially if I had had tools; however, I made
abundance of things, even without todls, and some with no
more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which, perhaps, were
never made that way before, and that with infinite labor; for
example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut
down a tree, set it on a hedge before me, and hew it flat on
either side with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as
a plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by
this method I could make but one board out of a whole tree,
but this I had no remedy for but patience, any more than I
had for the prodigious deal of time and labor which it took
me up to make a plank or board; but my time or labor was
little worth, and so it was as well employed one way as an-
other.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the first place, and this I did out of the short pieces
of boards which I brought on my raft from the ship; but
when I had wrought out some boards, as above, I made large
shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another,
all along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and
iron-work, and in a word, to separate everything at large in
their places, that I might come easily at them. I knocked
pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and all
things that would hang up.
So that had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a gen-
eral magazine of all necessary things; and I had everything
so ready at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to
see all my goods in such order, and especially to find my
stock of all necessaries so great.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every
day's employment; for indeed at first I was in top much hurry,
and not only hurry as to labor, but in too much discomposure
of mind, and my journal would have been full of many dull
things.
I shall here give you the copy (though in it will be told
many particulars over again) as long as it lasted; for having
no more ink, I was forced to leave it off.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30, 1659. • I, poor, miserable Robinson Crusoe,
being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in the offing,
came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate island, which I
called the Island of Despair, all the rest of the ship's com-
pany being drowned, and myself almost dead.
•All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself, at the
dismal circumstances I was brought to, namely, I had neither
food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to, and in de-
spair of any relief, saw nothing but death before me, either
that I should be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by sav-
ages, or starved to death for want of food. At the approach
of night I slept in a tree, for fear of wild creatures, but slept
soundly though it rained all night.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the
ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore
again much nearer the island, which as it was some comfort
on one hand, for seeing her sit upright, and not broken to
pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board,
and get some food or necessaries out of her for my relief; so,
on the other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my
comrades, who I imagined if we had all stayed on board
might have saved the ship, or at least that they would not
have been all drowned, as they were; and that, had the men
been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat out of the
ruins of the ship, to have carried us to some other part of the
world. I spent great part of this day in perplexing myself on
these things; but at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I
went upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam on
board: this day also it continued raining, though with no
wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days en-
tirely spent in making several voyages to get all I could out
of the ship, which I brought on shore, every tide of flood,
upon rafts. Much rain also in these days, though with some
intervals of fair weather: but, it seems, this was the rainy
season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got upon
it; but being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly
heavy, I recovered many of them when tire tide was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some gusts
of wind, during which time the ship broke in pieces, the
wind blowing a little harder than before, and was no more to
be seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at low water.
I spent this day in covering and securing the goods which I
had saved, that the rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day, to find
out a place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned to secure
myself from any attack in the night, either from wild beasts or
men. Toward night I flexed upon a proper place under a
rock, and marked out a semicircle for my encampment, which
I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall, or fortification
made of double piles, lined within with cables, and without
with turf.
From the 26th to the 3oth, I worked very hard in carrying
all my goods to my new habitation, though some part of the
time it rained exceeding hard.
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island with
my gun, to see for some food, and discover the country, when
I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me home; which I
afterwards killed also, because it would not feed.
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there
for the first night, making it as large as I could with stakes
driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces
of timber which made my rafts, and with them formed a fence
round me, a little within the place I had marked out for my
fortification.
Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like
ducks, which were very good food. In the afternoon went to
work to make me a table.
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of work,
of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion.
Every morning I walked out with my gun for two or three
hours, if it did not rain, then employed myself to work till
about eleven o'clock, then eat what I had to live on, and from
twelve to two I lay down to sleep, the weather being excessive
hot, and then in the evening to work again. The working
part of this day, and of the next, were wholly employed in
making my table, for I was yet but a very sorry workman,
though time and necessity made me a complete natural
mechanic soon after, as I believe it would do any one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and my dog,
and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good
for nothing: every creature I killed I took off the skins and
preserved them. Coming back by the sea-shore I saw many
sorts of sea-fowls, which I did not understand; but was sur-
prised and almost frighted with two or three seals, which,
while I was gazing, not well knowing what they were, got into
the sea, and escaped me for that time.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk I went to work with my
table again, and finished it, though not to my liking; nor was
it long before I learned to mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather. The yth,
8th, 9th, loth, and a part of the 12th (for the nth was Sun-
day), I took wholly up to make me a chair, and with much
ado brought it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me;
and even in the making I pulled it in pieces several times.
Note. — I soon neglected my keeping Sundays, for omitting
my mark for them on my post, I forgot which was which.
Nov. 13. This day it rained, which refreshed me exceed-
ingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accompanied with ter-
rible thunder and lightning, which frighted me dreadfully
for fear of my powder. As soon as it was over I resolved to
separate my stock of powder into as many little parcels as
possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making little
square chests or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or
two pounds at most, of powder; and so putting the powder
in, I stowed it in places as secure and remote from one an-
other as possible. On one of these three days I killed a
large bird that was good to eat, but I know not what to
call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent into the
rock, to make room for my farther conveniency. Note. — Three
things I wanted exceeding for this work, namely, a pickaxe,
a shovel, and a wheelbarrow or basket, so I desisted from my
work, and began to consider how to supply that want, and
make me some tools. As for a pickaxe, I made use of the
iron crows, which were proper enough, though heavy; but the
next thing was a shovel or spade. This was so absolutely
necessary, that indeed I could do nothing effectually without
it; but what kind of one to make I knew not.
Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I found
a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the Brazils they call
the Iron Tree, for its exceeding hardness; of this, with great
labor and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a piece and brought
it home too with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no other
way, made me a long while upon this machine; for I worked
it effectually by little and little into the form of a shovel or
spade, the handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only
that the broad part having no iron shod upon it at bottom, it
would not last me so long; however, it served well enough
for the uses which I had occasion to put it to; but never was
a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long a
making.
I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wheelbar-
row. A basket I could not make by any means, having no
such things as twigs that would bend to make wicker ware, at
least none yet found out; and as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied
I could make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of,
neither did I know how to go about it; besides, I had no
possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or
axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it over; and so for car-
rying away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I made me
a thing like a hod which the laborers carry mortar in, when
they serve the bricklayers.
This was not so difficult to me as the making the shovel;
and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt which I made
in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me up no less than
four days, I mean always excepting my morning walk with my
gun, which I seldom failed ; and very seldom failed also bring-
ing home something to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, because
of my making these tools, when they were finished I went on,
and working every day, as my strength and time allowed, I
spent eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening my
cave, that it might hold my goods commodiously.
Note. — During all this time, I worked to make this room or
cave spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse or
magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar; as for my
lodging, I kept to the tent, except that sometimes in the wet
season of the year, it rained so hard that I could not keep
myself dry, which caused me afterwards to cover all my place
within my pale with long poles in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of
trees like a thatch.
December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault fin-
ished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a
great quantity of earth fell down from the top and one side,
so much, that in short it frighted me, and not without reason
too; for if I had been under it, I had never wanted a grave-
digger. Upon this disaster I had a great deal of work to do
over again; for I had the loose earth to carry out, and, which
was of more importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that
I might be sure no more would come down.
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly, and
got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two
pieces of boards across over each post; this I finished the
next day, and setting more posts up with boards, in about a
week more I had the roof secured; and the posts, standing in
rows, served me for partitions to part off my house.
Dec. 17. From this day to the twentieth I placed shelves,
and knocked up nails on the posts to hang everything up that
could be hung up; and now I began to be in some order
within doors.
Dec. 20. Now I carried everything into the caye, and be-
gan to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards,
like a dresser, to order my victuals upon; but boards began
to be very scarce with me; also, I made me another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day; no stirring out.
Dec. 25. Rain all day.
Dec. 26. No rain; and the earth much cooler than before,
and pleasanter.
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed another, so that
I caught it, and led it home in a string; when I had it home,
I bound and splintered up its leg, which was broke. N. B.
I took such care of it, that it lived, and the leg grew well
and as strong as ever; but by nursing it so long it grew tame,
and fed upon the little green at my door, and would not go
away. This was the first time that I entertained a thought
of breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have food
when my powder and shot was all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great heats and no breeze, so that there
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening for food; this
time I spent in putting all my things in order within doors.
January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad early and
late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This
evening, going farther into the valleys, which lay towards the
centre of the island, I found there was plenty of goats, though
exceeding shy and hard to come at; however, I resolved to
try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down.
Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out with my
dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was mistaken, for
they all faced about upon the dog • and he knew his danger
too well, for he would not come near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being still
jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to
make very thick and strong.
N. B. This wall being described before, I purposely omit
what was said in the Journal. It is sufficient to observe, that
I was no less time than from the 3d of January to the I4th
of April, working, finishing, and perfecting this wall, though
it was no more than about twenty-four yards in length, being
a half circle from one place in the rock to another place about
eight yards from it; the door of the cave being in the centre
behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me
many days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but I thought I
should never be perfectly secure until this wall was finished;
and it is scarce credible what inexpressible labor everything
was done with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods,
and driving them into the ground, for I made them much
bigger than I need to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside double fence
with a turf-wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that
if any people were to come on shore there, they would not
perceive anything like a habitation; and it was very well I
did so, as may be observed hereafter upon a very remarkable
occasion.
During this time I made my rounds in the woods for game
every day, when the rain permitted me, and made frequent
discoveries in these walks of something or other to my advan-
tage; particularly I found a kind of wild pigeons, who built
not as wood pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house pigeons,
in the holes of the rocks; and taking some young ones, I
endeavored to breed them up tame, and did so; but when
they grew older they flew away, which perhaps was at first
for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them;
however, I frequently found their nests, and got their young
ones, which were very good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I found
myself wanting in many things, which I thought at first it was
impossible for me to make, as indeed, as to some of them, it
was; for instance, I could never make a cask to be hooped.
I had a small runlet or two, as I observed before, but I could
never arrive to the capacity of making one by them, though I
spent many weeks about it; I could neither put in the heads,
or joint the staves so true to one another as to make them
hold water, so I gave that also over.
In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle; so that
as soon as ever it was dark, which was generally by seven
o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump
of bees-wax with which I made candles in my African adven-
ture, but I had none of that now; the only remedy I had was,
that when I had killed a goat I saved the tallow, and with a
little dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which
I added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp; and this
gave me light, though not a clear, steady light like a candle.
In the middle of all my labors it happened, that rummaging my
things, I found a little bag, which, as I hinted before, had been
filled with corn for the feeding of poultry, not for this voyage,
but before, as I suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon;
what little remainder of corn had been in the bag, was all
devoured with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but
husks and dust; and being willing to have the bag for some
other use, I think it was to put powder in, when I divided it
for fear of the lightning, or some such use, I shook the husks
of corn out of it on one side of my fortification under the
rock.
It was a little before the great rains, just now mentioned,
that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice of anything, and
not so much as remembering that I had thrown anything
there ; when about a month after, or thereabouts, I saw some
few stalks of something green shooting out of the ground,
which I fancied might be some plant I had not seen; but I
was surprised and perfectly astonished, when after a little
longer time I saw about ten or twelve ears come out, which
were perfect green barley of the same kind as our European,
nay, as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion
of my thoughts on this• occasion. I had hitherto acted upon
no religious foundation at all; indeed, I had very few notions
of religion in my head, or had entertained any sense of any-
thing that had befallen me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as
we lightly say, what pleases GOD; without so much as inquir-
ing into the end of Providence in these things, or his order in
governing events in the world; but after I saw barley grow
there, in a climate which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially that I knew not how it came there, it startled me
strangely; and I began to suggest, that GOD had miraculously
caused this grain to grow without any help of seed sown, and
that it was so directed purely for my sustenance on that wild,
miserable place.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my
eyes, and I began to bless myself, that such a prodigy of na-
ture should happen upon my account; and this was the more
strange to me, because I saw near it still, all along by the side
of the rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved to be
stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I had seen it grow
in Africa, when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of Provi-
dence for my support, but not doubting but that there was
more in the place, I went all over that part of the island,
where I had been before, peeping in every corner and under
every rock to see for more of it, but I could not find any; at
last it occurred to my thought, that I had shook a bag of
chicken's meat out in that place, and then the wonder began
. to cease. And I must confess, my religious thankfulness to
God's providence began to abate too, upon discovering that
all this was nothing but what was common; though I ought
to have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a prov-
idence as if it had been miraculous; for it was really the
work of Providence as to me, that should order or appoint
ten or twelve grains of corn to remain unspoiled, when the
rats had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropped from
heaven; as also, that I should throw it out in that particular
place, where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang
up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere else at
that time, it had been burnt up and destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in
their season, which was about the end of June, and laying up
every corn, I resolved to sow them all again, hoping in time to
have some quantity sufficient to supply me with bread; but it
was not till the fourth year that I could allow myself the least
grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I
shall say afterwards in its order; for I lost all that I sowed
the first season, by not observing the proper time; for I
sowed it just before the dry season, so that it never came up
at all, at least, not as it would have done: of which in its
place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty
stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care, and
whose use was of the same kind or to the same purpose,
namely, to make me bread, or rather food; for I found ways
to cook it up without baking, though I did that also after
some time. But to return to my Journal.
I worked excessive hard these three or four months to get
my wall done; and the I4th of April I closed it up, contriv-
ing to go into it not by a door, but over the wall by a ladder,
that there might be no sign in the outside of my habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder, so I went up with the lad-
der to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down
on the inside. This was a complete inclosure to me; for
within I had room enough, and nothing could come at me
from without, unless it could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost
had all my labor overthrown at once, and myself killed. The
case was thus. As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my
tent, just in the entrance into my cave, I was terribly frighted
with a most dreadful surprising thing indeed; for on a sudden
I found the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my
cave, and from the edge of the hill, over my head, and two of
the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful man-
ner. I was heartily scared, but thought nothing of what was
really the cause, only thinking that the top of my cave was
falling in, as some of it had done before; and, for fear I
should be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder; and not
thinking myself safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear
of the pieces of the hill which I expected might roll down
upon me. I was no sooner stepped down upon the firm
ground, but I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake, for the
ground I stood on shook three times at about eight minutes'
distance, with three such shocks as would have overturned
the strongest building that could be supposed to have stood
on the earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock, which
stood about half a mile from me next the sea, fell down with
such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life. I per-
ceived also the very sea was put into violent motion by it;
and I believe the shocks were stronger under the water than
on the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt the
like, or discoursed with any one that had, that I was .like one
dead or stupefied; and the motion of the earth made my
stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea. But the noise
of the falling of the rock awaked me, as it were, and rousing
me from the stupefied condition I was in, filled me with hor-
ror, and I thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon
my tent, and all my household goods, and burying all at once;
and this sunk my very soul within me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some
time, I began to take courage, and yet I had not heart enough
to get over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but
sat still upon the ground, greatly cast down and disconsolate,
not knowing what to do. All this while I had not the least
serious religious thought, nothing but the common, "Lord,
have mercy upon me ; " and when it was over, that went away
too.
While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy,
as if it would rain; soon after that the wind rose by little and
little, so that in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful
hurricane. The sea was all on a sudden covered over with
foam and froth, the shore was covered with the breach of the
water, the trees were torn up by the roots, and a terrible
storm it was; and this held about three hours, and then
began to abate, and in two hours more it was stark calm, and
began to rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground, very much terrified
and dejected, when on a sudden it came into my thoughts,
that these winds and rain being the consequences of the earth-
quake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and I might
venture into my cave again. With this thought my spirits
began to revive, and the rain also helping to persuade me, I
went in and sat down in my tent, but the rain was so violent,
that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it; and I was
forced to go into my cave, though very much afraid and un-
easy, for fear it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, namely, to cut a
hole through my new fortification like a sink to let water go
out, which would else have drowned my cave. After I had
been in my cave some time, and found still no more shocks
of the earthquake follow, I began to be more composed. And
now, to support my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much,
I went to my little store, and took a small sup of rum, which
however I did then, and always, very sparingly, knowing I
could have no more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and a great part of the
next day, so that I could not stir abroad; but my mind being
more composed, I began to think of what I had best do, con-
cluding, that if the island was subject to these earthquakes,
there would be no living for me in a cave, but I must consider
of building me some little hut in an open place, which I
might surround with a wall as I had done here, and so make
myself secure from wild beasts or men: but concluded if I
stayed where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be
buried alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent from the
place where•it stood, which was just under the hanging preci-
pice of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken again,
would certainly fall upon my tent. And I spent the next two
days, being the 19th and 2oth of April, in contriving where
and how to remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive, made me that I never
slept in quiet: and yet the apprehension of lying abroad,
without any fence, was almost equal to it; but still, when I
looked about and saw how everything was put in order, how
pleasantly concealed I was, and how safe from danger, it
made me very loth to remove.
In the mean time, it occurred to me that it would require a
vast deal of time for me to do this, and that I must be con-
tented to run the venture where I was, till I had formed a
camp for myself, and had secured it so as to remove to it;
so with this resolution I composed myself for a time, and re-
solved that I would go to work with all speed to build me a
wall with piles and cables, in a circle as before; and set my
tent up in it when it was finished, but that I would venture to
stay where I was till it was finished and fit to remove to.
This was the a1st
April 22. The next morning I began to consider of means
to put this resolve in execution, but I was at a great loss
about my tools; I had three large axes and abundance of
hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the In-
dians), but with much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood,
they were all full of notches and dull, and though I had a
grindstone, I could not turn it and grind my tools too: this
cost me as much thought as a statesman would have bestowed
upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon the life and
death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel with a string,
to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my hands at
liberty. I had never seen any such thing in England, or at
least not to take notice how it was done, though since I have
observed it is very common there; besides that, my grind-
stone was very large and heavy. This machine cost me a full
week's work to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding
my tools, my machine for turning my grindstone performing
very well.
April 30. Having perceived my bread had been low a great
while, now I took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one
biscuit cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-side, the
tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than
ordinary • and it looked like a cask. When I came to it, I
found a small barrel, and two or three pieces of the wreck of
the ship, which were driven on shore by the late hurricane;
and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to
lie higher out of the water than it used to do. I examined
the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon found it was a
barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it farther on
shore for the present, and went on upon the sands as near as
I could to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely re-
moved: the forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was
heaved up at least six feet; and the stern, which was broken
to pieces and parted from the rest by the force of the sea,
soon after I had left rummaging her, was tossed, as it were,
up, and cast on one side, and the sand was thrown so high on
that side next her stern, that whereas there was a great place
of water before, so that I could not come within a quarter of
a mile of the wreck without swimming, I could now walk
quite up to her when the tide was out. I was surprised with
this at first, but soon concluded it must be done by the earth-
quake. And as by this violence the ship was more broken
open than formerly, so many things came daily on shore,
which the sea had loosened, and which the winds and water
rolled by degrees to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of re-
moving my habitation; and I busied myself mightily, that day
especially, in searching whether I could make any way into
the ship; but I found nothing was to be expected of that
kind, for that all the inside of the ship was choked up with
sand. However, as I had learnt not to despair of anything, I
resolved to pull everything to pieces that I could of the ship,
concluding, that everything I could get from her would be of
some use or other to me.
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam
through, which I thought held some of the upper part or quar-
ter-deck together; and when I had cut it through, I cleared
away the sand as well as I could from the side which lay
highest; but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over
for that time.
May 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I
durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when just going to
leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had made me a long
line of some rope yarn, but I had no hooks, yet I frequently
caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all which I
dried in the sun, and eat them dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another beam asunder,
and brought three great fir planks off from the decks, which
I tied together, and made swim on shore when the tide of
flood came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts out of
her, and other pieces of iron-work; worked very hard, and
came home very much tired, and had thoughts of giving it
over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an intent not to
work, but found the weight of the wreck had broke itself
down, the beams being cut, that several pieces of the ship
seemed to lie loose: and the inside of the hold lay so open,
that I could see into it, but almost full of water and sand.
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to
wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water
or sand; I wrenched open two planks, and brought them on
shore also with the tide. I left the iron crow in the wreck for
next day.
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way
into the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loos-
ened them with the crow, but could not break them up; I felt
also the roll of English lead, and could stir it, but it was too
heavy to remove.
May 10, n, 12, 13, 14. Went every day to the wreck, and
got a great many pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and
two or three hundred weight of iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a
piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet,
and driving it with the other; but as it lay about a foot and a
half in the water, I could not make any blow to drive the
hatchet.
May 16. It had blowed hard in the night, and the wreck
appeared more broken by the force of the water; but I staid
so long in the woods to get pigeons for food, that the tide pre-
vented me going to the wreck that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore,
at a great distance, near two miles off me, but resolved to see
what they were, and found it was a piece of the head, but too
heavy for me to bring away.
May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the wreck,
and with hard labor I loosened some things so much with the
crow, that the first blowing tide several casks floated out, and
two of the seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from the
shore, nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber,
and a hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it, but the
salt water and sand had spoiled it.
I continued this work every day to the 15th of June, except
the time necessary to get food, which I always appointed, dur-
ing this part of my employment, to be when the tide was up,
that I might be ready when it was ebbed out; and by this
time I had gotten timber, and plank, and iron•work enough to
have built a good boat, if I had known how; and also, I got
at several times, and in several pieces, near a hundred weight
of the sheet-lead.
June 16. Going down to the sea-side, I found a large tor-
toise or turtle; this was the first I had seen, which it seems
was only my misfortune, not any defect of the place, or scar-
city ; for had I happened to be on the other side of the island,
I might have had hundreds of them every day; as I found
afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear enough for them.
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her
threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me at that time the
most savory and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life, having
had no flesh, but of goats and fowls, since I landed in this
horrid place.
June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thought
at this time the rain felt cold, and I was something chilly,
which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had
been cold.
June 20. No rest all night, violent pains in my head, and
feverish.
June 21. Very ill, frighted almost to death with the ap-
prehensions of my sad condition, to be sick and no help.
Prayed to God for the first time since the storm off Hull, but
scarce knew what I said, or why; my thoughts being all con-
fused.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadful apprehensions.
of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and then a
violent headache.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me seven
hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took my
gun, but found myself very weak; however, I killed a she-
goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and broiled some
of it, and ate; I would fain have stewed it and made some
broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay abed all
day, and neither eat nor drank. I was ready to perish for
thirst, but so weak I had not strength to stand up, or to get
myself any water to drink. Prayed to God again, but was
light-headed•; and when I was not, I was so ignorant that I
knew not what to say; only I lay and cried, Lord, look upon
me; Lord, pity me; Lord, have mercy upon me. I suppose I
did nothing else for two or three hours, till the fit wearing off,
I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night; when I
waked I found myself much refreshed, but weak and exceed-
ing thirsty: however, as I had no water in my whole habita-
tion, I was forced to lie till morning, and went to sleep again.
In this second sleep I had this terrible dream.
I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the outside of
my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the earthquake,
and that I saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in a
bright flame of fire, and alight upon the ground. He was all
over as bright as a flame, so that I could but just bear to look
towards him; his countenance was most inexpressibly dread-
ful, impossible for words to describe; when he stepped upon
the ground with his feet I thought the earth trembled just as it
had done before in the earthquake, and all the air looked to
my apprehension as if it had been filled with flashes of fire.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved
forward toward me, with a long spear or weapon in his hand
to kill me; and when he came to a rising ground, at some
distance, he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so terrible, that it
is impossible to express the terror of it; all that I can say
I understood was this, "Seeing all these things have not
brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die ;" at which
words I thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to
kill me.
No one, that shall ever read this account, will expect that I
should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this ter-
rible vision; I mean, that even while it was a dream, I even
dreamed of those horrors; nor is it any more possible to de-
scribe the impression that remained upon my mind, when I
awaked, and found it was but a dream.
Jttne 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep
I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up ; and though
the fright and terror of my dream was very great, yet I con-
sidered, that the fit of the ague would return again next day,
and now was my time to get something to refresh and support
myself when I should be ill. And the first thing I did, I filled
a large square case-bottle with water, and set it upon my table,
in reach of my bed; and to take off the chill or aguish disposi-
tion of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into
it, and mixed them together. Then I got me a piece of the
goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very
little. I walked about, but was very weak, and withal, very
sad and heavy-hearted under a sense of my miserable condi-
tion, dreading the return of my distemper the next day. At
night I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs, which I
roasted in the ashes, and eat, as we call it, in the shell; and
this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing
to, even, as I could remember, in my whole life.
After I had eaten I tried to walk; but found myself so weak
that I could hardly carry the gun (for I never went out without
that); so I went but a little way, and sat down upon the
ground, looking out upon the sea, which was just before me,
and very calm and smooth.
I rose up•pensive and sad, walked back to my retreat, and
went up over my wall, as if I had been going to bed; but my
thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to
sleep; so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for it
began to be dark. Now as the apprehension of the return of
my distemper terrified me very much, it occurred to my
thought, that the Brazilians take no physjc but their tobacco
for almost all distempers; and I had a piece of a roll of to-
bacco in one of the chests, which was quite cured, and some
also that was green, and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt! for in this chest I
found a cure both for soul and body! I opened the chest, and
found what I looked for, namely, the tobacco; and as the few
books I had saved lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles
which I mentioned before, and which, to this time, I had not
found leisure, or so much as inclination, to look into; I say I
took it out, and brought both that and the tobacco with me to
the table.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my dis-
temper, or whether it was good for it or no; but I tried several
experiments with it, as if I resolved it should hit one way or
other: I first took a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my
mouth, which indeed at first almost stupefied my brain, the to-
bacco being green and strong, and that I had not been used
to it; then I took some, and steeped it an hour or two in some
rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when I lay down; and,
lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held my nose
close over the smoke of it, as long as I could bear it, and I
held almost to suffocation.
In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible, and
began to read; but my head was too much disturbed with the
tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time. Only having
opened the book casually, the first words that occurred to me •
were these: "Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will de-
liver thee, and thou shall glorify me."
The words were very apt to my case, and made some im-
pression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them, though
not so much as they did afterwards; for, as for being de-
livered, the word had no sound, as I may say, to me; the thing
was so remote, so impossible in my apprehension of things, that
I began to say as the children of Israel did when they were
promised flesh to eat, " Can God spread a table in the wilder-
ness?" so I began to say, Can God himself deliver me from
this place? And as it was not for many years that any hope
appeared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts; but,
however, the words made a very great impression upon me,
and I mused upon them very often. It grew now late, and
the tobacco had, as I said, dozed my head so much, that I in-
clined to sleep; so I left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I
should want anything in the night, and went to bed: but be-
fore I lay down, I did what I never had done in all my life; I
kneeled down and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me,
that if I called upon him in the day of trouble, he would de-
liver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was over,
I drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco, which
was so strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could
scarce get it down. Immediately upon this I went to bed, and
I found presently it flew up into my head violently; but I fell
into a sound sleep, and waked no more, till noon the next day;
nay, to this hour, I am partly of the opinion that I slept all the
next day and night, and till almost three the day after; for
otherwise I knew not how I should lose a day out of my reck-
oning in the days of the week, as it appeared some years after
I had done; for if I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the
line, I should have lost more than one day: but certainly I
lost a day in my account, and never knew which way.
Be that however one way or other, when I waked I found
myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheer-
ful. When I got up, I was stronger than I was the day be-
fore, and my stomach better, for I was hungry; and, in short,
I had no fit the next day, but continued much altered for the
better. This was the a9th.
The 3oth was my well day, of course; and I went abroad
with my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a
sea-fowl or two, something like a brand goose, and brought
them home, but was not very forward to eat them; so I eat
some more of the turtle's eggs, which were very good. This
evening I renewed the medicine which I had supposed did me
good the day before, namely, the tobacco steeped in rum;
only I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew any of
the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke. However, I was
not so well the next day, which was the first of July, as I
hoped I should have been; for I had a little spice of the cold
fit, but it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways, and
dosed myself with it at first, and doubled the quantity which
I drank.
July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not
recover my full strength for some weeks after. While I was
thus gathering strength, my thoughts run exceedingly upon
the scripture, " I will deliver thee ;" and the impossibility of
my deliverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever
expecting it: but as I was discouraging myself with such
thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I pored so much on
my deliverance from the main affliction, that I disregarded the
deliverance I had received; and I was, as it were, made to
ask myself such questions as these ; namely, Have I not been
delivered, and wonderfully, too, from sickness? from the most
distressed .condition that could be, and that was so frightful to
me? and what notice had I taken of it? had I done my part?
"God had delivered me; but I had not glorified him :" that
is to say, I had not owned and been thankful for that as a de-
liverance; and how could I expect greater deliverance?
This touched my heart very much, and immediately I
kneeled down and gave God thanks, aloud, for my recovery
from my sickness.
July 4. In the morning I took the Bible; and, beginning at
the New Testament, I began seriously to read it, and imposed
upon myself to read awhile every morning and every night, not
tying myself to the number of chapters, but as long as my
thoughts should engage me. It was not long'after I set seri-
ously to this work, but I found my heart more deeply and sin-
cerely affected with the wickedness of my past life.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, "Call
on me, and I will deliver thee," in a different sense from what
I had ever done before; for then I had no notion of anything
being called deliverance, but my being delivered from the cap-
tivity I was in: for though I was indeed at large in the place,
yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that in the
worst sense in the world; but now I learned to take it in an-
other sense. Now I looked back upon my past life with sucK
horror, and my sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought
nothing of God but deliverance from the load of guilt that bore
down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing;
I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of
it; it was all of no consideration in comparison of this. And I
add this part here, to hint to whoever1 shall read it, that when-
ever they come to a true sense of things, they will find deliver-
ance from sin a much greater blessing than deliverance from
affliction.
But, leaving this part, I return to my Journal: —
My condition began now to be, though not less miserable
as to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind: and my
thoughts being directed, by a constant reading the Scripture,
and praying to God, to things of a higher nature, I had a great
deal of comfort within, which till now I knew nothing of; also
as my health and strength returned I bestirred myself to fur-
nish myself with everything that I wanted, and make my way
of living as regular as I could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed in
walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a little at
a time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit
of sickness; for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was,
and to what weakness I was reduced. The application which
I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what had never
cured an ague before; neither can I recommend it to any one
to practice by this experiment; and though it did carry off the
fit, yet it rather contributed to weaken me ; for I had frequent
convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time.
I learnt from it also this, in particular, that being abroad in
the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my health
that could be, especially in those rains which came attended
with storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which
came in the dry season was always most accompanied with
such storms, so I found this rain was much more dangerous
than the rain which fell in September and October.
I had been now in this unhappy island above ten months ,
all possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be
entirely taken from me; and I firmly believed that no human
shape had ever set foot upon that place. Having now secured
my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great
desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to
6
see what other productions I might find, which I yet knew
nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more par-
ticular survey of the island itself; I went up the creek first,
where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found,
after I came about two miles up, that the tide did not flow any
higher, and that it was no more than a little brook of running
water, and very fresh and good; but this being the dry season,
there was hardly any water in some parts of it, at least not
enough to run in any stream, so as it could be perceived.
On the banks of this brook I found many pleasant savannas
or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass; and on
the rising parts of them next to the higher grounds, where the
water, as it might be supposed, never overflowed, I found a
great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a great and very
strong stalk. There were divers other plants which I had no
notion of, or understanding about; and might perhaps have
virtues of their own, which I could not find out.
I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians in all that
climate make their bread of, but I could not find none. I saw
large plants of aloes, but did not then understand them. I saw
several sugar-canes, but wild, and, for want of cultivation, im-
perfect. I contented myself with these discoveries for this
time, and came back musing with myself what course I might
take to know the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or
plants which I should discover, but could bring it to no con-
clusion: for, in short, I had made so little observation while I
was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the plants of the field,
at least very little that might serve me to any purpose now in
my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again; and,
after going something farther than I had done the day before,
I found the brook and the savannas began to cease, and the
country became more woody than before. In this part I found
different fruits, and particularly I found melons upon the
ground in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees; the
vines had spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters of
grapes were just now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This
was a surprising discovery, and I was exceedingly glad of them;
but I was warned by my experience to eat sparingly of them,
remembering that, when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating
of grapes killed several of our Englishmen who were slaves
there, by throwing them into fluxes and fevers; but I found
an excellent use for these grapes, and that was to cure or dry
them in the sun and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are
kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they were, as whole-
some, and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes might be had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation, which, by the way, was the first night, as I might
say, I had lain from home. In the night I took my first con-
trivance, and got up into a tree, where I slept well, and the
next morning proceeded upon my discovery, travelling near
four miles, as I might judge by the length of the valley, keep-
ing still due north, with a ridge of hills on the south and north
side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening, where the
country seemed to descend to the west; and a little spring of
fresh water, which issued out of the side of the hill by me, ran
the other way, that is, due east; and the country appeared so
fresh, so green, so flourishing, everything being in a constant
verdure or flourishing of spring, that it looked like a planted
garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious valley, sur-
veying it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with
other afflicting thoughts), to think that this was all my own,
that I was king and lord of all this country indefeasibly, and
had a right of possession; and if I could convey it, I might
have it in inheritance, as completely as any lord of a manor in
England. I saw here abundance of cocoa-trees, orange and
lemon, and citron-trees, but all wild, and few bearing any
fruit; at least not then. However, the green limes that I
gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome;
and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which made it
very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.
I found now I had business enough to gather and carry
home; and resolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes, as
limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, which
I knew was approaching.
In order to do this I gathered a heap of grapes in one place,
and a lesser heap in another place; and a great parcel of
limes and lemons in another place; and taking a few of each
with me, I travelled homeward, and resolved to come again,
and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to carry the
rest home.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey, I came
home (so I must now call my tent and my cave); but before I
got thither the grapes were spoiled; the richness of the fruit
and the weight of the juice having broken them and bruised
them, they were good for little or nothing; as to the limes,
they were good, but I could bring but a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made me
two small bags to bring home my harvest. But I was sur-
prised when, coming to my heap of grapes, which were so rich
and fine when I gathered them, I found them all spread
abroad, trod to pieces, and dragged about, some here, some
there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By this I con-
cluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts which had
done this; but what they were I knew not.
However, as I found there was no laying them up on heaps,
and no carrying them away in a sack, but that one way they
would be destroyed, and the other way they would be crushed
with their own weight, I took another course; for I gathered a
large quantity of the grapes and hung them upon the out
branches of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun;
and as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many back as I
could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with
great pleasure on the fruitfulness of that valley, and the pleas-
antness of the situation, the security from storms on that side
of the water, and the wood ; and concluded that I had pitched
upon a place to fix my abode, which was by far the worst part
of the country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of re-
moving my habitation, and to look out for a place equally safe
as where I now was situated, if possible, in that pleasant and
fruitful part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was exceeding
fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempt-
ing me; but when I came to a nearer view of it, and to con-
sider that I was now by the sea-side, where it was at least pos-
sible that something might happen to my advantage, and that
the same ill fate that brought me hither, might bring some
other unhappy wretches to the same place, and though it was
scarce probable that any such thing should ever happen, yet
to inclose myself among the hills and woods, in the centre of
the island, was to anticipate my bondage, and to render such
an affair not only improbable, but impossible; and that there-
fore I ought not by any means to remove.
However, I was so enamored of this place, that I spent
much of my time there for the whole remaining part of the
month of July and though, upon second thoughts, I resolved
as above, not to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a
bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence,
being a double hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked
and filled between with brushwood • and here I lay very se-
cure, sometimes two or three nights together, always going
over it with a ladder, as before ; so that I fancied now I had
my country house, and my sea-coast house: and this work
took me up to the beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my
labor, but the rains came on, and made me stick close to my
first habitation; for though I had made me a tent like the
other, with a piece of a sail, and spread it very well, yet I
had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a
cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were extraor-
dinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished
my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3d of August I
found the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and in-
deed were excellent good raisins of the sun: so I began to
take them down from the trees, and it was very happy that I
did so ; for the rains which followed would have spoiled them,
and I had lost the best part of my winter food; for I had
above two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had I
taken them all down, and carried most of them home to my
cave, but it began to rain; and from thence, which was the
I4th of August, it rained more or less every day, till the mid-
die of October; and sometimes so violently, that I could not
stir out of my cave for several days.
In this season I was much surprised with the increase of
my family: I had been concerned for the loss of one of my
cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead;
and I heard no more tidings of her, till, to my astonishment,
she came home about the end of August, with three kittens.
This was the more strange to me, because though I had killed
a wild cat, as I called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was a
quite different kind from our European cats; yet the young
cats were the same kind of house breed like the old one; and
both my cats being females, I thought it very strange: but
from these three cats, I afterwards came to be so pestered
with cats, that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild
beasts, and to drive them from my house as much as possible.
From the I4th of August to the 26th, incessant rain, so that
I could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet.
In this confinement I began to be straitened for food: but
venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat: and the last day,
which was the 26th, found a very large tortoise, which was a
treat to me; and my food was regulated thus : — I eat a
bunch of raisins for my breakfast, a piece of the goat's flesh,
or of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled (for to my great mis-
fortune I had no vessel to boil or stew anything), and two or
three of the turtle's eggs for .supper.
During this confinement in my cover, by the rain, I worked
daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave ; and, by de-
grees, worked it on towards one side, till I came to the outside
of the hill, and made a door or way out, which came beyond
my fence or wall; and so I came in and out this way. But
I was not perfectly easy at lying so open; for as I had man-
aged myself before, I was in a perfect inclosure, whereas now
I thought I lay exposed; and yet I could not perceive that
there was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I
had seen upon the island being a goat.
September 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary
of my landing. I cast up the notches on my post, and found
I had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I
kept this day as a solemn fast, setting it apart to a religious
exercise, prostrating myself on the ground with the most se-
rious humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging
his righteous judgments upon me, and praying to him to have
mercy on me, through Jesus Christ; and having not tasted
the least refreshment for twelve hours, even to the going down
of the sun, I then ate a biscuit cake, and a bunch of grapes,
and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it.'
I had all this time observed no Sabbath-day; for as at first
I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had after some
time omitted to distinguish the weeks, by making a longer
notch than ordinary for the Sabbath-day, and so did not really
know what any of the days were; but now, having cast up
the days as above, I found I had been there a year; so I
divided it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a
Sabbath; though I found at the end of my account I had lost
a day or two in my reckoning.
A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I con-
tented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write down
only the most remarkable events of my life, without continu-
ing a daily memorandum of other things.
The rainy season, and the dry season, began now to appear
regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide
for them accordingly. But I bought all my experience before
I had it; and this I am going to relate, was one of the most
discouraging experiments that I made at all. I have men-
tioned, that I had saved the few ears of barley and rice which
I had so surprisingly found spring up, as I thought, of them-
selves, and believe there were about thirty stalks of rice, and
about twenty of barley; and now I thought it a proper time
to sow it after the rains, the sun being in its southern position
going from me.
Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground, as well as I could,
with my wooden spade, and dividing it into two parts, I sowed
my grain; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my
thought, that I would not sow it all at first, because I did not
know when was the proper time for it; so I sowed about two-
thirds of the seeds, leaving about a handful of each. It was
a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not one
grain of that I sowed this time came to anything; for the dry
months following, the earth having had no rain after the seed
was sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth, and never
came up at all, till the wet season had come again, and then
it grew as if it had been newly sown.
Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily imag-
ined was by the drought, I sought for a moister piece of
ground to make another trial in; and I dug up a piece of
ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in
February, a little before the vernal equinox; and this, having
the rainy months of March and April to water it, sprung up
very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but having
part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow all that I had
yet, I had but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not
amounting to above half a peck of each kind.
But by this experience I was made master of my business,
and knew exactly when the proper season was to sow; and
that I might expect two seed-times, and two harvests every
year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery,
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains
were over, and the weather began to settle, which was about
the month of November, I made a visit up the country to my
bower, where, though I had not been some months, yet I found
all things just as I left them. The circle or double hedge that
I had made, was not only firm and entire, but the stakes
which I had cut off of some trees that grew thereabouts, were
all shot out, and grown with long branches, as much as a wil-
low-tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its head.
I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were cut
from. I was surprised, and• yet very well pleased, to see the
young trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them to grow
as much alike as I could, and it is scarce credible, how beau-
tiful a figure they grew into in three years; so that though the
hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diameter,
yet the trees, for such I might now call them, soon covered it;
and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the
dry season.
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make
me a hedge like this in a semicircle round my wall, I mean
that of my first dwelling, which I did; and placing the trees
or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards' distance from
my first fence, they grew presently, and were at first a fine
cover to my habitation, and afterwards served for a defence
also, as I shall observe in its order.
I found now, that the seasons of the year might generally
be divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe, but
into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were gen-
ally thus:
Half February, March, half April — Rainy, the sun being
then on or near the equinox.
Half April, May, June, July, half August — Dry, the sun
being then to the north of the line.
Half August, September, half October — Rainy, the sun
then being come back.
Half October, November, December, January, half Febru-
ary — Dry, the sun being then to the south of the line.
The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, as the
winds happened to blow; but this was the general observation
I made. After I had found, by experience, the ill consequences
of being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with
provisions beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out;
and I sat within doors as much as possible during the wet
months.
In this time I found much employment (and very suitable
also to the time), for I found great occasion for many things
which I had no way to furnish myself with, but by hard labor
and constant application. Particularly, I tried many ways to
make myself a basket; but all the twigs I could get for the
purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I was a
boy, I used to take great delight in standing at a basket-
maker's in the town where my father lived, to see them make
their wicker ware; and being, as boys usually are, very offi-
cious to help, and a great observer of the manner how they
worked those things, and sometimes lending a hand, I had by
this means so full knowledge of the methods of it, that I
wanted nothing but the materials; when it came into my mind,
that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes that
grew, might possibly be as tough as the sallows, and willows,
and osiers in England, and I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day I went to my country house, as I
called it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them
to my purpose as much as I could desire; whereupon I came
the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity
which I soon found, for there was a great plenty of them
These I set up to dry within my circle or hedges; and when
they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave; and here,
during the next season, I employed myself in making (as well
as I could) a great many baskets, both to carry earth, or to
carry or lay up anything, as I had occasion; and though I did
not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently
serviceable for my purpose; and thus afterwards I took care
never to be without them; and as my wicker ware decayed, I
made more; especially I made strong, deep baskets to place
my corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any
quantity of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of
time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how to sup-
ply two wants. I had no vessels to hold anything that was
liquid, except two runlets, which were almost full of rum, and
some glass bottles; some of the common size, and others,
which were case-bottles, square, for the holding of waters,
spirits, &c. I had not so much as a pot to boil anything in,
except a great kettle which I saved out of the ship, and which
was too big for such uses as I desired for it, namely, to make
broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second thing I
would fain have had, was a tobacco-pipe, but it was impossible
for me to make one; however, I found a contrivance for that,
too, at last.
I employed myself in planting my second rows of stakes or
piles, and in this wicker work, all the summer, or dry season;
when another business took me up more time than it could be
imagined I could spare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see the whole
island, and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to
where I built my bower, and where I had an opening quite to
the sea, on the other side of the island. I now resolved to
travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side • so taking my
gun, and hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder
and shot than usual, with two biscuit cakes, and a great bunch
of raisins in my pouch, for my store, I began my journey.
When I had passed the vale where my bower stood, as above,
I came within view of the sea, to the west; and it being a very
clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an island or conti-
nent I could not tell ; but it lay very high, extending from the
west to the W. S. W. at a very great distance; by my guess it
could not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might be, other-
wise than that I knew it must be part of America; and, as I
concluded by all my observations, must be near the Spanish
dominions, and perhaps was all inhabited by.savages, where,
if I should have landed, I had been in a worse condition than
I was now; and therefore I acquiesced in the dispositions of
Providence, which I began now to own, and to believe, ordered
everything for the best; I say I quieted my mind with this,
and left afflicting myself with fruitless wishes of being there.
Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered, that
if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time
or other, see some vessel pass or repass one way or other;
but if not, then it was the savage coast between the Spanish
country and Brazil, which is inhabited by the worst of sav-
ages ; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to
murder and devour all the human bodies that fall into their
hands.
With these considerations I walked very leisurely forward.
I found that side of the island where I now was, much
pleasanter than mine, the open or savanna fields sweet,
adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very fine woods.
I saw abundance of parrots, and fain would I have caught
one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to
speak to me. I did, after some pains taken, catch a young
parrot, for I knocked it down with a stick, and, having re-
covered it, I brought it home, but it was some years before I
could make him speak. However, at last I taught him to call
me by my name, very familiarly; but the accident that fol-
lowed, though it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in
the low grounds, hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes,
but they differed greatly from all other kinds I had met with;
nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed several:
but I had no need to be venturous, for I had no want of food,
and of that which was very good too; especially these three
sorts, goats, pigeons, and turtle or tortoise; which, added to
my grapes, Leadenhall Market could not have furnished a bet-
ter table than I, in proportion to the company: and though
my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for
thankfulness, that I was not driven to any extremities for
food; but rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never travelled in this journey above two miles outright in
a day, or thereabouts; but I took so many turns and returns,
to see what discoveries I could make, that I came weary
enough to the place where I resolved to sit down for all night;
and then either reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded my-
self with a row of stakes set upright in the ground, either from
one tree or another, or so as no wild creature could come at
me without waking me.
As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see
that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island; for
here indeed the shore was covered with innumerable turtles,
whereas on the other side I had found but three in a year and
a half. Here was also an infinite number of fowls of many
kinds, some of which I had not seen before, and many of them
very good meat; but such as I knew not the names of, except
those called penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very spar-
ing of my powder and shot; and therefore had more mind to
kill a she-goat, if I could, which I could better feed on; and
though there were many more goats here than on the other
side of the island, yet it was with much more difficulty that I
could come near them, the country being flat and even, so that
they saw me much sooner than when I was on the hills.
I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than
mine, but yet I had not the least inclination to remove ; for, as
I was fixed in my habitation, it became natural to me; and I
seemed all the while I was here to be, as it were, upon a jour-
ney, and from home. However, I travelled along the shore of
the sea toward the east, I suppose about twelve miles; and
then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a mark, I con-
cluded I would go home again , and the next journey I took
should be on the other side of the island, east from my dwell-
ing, and so round, till I came to my post again, of which in its
place.
I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking
I could easily keep all the island so much in my view, that I
could not miss finding my first dwelling by viewing the coun-
try; but I found myself mistaken; for being come about two
or three miles, I found myself descended into a very large val-
ley, but so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered with
woods, that I could not see which was my way by any direc-
tion but that of the sun; nor even then, unless I knew very
well the position of the sun at that time of the day.
It happened, to my farther misfortune, that the weather
proved hazy for three or four days while I was in this valley;
and not being able to see the sun, I wandered about very un-
comfortably, and at last was obliged to find out the sea-side,
look for my post, and come back the same way I went; and
then by easy journeys I turned homeward, the weather being
exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other
things very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized
upon it; and I, running to take hold of it, caught it, and saved
it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home, if
I could; for I had often been musing whether it might not be
possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame
goats, which might supply me when my powder and shot
should be spent.
I made a collar for this little creature; and with a string
which I made of some rope-yarn, which I always carried
about me, I led him along, though with some difficulty, till I
came to my bower, and there I inclosed him, and left him;
for I was very impatient to be at home, from whence I had
been absent above a month.
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come
into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-bed: this
little wandering journey, without a settled place of abode, had
been so unpleasant to me, that my own house, as I called it to
myself, was a perfect settlement to me, compared to that;
and it rendered everything about me so comfortable, that I
resolved that I would never go a great way from it again,
while it should be my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself
after my long journey; during which, most of the time was
taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for my Poll,
who began now to be a mere domestic, and to be mighty well
acquainted with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid,
which I had pent in within my little circle, and resolved to .go
and fetch it home, and give it some food: accordingly I went,
and found it where I left it; for indeed it could not get out,
but was almost starved for want of food. I went and cut
boughs of trees and branches of such shrubs as I could find,
and threw over to it • and having fed it, I tied it as I did be-
fore to lead it away; but it was so tame with being hungry,
that I had no need to have tied it; for it followed me like a
dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature became so lov-
ing, so gentle, and so fond, that it became from that time one
of my domestics also, and would never leave me afterwards.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come,
and I kept the 3oth of September in the same solemn man-
ner as before, being the anniversary of my landing on the isl-
and, having now been there two years, and no more prospect
of being delivered than the first day I came there. I spent
the whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of
the many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was
attended with, and without which it might have been infinitely
more miserable. I gave humble and hearty thanks, that God
had been pleased to discover to me, even that it was possible
I might be more happy in this solitary condition, than I should
have been in society, and in all the pleasures of the world:
that he could fully make up to me the deficiencies of my sol-
itary state and the want of human society, by his presence,
and the communications of his grace to my soul, supporting,
comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon his provi-
dence here, and hope for his eternal presence hereafter.
Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for
viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition
would break upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would
die within me, to think of the woods, the mountains, the des-
erts I was in; and how I was a prisoner, locked up with the
eternal bolts and bars of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilder-
ness, without redemption. In the midst of the greatest com-
posures of my mind, this would break out upon me like a
storm, and make me wring my hands, and weep like a child.
Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work, and I
would immediately sit down and sigh, and look down upon
the ground for an hour or two together; and this was still
worse to me; for if I could burst out into tears, or vent my-
self by words, it would go off, and the grief, having exhausted
itself, would abate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts; I
daily read the word of God, and applied all the comforts of
it to my present state. One morning, being very sad, I
opened the Bible upon these words, "I will never, never leave
thee, nor forsake thee!" Immediately it occurred, that these
words were to me, why else should they be directed in such
a manner, just at the moment when I was mourning over my
condition, as one forsaken of God and man? Well then, said
I, if God does not forsake me, of what ill consequence can it
be, or what matters it, though the world should all forsake
me: seeing on the other hand, if I had all the world, and
should lose the favor and blessing of God,* there would be no
comparison in the loss.
I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul within
me blessed God for directing my friend in England, without
any order of mine, to pack it up among my goods; and for
assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship.
In this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and
though I have not given the reader the trouble of so particu-
lar an account of my works this year as at the first, yet in
general it may be observed, that I was very seldom idle; hav-
ing regularly divided my time, according to the several daily
employments that were before me, such as first, my duty to
God, and reading the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart
some time for, thrice every day. Secondly, the going abroad
with my gun for food, which generally took me up three hours
every morning when it did not rain. Thirdly, the ordering,
curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or caught
for my supply. These took up great part of the day. Also it
is to be considered, that in the middle of the day, the violence
of the heat was too great to stir out; so that about four hours
in the evening was all the time I could be supposed to work
in • with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours
of hunting and working, and went to work in the morning,
and abroad with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labor, I desire may be added
the exceeding laboriousness of my work; the many hours
which, for want of tools, want of help, and want of skill,
everything that I did took up out of my time: for example, I
was full two-and-forty days making me a board for a long
shelf, which I wanted in my cave; whereas two sawyers, with
their tools and saw-pit, would have cut six of them out of the
same tree in half a day.
My case was this: It was to be a large tree which was to
be cut down, because my board was to be a broad one. The
tree I was three days a cutting down, and two more cutting
off the boughs, and reducing it to a log, or piece of timber.
With inexpressible hacking and hewing, I reduced both the
sides of it into chips, till it began to be light enough to move;
then I turned it, and made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board, from end to end: then turning that side downward, cut
the other side till I brought the plank to be about three
inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may judge
the labor of my hands in such a piece of work; but labor and
patience carried me through that and many other things.
I was now in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had
manured or dug up for them was not great; for, as I observed,
my seed of each was not above the quantity of half a peck;
for I had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season;
but now my crop promised very well, when on a sudden I
found I was in danger of losing it all again by enemies of
several sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it; at
first, the goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, which,
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as
soon as it came up, and eat it so close, that it could get no
time to shoot up into stalks.
This I saw no remedy for, but by making an inclosure
about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil;
and the more, because it required a great deal of speed; the
creatures daily spoiling my corn. However, as my arable land
was but small, suited to my crop, I got it totally well fenced
in about three weeks' time; and shooting some of the
creatures in the day-time, I set my dog to guard it in the
night, tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he would
stand and bark all night long: so in a little time the enemies
forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and well,
and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in
the blade, so the birds were as like to ruin me now, when it
was in the ear; for going along by the place to see how it throve,
I saw my little crop surrounded with fowls of I know not
how many sorts, which stood as it were watching till I should
be gone. I immediately let fly among them, (for I always had
my gun with me.) I had no sooner shot, but there arose up a
little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among
the corn itself.
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw, that in a few days
they would devour all my hopes: that I should be starved,
and never be able to raise a crop at all; and what to do I
could not tell; however, I resolved not to lose my corn, if
possible, though I should watch it night and day. In the first
place, I went among it to see what damage was already done,
and found they had spoiled a good deal of it; but that, as it
was yet too green for them, the loss was not so great, but the
remainder was like to be a good crop, if it could be saved.
I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I could
easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if
they only waited till I was gone away, and the event proved it
to be so ; for as I walked off, as if I was gone, I was no
sooner out of their sight, but they dropped down one by one
into the corn again. I was so provoked, that I could not have
7
patience to stay till more came on, knowing that every grain
that they eat now was, as it might be said, a peck loaf to me
in the consequence. But coming up to the hedge, I fired
again, and killed three of them. This was what I wished for;
so I took them up, and served them, as we serve notorious
thieves in England, that is, hanged them in chains, for a terror
to others. It is almost impossible to imagine, that this should
have such an effect as it had, for the fowls would not only not
come at the corn, but in short they forsook all that part of the
island, and I could never see a bird near the place as long as
my scarecrows hung there. This I was very glad of, you may
be sure, and about the latter end of December, which was our
second harvest of the year, I reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut it down,
and all I could do was to make one as well as I could, out of
one of the broadswords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the
arms out of the ship. However, as my crop was but small, I
had no great difficulty to cut it down; in short, I reaped it
my way, for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it away
in a great basket which I had made, and so rubbed it out with
my hands. And at the end of all my harvesting I found, that
out of my half peck of seed, I had near two bushels of rice,
and above two bushels and a half of barley, that is to say, by
my guess, for I had no measure at that time.
However, this was a great encouragement to me, and I fore-
saw that in time it would please God to supply me with bread;
and yet here I was perplexed again, for I neither knew how to
grind or make meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and
part it; nor, if made into meal, how to make bread of it; and
if how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. These
things being added to my desire of having a good quantity for
store, and to secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste
any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the
next season, and in the mean time to employ all my study and
hours of working to accomplish this great work of providing
myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It
is a little wonderful, and what I believe few people have
thought much upon; namely, the strange multitude of little
things necessary in the providing, producing, curing, dressing,
making, and finishing, this one article of bread.
First, I had no plough to turn the earth, no spade or shovel
to dig it. Well, this I conquered by making a wooden spade,
as I observed before, but this did my work in but a wooden
manner; and though it cost me a great many days to make it,
yet, for want of iron, it not only wore out the sooner, but
made my work the harder, and made it be performed much
worse.
However, this I bore with too, and was content to work it
out with patience, and bear with the badness of the perfor-
mance. When the corn was sowed, I had no harrow, but was
forced to go over it myself, and drag a great heavy bough of
a tree over it, to scratch the earth, as it may be called, rather
than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing or grown, I have observed already how
many things I wanted, to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it,
cure or carry it home, thresh, part it from the chaff, and save
it. Then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast
and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it in; and
all these things I did without, as shall be observed; and yet
the corn was an inestimable comfort and advantage to me too.
But all this, as I said, made everything laborious and tedious
to me, but that there was no help for, neither was my time so
much loss to me, because I had divided it. A certain part of
it was every day appointed to these works, and as I resolved
to use none of the corn for bread till I had a greater quantity
by me, I had the next six months to apply myself, wholly by
labor and invention, to furnish myself with utensils proper for
the performing all the operations necessary for the making the
corn, when I had it, fit for my use•
But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed
enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I
had a week's work at least to make me a spade, which, when
it was done, was a very sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and
required double labor to work with it; however, I went through
that, and sowed my seeds in two large flat pieces of ground,
as near my house as I could find them to my mind, and fenced
them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which were all cut
off that wood which I had set before, which I knew would
grow; so that in one year's time I knew I should have a quick
or living hedge, that would want but little repair. This work
was not so little as to take me up less than three months;
because great part of that time was in the wet season, when I
could not go abroad.
Within-door, that is, when it rained, and I could not go out,
I found employment on the following occasion, always observ-
ing, that all the while I was at work, I diverted myself with
talking to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I
quickly learnt him to know his own name; at least, to speak
it out pretty loud, Poll; which was the first word I ever
heard spoken in the island by any mouth but my own. This
therefore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work; for
now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my hands, as
follows: I had long studied, by some means or other, to make
myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted sorely,
but knew not where to come at them: however, considering
the heat of the climate, I did not doubt, but if I could find out
any such clay, I might botch up some such pot, as might,
being dried by the sun, be hard enough, and strong enough,
to bear handling, and to hold anything that was dry, and
required to be kept so ; and as this was necessary in preparing
corn, meal, &c., which was the thing I was upon, I resolved to
make some as large as I could, and fit only to stand like jars
to hold what should be put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to
tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste, what
odd, misshapen, ugly things I made, how many of them fell
in, and how many fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to
bear its own weight; how many cracked by the over violent
heat of the sun, being set out too hastily; and how many fell
to pieces with only removing, as well before as after they were
dried; and, in a word, how, after having labored hard to find
the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work it,
I could not make above two large earthen ugly things, I
cannot call them jars, in about two months' labor.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I
lifted them very gently up, and set them down again in two
greater wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for them,
that they might not break, and, as between the pot and the
basket there was a little room to spare, I stuffed it full of the
rice and barley straw; and these two pots being to stand
always dry, I thought it would hold my dry corn, and perhaps
the meal when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots,
yet I made several smaller things with better success, such as
little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and anything
my hand turned to, and the heat of the sun baked them
strangely hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an
earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the fire, which
none of these could do. It happened after some time, making
a pretty large fire for cooking my meat, when I went to put it
out after I had done with it, I found a broken piece of one of
my earthen ware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone,
and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it, and
said to myself, that certainly they might be made to burn
whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it
burn me some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the
potters burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I had
some lead to do it with; but I placed three large pipkins, and
two or three pots, in a pile one upon another, and placed my
firewood all round it, with a great heap of embers under them;
I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and upon the
top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-hot quite through, and
observed that they did not crack at all; when I saw them
clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six hours,
till I found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or
run. For the sand which was mixed with the clay, melted by
the violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I
had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually, till the pots
began to abate of the red color, and watching them all night
that I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morning I
had three very good, I will not say handsome pipkins, and two
other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be desired, and one
of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.
After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort
of earthen ware for my use, but I must needs say, as to the
shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any one may
suppose, when I had no way of making them, but as the
children make dirt pies, or as a woman would make pies that
never learnt to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to
mine, when I found I had made an earthen pot that would
bear the fire ; and I had hardly patience to stay till they were
cold, before I set one upon the fire again, with some water in
it, to boil me some meat, which it did admirably well; and
with a piece of a kid I made some very good broth, though
I wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requisite to
make it so good as I would have had it.
My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp or
beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no thought of
arriving to that perfection of art with one pair of hands. To
supply this want, I was at a great loss; for of all trades in
the world I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter, as
for any whatever; neither had I any tools to go about it with.
I spent many a day to find out a great stone big enough to cut
hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and could find none at all,
except what was in the solid rock, and which I had no way to
dig or cut out; nor indeed were the rocks in the island of
hardness sufficient, but were all of a sandy crumbling stone,
which would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor
would break the corn without filling it with sand; so, after a
great deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it
over, and resolved to look out for a great block of hard wood,
which I found indeed much easier; and getting one as big as
I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the out-
side with my axe and hatchet; and then, with the help of fire
and infinite labor, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in
Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a great heavy
pestle or beater, of the wood called the iron-wood; and this I
prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of corn, when
I proposed to myself to grind," or rather pound, my corn or
meal to make my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve, to dress my meai,
and part it from the bran and the husk, without which I did
not see it possible I could have any bread. This was a most
difficult thing, so much as but to think on; for, to be sure, I
had nothing like the necessary things to make it with ; I mean
fine thin canvas, or stuff, to sift the meal through. And here
I was at a full stop for many months; nor did I really know
what to do: linen I had none left but what was mere rags; I
had goat's hair, but neither knew I how to weave or spin it;
and had I known how, here were no tools to work it with. All
the remedy that I found for this, was, that at last I did remem-
ber I had among the seamen's clothes, which were saved out
of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin; and with
some pieces of these I made three small sieves, but proper
enough for the work: and thus I made shift for some years;
how I did afterwards, I shall show in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and
how I should make bread when I came to have corn; for,
first, I had no yeast. As to that part, as there was no supply-
ing the want, so I did not concern myself much about it. But
for an oven, I was indeed in great pain. At length I found
out an experiment for that also, which was this: I made some
earthen vessels very broad, but not deep ; that is to say, about
two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I
burnt in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by;
and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon the
hearth, which I had paved with some square tiles of my own
making and burning also; but I should not call them square.
When the firewood was burnt pretty much into embers, or live
coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to cover it
all over; and there I let them lie, till the hearth was very hot:
then sweeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf, or
loaves; and whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew
the embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep in, and
add to the heat: and thus, as well as in the best oven in the
world, I baked my barley-loaves, and became in a little time a
pastry-cook into the bargain, for I made myself several cakes
of the rice, and puddings.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me up
most part of the third year of my abode here; for it is to be
observed, that in the intervals of these things, I had my new
harvest and husbandry to manage; for I reaped my corn in
its season, and carried it home as well as I could, and laid it
up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out;
for I had no floor to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash it
with.
And now indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really
wanted to build my barns bigger: I wanted a place to lay it
up in; for the increase of the corn now yielded me so much,
that I had of the barley about twenty bushels, and of the rice
as much, or more; insomuch that I now resolved to begin to
use it freely, for my bread had been quite gone a great while:
also I resolved to see what quantity would be sufficient for me
a whole year, and to sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and
rice were much more than I could consume in a year; so I
resolved to sow just the same quantity every year that I sowed
the last, in hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me
with bread.
All the while these things were doing, you may be sure my
thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land which I
had seen from the other side of the island; and I was not
without secret wishes that I was on shore there, fancying that
seeing the main-land, and an inhabited country, I might find
some way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at
last find some means of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of
such a condition, and how I might fall into the hands of
savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to think far
worse than the lions and tigers of Africa. That if I once came
into their power, I should run a hazard more than a thousand
to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten; for I had
heard that the people of the Caribbean coast were cannibals,
or men-eaters; and I knew by the latitude that I could not be
far off from that shore. All these things, I say, which I ought
to have considered well of, and I did cast up in my thoughts
afterwards, yet took none of my apprehensions at first; and my
head ran mightily upon the thoughts of getting over to that
shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long boat with the
shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand
miles on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain. Then I
thought I would go and look on our ship's boat, which, as I
have said, was blown up upon the shore a great way in the
storm, when we were first cast away. She lay almost where
she did at first, but not quite; and was turned, by the force of
the waves, and the winds, almost bottom upwards, against the
high ridge of a beachy rough sand, but no water about her as
before.
Had I had hands to have refitted her, and have launched
her into the water, the boat would have done well enough, and
I might have gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough;
but I might have easily foreseen that I could no more turn
her, and set her upright upon her bottom, than I could remove
the island. However, I went to the wood, and cut levers and
rollers, and brought them to the boat, resolving to try what I
could do; suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her
down, I might easily repair the damage she had received, and
she would be a very good boat, and I might go to sea in her
very easily.
I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless toil, and
spent, I think, three or four weeks about it. At last, finding
it impossible to heave it up with my little strength, I fell to
digging away the sand to undermine it, and so to make it fall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right in
the fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up again,
or to get under it, much less to move it forwards towards the
water; so I was forced to give it over: and yet, though I gave
over hopes of the boat, my desire to venture over for the main
increased, rather than decreased, as the means for it seemed
impossible.
This at length set me upon thinking whether it was not pos-
sible to make myself a canoe or periagua, such as the natives
of those climates make, even without tools, or as I might say,
without hands, namely, of the trunk of a great tree. This I
not only thought possible, but easy; and pleased myself
extremely with my thoughts of making it, and with my having
much more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or In-
dians; but not at all considering the particular inconveniences
which I lay under more than the Indians did, namely, want
of hands to move it into the water, when it was made; a
difficulty much harder for me to surmount than all the conse-
quences of want of tools could be to them. But my thoughts
were so intent upon my voyage over the sea in it, that I never
once considered how I should get it off the land; and it was
really in its own nature more easy for me to guide it over forty-
five miles of sea than above forty-five fathom of land, where it
lay, to set it afloat in the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever
man did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself
with the design, without determining whether I was ever able
to undertake it; not but that the difficulty of launching my
boat came often into my head; but I put a stop to my own
inquiries into it by this foolish answer which I gave myself:
Let me first make it, I will warrant I will find some way or
other to get it along when it is done.
This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of
my fancy prevailed, and to work I went, and felled a cedar-
tree. I question much whether Solomon ever had such a one
for the building the temple of Jerusalem. It was five feet ten
inches diameter at the lower part next the stump, and four feet
eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, after
which it lessened for a while and then parted into branches.
It was not without infinite labor that I felled this tree; I was
twenty days hacking and hewing at it at the bottom; I was
fourteen more getting the branches and limbs and the vast
spreading head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed
through with my axe and hatchet, with inexpressible labor;
after this it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a
proportion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it
might swim upright as it ought. It cost me near three months
more to clear the inside, and work it out so as to make an
exact boat of it; this I did indeed without fire, by mere
mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labor; till I had
brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough to
have carried six and twenty men, and consequently big
enough to have carried me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was extremely
delighted with it: the boat was really much bigger than I
ever saw a canoe or periagua, that was made of one tree, in
my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure,
for there remained nothing but to get it into the water; and
had I gotten it into the water, I make no question but I
should have begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely
to be performed, that ever was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me,
though they cost infinite labor too; it lay about one hundred
yards from the water, and not more; but the first incon-
venience was, it was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take
away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface
of the earth, and so make a declivity; this I began, and it
cost me a prodigious deal of pains; but who grudge pains
that have their deliverance in view? But when this was
worked through, and this difficulty managed, it was still much
at one; for I could no more stir the canoe than I could the
other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to
cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe,
seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well,
I began this work, and when I began to enter into it, and
calculated how deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the
stuff to be thrown out, I found that by the number of hands I
had, being none but my own, it must have been ten or twelve
years before I should have gone through with it; for the
shore lay high, so that at the upper end it must have been at
least twenty feet deep; so at length, though with great
reluctancy, I gave this attempt over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late,
the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and
before we judge rightly of our own strength to go through
with it.
In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in this
place, and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and
with as much comfort, as ever before; for by a constant
study, and serious application of the word of God, and by the
assistance of his grace, I gained a different knowledge from
what I had before. I entertained different notions of things;
I looked now upon the world as a thing remote; which I had
nothing to do with, no expectation from, and indeed no desires
about: in a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was
ever like to have; so I thought it looked, as we may perhaps
look upon it hereafter, namely as a place I had lived in, but
was come out of it. And well might I say, as Father Abra-
ham to Dives, "Between me and thee there is a great gulf
fixed."
In the first place, I was removed from all the wickedness of
the world here: I had neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of
the eye, or the pride of life: I had nothing to covet, for I had
all I was now capable of enjoying. I was lord of the manor;
or, if I pleased, I might call myself king or emperor over the
whole country which I had possession of; there were no
rivals: I had no competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or
command with me. I might have raised ship-loadings of corn,
but I had no use for it; so I let as little grow as I thought
enough for my occasion: I had tortoises, or turtles enough;
but now and then one was as much as I could put to any use:
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; I had
grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured into
raisins, to have loaded that fleet when they had been built.
I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of money, as well gold
as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling; alas! there the
nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay; I had no manner of business
for it, and I often thought with myself, that I would have
given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for
a hand-mill to grind my corn; nay, I would have given it all
for six-penny worth of turnip and carrot seed out of England,
or for a handful of pease and beans, and a bottle of ink.
I had now been here so long, that many things which I
brought on shore for my help, were either quite gone, or very
much wasted, and near spent. My ink, as I observed, had
been gone for some time, all but a very little, which I eked
out with water a little and a little, till it was so pale it scarce
left any appearance of black upon the paper. As long as it
lasted, I made use of it to minute down the days of the
month on which any remarkable thing happened to me, and
first, by casting up times past, I remembered that there was
a strange concurrence of days, in the various providences
which befell me, and which, if I had been superstitiously
inclined to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might have
had reason to have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke away
from my father and my friends, and ran away to Hull in order
to go to sea, the same day afterwards I was taken by the
Sallee man-of-war, and made a slave.
The same day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck
of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day of the year
afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the boat.
The same day of the year I was born on, namely, the 3oth
of September, the same day I had my life so miraculously
saved 26 years after, when I was cast on shore in this island;
so that my wicked life, and solitary life, both began on a day.
The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of my
bread, I mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship.
This I had husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself but
one cake of bread a day for above a year, and yet I was quite
without bread for near a year before I got any corn of my
own; and great reason I had to be thankful that I had any at
all, the getting it being, as has been already observed, next to
miraculous.
My clothes too began to decay mightily: as to linen, I had
had none a good while, except some checkered shirts which I
found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully
preserved, because many times I could bear no other clothes
on but a shirt; and it was a very great help to me, that I had
among all the men's clothes of the ship almost three dozen of
shirts. There were also several thick watch-coats of the
seamen's, which were left indeed, but they were too hot to
wear; and though it is true, that the weather was so violent
hot that there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite
naked: no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was not;
nor could I abide the thoughts of it, though I was all alone.
One reason why I could not go quite naked, was, I could
not bear the heat of the sun so well when quite naked, as with
some clothes on; nay, the very heat frequently blistered
my skin; whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself made some
motion, and whistling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than
without it. No more could I ever bring myself to go out in
the heat of the sun without a cap or hat; the heat of the sun
beating with such violence as it does in that place, would give
me the headache presently, by darting so directly on my head,
without a cap or hat on, so that I could not bear it; whereas
if I put on my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views, I began to consider about putting the
few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order. I
had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and my business was
now to try if I could not make jackets out of the great watch-
coats which I had by me, and with such other materials as I
had; so I set to work a-tailoring, or rather indeed a-botching;
for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made shift
to make two or three waistcoats, which I hoped would serve
me a great while; as for breeches or drawers, I made but a
very sorry shift indeed, till afterwards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures
that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and I had hung them
up stretched out with sticks in the sun, by which means some
of them were so dry and hard, that they were fit for little; but
others, it seems, were very useful. The first thing I made of
these was a great cap for my head, with the hair on the out-
side to shoot off the rain, and this I performed so well, that
after this I made a suit of clothes wholly of those skins; that
is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at the knees, and
both loose; for they were rather wanted to keep me cool .than
to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that they
were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a
worse tailor; however, they were such as I made very good
shift with; and when I was abroad, if it happened to rain,
the hair of the waistcoat and cap being outmost, I was kept
very dry.
After this I spent a deal of time and pains to make me an
umbrella. I was indeed in great want of one, and had a
great mind to make one. I had seen them made in the
Brazils, where they are very useful in the great heats which
are there; and I felt the heats every jot as great here, and
greater too, being nearer the equinox; besides, as I was
obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful thing to me,
as well for the rains as the heats. I took a world of pains at
it, and was a great while before I could make anything likely
to hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two
or three before I made one to my mind; but at last I made
one that answered indifferently well; the main difficulty I
found was to make it to let down. I could make it to spread;
but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it would not be
portable for me any way, but just over my head, which would
not do. However, at last, as I said, I made one to answer. I
covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the
rain like a penthouse, and kept off the sun so effectually, that
I could walk out in the hottest of the weather, with greater
advantage than I could before in the coolest; and when I had
no need of it, I could close it, and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely
composed by resigning to the will of God, and throwing
myself wholly upon the disposal of his Providence.
I cannot say, that after this, for five years, any extraordinary
thing happened to me ; but I lived on in the same course, in
the same posture and place, just as before; the chief thing I
was employed in, besides my yearly labor of planting my
barley and rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I always
kept up just enough to have sufficient stock of the year's pro-
visions beforehand; I say, besides this yearly labor, and my
daily labor of going out with my gun, I had one labor to make
me a canoe, which at last I finished: so that by digging a
canal to it six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it into
the creek, almost half a mile.
However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the
size of it was not at all answerable to the design which I had
in view, when I made the first; I mean of venturing over to
the terra firma, where it was above forty miles broad; accord-
ingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to that
design, and now I thought no more of it. But as I had a boat,
my next design was to make a tour round the island; for as
I had been on the other side, in one place, crossing, as I have
already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I made
in that journey, made me very eager to see other parts of the
coast; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but
sailing round the island.
For this purpose, and that I might do everything with
discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little mast to my
boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the
ship's sails, which lay in store, and of which I had a great
store by me.
Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found
she would sail very well. Then I made little lockers and
boxes at each end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries,
and ammunition, &c., into, to be kept dry, either from rain, or
the spray of the sea; and a little long hollow place I cut in
the inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun, making a
flap to hang down over it to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast,
to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off me,
like an awning; and thus I every now and then took a little
voyage upon the sea, but never went far out, nor far from the
little creek. But at last, being eager to view the circumfer-
ence of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my tour, and
accordingly I victualed my ship for the voyage • putting in
two dozen of my loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of
barley bread; an earthen pot full of parched rice, a food I
ate a great deal of; a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and
powder with shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats,
of those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out of the
seamen's chests; these I took, one to .lie upon, and the other
to cover me in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign,
or my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this
voyage, and I found it much longer than I expected; for
though the island itself was not very large, yet when I came
to the east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out
about two leagues into the sea, some above water, some under
it; and beyond this a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league
more; so that I was obliged to go a great way out to sea to
double that point.
When I first discovered them, I was going to give over my'
enterprise, and come back again, not knowing how far it might
oblige me to go out to sea, and above all, doubting how I
should get back again ; so I came to an anchor, for I had
made me a kind of an anchor, with a piece of broken grap-
pling which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and went on shore,
climbing up a hill, which seemed to overlook that point,
where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I perceived
a strong, and indeed, a most furious current, which ran to the
east, and even came close to the point; and I took the more
notice of it, because I saw there might be some danger, that
when I came into it, I might be carried out to sea by the
strength of it, and not be able to make the island again. And
indeed, had I not gotten first upon this hill, I believe it would
have been so; for there was the same current on the other
side of the island, only that it set it off at a farther distance;
and I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I had
nothing to do but to get out of the first current, and I should
presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days; because the wind blowing
pretty fresh (E. at S. E. and that being just contrary to the
said current) made a great breach of the sea upon the point;
so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore
for the breach, nor to go too far off because of the stream.
The third day in the morning, the wind having abated over-
night, the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am a warning-
piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was
I come to the point, when I was not my boat's length from
the shore, but I found myself in a great depth of water, and a
current like the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along
with it with such violence, that all I could do could not keep
her so much as on the edge of it; but I found it hurried me
farther and farther out from the eddy, which was on the left
hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and all that I
could do with my paddles signified nothing. And now I
began to give myself over for lost: for, as the current was
on both sides the island, I knew in a few leagues' distance
they must join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone; nor
did I see any possibility of avoiding it: so that I had no
prospect before me but of perishing; not by the sea, for that
was calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I had indeed
found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift,
and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of
fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots. But what
was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, where, to be
sure, there was no shore, no main-land or island, for a
thousand leagues at least!
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God
to make the most miserable condition that mankind could be
in worse. Now I looked back upon my desolate, solitary
island, as the most pleasant place in the world, and that all
the happiness my heart could wish for, was to be there again.
I stretched out my hands to it with eager wishes. O happy
desert, said I, I shall never see thee more! O miserable
creature! said I, whither am I going? Then I reproached
myself with my unthankful temper, and how I had repined at
my solitary condition. And now what would I give to be on
shore there again! Thus we never see the true state of our
condition, till it is illustrated to us by its contraries; nor
know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want of it. It
is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was now in,
being driven from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me
now to be) into the wild ocean, almost two leagues, and in the
utmost despair of ever recovering it again. However, I
worked hard, till indeed my strength was almost exhausted;
and kept my boat as much to the northward, that is, towards
the side of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I
could ; when about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I
thought I felt a little breeze of wind in my face, springing up
from the S. S. E. This cheered my heart a little, and
especially when in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty
small gentle gale. By this time I was gotten at a frightful
distance from the island ; and, had the least cloud or hazy
weather intervened, I had been undone another way too; for
I had no compass on board, and should never have known
how to have steered towards the island, if I had but once lost
sight of it. But the weather continuing clear, I applied
myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing
away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to
stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the water, some
alteration of the current was near; for where the current was
so strong, the water was foul. But perceiving the water
clear, I found the current abate, and presently I found to the
east, at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some
rocks. These rocks, I found, caused the current to part
again; and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly,
leaving the rocks to the northeast, so the other returned by
the repulse of the rock, and made a strong eddy, which ran
back again to the northwest with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to
them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just
going to murder them, or who have been in such like extrem-
ities, may guess what my present surprise of joy was, and how
gladly I put my boat into the stream of this eddy. And the
wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it,
running cheerfully before the wind, and with a strong tide or
eddy under foot.
This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again
directly towards the island, but about two leagues more
towards the northward than the current lay, which carried me
away at first; so that when I came near the island, I found
myself open to the northern shore of it, that is to say, the
other end of the island, opposite to that which I went out
from.
When I had made something more than a league of way by
the help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent, and
served me no further. However, I found, that being between
the two great currents, namely, that on the south side which
had hurried me away, and that on the north, which lay about
two leagues on the other side ; I say, between these two, in the
west of the island, I found the water at least still, and
running no way; and having still a breeze of wind fair for
me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not
making such fresh way as I did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then within about
a league of the island, I stretched across this eddy, slanting
northwest, and in about an hour came within about a mile
of the shore ; it being smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God
thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts
of my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself with
such things as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore, in
a little cove that I had espied under some trees, and laid me
down to sleep, being quite spent with the labor and fatigue of
the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my
boat. I had run so much hazard, and knew too much the
case, to think of attempting it by the way I went out; and
what might be at the other side (I mean the west side) I knew
not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures ; so I only
resolved in the morning to make my way westward along the
shore, and to see if there was no creek where I might lay up
my frigate in safety, so as to have her again if I wanted her.
In about three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I
came to a very good inlet, or bay, about a mile over, which
narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet, or brook, where I
found a convenient harbor for my boat, and where she lay as
if she had been in a little dock made on purpose for her.
Here I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went
on shore to look about me and see where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where
I had been before when I travelled on foot to that shore; so
taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and my umbrella,
for it was exceeding hot, I began my march. The way was
comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had been upon,
and I reached my old bower in the evening, where I found
everything standing as I left it; for I always kept it in good
order, being, as I said before, my country-house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest
my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep. But judge
you, if you can, that read my story, what a surprise I must be
in, when I was awaked out of my sleep by a voice calling me
by my name several times, "Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe,
poor Robin Crusoe!" "Where are you, Robin Crusoe?"
"Where are you?" "Where have you been?"
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, or
paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day, and walking
the latter part, that I did not awake thoroughly; and dozing
between sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that some-
body spoke to me; but as the voice continued to repeat
"Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe," at last I began to awake
more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frighted, and
started up in the utmost consternation. But no sooner were
my eyes open, but I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the
hedge, and immediately knew that this was he that spoke to
me; for just in such bemoaning language I had used to talk
to him, and teach him. And he had learned it so perfectly,
that he would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to
my face, and cry, "Poor Robin Crusoe, where are you?"
"Where have you been?" "How came you here ?" — and
such things as I had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that
indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while before I
could compose myself. First, I was amazed how the
creature got thither, and then how he should just keep about
the place, and nowhere else: but as I was well satisfied it
could be nobody but honest Poll, I got it over; and holding
out my hand, and calling him by his name, Poll, the sociable
creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he used to
do, and continued talking to me, Poor Robin Crusoe, and
how did I come here? and where had I been? just as if he
had been overjoyed to see me again; and so I carried him
home along with me.
I had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and enough
to do for many days to sit still, and reflect upon the danger I
had been in. I would have been very glad to have had my
boat again on my side of the island, but I knew not how it
was practicable to get it about. As to the east side of the
island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough there
was no venturing that way; my very heart would shrink, and
my very blood run chill, but to think of.it; and as to the other
side of the island, I did not know how it might be there; but
supposing the current ran with the same force against the
shore at the east, as it passed by it on the other, I might run
the same risk of being driven down the stream, and carried
by the island, as I had been before of being carried away
from it; so with these thoughts I contented myself to be
without any boat, though it had been the product of so
many months' labor to make it, and of so many more to get
it into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a year,
lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and
my thoughts being very much composed as to my condition,
and fully comforted in resigning myself to the dispensations
of Providence, I thought I lived really very happily in all
things except that of society.
I improved myself, in this time, in all the mechanic ex-
ercises which my necessities put me upon applying myself
to; and I believe could, upon occasion, have made a very
good carpenter, especially considering how few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my
earthen ware, and contrived well enough to make them with a
wheel, which I found infinitely easier and better, because I
made things round and shapeable, which before were filthy
things indeed to look on. But I think I never was more vair
of my own performance, or more joyful for anything I found
out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe; and
though it was a very ugly, clumsy thing when it was done, and
only burnt red like other earthen ware, yet as it was hard
and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly
comforted with it; for I had always been used to smoke, and
there were pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not
knowing there was tobacco in the island; and afterwards
when I searched the ship again I could not come at any pipes
at all.
In my wicker ware I also improved much, and made
abundance of necessary baskets as well as my invention
showed me, though not very handsome, yet convenient for my
laying things up in, or fetching things home in. For example,
if I killed a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay it,
and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it home in a
basket; and the like by a turtle; I could cut it up, take out
the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough
for me, and bring them home in a basket, and leave the rest
behind me: also large deep baskets were my receivers for
my corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry
and cured; and kept it in great baskets instead of a granary.
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably;
and this was a want which it was impossible for me to supply;
then I began seriously to consider what I must do when
I should have no more powder; that is to say, how should I
do to kill any goats. I had, as I observed, in the third year
of my being here, kept a young kid and bred her tame. I
was in hopes of getting a he-kid, but I could not by any
means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and
I could never find in my heart to kill her, till she died at last
of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself
to study some art to trap and snare the goats, to see whether I
could not catch some of them alive; and particularly I
wanted a she-goat great with young. To this purpose I made
snares to hamper them; and believe they were more than
once taken in them; but my tackle was not good, for I had
no wire, and always found them broken, and my bait de-
voured. At length I resolved to try a pit-fall; so I dug sev-
eral large pits in the earth, in places where I had observed the
goats used to feed, and over these pits I placed hurdles of my
own making too, with a great weight upon them; and several
times I put ears of barley, and dry rice, without setting the
trap; and I could easily perceive that the goats had gone in,
and eaten up the corn, for I could see the marks of their feet;
at length, I set three traps in one night, and going the next
morning, I found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten
and gone. This was very discouraging; however, I altered
my trap; and, not to trouble you with particulars, going one
morning to see my traps, I found in one of them a large old
he-goat; and, in one of the others, three kids, a male and two
females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was
so fierce I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to say, to
bring him away alive, which was what I wanted; I could have
killed him, but that was not my business, nor would it an
swer my end; so I e'en let him out, and he ran away as if
he had been frightened out of his wits; but I did not then
know what I afterwards learned, that hunger would tame a
lion: if I had let him stay there three or four days without
food, and then have carried him some water to drink, and then
a little corn, he would have been as tame as one of the kids;
for they are mighty sagacious, tractable creatures, where they
are well used.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at
that time; then I went to the three kids, and taking them one
by one, I tied them with strings together; and with some
difficulty brought them all home.
It was a good while before they would feed; but throwing
them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to
be tame; and now I found that if I expected to supply
myself with goat's flesh, when I had no powder or shot left,
breeding some up tame was my only way, when perhaps I
might have them about my house like a flock of sheep. But
then it presently occurred to me that I must keep the tame
from the wild, or else they would always run wild when they
grew up; and the only way for this was to have some inclosed
piece of ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep
them in so effectually that those within might not break out,
or those without break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands ; yet as
I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing it, my first
piece of work was to find out a proper piece of ground;
namely, where there was likely to be herbage for them to eat,
water for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
Those who understand such inclosures, will think I had
very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place very
proper for all these, being a plain open piece of meadow-land,
or savanna (as our people call it in the western colonies),
which had two or three little rills of fresh water in it, and at
one end was very woody; I say they will smile at my forecast,
when I shall tell them I began my inclosing of this piece of
ground in such a manner, that my hedge, or pale, must have
been at least two miles about; nor was the madness of it so
great as to the compass; for if it was ten miles about, I was
like to have time enough to do it in; but I did not consider
that my goats would be as wild in so much compass, as if
they had had the whole island; and I should have so much
room to chase them in that I should never catch them.
My hedge was began and carried on, I believe, about fifty
yards, when this thought occurred to me; so I presently
stopped short, and for the first beginning I resolved to inclose
a piece of about 150 yards in length, and 100 yards in
breadth, which, as it would maintain as many as I should have
in any reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I could add
more ground to my inclosure.
This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work
with courage. I was about three months hedging in the first
piece; and till I had done it, I tethered the three kids in the
best part of it, and used them to feed as near me as possible,
to make them familiar; and very often I would go and carry
them some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them
out of my hand; so that after my inclosure was finished, and
I let them loose, they would follow me up and down, bleating
after me for a handful of corn.
This answered my end, and in about a year and a half I
had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two
years more I had three-and-forty, besides several I took and
killed for my food; and after that I inclosed five several
pieces of ground to feed them in, with little pens to drive
them into, to take them as I wanted them; and gates out of
one piece of ground into another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's flesh to
feed on when I pleased, but milk, too, a thing which indeed in
my beginning I did not so much as think of, and which, when
it came into my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise;
for now I sat up my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two
of milk in a day. And as Nature, who gives supplies of food
to every creature, dictates even naturally how to make use of
it, so I, that had never milked a cow, much less a goat, or seen
butter or cheese made, very readily and handily, though after
a great many essays and miscarriages, made me both butter
and cheese at last, and never wanted it afterwards.
How mercifully can our great Creator treat his creatures,
even in those conditions in which they seemed to be over-
whelmed in destruction! How can he sweeten the bitterest
providences, and give us cause to praise him for dungeons
and prisons! What a table was here spread for me in
a wilderness, where I saw nothing at first but to perish for
hunger!
It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen me and my
little family sit down to dinner: there was my majesty, the
prince and lord of the whole island; I had the lives of all my
subjects at absolute command; I could hang, draw, give
liberty, and take it away, and no rebels among all my
subjects!
Then to see how like a king I dined, too, all alone, at-
tended by my servants! Poll, as if he had been my favorite,
was the only person permitted to talk to me; my dog, which
was now grown old and crazy, and found no species to
multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right hand; and
two cats, one on one side the table, and one on the other,
expecting now and then a bit from my hand as a mark of
special favor.
But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore
at first, for they were both of them dead, and had been
interred near my habitation by my own hands; but one of
them having multiplied by I know not what kind of creature,
these were two which I preserved tame, whereas the rest ran
wild into the woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at
last; for they would often come into my house, and plunder
me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a
great many. At length they left me with this attendance, and
in this plentiful manner I lived; neither could I be said to
vrant anything but society, and of that, in some time after this,
I was like to have too much.
I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the
use of my boat, though very loth to run any more hazard : and
therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her about the
island, and at other times I sat myself down contented enough
without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to
go down to the point of the island, where, as I have said, in
my last ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore lay,
and how the current set, that I might see what I had to do:
this inclination increased upon me every day; and at length
I resolved to travel thither by land, and following the edge
of the shore, I did so: but had any one in England been to
meet such a man as I was, it must either have frighted them
or raised a great deal of laughter; and, as I frequently stood
still to look at myself, I could not but smile at the notion of
my travelling through Yorkshire with such an equipage, and
in such a dress. I had a great high shapeless cap, made of
goat's-skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep
the sun from me, as to shoot the rain off from running into my
neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the rain
upon the flesh under the clothes. I had a short jacket of
goat's-skin, the skirts coming down to about the middle of my
thighs, and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same; the
breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair
hung down such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons,
it i eached to the middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I
had none, but I made me a pair of something, I scarce know
what to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace
on either side like spatterdashes; but of a most barbarous
shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's-skin dried, which I drew
together with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles ; and
in a kind of frog on either side of this, instead of a sword and
dagger, hung a little saw and hatchet; one on one side, one
on the other: I had another belt not so broad, and fastened
in the same manner, which hung over my shoulder; and at
the end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both made
of goat's-skin too; in one of which hung my powder, in the
other my shot: at my back I carried my basket, on my
shoulder my gun, and over my head a great clumsy ugly
goat's-skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most neces-
sary thing I had about me, next to my gun: as for my face,
the color of it was really not so Mulatto-like as one might
expect from a man not at all careful of it, and living within
nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard I had once
suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long;
but as I had both scissors and razors sufficient, I had cut it
pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip, which I had
trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I
had seen worn by some Turks whom I saw at Sallee: for the
Moors did not wear such though the Turks did. Of these
mustachios, or whiskers, I will not say they were long enough
to hang my hat upon them ; but they were of length and shape
monstrous enough, and such as in England would have passed
for frightful.
But all this is by-the-by; for, as to my figure, I had so few
to observe me that it was no manner of consequence, so I say
no more to that part: in this kind of figure I went my new
journey, and was out five or six days. I travelled first along
the sea• shore, directly to the place where I first brought my
boat to an anchor to get up upon the rocks, and having no
boat now to take care of, I went over the land a nearer way
to the same height that I was upon before; when looking for-
ward to the point of the rock I was obliged to double with my
boat, as I said above, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth
and quiet; no rippling, no motion, no current, any more there
than in other places.
I was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved to
spend some time in the observing of it, to see if nothing from
the sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was presently
convinced how it was; namely, that the tide of ebb setting
from the west, and joining with the current of waters from
some great river on the shore, must be the occasion of
this current; and that, accordingly as the wind blew more
forcibly from the west, or from the north, this current came
nearer or went farther from the shore; for, waiting there-
abouts till evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the
tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current again as
before, only that it ran farther off, being near half a league
from the shore: whereas in my case it set close upon the
shore, and hurried me and my canoe along with it, which at
another time it would not have done.
This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do
but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I
might very easily bring my boat about the island again. But
when I began to think about putting it in practice I had such
terror upon my spirits at the remembrance of the danger I
had been in, that I could not think of it again with any
patience; but, on the contrary, I took up another resolution,
which was more safe, though more laborious; and this was,
that I would build, or rather make me another periagua, or
canoe, and so have one for one side of the island, and one for
the other.
You are to understand that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island; one, my little fortification or tent,
with the wall about it under the rock, with the cave behind
me, which by this time I had enlarged into several apartments
or caves, one within another. One of these, which was the
driest and largest, and had a door yet beyond my wall or
fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall joined to
the rock, was all filled up with large earthen pots, of which I
have given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great
baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each, where I
laid up my stores of provision, especially my corn, some in the
ear cut off short from the straw, and the other rubbed out
with my hands.
As for my wall, made as before, with long stakes or piles,
those piles grew all like trees, and were by this time grown so
big, and spread so very much, that there was not the least
appearance, to any one's view, of any habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine,, but a little farther within the
land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn-
ground, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which
duly yielded me their harvest in its season; and whenever I
had occasion for more corn, I had more land adjoining as fit
as that.
Besides this, I had my country-seat, and I had now a
tolerable plantation there also; for, first, I had my little
bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair; that is to say, I
kept the hedge which circled it in constantly fitted up to its
usual height, the ladder standing always in the inside: I kept
the trees, which at first were no more than my stakes, but
were now grown very firm and tall, — I kept them always so
cut, that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually to
my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent always
standing, being a piece •of sail spread over poles set up for
that purpose, and which never wanted any repair or renewing;
and under this I had made me a squab or couch, with the
skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other soft things,
and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-
bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to cover
me ; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent from my
chief seat, I took up my country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my inclosures for my cattle, that is
to say, my goats: and as I had taken an inconceivable deal
of pains to fence and inclose this ground, I was so uneasy to
see it kept entire, lest the goats should break through, that I
never left off, till with infinite labor I had stuck the outside of
the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one another,
that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce
room to put a hand through between them, which afterwards,
when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy
season, made the inclosure strong like a wall, indeed stronger
than any wall.
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I
spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary
for my comfortable support; for I considered the keeping up
a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand would be a living
magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me, as long as
I lived in the place, if it were to be forty years; and that
keeping them in my reach depended entirely upon my perfect-
ing my inclosures to such a degree that I might be sure of
keeping them together; which, by this method, indeed, I so
effectually secured that, when these little stakes began to
grow, I had planted them so very thick I was forced to pull
some of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my winter store of raisins, and
which I never failed to preserve very carefully as the best and
most agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and indeed they
were not only agreeable, but physical, wholesome, nourishing,
and refreshing to the last degree.
As this was also about half way between my other habitation
and the place where I had laid up my boat, I generally stayed
and lay here in my way thither; for I used frequently to visit
my boat, and I kept all things about or belonging to her in
very good order. Sometimes I went out in her to divert
myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce
ever above a stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so
apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge again by
the currents, or winds, or any other accident. But now I
come to a new scene of my life.
It happened one day about noon, going towards my boat, I
was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot
on the shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I
stood like one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition.
I listened, I looked round me; I could hear nothing, nor see
anything; I went up to a rising ground to look farther. I
went up the shore, and down the shore, but it was all one, I
could see no other impression but that one. I went to it
again, to see if there were any more, and to observe if it might
not be my fancy, but there was no room for that, for there was
exactly the very print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a
foot: how it came thither I knew not, nor could in the least
imagine. But after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a
man perfectly confused, and out of myself, I came home to my
fortification, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but
terrified to the last degree, looking behind me at every two or
three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying every
stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it possible to
describe how many various shapes an affrighted imagination
represented things to me in; how many wild ideas were
formed every moment in my fancy, and what strange unac-
countable whimsies came into my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it ever
after this, I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went over
by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole in the
rock, which I called a door, I cannot remember; no, nor could
I remember the next morning; for never frighted hare fled
to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than I to
this retreat.
I had no sleep that night; the farther I was from the
occasion of my fright the greater my apprehensions were;
which is something contrary to the nature of such things, and
especially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear. But I
was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing,
that I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even
though I was now a great way off it.
At last I concluded that it must be some more dangerous
creature; namely, that it must be some of the savages of the
main-land over against me, who had wandered out to sea in
their canoes, and, either driven by the currents or by contrary
winds, had made the island, and had been on shore, but were
going away again to sea, being as loth, perhaps, to have stayed
in this desolate island as I would have been to have had
them.
While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was
very thankful in my thought that I was so happy as not to be
thereabouts at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by
which they would have concluded that some inhabitants had
been in the place, and perhaps have searched farther for me.
Then terrible thoughts racked my imaginations about their
having found my boat, and that there were people here ; and
that, if so, I should certainly have them come again in great
numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen so that
they should not find me, yet they would find my inclospre,
destroy all my corn, carry away all my flock of tame goats,
and I should perish at last for mere want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all that
former confidence in God which was founded upon such won-
derful experience as I had had of his goodness, now vanished;
as if he that had fed me by miracle hitherto, could not preserve
by his power the provision which he had made for me by his
goodness. I reproached myself with my easiness, that would
not sow any more corn one year than would just serve me till
the next season, as if no accident could intervene to prevent
my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground. And this I
thought so just a reproof, that I resolved for the future to have
two or three years' corn beforehand, so that whatever might
come, I might not perish for want of bread.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may
say, weeks and months; and one particular effect of my cogi-
tations on this occasion I cannot omit; namely, one morning
early, lying in bed and filled with thoughts about my danger
from the appearance of savages, I found it discomposed me
very much; upon which those words of the Scripture came
into my thoughts, "Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I
will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and
reflections, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this
might be a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot might
be the print of my own foot when I came on shore from my
boat. This cheered me up a little too, and I began to
persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing else
but my own foot; and why might not I come that way from
the boat as well as I was going that way to the boat? Again,
I considered also that I could by no means tell for certain
where I had trod, and .where I had not; and that, if at last
this was only the print of my own foot, I had played the part
of those fools who strive to make stories of spectres and
apparitions, and then are themselves frighted at them more
than anybody else.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again;
for I had not stirred out of my castle for three days and
nights, so that I began to starve for provision; for I had little
or nothing within doors but some barley cakes and water.
Then I knew that my goats wanted to be milked too, which
usually was my evening diversion; and the poor creatures
were in great pain and inconvenience for want of it; and
indeed it almost spoiled some of them, and almost dried up
their milk.
Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this was
nothing but the print of one of my own feet (and so I might
be truly said to start at my own shadow), I began to go abroad
again, and went to my country-house to milk my flock; but to
see with what fear I went forward, how often I looked behind
me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down my
9
basket, and run for my life; it would have made any one have
thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had
been lately most terribly frighted; and so indeed I had.
However, as I went down thus two or three days, and
having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to
think there was really nothing in it but my own imagination;
but I could not persuade myself fully of this till I should go
down to the shore again, and see this print of a foot, and
measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitude of
fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot. But when
I came to the place first, it appeared evidently to me, that
when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore
anywhere thereabouts. Secondly, when I came to measure
the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not so large by
a great deal. Both these things filled my head with new
imaginations, and gave me the vapors again to the highest
degree, so that I shook with cold like one in an ague, and I
went home again, filled with the belief that some man or men
had been on shore there ; or, in short, that the island was
inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware; and
what course to take for my security I knew not.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all night;
but in the morning I fell asleep, and having by the amusement
of my mind been, as it were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I
slept very soundly, and awaked much better composed than I
had ever been before. And now I began to think sedately;
and, upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded that this
island, which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no
farther from the main-land than as I had seen, was not so
entirely abandoned as I might imagine. That although there
were no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, yet that
there might sometimes come boats off from the shore, who,
either with design, or perhaps never but when they were
driven by cross winds, might come to this place.
That I had lived here fifteen years now and had not met
with the least shadow or figure of any people before; and
that, if at any time they should be driven here, it was probable
they went away again as soon as ever they could, seeing they
had never thought fit to fix there upon any occasion to this
time.
That the most I could suggest any danger from was from
any such casual accidental landing of straggling people from
the main, who, as it was likely, if they were driven hither,
were here against their wills; so they made no stay here, but
went off again with all possible speed, seldom staying one
night on shore lest they should not have the help of the tides
and daylight back again. And that, therefore, I had nothing
to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in case I should see
any savages land upon the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so
large as to bring a door through again, which door, as I said,
came out beyond where my fortification joined to the rock.
Upon maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw
me a second fortification, in the manner of a semicircle, at a
distance from my wall, just where I planted a double row of
trees about twelve years before, of which I made mention;
these trees having been planted so thick before there wanted
but a few piles to be driven between them, that they should
be thicker and stronger, and my wall would be finished.
So that I had now a double wall, and my outer wall was
thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and everything I
could think of to make it strong; having in it seven holes
about as big as I might put my arm out at. In the inside of
this I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, continually
bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the
wall, and walking upon it; and through the seven holes I
contrived to plant muskets, of which I took notice that I got
seven on shore out of the ship; these, I say, I planted like
my cannon, and fitted them into frames that held them like a
carriage, that so I could fire all the seven guns in two
minutes' time: this wall I was many a weary month in
finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was
done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my
wall, for a great way every way, as full with stakes or sticks of
the osier-like wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they
could well stand; insomuch that I believe I might set in
near twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space
between them and my wall, that I might have room to see an
enemy, and they might have no shelter from the young trees,
if they attempted to approach my outer wall.
Thus in two years' time I had a thick grove, and in five or
six years' time I had a wood before my dwelling, grown so
monstrous thick and strong that it was indeed perfectly
impassable; and no man of what kind soever would ever
imagine that there was anything beyond it, much less a habi-
tation. As for the way I proposed myself to go in and out
(for I left no avenue), it was by setting two ladders, one to a
part of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and left
room to place another ladder upon that; so, when the two
ladders were taken down, no man living could come down to
me without mischiefing himself; and if they had come down,
they were still on the outside of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation ; and it will be seen at length,
that they were not altogether without just reason, though I
foresaw nothing at that time more than my mere fear sug-
gested.
While this was doing I was not altogether careless of my
other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me for my little
herd of goats: they were not only a present supply to me
upon every occasion, and began to be sufficient for me
without the expense of powder and shot, but also abated the
fatigue of my hunting after the wild ones; and I was loath to
lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up
over again.
To this purpose, after long consideration, I could think but
of two ways to preserve them ; one was to find another con-
venient place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive them
into it every night; and the other was to inclose two or three
little bits of land, remote from one another, and as much
concealed as I could, where I might keep about half a dozen
young goats in each place ; so that if any disaster happened to
the flock in general, I might be able to raise them again with
little trouble and time ; and this, though it would require a
great deal of time and labor, I thought was the most rational
design. i
Accordingly I spent some time to find out the most retired
parts of the island, and I pitched upon one, which was as
private, indeed, as my heart could wish ; for it was a little
damp piece of ground in the middle of the hollow and thick
woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost myself once before,
endeavoring to come back that way from the eastern part of
the island. Here I found a clear piece of land, near three
acres, so surrounded with woods that it was almost an
inclosure by nature; at least it did not want near so much
labor to make it so as the other pieces of ground I had
worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and
in less than a month's time I had so fenced it round that my
flock or herd, call it which you please, which were not so wild
now as at first they might be supposed to be, were well
enough secured in it. So, without any farther delay, I
removed ten she-goats and two he-goats to this piece; and
when there, I continued to perfect the fence till I made it as
secure as the other, which, however, I did at more leisure, and
it took me up more time by a great deal.
All this labor I was at the expense of purely from my
apprehensions on the • account of the print of a man's foot
which I had seen; for as yet I never saw any human creature
come near the island, and I had now lived two years under
these uneasinesses, which indeed made my life much less
comfortable than it was before, as may well be imagined by
any who know what it is to live in the constant snare of the
fear of man.
But to go on; after I had thus secured one part of my
little living stock, I went about the whole island searching for
another private place to make such another deposit; when
wandering more to the west point of the island than I had
ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat
upon the sea at a great distance. I had found a perspective
glass or two in one of the seamen's chests, which I saved out
of our ship; but I had it not about me; and this was so
remote that I could not tell what to make of it, though I
looked at it till my eyes were not able to look any longer.
Whether it was a boat or not I do not know; but as I de-
scended from the hill I could see no more of it, so I gave
it over, only I resolved to go no more without a perspective
glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill, to the end of the island,
where indeed I had never been before, I was presently
convinced that the seeing the print of a man's foot was
not such a strange thing in the island as I imagined; and,
but that it was a special Providence that I was cast upon the
side of the island where the savages never came, I should
easily have known that nothing was more frequent than for
the canoes from the main, when they happened to be a little
too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for
harbor; likewise, as they often met and fought in their
canoes, the victors, having taken any prisoners, would bring
them over to this shore, where, according to their dreadful
customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and eat them;
of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said
above, being the S. W. point of the island, I was perfectly
confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express
the horror of my mind at seeing the shore spread with skulls,
hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies; and par- •
ticularly I observed a place where there had been a fire made,
and a circle dug in the earth, like a cock-pit, where it is
supposed the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman
feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things that
I entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a
long while; all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts
of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror of
the degeneracy of human nature ; which, though I had heard
of often, yet I never had so near a view of before; in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle, my stomach
grew sick, and I was just at the point of fainting, when
nature discharged the disorder from my stomach, and, having
vomited with an uncommon violence, I was a little relieved,
but could not bear to stay in the place a moment; so I got
me up the hill again with all the speed I could, and walked
on towards my own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island I
stood still awhile as amazed; and then, recovering myself, I
looked up with the utmost affection of my soul, and, with a
flood of tears in my eyes, gave God thanks that had cast my
first lot in a part of the world where I was distinguished from
such dreadful creatures as these; and though I had esteemed
my present condition very miserable, had yet given me so
many comforts in it, that I had still more to give thanks for
than to complain of; and this above all, that I had, even in
this miserable condition, been comforted with the knowledge
of himself, and the hope of his blessing, which was a felicity
more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which I had
suffered or could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my castle,
and began to be much easier now, as to the safety of my
circumstances, than ever I was before; for I observed that
these wretches never came to this island in search of what
they could get; perhaps not seeking, nor wanting, or not ex-
pecting anything here; and having often, no doubt, been up in
the covered woody part of it without finding anything to their
purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen years,
and never saw the least footsteps of a human creature there
before; and might be here eighteen years more as entirely
concealed as I was now, if I did not discover myself to them,
which I had no manner of occasion to do, it being my only
business to keep myself entirely concealed where I was,
unless I found a better sort of creatures than cannibals to
make myself known to.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the wretched
inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another
up, that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close within
my own circle for almost two years after this: when I say my
own circle, I mean by it my three plantations, namely, my
castle, my country-seat, which I called my bower, and my
inclosure in the woods; nor did I look after this for any
other use than as an inclosure for my goats; for the aversion
which nature gave me to these hellish wretches was such, that
T was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil himself;
nor did I so much as go to look after my boat in all this time,
but began rather to think of never making any more attempts
to bring the other boat round the island to me, lest I should
meet with some of these creatures at sea, in which, if I had
happened to have fallen into their hands, I knew what would
have been my lot. *
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no
danger of being discovered by these people, began to wear off
my uneasiness about them; and I began to live just in the
same composed manner as before, only with this difference,
that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more about me
than I did before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of
them; and particularly, I was more cautious of firing my gun,
lest any of them being on the island should happen to hear it;
and it was therefore a very good providence to me, that I had
furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, that I had no
need to hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at them;
and if I did catch any more of them after this, it was with
traps and snares, as I had done before; so that'for two years
after this, I believe I never fired my gun once off, though
I never went out without it; and, which was more, as I
had saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried them
out with me, or at least two of them, sticking them in
my goat-skin belt. I likewise furbished up one of the great
cutlasses that I had out of the ship, and made me a belt to
put it in also; so that I was now a most formidable fellow to
look at when I went abroad, if you add to the former
description of myself the particular of two pistols, and a
great broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but without a
scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time,
I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my
former calm sedate way of living; all these things tended to
show me more and more how far my condition was from being
miserable, compared to some others; nay, to many other
particulars of life, which it might have pleased God to
have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting, how little
repining there would be among mankind, at any condition of
life, if people would rather compare their condition with those
that are worse, in order to be thankful, than be always com-
paring them with those which are better, to assist their
murmurings and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really many
things which I wanted, so indeed I thought the frights I had
been in about these savage wretches, and the concern I had
been in for my own preservation, had taken off the edge of my
invention for my own conveniences; and I had dropt a
good design, which I had once bent my thoughts upon; and
that was, to try if I could not make some of my barley into
malt, and then try to brew myself some beer: this was really
a whimsical thought, and I reproved myself often for the
simplicity of it; for I presently saw there would be the want
of several things necessary to the making my beer, that
it would be impossible for me to supply; as, first, casks to
preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have observed
already, I could never compass; no, though I spent not many
days, but weeks, nay months, in attempting it, but to no
purpose. In" the next place, I had no hops to make it keep,
no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it boil;
and yet, had not all these things intervened, I mean the
frights and terrors I was in about the savages, I had under-
taken it, and perhaps brought it to pass too; for I seldom
gave anything over without accomplishing it, when I once had
it in my head enough to begin it.
But my invention now ran quite another way; for night and
day I could think of nothing but how I might destroy some
of these monsters in their cruel bloody entertainment, and, if
possible, save the victim they should bring hither to destroy.
It would take up a larger volume than this whole work is
intended to be to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or
rather brooded upon in my thoughts, for the destroying these
creatures, or at least frightening them, so as to prevent their
coming hither any more; but all was abortive; nothing could
be possible to take effect unless I was to be there to do it
myself; and what could one man do among them, when
perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them together, with
their darts, or their bows and arrows, with which they could
shoot as true to a mark as I could with my gun?
Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place where
they made their fire, and put in five or six pounds of gun-
powder, which, when they kindled their fire, would conse-
quently take fire, and blow up all that was near it; but, as in
the first place I should be very loath to waste so much powder
upon them, my store being now within the quantity of a barrel,
so neither could I be sure of its going off at any certain time
when it might surprise them; and, at best, that it would do
but little more than just blow the fire about their ears and
fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake the place;
so I laid it aside, and then proposed that I would place
myself in ambush, in some convenient place, with my three
guns all double-loaded, and in the middle of their bloody
ceremony let fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or
wound perhaps two or three at every shot: and then falling
in upon them with my three pistols and my sword, I made no
doubt but that, if there were twenty, I should kill them all:
this fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so
full of it that I often dreamt of it, and sometimes, that I was
just going to let fly at them in my sleep.
I went so far with it in my indignation, that I employed
myself several days to find out proper places to put myself in
ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them; and I went fre-
quently to the place itself, which was now grown more familiar
to me; and especially while my mind was thus filled with
thoughts of revenge, and of a bloody putting twenty or thirty
of them to the sword, as I may call it; but the horror I had
at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous wretches
devouring one another, abated my malice.
Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill, where
I was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any of the
boats coming, and might then, even before they would be
ready to come on shore, convey myself unseen into thickets of
trees, in one of which there was a hollow large enough to
conceal me entirely, and where I might sit and observe all
their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads, when
they were so close together so that it would be next to
impossible that I should miss my shoot, or that I could fail
wounding three or four of them at the first shoot.
In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design, and accord
ingly I prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece.
The two muskets I loaded with a brace of slugs each, and
four or five smaller bullets, about the size of pistol-bullets, and
the fowling-piece I loaded with near a handful of swan-shot of
the largest size; I also loaded my pistols with about four
bullets each; and in this posture, well provided with ammu-
nition for a second and third charge, I prepared myself for
my expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme for my design, and in my
imagination put it in practice, I continually made my tour
every morning up to the top of the hill, which was from
my castle, as I called it, about three miles or more, to see if I
could observe any boats upon the sea coming near the
island, or standing over towards it: but I began to tire of this
hard duty, after I had for two or three months constantly kept
my watch; but came always back without any discovery, there
having not in all that time been the least appearance, not only
on or near the shore, but not on the whole ocean, so far as my
eyes or glasses could reach every way.
As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to look out,
so long also I kept up the vigor of my design, and my spirits
seemed to be all the while in a suitable frame for so out-
rageous an execution as the killing twenty or thirty naked
savages, for an offense which I had not at all entered into a
discussion of in my thoughts, any further than my passions
were at first fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural
custom of the people of that country, who, it seems, had been
suffered by Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to
have no other guide than that of their own abominable and
vitiated passions; and, consequently, were left, and perhaps
had been for some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive
such dreadful customs as nothing but nature entirely aban-
doned of Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy,
could have run them into; but now, when, as I have said, I
began to be weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made
so long, and so far, every morning in vain; so my opinion of
the action itself began to alter, and I began, with cooler and
calmer thoughts, to consider what it was I was going to en-
gage in; what authority or call I had to pretend to be judge
and executioner upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven
had thought fit for so many ages to suffer, unpunished, to go
on, and to be, as it were, the executioners of his judgments
upon one another; also, how far these people were offenders
against me, and what right I had to engage in the quarrel of
that blood which they shed promiscuously one upon another.
I debated this very often with myself thus: How do I know
what God himself judges in this particular case? It is certain
these people do not commit this as a crime; it is not against
their own consciences reproving, or their light reproaching
them. They do not know it to be an offense, and then com-
mit it in defiance of divine justice, as we do in almost all the
sins we commit. They think it no more a crime to kill a
captive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox; nor to eat
human flesh, than we do to eat mutton.
When I had considered this a little, it followed necessarily
that I was certainly in the wrong in it; that these people were
hot murderers in the sense that I had before condemned them
in my thoughts, any more than those Christians were mur-
derers, who often put to death the prisoners taken in battle, or
more frequently, upon many occasions, put whole troops of
men to the sword, without giving quarter, though they threw
down their arms and submitted.
In the next place, it occurred to me, that albeit the usage
they gave one another was thus brutish and inhuman, yet it
was really nothing to me: these people had done me no
injury: that if they attempted me, or if I saw it necessary
for my immediate preservation to fall upon them, something
might be said for it; but that I was yet out of their power,
and they had really no knowledge of me, and consequently
no design upon me; and therefore it could not be just for
me to fall upon them: that this would justify the conduct of
the Spaniards, in all their barbarities practiced in America,
where they destroyed millions of these people, who, however
they were idolaters and barbarians, and had several bloody
and barbarous rites in their customs, such as sacrificing
human bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards,
very innocent people; and that the rooting them out of the
country is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detesta-
tion, even by the Spaniards themselves, at this time, and by
all other Christian nations of Europe, as a mere butchery, a
bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to
God or man; and such, as for which the very name of a
Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all people
of humanity, or of Christian compassion; as if the kingdom
of Spain were particularly eminent for the product of a race
of men who were without principles of tenderness, or the
common bowels of pity to the miserable, which is reckoned to
be a mark of a generous temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a
kind of full stop; and I began by little and little to be off my
design, and to conclude I had taken a wrong measure in my
resolutions to attack the savages; that it was not my business
to meddle with them, unless they first attacked me, and this it
was my business, if possible, to prevent; but that, if I were
discovered and attacked, then I knew my duty.
On the other hand, I argued with myself, that this really
was the way, not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin and
destroy myself; for unless I was sure to kill every one that
not only should be on shore at that time, but that should ever
come on shore afterwards, if but one of them escaped to tell
their country-people what had happened, they would come
over again by thousands to revenge the death of their fellows;
and I should only bring upon myself a certain destruction,
which at present I had no manner of occasion for.
Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in principles nor
in policy, I ought one way or other to concern myself in this
affair: that my business was by all possible means to conceal
myself from them, and not to leave the least signal to them
to guess by, that there were any living creatures upon the
island, I mean of human shape.
Religion joined in with this prudential resolution, and I
was convinced now many ways that I was perfectly out of my
duty, when I was laying all my bloody schemes for the
destruction of innocent creatures, I mean innocent as to me;
as to the crimes they were guilty of towards one another, I
had nothing to do with them; they were national, and I ought
to leave them to the justice of God, who is the governor of
nations, and knows how by national punishments to make a
just retribution for national offenses; and to bring public
judgments upon those who offend in a public manner, by such
ways as best please him.
In this disposition I continued for near a year after this:
and so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon
these wretches, that in all that time I never once went up the
hill to see whether there were any of them in sight, or to know
whether any of them had been on shore there or not; that I
might not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances against
them, or be provoked, by any advantage which might present
itself, to fall upon them; only this I did, I went and removed
my boat, which I had on the other side the island, and carried
it down to the east end of the whole island, where I ran it
into a little cove which I found under some high rocks, and
where I knew, by reason of the currents, the savages durst
not, at least would not, come with their boats, upon any
account whatsoever.
With my boat I carried away everything that I had left
there belonging to her, though not necessary for the bare
going thither; namely, a mast and sail, which I had made for
her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed, which could not
be called either anchor or grappling: however, it was the best
I could make of its kind. All these I removed, that there
might not be the least shadow of any discovery, or any
appearance of any boat, or of any habitation upon the island.
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than
ever, and seldom went from my cell other than upon my con-
stant employment, namely, to milk my she-goats, and manage
my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the other
part of the island, was quite out of danger: for certain it is,
that these savage people, who sometimes haunted this island,
never came with any thoughts of finding anything here, and
consequently never wandered off from the coast, and I doubt
not but they might have been several times on shore after my
apprehensions of them had made me cautious, as well as
before; and indeed I looked back with some horror upon the
thoughts of what my condition would have been if I had
chopped upon them, and been discovered when naked and
unarmed, except with my gun, and that loaded often only with
small shot. I walked everywhere peeping and peeping about
the island, to see what I could get. What a surprise should I
have been in, if, when I discovered the print of a man's foot,
I had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty savages, and found
them pursuing me, and by the swiftness of their running, no
possibility of my escaping them!
The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul within
me, and distressed my mind so much, that I could not soon
recover it. I confess that these anxieties, these constant
dangers I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me,
put an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances that I
had laid for my future accommodations and conveniences. I
had the care of my safety more now upon my hands than that
of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of
wood now, for fear the noise I should make should be heard;
much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason; and above
all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the
smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day, should
betray me: and for this reason I removed that part of my
business which required fire, such as burning of pots and
pipes, &c., into my new apartment in the woods; where, after
I had been some time, I found, to my unspeakable consolation,
a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way,
and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth
of it, would be so hardy as to venture in, nor indeed would
any man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing so much
as a safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great
rock, where, by mere accident (I would say, if I did not see
an abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to Provi-
dence), I was cutting down some thick branches of trees to
make charcoal; and before I go on, I must observe the reason
of my making this charcoal, which was thus : —
I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I
said before; and yet I could not live there without baking my
bread, cooking my meat, &c., so I contrived to burn some
wood here, as I had seen done in England, under turf, till it
became chark, or dry coal; and then putting the fire out, I
preserved the coal to carry home, and perform the other ser-
vices which fire was wanting for at home, without danger of
smoke.
But this is by-the-by. While I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick branch of low
brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind of hollow place.
I was curious to look into it, and getting with difficulty into
the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large, that is to say, suf-
ficient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another with
me; but I must confess to you, I made more haste out than I
did in; when looking farther into the place, which was per-
fectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature,
whether devil or man I knew not, which twinkled like two
stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth shining directly in,
and making the reflection.
However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and began
to call myself a thousand fools, and tell myself that he that
was afraid to see the devil, was not fit to live twenty years in
an island all alone, and that I durst to believe there was
nothing in this cave that was more frightful than myself; upon
this, plucking up my courage, I took up a great firebrand, and
in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in my hand. I had
not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much frighted as I
was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man
in some pain; and it was followed by a broken noise, as if of
words half-expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped
back, and was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put
me into a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I
will not answer for it that my hair might not have lifted it off.
But still, plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and
encouraging myself a little, with considering that the power
and presence of God was everywhere, and was able to pro-
tect me; upon this I stepped forward again, and by the light
of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my head, I saw
lying on the ground a most monstrous frightful old he-goat,
just making his will, as we say, and gasping for life, and dying
indeed of mere old age.
1 stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he
essayed to get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I
thought with myself, he might even lie there; for he had
frighted me so, he would certainly fright any of the savages,
if any of them should be so hardy as to come in there, while
he had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look
round me, when I found the cave was but very small; that is
to say, it might be about twelve foot over, but in no manner
of shape, either round or square, no hands ever having been
employed in making it, but those of mere nature. I observed
also, that there was a place at the farther side of it that went
in farther, but was so low, that it required me to creep upon
my hands and knees to go into it, and whither I went I know
not; so having no candle, I gave it over for some time, but
resolved to come again the next day, provided with candles
and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wild-fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with six large
candles of my own making (for I made very good candles now
of goat's tallow); and going into this low place, I was
obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have said, almost ten
yards; which, by the way, I thought was a venture bold
enough, considering that I knew not how far it might go, nor
what was beyond it. When I was got through the streight, I
found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty foot; but
never was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say,
as it was, to look round the side and roof of this vault or cave.
The walls reflected an hundred thousand lights to me from my
two candles: what it was in the rock, whether diamonds, or
any other precious stones, or gold, which I rather suppose it
to be, I knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity, or grotto,
of its kind, as could be expected, though perfectly dark; the
floor was dry and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel
upon it; so that there was no nauseous or venomous creature
to be seen, neither was there any damp or wet on the sides or
roof; the only difficulty in it was the entrance, which, how-
ever, as it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so that I was really
rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to
bring some of those things which I was most anxious about to
this place; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my maga-
zine of powder, and all my spare arms, namely, two fowling-
pieces (for I had three in all) and three muskets (for of them
I had eight in all); so I kept at my castle only five, which
stood ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my outmost
fence, and were ready also to take out upon any expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I took
occasion to open the, barrel of powder which I took up out of
the sea, and which had been wet; and I found that the water
had penetrated about three or four inches into the powder on
every side, which, caking and growing hard, had preserved the
inside like a kernel in a shell; so that I had near sixty pound
of very good powder in the centre of the cask; and this was
an agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I carried all
away thither, never keeping above two or three pound of
powder with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any
kind. I also carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which
are said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none
could come at them ; for I persuaded myself while I was here,
if five hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never find
me out; or if they did, they would not venture to attack me
here.
The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in the mouth of
the cave the next day after I made this discovery; and I
found it much easier to dig a great hole there, and throw him
in, and cover him with earth, than to drag him out; so I
interred him there, to prevent offense to my nose.
I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in this
island, and was so naturalized to the place, and to the manner
of living, that could I have but enjoyed the certainty that no
savages would come to the place to disturb me, I could have
been content to have capitulated for spending the rest of my
time there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me down
and died, like the old goat in the cave. I had also arrived to
some little diversions and amusements, which made the time
pass more pleasantly with me a great deal than it did before;
as,, first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to speak;
and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and
plain, that it was very pleasant to me; and he lived with me
no less than six-and-twenty years: how long he might live
afterwards I know not; though I know they have a notion in
the Brazils that they live a hundred years; perhaps poor Poll
may be alive there still, calling after poor Robin Crusoe to
this day; I wish no Englishman the ill luck to come there and
hear him; but if he did, he would certainly believe it was the
devil. My dog was a very pleasant and loving companion to
me for no less than sixteen years of my time, and then died
of mere old age; as for my cats, they multiplied, as I have
observed, to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot several
of them at first to keep them from devouring me and all I
had; but at length, when the two old ones I brought with me
were gone, and after some time continually driving them from
me, and letting them have no provision with me, they all ran
wild into the woods, except two or three favorites, which I
kept tame, and whose young, when they had any, I always
drowned, and these were part of my family. Besides these, I
always kept two or three household kids about me, which I
taught to feed out of my hand; and•I had also more parrots
which talked pretty well, and would all call Robin Crusoe, but
none like my first; nor indeed did I take the pains with any
of them that I had done with him. I had also several tame
sea-fowls, whose names I know not, which I caught upon the
shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes, which I had
planted before my castle wall, being now grown up to a good
thick grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees, and
bred there, which was very agreeable to me, so that, as I said
above, I began to be very well contented with the life I led,
if it might but have been secured from the dread of the
savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss for
all people who shall meet with my story to make this just
observation from it, namely, How frequently, in the course of
our lives, the evil which in itself we seek most to shun, and
which, when we are fallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is
oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by
which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we are
fallen into. I could give many examples of this in the course
of my unaccountable life; but in nothing was it more particu-
larly remarkable than in the circumstances of my last two
years of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my
twenty-third year; and this being the southern solstice, for
winter I cannot call it, was the particular time of my harvest,
and required my being pretty much abroad in the fields ; when
going out pretty early in the morning, even before it was
thorough daylight, I was surprised with seeing a light of some
fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about two miles,
towards the end of the island, where I had observed some
savages had been before; but not on the other side; but to
my great affliction, it was on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stepped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be
surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from the
apprehensions I had, that if these savages, in rambling over
the island, should find my corn standing, or cut, or any of my
works and improvements, they would immediately conclude
that there were people in the place, and would then never give
over till they had found me out. In this extremity I went
back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder after me,
having made all things without look as wild and natural as I
could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture
of defense. I loaded all my cannon, as I called them, that is
to say, my muskets, which were mounted upon my new forti-
fication, and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to
the last gasp; not forgetting seriously to commend myself to
the divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver
me out of the hands of the barbarians; and in this posture I
continued about two hours, but began to be mighty impatient
for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I should do
in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance longer;
so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill where there was
a flat place, as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder
up after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the top of the
hill; and pulling out my perspective glass, which I had taken
on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly on the'ground,
and began to look foi the place. I presently found there was
no less than nine naked savages sitting round a small fire
they had made; not to warm them, for they had no need of
that, the weather being extreme hot; but, as I supposed, to
dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh, which they
had brought with them, whether alive or dead I could not
know.
They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up
upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to
me lo wait for the return of the flood to go away again. It is not
easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, espe-
cially seeing them come on my side the island, and so near
me too; but when I observed their coming must be always
with the current of the ebb, I began afterwards to be more
sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad with
safety all the time of the tide of flood, if they were not on
shore before; and having made this observation, I went
abroad about my harvest work with the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made
to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle
as we call it) all away. I should have observed, that for an
hour and more before they went off, they went to dancing, and
I could easily discern their postures and gestures by my
glasses: I could not perceive, by my nicest observation, but
that they were stark naked, and had not the least covering
upon them; but whether they were men or women, that I
could not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns
upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, and my
great sword by my side, without a scabbard; and with all the
speed I was able to make, I went away to the hill, where I
had discovered the first appearance of all. And as soon as I
got thither, which was not less than two hours (for I could not
go apace, being so loaded with arms as I was), I perceived
there had been three canoes more of savages on that place;
and looking out Farther, I saw they were all at sea together,
making over for the main.
This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when going
down to the shore, I could see the marks of horror which the
dismal work they had been about had left behind it, namely,
the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and
sport. I was so filled with indignation at the sight, that I
began now to premeditate the destruction of the next that
I saw there, let them be who or how many soever.
It seemed evident to me that the visits which they thus
made to this island were not very frequent; for it was above
fifteen months before any more of them came on shore there
again, that is to say, I never saw them, or any footsteps or
signals of them in all that time; and I found they did not
come in the rainy season; yet all this while I lived uncomfor-
tably, by reason of the constant apprehensions I was in of their
coming upon me by surprise.
However, I wore out a year and three months more, before
I saw any of the savages; but in the month of May, as near as
I could calculate, and in my four-and-twentieth year, I had a
very strange encounter with them, of which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen
months' interval was very great. In the day great troubles
overwhelmed my mind; in the night I dreamed often of kill-
ing savages, and the reasons why I might justify the doing of
it. But, to waive all this for a while, it was the middle of
May, on the sixteenth day, I think, that it blew a very great
storm of wind all day, with a great deal of lightning and
thunder, and a very foul night it was. I know not what was
the particular occasion of it, but as I was reading the Bible,
and taken up with serious thoughts about my present con-
dition, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought,
fired at sea.
This was, to be sure, a surprise of quite a different nature
from any I had met with before, for the notions that this put
into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I started up in
the greatest haste imaginable, and, in a trice, clapped up my
ladder in the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me,
and mounting it the second time, got to the top of the hill;
that moment a flash of fire bade me listen for a second gun,
which, accordingly, in about half a minute I heard, and by the
sound, knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was
driven out with the current in my boat.
I immediately considered that this must be some ship in
distress, and that they had some comrade, or some other ship
in company, and fired these guns for signals of distress, and to
obtain help. I had this presence of mind at that minute, as
to think, that though I could not help them, it may be they
might help me; so I brought together all the dry wood I
could get at hand, and making a good sized pile, I set it on
fire upon the hill; the wood was dry, and blazed freely, and
though the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out, so that
I was certain, if there was any such thing as a ship, they must
needs see it, and no doubt they did, for as soon as my fire
blazed up, I heard another gun, and after that several others,
all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night long, till
day broke, and when it was broad day, and the air cleared
up, I saw something at a great distance at sea, full east of
the island, whether a sail, or a hull, I could not distinguish,
no, not with my glasses, the distance was so great, and the
weather still being hazy also: at least it was so out at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived
that it did not move; so I presently concluded that it was
a ship at anchor, and being eager, you may be sure, to be
satisfied, I took my gun in my hand and ran towards the
southeast side of the island, to the rocks, where I had been
formerly carried away with the current, and getting up there,
the weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly
see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast away in the
night upon these concealed rocks, which I found when I was
out in my boat, and which rocks, as they checked the violence
of the stream, and made a kind of counter stream, or eddy,
were the occasion of my recovering then from the most des-
perate, hopeless condition, that ever I had been in.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's destruc-
tion; for it seems these men, whoever they were, being out of
their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under water, had
been driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing very
hard at E. and E. N. E. Had they seen the island, as I must
necessarily suppose they did not, they must, as I thought, have
endeavored to have saved themselves on shore by the help of
their boat; but the firing of their guns for help, especially
when they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many
thoughts.
In the condition I was in, I could do no more than look
upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them, which had
still this good effect on my side, that it gave me more and
more cause to give thanks to God, who had so happily and
comfortably provided for me in my desolate condition; and
that of two ships' companies, who were now cast away upon
this part of the world, not one life should be spared but mine.
I learnt here again to observe, that it is very rare the provi-
dence of God casts us into any condition of life so low, or any
misery so great, but we may see something to be thankful for,
and may see others worse than ourselves.
Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I could
not so much as see room to suppose any of them were saved;
nothing could make it rational, so much as to wish or expect
that they did not all perish there, except the possibility only
of their being taken up by another ship in company; and this
was but mere possibility indeed; for I saw not the least sig-
nal or appearance of any such thing.
I cannot explain by words, what a strange longing or han-
kering of desires I felt in my soul upon this sight, breaking out
sometimes thus: "O that there had been But one or two,
nay, but one soul saved out of the ship, to have escaped to
me, that I might have had one companion, one fellow-crea-
ture, to have spoken to me, and to have conversed with!"
In all the time of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so
strong a desire, after the society of my fellow-creatures, or so
deep a regret at the want of it.
But it was not to be; either their fate, or mine, or both, for-
bade it; for, till the last year of my being in this island, I
never knew whether any were saved out of the ship or no;
and had only the affliction, some days after, to see the corpse
of a drowned boy washed on shore, at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck. He had on a seaman's waist-
coat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt; but nothing to direct me to guess what nation he was
of. He had nothing in his pocket but two pieces of eight,
and a tobacco-pipe. The last was of more value to me than
the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in
my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find some-
thing on board that might be useful to me ; and possibly there
might be yet some living creature on board, whose life I might
not only save, but might, by saving that life, comfoit rny own
to the last degree ; and this thought clung so to my heart, that
I could not be quiet night or day, but I must venture out in
my boat on board this wreck; and committing the rest to
God's providence, I thought the impression was so strong upon
my mind, that it could not be resisted, that it must come from
some invisible direction, and that I should be wanting to
myself if I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my
castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of
bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bot-
tle of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left), a basket
full of raisins, and thus loading myself with everything neces-
sary, I went down to my boat, got the water out of her, and
got her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home
again for more. My second cargo was a great bag full of rice,
the umbrella to set up over my head for a shade, another pot
full of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves, or
barley cakes, more than before, and a bottle of goat's milk,
and a cheese ; all which, with great labor and sweat, I brought
to my boat, and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put
out; and rowing, or paddling the canoe along the shore, I
came at last to the utmost point of the island on that side,
namely, N. E. And now I was to launch out into the ocean,
and either to venture, or not venture. I looked on the rapid
currents which ran constantly on both sides of the island at a
distance, and which were very terrible to me, from the remem-
brance of the hazard I had been in before, and my heart began
to fail me; for I foresaw, that if I was driven into either of
these currents, I should be carried a vast way out to sea, and
perhaps out of reach, or sight, of the island again; and that,
as my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should rise,
I should be inevitably lost.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give
over my enterprise, and having hauled my boat into a little
creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat me down upon a
little spot of rising ground, very pensive and anxious, between
fear and desire, about my voyage; when, as I was musing, I
could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood came
on, upon which my going was for so many hours impracticable.
Upon this it presently occurred to me, that I should go up to
the highest piece of ground I could find, and observe, if I
could, how the sets of the tides or currents lay when the flood
came in, that I might judge whether, if I was driven one way
out, I might not expect to be driven another way home, with
the same rapidness of the currents. This thought was no
sooner in my head, but I cast my eye upon a little hill, which
sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I
had a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and which
way I was to guide myself in my return. Here I found that as
the current of the ebb set out close by the south point of the
island, so the current of the flood set in close by the shore of
the north side; and thnt I had nothing to do but to keep
to the north of the island in my return, and I should do well
enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next morn-
ing to set out with the first of the tide; and reposing myself
for that night in the canoe, under the great watch-coat I men-
tioned, I launched out in the morning. I made first a little
out to sea, full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the
current, which set eastward, and which carried me at a great
rate, and yet did not so hurry me as the southern side current
had done before, and so as to take from me all government of
the boat; but, having a strong steerage with my paddle, I
went directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came
up to it.
It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which by the
building was Spanish, stuck fast jammed in between two
rocks; all the stern and quarter of her was beaten to pieces
with the sea; and as her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks,
had run on with great violence, her mainmast and foremast
were brought by the board, that is to say, broken short off;
but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared
firm! When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her,
who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as I
called him, jumped into the sea to come to me; and I took
him into the boat, and found him almost dead for hunger and
thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he eat it like a
ravenous wolf that had been starving for a fortnight in the
snow. I then gave the poor creature some fresh water, with
which, if I would have let him, he would have burst himself.
After this I went on board. The first sight I met with was
two men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of the ship,
with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as is
indeed probable, that when the ship struck, it being in a storm,
the sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that the
men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with the
constant rushing in of the water, as much as if they had been
under water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left in the
ship that had life, or any goods that I could see, but what
were spoiled by the water. There were some casks of liquor,
whether wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in the
hold, and which, the water being ebbed out, I could see, but
they were too big to meddle with. I saw several chests,
which I believed belonged to some of the seamen, and I got
two of them into the boat, without examining what was in
them.
Had the stern of the ship• been fixed, and the fore part
broken off, I am persuaded I might have made a good voyage;
for. by what I found in these two chests, I had room to suppose,
the ship had a great deal of wealth on board; and if I may
guess by the course she steered, she must have been bound
from Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south part
of America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havannah, in the Gulf
of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of
about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much
difficulty. There were several muskets in the cabin, and a
great powder-horn, with about four pounds of powder in it; as
for the muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them,
but took the powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs,
which I wanted extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a
copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and with this
cargo and the dog I came away, the tide beginning to make
home again; and the same evening, about an hour within
night, I reached the island again, wearied and fatigued to the
last degree.
I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning I
resolved to harbor what I had gotten in my new cave, not to
carry it home to my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all
my cargo on shore, and began to examine it. The cask of
liquor I found to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had at
the Brazils, and, in a word, not at all good. But when I came
to open the chests, I found several things I wanted; for ex-
ample, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an extraor-
dinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, fine, and very
good: the bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped
with silver. I found two pots of very good succades, or
sweetmeats, so fastened on top, that the salt water had not
hurt them; and two more of the same, which the water had
spoiled. I found some very good shirts, which were very
welcome to me, and about a dozen and a half of white linen
handkerchiefs, and colored neckcloths; the former were also
very welcome, being exceedingly refreshing to wipe my face on
in a hot dry day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the
chest, I found there three great bags of pieces of eight, which
held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of them,
wrapt up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some small
bars of gold; I suppose they might all weigh near a pound.
The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but of little
value; but by the circumstances it must have belonged to the
gunner's mate, though there was no powder in it, but about
two pounds of glazed powder in three small flasks, kept, I sup-
pose, for charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the
whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of much use to
me, for, as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for it,
it was to me as the dirt under my feet, and I would have given
it all for three or four pair of English shoes and stockings,
which were things I greatly wanted, for I had not had a pair
on my feet for many years. I had, indeed, gotten two pair of
shoes now, which I took off the feet of the two men whom I
found drowned in the wreck; and I found two pair more in
one of the chests, which were very welcome to me; but they
were not like our English shoes, either for ease or service,
being rather what we call pumps than shoes. I found in this
seaman's chest about fifty pieces of eight in royals, but no
gold; I suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the other,
which seemed to belong to some officer.
Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured
them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her
along the shore to her old harbor, where I laid her up, and
made the best of my way to my old habitation, where I found
everything safe and quiet; so I began to repose myself, live
after my old fashion, and take care of my family affairs; and
for a while I lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant
than I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad
so much: and if any time I did stir with any freedom, it was
always to the east part of the island, where I was pretty well
satisfied the savages never came, and where I could go with-
out so many precautions, and such a load of arms and ammu-
nition as I always carried with me if I went the other way.
One night, in the rainy season, in March, the four-and-
twentieth year of my first setting foot in this land of solitari-
ness, I had the following dream; namely, that as I was going
out in the morning, as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the
shore two canoes, and eleven savages coming to land, and
that they brought with them another savage, whom they were
going to kill, in order to eat him, when on a sudden the
savage that they were going to kill, made his escape, and ran
for his life; and then I thought in my sleep, that he came
running into my little grove, before my fortification, to hide
himself; and that I, seeing him, and not perceiving that the
others sought him that way, showed myself to him, and en-
couraged him; that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray
to me to assist him; upon which I showed him my ladder,
made him go up, and carried him into my cave, and he be-
came my servant; and that as soon as I had got this man, I
said to myself, "Now I may venture to the main-land, for this
fellow will serve me as a pilot, and tell me what to do, and
whither to go for provisions, and whither not to go for fear of
being devoured; what places to venture into, and what to
escape." I awoke with this thought, and was under such
inexpressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape
in my dream, that the disappointment I felt upon coming to
myself, and finding it was no more than a dream, was really
extravagant the other way, and threw me into a very great
dejection of spirits.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that my only
way to go about an attempt for an escape, was to try to get a
savage in my possession; and, if possible, it should be one of
their prisoners, whom they had condemned to be eaten, and
should bring hither to kill.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon
the scout, as often as possible, and indeed so often, till I was
heartily tired of it. I was not at first more careful to shun the
sight of these savages, and avoid being seen by them, than I
was now eager to be upon them.
• Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two or
three savages, if I had them, so as to make them entirely
slaves to me, to do what I should direct them, and to prevent
their being able at any time to do me any hurt. It was a
great while that I pleased myself with this affair; but nothing
still presented; all my fancies and schemes came to nothing,
for no savages came near me for a great while.
About a year and a half after I had entertained these
notions, and by long musing had, as it were, resolved to put
them into execution, I was surprised one morning early with
seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together, on my
side of the island, and the people who belonged to them all
landed. The number of them broke all my measures, for
seeing so many, and knowing that they always came four, or
sometimes more in a boat, I could not tell what to think of it,
or how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty men
single-handed, so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and dis-
comforted. However, I put myself into all the same postures
for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just ready
for action, if anything had presented. Having waited a good
•while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at length, being
very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and
clambered up to the top of the hill by my two stages, as usual,
standing so, however, that my head did not appear above the
hill; so that they could not perceive me by any means. I
here observed, by the help of my perspective glass, that they
were no less than thirty in number, that they had a fire kin-
dled, and that they had meat dressed; how they cooked it,
that I knew not, or what it was: but they were all dancing, in
I know not how many barbarous gestures and figures, round
the fire.
While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my per-
spective glass, two miserable wretches dragged from the boats,
where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now brought out
for the slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately fall,
being knocked down, I suppose, with a club, or wooden
sword, for that was their way; and two or three others were
at work, cutting him open for their cookery, while the other
victim was left standing by himself till they should be ready
for him. In that very moment, the poor wretch, seeing him-
self a little at liberty, nature inspired him with hopes of life,
and he started away from them, and ran with incredible
swiftness along the sands, directly towards me, I mean towards
that part of the coast where my habitation was.
I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknowledge) when
I perceived him to run my way, and especially when, as I
thought, I saw him pursued by the whole body; and I ex-
pected that part of my dream was coming to pass, and that he
would take shelter in my grove; but I could not depend, by
any means, upon my dream for the rest of it, namely, that the
savages would not pursue him thither, and find him there.
However, I kept my station, and my spirits began to recover
when I found that there were not above three men that fol-
lowed him; and still more was I encouraged, when I found
that he outstripped them exceedingly in running, and gained
ground of them, so that if he could but hold out for half an
hour, I saw he would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle, the creek, which I
mentioned often at the first part of my story, when I landed
my cargoes out of the ship: and this I knew he must neces-
sarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken there;
but when the savage who was escaping came thither, he made
nothing of it, though the tide was then up, but plunging in,
he swam through it in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts,
landed, and ran on with exceeding strength and swiftness.
When the three pursuers came to the creek, I found that two
of them could swim, but the third could not, and that he,
standing on the other side, looked at the others, but went no
farther, and soon after went softly back again, which, as it
happened, was very well for him.
I observed that the two who swam were yet twice as long
swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled from
them. It came now very warmly upon my thoughts, and
indeed irresistibly, that now was my time to get me a servant,
and perhaps, a companion or assistant, and that I was called
plainly by Providence to save this poor creature's life. I
immediately got down the ladders, fetched my two guns, for
they were both at the foot of the ladders, and getting up again
with the same haste to the top of the hill, I crossed towards
the sea; and, having a very short cut, and all down hill,
clapped myself in the way between the pursuers and the pur-
sued, hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, looking back, wa?
at first as much frighted at me as at them; but I beckoned
with my hand to him to come back, and, in the mean time, I
slowly advanced towards the two that followed; then rush-
ing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down with the
stock of my piece; I was loath to fire, because I would not
have the rest to hear, though at that distance it would not
have been easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke,
too, they would not have known what to make of it. Hav-
ing knocked this fellow down, the other who followed him,
stopped, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced apace
towards him; but as I came nearer, I perceived presently he
had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me, so I
was then necessitated to shoot at him first, which I did, and
killed him at the first shot. The poor savage who fled, but
had stopped, though he saw both his enemies fallen, and
killed (as he thought), yet was so frighted with the noise and
fire of my piece, that he stood stock-still, and neither came
forward nor went backward, though he seemed rather inclined
to fly still, than to come on. I hallooed again to him, and
made signs to him to come forward, which he easily under-
stood, and came a little way, then stopped again, and then a
little farther, and stopped again; and then he stood trembling,
as if he had been taken prisoner, and had just been to be
killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned to him again to
come to me, and gave him all the signs of encouragement that
I could think of; and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling
down every ten or twelve steps, in token of acknowledgment
for saving his life. I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly,
and beckoned to him to come still nearer. At length he
came close to me, and then he kneeled down again, kissed the
ground, and, taking my foot, set it upon his head; this, it
seems, was in token of swearing to be my slave forever. I
took him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him all
I could. But I perceived the savage whom I knocked down
was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come
to himself. So I pointed to him, showing him the savage,
that he was not dead; upon this he spoke some words to me,
and though I could not understand them, yet I thought they
were pleasant to hear, for they were the first sound of a man's
voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above five-and-
twenty years. But there was no time for such reflections now.
The savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far
as to sit upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage
began to be afraid; but when I saw that, I presented my other
piece at the man, as if I would shoot him ; upon this my
savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to me to lend
him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side; so I
did. He no sooner had it than he ran to his enemy, and, at
one blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no executioner in Ger-
many could have done it sooner or better; which I thought
very strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never saw a
sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords.
However, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their
wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard.
that they will cut off heads and arms with them, and at one
blow too. When he had done this, he came laughing to me in
sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and laid it
down, with the head of the savage he had killed, just before me.
He was astonished how I had killed the other Indian so
far off; and going to him, he stood like one amazed, looking
at him, turning him, first on one side, then on the other;
looked at the wound the bullet had made, which was in the
breast, where it had made a hole, and no great quantity of
blood had followed, but he had bled inwardly, for he was
quite dead. Then he took up his bows and arrows, and came
back, and I beckoned for us to go away, making signs that
more might come after them. Upon this, he signed to me,
that he should bury them with sand, that they might not be
seen by the rest, if they followed; so I made signs for him to
do so; he fell to work, and had them both buried in the sand
in about a quarter of an hour. I then called him away, and
took him not to my castle, but my cave, on the farther part
of the island; so I did not let my dream come to pass in that
respect, namely, that he came into my grove for shelter. Here
I gave him bread, and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught
of water, which he was in great distress for, by his running;
and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go to sleep,
pointing to a place where I had laid a great parcel of rice
straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon
myself sometimes; so the poor creature lay down, and went to
sleep.
He was a comely handsome fellow, perfectly well made,
tall, and well-shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not a fierce
and surly aspect, but seemed to have something very manly in
his face, and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of an
European in his countenance too, especially when he smiled.
His hair was long and black, not curled like wool, his fore-
head very high and large, and a great vivacity and sparkling
sharpness in his eyes. The color of his skin was not quite
black, but very tawny, and yet not of an ugly, yellow, nau-
seous tawny, as the Brazilians, and Virginians, and other
natives of America are, but of a bright kind of dun olive color,
that had in it something very agreeable, though not very easy
to describe. His face was round and plump, his nose small,
not flat like the negroes, a very good mouth, thin lips, and his
teeth fine, well set, and white as ivory. After he had slum-
bered about half an hour, he waked, and came out of the cave
to me, for I had been milking the goats in the inclosure just
by. When he espied me, he came running, and laid himself
on the ground again, with all the possible signs of an humble,
thankful disposition, making many antic gestures to show it.
At last he lays his head flat upon the ground, close to my foot,
and sets my other foot upon his head, as he had done before,
and after this, made all the signs to me of subjection, servi-
tude, and submission imaginable, to let me know how much he
would serve me as long as he lived. I understood him in
many things, and let him know I was well pleased with him.
In a little time I began to speak to him, and teach him to
speak to me; and first, made him know his name should be
Friday, which was the day I saved his life. I likewise taught
him to say, "Master," and then let him know that was to be
my name. I also taught him to say, " Yes," and "No," and
to know the meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an
earthen pot, and some bread, and let him see me drink some
before him, and sop my bread in it, which he quickly imitated,
and made signs that it was very good for him.
I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as it was
day, I took him away with me. As we went by the place
where he had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the
spot, and showed me the marks he had made to find them
again, making signs to me that we should dig them up and
eat them: at this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhor-
rence of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and
beckoned with my hand to him to come away, which he imme-
diately did, with great submission. I then led him to the top
of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone, and pulling out my
glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where they had
been, but no appearance of them or their canoes; so they
were quite gone.
I then took my man Friday with me, giving him the sword
in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his back, which I
found he could use very dexterously, making him carry one
gun for me, and I two for myself, and away we marched to the
place where these creatures had been. When I came there,
my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart sank within
me at the horror of the spectacle. Indeed, it was a dreadful
sight; the place was covered with human bones, the ground
dyed with the blood, great pieces of flesh left here and there,
half eaten, mangled, and scorched, and, in short, all the tokens
of the triumphant feast they had been making there, after a
victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five hands,
and the bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance
of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made
me understand that they brought over four prisoners to feast
upon, that three of them were eaten, and that he, pointing to
himself, was the fourth; that there had been a great battle
between them and their next king, whose subjects it seems he
had been one of, and that they had taken a great number of
prisoners, all of which were carried to several places by those
that had taken them in the fight, in order to feast upon them,
as was done here by these wretches.
I caused Friday to gather all the bones and flesh that
remained, and lay them together in a heap, and burn them to
ashes. I found that he had still a hankering stomach after
the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature, but I displayed
such abhorrence at the very thoughts of it, that he durst not
discover it; for I let him know that I would kill him if he
offered it.
When we had done this, we came back to our castle, where
I gave Friday first of all a pair of linen drawers, which I had
out of the poor gunner's chest I found in the wreck, and
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well; then I
made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well as I was able; and I
gave him a cap, which I had made of a hare's skin; and thus
he was dressed, for the present, tolerably well; and mighty
well was he pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as
his master. He went awkwardly in these things at first;
wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and the
sleeves of the jerkin galled his shoulders and the inside of
his arms; but he soon got used to them.
The next day after I came home to my hut with him, I
began to consider where I should lodge him: so I made a
little tent for him in the vacant place between the two fortifi-
cations, in the inside of the last, and in the outside of the
first; and as there was an entrance there into my cave, I made
a formal framed door-case, and a door to it of boards, and set
it up in the passage, a little within the entrance, and causing
the door to open in the inside, I barred it up in the night,
taking in my ladders too; so that Friday could no way come
at me in the inside of my innermost wall, without making so
much noise in getting over, that it must needs awaken me, for
my first wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles,
covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill,
which was again laid across with small sticks instead of laths,
and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice straw,
which was strong like reeds; and at the hole or place which
was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of
trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on the outside,
would not have opened at all, but would have fallen down and
made a great noise. I took care to take all the weapons into
my side every night.
But I needed none of these precautions, for never was a
more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Kriday was to me;
without passions, sullenness, or designs; his very affections
were tied to me, like those of a child to its father, and, I dare
say, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving of my own,
upon any occasion whatever.
I was greatly delighted with him, and made it my business
to teach him everything that was proper and useful, and
especially to make him speak, and understand me when I
spoke: and he was a very apt scholar, and he was so merry,
so diligent, and so pleased when he could understand me, or
make me understand him, that it was very pleasant for me to
talk to him. And now my life began to be very easy and
happy.
Alter I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I
thought, that in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way
of feeding, and from the relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought
to let him taste other flesh. So I took him out with me one
morning to the woods, and I saw a she-goat lying down in the
shade, and two young kids close by her. I catched hold of
Friday; "Hold," said I; "stand still;" and made signs to
him not to stir; immediately I presented my piece, shot, and
killed one of the kids. The poor creature who had, at a dis-
tance indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not
know, nor could imagine how it was done, was sensibly sur-
prised, trembled, and shook, and looked so amazed, that I
thought he would have sunk down. He did not see the kid I
had shot at, nor perceived I had killed it, but ripped up his
waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded; and, as I found,
thought I was resolved to kill him; for he came and kneeled
down to me, and embracing my knees, said a great many
things I did not understand, but I could see that his meaning
was to pray to me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no
harm; and, taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and,
pointing to the kid I had killed, beckoned to him to run and
fetch it, which he did; and while he was looking to see how
the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by and by
I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree within shot; so,
to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I called him
to me again, pointing at the fowl, which was a parrot, though
I thought it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot
and to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let him
see I would make him fall, I made him understand that I
would shoot and kill that bird; accordingly I fired, and bade
him look, and immediately he saw the parrot fall. He stood
like one frightened again, notwithstanding all I had said to
him; and I found he was the more amazed, because he did
not see me put anything into the gun ; but thought there must
be some wonderful fund of death and destruction in that
thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or any other thing, near or
far off; and I believe, if I would have let him, he would have
worshipped me and my gun; as for the gun itself, he would
not so much as touch it for several days after, but would speak
to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, which, as I
afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him.
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I
pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he
did, but stayed some time, for the parrot, not being quite dead,
was fluttered a good way off from the place where she fell.
However, he found her, took her up, and brought her to me;
and, as I had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I
took this advantage to charge the gun again, and not let him
see me do it, that I might be ready for any other mark, but
nothing offered at that time. So I brought home the kid, and
the same evening took the skin off, and cut it up as well as I
could; and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I
had begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed
very glad of it, and liked it very well; but that which was
strangest to him, was to see me eat salt with it. He made a
sign to me that the salt was not good to eat, and putting a
little into his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would
spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh water after
it. On the other hand, I took some meat in my mouth with-
out salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt,
as fast as he had done at it, but it would not do.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was
resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the
kid; this I did by hanging it before the fire in a string, as I
had seen many people do in England, setting two poles up,
one on each side of the fire, and one across the top, and tying
the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn continually.
This Friday admired much; but when he came to taste the
flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it,
that I could not but understand him; and at last he told me
he would never eat man's flesh any more, which I was very
glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out,
and sifting it in the manner I used to do; and he soon under-
stood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had seen
what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of;
for after that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it
too; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work
for me as well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider that having two mouths to feed
instead of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do, so I
marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in the
same manner as before, in which Friday not only worked very
hard, but very cheerfully; and I told him that it was for corn
to make more bread, because he was now with me, and that I
might have enough for him and myself too. He appeared very
sensible of that part, and let me know that he would work the
harder for me, if I would tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this
place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the
names of almost everything I had occasion to call for, and of
every place I had occasion to send him to, and talk a great
deal to me; so that, in short, I began to have some use for my
tongue again. Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had
a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself: his simple, un-
feigned honesty appeared to be more and more every day, and
I began really to love the creature; and I believe he loved me
as much as possible.
I had a mind once to try if he had any lingering inclination
to his own country; and having learned him English so well
that he could answer me almost any questions, I asked him
whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered in
battle. At which he smiled, and said, "Yes, yes; we always
fight the better:" that is, he meant, always get the better in
fight, and so we began the following discourse: "You always
fight the better!" said I; "how came you to be taken pris-
oner, then, Friday?"
Friday. My nation beat much for all that.
Master. How beat? If your nation beat them, how came
you to be taken?
Friday. They more than my nation in the place where me
was: they take one, two, three, and me. My nation over-beat
them in yonder place, where me no was; there my nation take
one, two, great thousand.
Master. But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe: my nation have no canoe that time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with
the men they take? Do they carry them away, and eat them,
as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place, where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither: come other else place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here. (Points to the N. W. side of
the island, which it seems was their side.)
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been
among the savages, who had used to come on shore on the
farther parts of the island, on the said man-eating occasions
that he had been now brought for; and some time after, when
I took courage to carry him to that side, he presently knew the
place, and told me he was there once when they eat up twenty
men, two women, and one child.
After I had had this discourse with him, I asked him how
far it was from our island to the shore; whether the canoes
were not often lost? He told me that there was no danger,
no canoes ever lost; but that, after a little way out to sea,
there was a current, and a wind always one way in the morn-
ing, the other in the afternoon.
This I thought to be no more than the sets of the tide, as
going out or coming in; but I afterwards understood it was
occasioned by the great draught and reflux of the mighty river
Oroonoque; in the mouth of which river, as I thought after-
wards, our island lay; and that this land, which I perceived to
the W. and N. W. was the great island Trinidad, on the north
point of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand
questions about the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the
coast, and what nations were near: he told me all he knew,
with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the
names of the several nations of his sort of people, but could
get no other names than Caribs; from whence I easily under-
stood that these were the Caribbees, which our maps place on
that part of America which reaches from the mouth of the
river Oroonoque to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha. He
told me that up a great way beyond the moon, which must be
west from their country, there dwelt white, bearded men like
me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned
before, and that they had killed "much mans," that was his
word. By all which I understood he meant the Spaniards,
whose cruelties in America had been spread over whole
countries, and were remembered by all the nations from
father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this
island, and get among those white men? He told me yes,
yes, I might go in " two canoe." I could not understand what
he meant by "two canoe," till at last, with difficulty, I found
he meant that it must be a large boat, as big as two canoes.
This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me very
well; and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one
time or other, I might find an opportunity to make my escape
from this place, and that this poor savage might be a means
to help me to do it.
I was now wanting to lay a foundation of religious knowl-
edge in Friday's mind; particularly I asked him one time
who made him. The poor creature did not understand me,
but thought I had asked him who was his father. But I took
it another way, and asked him who made the sea, the ground
he walked on, and the hills and woods. He told me it was
one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all. He could
describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old; much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the
moon or the stars. I asked him then, if this person had made
all things, why did not all things worship him? He looked
very grave, and with a perfect look of innocence said, "All
things said O to him." I asked him if the people who die in
his country went away anywhere. He said, yes, they all went
to Benamuckee. Then I asked him whether those they eat
up went thither too. He said, "Yes."
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge
of the true God. I told him that the great Maker of all
things lived up there, pointing up towards heaven: that he
governs the world by the same power and providence by which
he had made it: that he was omnipotent, could do everything
for us, give everything to us, take everything from us: and
thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great
attention, and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus
Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making
our prayers to God, and his being able to hear us, even into
heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could hear us
up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than their
Benamuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not
hear till they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt,
to speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak
to him. He said, no; they never went that were young men;
none went thither but the old men, whom he called their
Oowokakee, that is, as I made him explain it to me, their
religious, or clergy; and that they went to say O (so he called
saying prayers), and then came back, and told them what
Benamuckee said. By this I observed that there is priestcraft
even amongst the most blinded ignorant pagans in the world.
Sending him for something a great way off, I seriously
prayed to God that he would enable me to instruct this poor
savage, assisting by his Spirit the heart of the poor ignorant
creature to receive the light of the knowledge of God in
Christ, reconciling him to himself, and would guide me to
speak so to him from the word of God, as his conscience
might be convinced, .his eyes opened, and his soul saved.
When he came again to me, I entered into a long discourse
with him upon the subject of the redemption of man, by the
Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of the gospel
preached from heaven, namely, of repentance towards God,
and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to him,
as well as I could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on him
the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham, and how, for
that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the redemption;
that he came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and
the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge, in all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and must
acknowledge what I believe all that act upon the same prin-
ciple will find, that, in laying things open to him, I really
informed and instructed myself in many things that I either
did not know or had not fully considered before, but which
occurred naturally to my mind, upon my searching into them
for the information of this poor savage: and I had more affec-
tion in my inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever I
felt before; so that whether this poor wild wretch was the
better for me or no, I had great reason to be thankful that
ever he came to me; my grief sat lighter upon me, my habita-
tion grew comfortable to me beyond measure, and when I
reflected, that, in this solitary life which I had been confined
to, I had not only been moved myself to look up to heaven,
and to seek to the hand that brought me thither, but was now
to be made an instrument, under Providence, to save the life,
and, for aught I knew, the soul, of a poy savage, and bring
him to the true knowledge of religion, and of the Christian
doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus, "to know whom is
life eternal."
In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my
time, and the conversation which employed the hours between
Friday and me was such as made the three years, which we
lived there together, perfectly and completely happy, if any
such thing as complete happiness can be found in a sublunary
state. The savage was now a good Christian, a much better
than I, though I have reason to hope, and bless God for it,
that we were equally penitent, and comforted restored peni-
tents. We had here the word of God to read, and no farther
off from his Spirit to instruct, than if we had been in England.
I always applied myself to reading the Scriptures, and to let
him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what I read.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and
that he could understand almost all I said to him, and speak
fluently, though in broken English to me, I acquainted him
with my history. I let him into the mystery of gunpowder and
bullets, and taught him bow to shoot. I gave him a knife,
which he was wonderfully delighted with, and I made him a
belt with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear
hangers in, and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a
hatchet.
I described to him the countries of Europe, and particularly
England, which I came from; how we lived, how we wor-
shipped God, how we behaved to one another, and how we
traded in ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an
account of the wreck which I had been on board of, and
showed him, as near as I could, the place where she lay; but
she had all been gone long ago.
I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when I
escaped, and which was now fallen almost to pieces. Upon
seeing this boat, Friday stood musing some time, and said
nothing. I asked him what he studied upon; at last, says he,
"Me see such boat like come to place at my nation."
I did not understand him a good while; but at last, when I
had examined farther into it, I understood by him, that a boat,
such as that had been, came on shore upon the country where
he lived, that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by
stress of weather. I presently imagined, that some European
ship must have been cast away upon their coast, and the boat
might get loose, and drive ashore; but was so dull that I
never once thought of men making their escape from a wreck
thither, much less whence they might come, so I only inquired
after a description of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought
me better to understand him when he added, with some
warmth, "We save the white mans from drown." Then I
presently asked him if there were any white mans, as he called
them, in the boat: "Yes," he said, "the boat full of white
mans." Tasked him, "How many?" He told me upon his
fingers seventeen. I asked him "What became of them?"
He told me, "They live, they dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head again, for I presently
imagined that these might be the men belonging to the ship
that was cast away in sight of my island, and who, after the
ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost,
had saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that
wild shore among savages.
Upon this I inquired of him more critically, what was
become of them; he assured me they still lived there, that
they had been there about four years, that the savages let
them alone, and gave them victuals to live. I asked him how
it came to pass that they did not kill them, and eat them. He
said, "No, they make brother with them," that is, as I under-
stood him, a truce; and then he added, "They nq eat mans,
but when make the war fight;" that is to say, they never eat
any men, but such as come to fight with them, and are taken
in battle.
It was after this, some considerable time, that being on the
top of the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence I
had, in a clear day, discovered the main, or continent of
America, Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very
earnestly towards the main-land, and in a kind of surprise,
falls a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me; I asked
him what was the matter. "O joy!" says he, "O glad!
There see my country! there my nation!"
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appear in his
face, his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a
strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own
country again; and this observation of mine put a great many
thoughts into me, which made me at first not so easy about
my new man Friday as I was before ; and I made no doubt, but
that if Friday could get back to his own nation again, he would
not only forget all his religion, but all his obligations to me.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, for
which I was very sorry afterwards; however, as my jealousy
increased, and held me some weeks, I was a little more cir-
cumspect, and not so familiar and kind to him as before, in
which I was certainly in the wrong.
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, I was every day pumping
him, to see if he would discover any of the new thoughts,
which I suspected were in him; but I found everything he
said was honest, and so innocent, that I could find nothing to
nourish my suspicion, and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he
made me at last entirely his own again; nor did he in the
least perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could not
suspect him of deceit.
One day walking up the same hill, but the weather being
hazy at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called to
him and said, "Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own
country, your own nation?" "Yes," he said; "I be much
glad to be at my own nation." "What would you do there?"
said I; "would you turn wild again, eat man's flesh again,
and be savage as you were before?" He looked full of con-
cern, and shaking his head, said, "No, no; Friday tell them
to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-
bread, cattle-flesh, milk; no eat man again." "Why, then,"
said I to him, "they will kill you." He looked grave at that,
and then said, " No, they no kill me ; they willing love learn."
He meant by this they would be willing to learn; he added
they learned much of the bearded mans that came in the boat.
Then I asked if he would go back to them. He smiled at
that, and told me he could not swim so far. I told him I
would make a canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I
would go with him. "I go," said I, "why they will eat me if
I come there." "No, no," said he, "me make them no eat
you; me make they much love you." He meant he would tell
them how I had killed his enemies, and saved his life, and so
he would make them much love me.
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over, and
see if I could possibly join with these bearded men, who, I
made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubting
but, if I could, we might find some method to escape from
thence, being upon the continent, and a good company
together, better than I could from an island, forty miles off the
shore, and alone without help. So, after some days I took
Friday to work again, by way of discourse, and told him I
would give him a boat to go back to his own nation; and
accordingly carried him to my frigate, which lay on the other
side of the island, and having cleared it of the water, I
brought it out, showed it him, and we both went into it.
I found he was very dexterous at managing it, and would
make it go almost as swift again as I could; so I said to him,
"Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He looked
very dull at my saying so, which, it seems, was because he
thought the boat was too small to go so far. I told him then
I had a bigger; so the very next day I went to the place
where the first boat lay, which I had made, but which I could
not get into the water. He said that was big enough; but as
I had taken no care of it, and it had lain two or three-and-
twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it, that it was
in a manner rotten. Friday told me that such a boat would
do very well, and would carry "much enough vittle, drink,
bread ;" that was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design
of going over with him to the continent, that I told him we
would go and make one as big as that, and he should go
home in it. He answered not one word, but looked very
grave and sad. I asked him what was the matter with him.
He asked me again thus, — " Why you angry mad with Friday?
What me done ?•" I asked him what he meant: I told him I
was not angry with him at all. "No angry! no angry !" says
he, repeating the words several times, "why send Friday
home away to my nation?" "Why," said I, " Friday, did
you not say you wished you were there?" "Yes, yes," says he,
"wish we both there ; no wish Friday there, no master there."
In a word, he would not think of going there without me.
"You shall go without me; leave me here to live by myself
as I did before." He looked confused at this, and running to
one of the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up
hastily, and gives it me. "What must I do with this?" said
I to him. "You take kill Friday," says he. "What must I
kill you for?" said I again. He returns very quick, "What
you sent Friday away for? Take kill Friday; no send Friday
away." As he spoke, tears stood in his eyes, and I was so
affected, that I said I would never send him away, if he was
willing to stay with me.
I found that all the foundation of his desire to go to his own
country was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and his
hopes of my doing them good: a thing, which as 1 had no
notion of myself, so I had not the least thought, or intention,
or desire of undertaking it. But still I found a strong inclina-
tion to attempting an escape, as above, founded on the suppo-
sition gathered from the former discourse, namely, that there
were seventeen bearded men there; and therefore, without
any more delay, I went to work with Friday, to find out a
great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or canoe,
for the voyage. After searching some time, Friday at last
pitched upon a tree, for I found he knew much better than I
what kind of wood was fittest for it; nor can I tell, to this
day, what wood to call the tree we cut down, except that it
was very like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same color and smell.
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out,
to make it into a boat; but I showed him how rather to cut it
out with tools, which after I showed him how to use he did it
very handily, and in about a month's hard labor we finished it,
and made it very handsome, especially when with our axes,
which I showed him how to handle, we cut and hewed the
outside into the true shape of a boat. After this, however, it
cost us near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were, inch
by inch, upon great rollers, into the water; but when she was
in, she would have carried twenty men with ease.
It amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how swift my
man Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her
along. So I asked him if he would, and if we might venture
over in her. "Yes," he said, "me venture over in her very
well, though great blow wind." However, I had a farther
design that he knew nothing of, and that was to make a mast
and a sail, and to fit her with an anchor and cable. As to the
mast, that was easy enough to get, so I pitched upon a straight
young cedar-tree, which I found near the place, and which
there was plenty of in the island; and I set Friday to work to
cut it down, and gave him directions how to shape and order
it; but as to the sail, that was my particular care. I knew I
had pieces of old sails, but as I had had them now twenty-six
years by me, and not being very careful to preserve them, they
were nearly all rotten. However, I found two pieces which
appeared pretty good, and with a great deal of pains and
awkward, tedious stitching, for want of needles, I at length
made a three-cornered ugly thing, like what we call in Eng-
land a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom at the
bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as usually our
ships' long boats sail with, and such as I best knew how to
manage, because it was such a one as I used in the boat in
which I made my escape from Barbary.
I was near two months in rigging and fitting out my mast
and sails, for I fitted them very complete, making a small stay,
and a sail, or foresail to it, to assist, if we should turn to wind-
ward; and, which was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the
stern of her to steer with, and though I was but a bungling
shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness and even necessity
of such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it,
that at last I brought it to pass.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to
what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for though he
knew very well how to paddle the canoe, he knew nothing
what belonged to a sail and a rudder, and how the sail
gibbed, and filled this way or that way, as the course we
sailed changed; I say, when he saw this, he stood like one
astonished and amazed. However, with a little use, I made
all these things familiar to him, and he became an expert
sailor, except that as to the compass I could make him under-
stand very little of that; but there was not much occasion for
the compass in these parts.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my
captivity in this place; though the three last years that I had
this creature with me ought rather to be left out of the
account, my habitation being quite of another kind than in
all the rest of the time. I kept the anniversary of my landing
here with the same thankfulness to God for his mercies as at
first; and if I had such cause of acknowledgment at first, I
had much more so now, having such additional testimonies of
the care of Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of
being effectually and speedily delivered; for I had an invinci-
ble impression upon my thoughts, that my deliverance was at
hand, and that I should not be another year in this place.
However, I went on with all my work as usual.
The rainy season was in the mean time upon me, when I
kept more within doors than at other times; so I had stowed
our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her up into the
creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts
from the ship; and thus we waited for the months of Novem-
ber and December, in which I designed to make my adven-
ture.
When the settled season began to come in, the first thing I
did was to lay by a certain quantity of provisions, being the
store for our voyage; and I intended in a week or a fortnight's
time to open the dock and launch out our boat. I was busy
one morning upon something of this kind, when I called to
Friday, and bade him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could
find a turtle or tortoise — a thing which we generally got once
a week for the sake of the eggs, as well as the flesh. Friday
had not been long gone, when he came running back, and
flew over my outward wall, or fence, like one that felt not the
ground; and before I had time to speak to him, he cried out
to me, " O master! O master! O sorrow! O bad!" "What's
the matter, Friday?" said I. "O yonder there," says he,
"one, two, three canoe! one, two, three!" By this way of
speaking, I concluded there were six; but, on inquiry, I
found there were but three. "Well, Friday," said I, "do not
be frightened;" so I heartened him up as well as I could.
However, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared, for
nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look for
him, and would cut him in pieces and eat him; and the poor
fellow trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with him.
I comforted him as well as I could, and told him I was in as
much danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as
him. "But," said I, "Friday, we must resolve to fight them.
Can you fight, Friday?" "Me shoot," says he; "but there
come many great number." "No matter for that," said I
again, "our guns will fright them that we do not kill." So I
asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would
defend me, and stand by me, and do just as I bade him. He
said, "Me die when you bid die, master." So I gave him a
good dram of rum; and when he had drunk it, I made him
take the two fowling-pieces, and load them with swan shot, as
big as small pistol-bullets; then I took four muskets, and
loaded them with two slugs and five small bullets each; and
my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each. I hung
my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday
his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself I took my perspective
glass, and went up to the side of the hill to see what I could
discover, and I found quickly by my glass that there were
twenty-one savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and
that their whole business seemed to be the triumphant ban-
quet upon these three human bodies; but nothing more than
as I had observed as usual with them.
They were landed, not where they had done when Friday
made his escape, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was
low, and where a thick wood came close almost down to the
sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these
wretches came about, so filled me with indignation, that I
came down to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down
to them and kill them all, and asked him if he would stand by
me. He had now gotten over his fright, and his spirits being
a little raised with the dram I had given him, he was very
cheerful, and told me as before, "He would die when I bid
die."
In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms which I
had charged, as before, between us. I gave Friday one pistol
to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and I
took one pistol and the other three myself, and in this posture
we marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket,
and gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets;
and as to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and
not to stir, or shoot, or do anything till I bade him; and, in
the mean time, not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched
a compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over
the creek as to get into the wood, so that I might come within
a shot of them before I should be discovered, which I had
seen by my glass it was easy to do.
I entered the wood with all possible wariness and silence
(Friday following close at my heels), and marched till I came
to the skirt of the wood, on the side which was next to them,
only that one corner of the wood lay between me and them.
Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree,
which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the
tree, and bring me word if he could see there plainly what
they were doing. He did so, and came immediately back to
me, and told me they might be plainly viewed there; that they
were all about the fire, eating the flesh of one of their prison-
ers, and that another lay bound upon the sand, a little from
them, whom, he said, they would kill next, and which fired the
very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their own
nation, but one of the bearded men whom he had told me of,
that came to their country in the boat. I was filled with
horror at the very naming the white, bearded man, and going
to the tree, I saw plainly by my glass a white man, who lay
upon the beach of the sea, with his hands and feet tied with
flags, or things like rushes, and that he was an European, and
had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about
fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which,
by going a little way about, I saw I might come at undis-
covered, and that then I should be within half a shot of them.
So I withheld my passion, and, going back about twenty
paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the way till I
came to the other tree, and then I came to a little rising
ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of
about eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dread-
ful wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled together,
and had just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian,
and bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to their fire, and they
were stooped down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned
to Friday: "Now, Friday," said I, "do as I bid thee."
Friday said he would. "Then, Friday," said I, "do exactly
as you see me do; fail in nothing." So I set down one of the
muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday
did the like by his; and with the other musket I took my aim
at the savages, bidding him do the like: then asking him if
he was ready, he said, "Yes." "Then fire at them," said I,
and the same moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much the better than I, that on the
side he shot he killed two of them and wounded three more;
. and, on my side, I killed one and wounded two. They were
in a dreadful consternation; and all of them who were not
hurt jumped up upon their feet immediately, but did not know
which way to run or which way to look, for they knew not
from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes
close upon me, that, as I bid him, he might observe what I
did; so, as soon as the first shot was made, I threw down the
piece and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like:
he sees me cock and present; he did the same again. "Are
you ready, Friday?" said I. "Yes," said he. "Let fly,
then," said I; and with that I fired again among the amazed
wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now
loaded with what I call swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we
found only two drop; but so many were wounded, that they
ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody
and wounded most of them, and three more fell quickly after,
but not quite dead.
"Now, Friday," said I, laying down the discharged pieces
and taking up the musket, which was yet loaded, "follow me,"
which he did with a deal of courage ; upon which I rushed out
of the wood and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot.
As soon as .I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I
could, and bade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I
could, which, by the way, was not very fast, I made directly
towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the
beach or shore, between the place where they sat and the sea.
The two butchers, who were just going to work with him, had
left him at the surprise of our first fire and fled, in a terrible
fright, to the sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe, and three
more of the rest made the same way. I turned to Friday, and
bade him step forwards and fire at them. He understood me
immediately, and, running about forty yards to be nearer
them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed them all,
for I saw them all fall on a heap in the boat, though I saw
two of them up again quickly. However, he killed two of
them, and wounded the third, so that he lay in the bottom of
the boat as if he had been dead.
While Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife and cut
the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing his hands
and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him, in the Portuguese
tongue, what he was. He answered in Latin, " Christianus;"
but was so weak and faint, that he could scarce stand or
speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket and gave it him,
making signs that he should drink, which he did; and I gave
him a piece of bread, which he eat. Then I asked him what
countryman he was, and he said, "Espagniole ;" and, being a
little recovered, let me know, by all the signs he could possibly
make, how much he was in my debt for his deliverance. I
said, in as good Spanish as I could, "We will talk afterwards,
but we must fight now; if you have any strength left, take the
pistol and sword and lay about you." He took them very
thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but,
as if they had put new vigor into him, he flew upon his mur-
derers like a fury, and had cut two of them in pieces in an
instant, for they were so surprised and frightened, that they
could make no resistance, nor attempt to escape.
I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing, being wil-
ling to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
Spaniard my pistol and sword; so I called to Friday, and
bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired, and
fetch the arms which lay there that had been discharged,
which he quickly did; and then giving him my musket, I sat
down to load all the rest again, and bade them come to me
when they wanted. While I was loading these pieces, there
happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard and one
of the savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the same weapon that was to have killed him
before, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was
very bold, though weak, had fought this Indian a good while,
and had cut him two great wounds on his head; but the
savage, being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with him, had
thrown him down, and was wringing my sword out of his hand,
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitted the
sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, and shot him dead on
the spot.
Friday, being now left at his liberty, pursued the flying
wretches with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and
with that he dispatched those three who were wounded at first
and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with; and the
Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the
fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and
wounded them both; but as he was not able to run, they both
got from him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and
killed one of them, but the other was too nimble for him; and
though he was wounded, yet had plunged into the sea, and
swam with all his might off to those who were left in the
canoe; which three in the canoe, with one wounded, we know
not whether he died or no, were all that escaped our hands of
one-and-twenty.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of
gun-shot; and though Friday made two or three shots at
them, I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday would
fain have had me take one of their canoes and pursue them,
and indeed I was very anxious about their escape, lest, carry-
ing the news home to their people, they should come back,
perhaps, with two or three hundred of their canoes, and devour
us by mere multitude; so I consented to pursue them by sea;
and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade
Friday follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was sur-
prised to find another poor creature lie there alive, bound
hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and
almost dead with fear, not knowing what the matter was, for
he had not been able to look up over the side of the boat; he
was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had been tied so long,
that he had little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, that bound
him, and would have helped him up; but he could not stand
or speak, but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems, still,
that he was only unbound in order to be killed. When Friday
came, I bade him speak to him, and tell him of his deliver-
ance; and pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor
wretch a dram, which, with the news of his being delivered,
revived him, and he sat up in the boat. But when Friday
came to hear him speak, and looked in his face, it would have
moved any one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed him,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped
about, danced, sung, then cried again, wrung his hands, beat
his own face and head, and then sung and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could
make him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but
when he came a little to himself, he said that it was his
father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me, to see
what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor
savage, at the sight of his father, and of his being delivered
from death: nor indeed can I describe half the extravagance
of his affection after this, for he went into the boat and out of
the boat a great many times. When he went in to him, he
would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's
head close to his bosom half an hour together, to nourish it;
then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and
stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his
hands; and I perceiving what the case wasi gave him some
rum out of my bottle to rub them with, which did them a deal
of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the
other savages, who were now gotten almost out of sight; and
it was happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard within
two hours after, and before they could be gotten a quarter of
their way, and continued blowing so hard all night, and that
from the northwest, which was against them, that I could not
suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached to
their own coast.
But to return to Friday, he was so busy about his father,
that I could not find in my heart to take him off for some
time; but after I thought he could leave him a little, I called
him to me, and he came jumping and laughing, and pleased to
the highest extreme. Then I asked him if he had given his
father any bread. He shook his head, and said, "None:
ugly dog eat all up self." So I gave him a cake of bread, out
of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him a
dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but carried it to
his father. I had in my pocket also two or three bunches of
my raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father.
He had no sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him
come out of the boat, and run away, as if he had been
bewitched. He ran at such a rate (for he was the swiftest
fellow of his foot that ever I saw), I say, he ran at such a rate,
that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant; and though
I called and hallooed too after him, it was all one: away he
went, and in a quarter of an hour I saw him come back again,
though not so fast as he went; and as he came near I found
his pace was slacker, because he had something in his hand.
When he came to me, I found he had been quite home for
an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his fathei some fresh water,
and that he had got two more cakes or loaves of bread. The
bread he gave me, but the water he carried to his father;
however, as I was very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it.
The water revived his father more than all the rum or spirits
I had given him, for he was just fainting with thirst.
When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there
was any water left; he said, "Yes," and I bade him give it to
the poor Spaniard, who was as much in want of it as his
father, and I sent one of the cakes that Friday brought to the
Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, and was reposing
himself upon a green place, under the shade of a tree, and
whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled with
the rude bandage he had been tied with. When I saw that,
upon Friday's coming up to him with the water, he sat up and
drank, and took the bread and began to eat, I went up to him
and gave him a handful of raisins. He looked up in my face
with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could
appear in any countenance ; but was so weak, notwithstanding
he had so exerted himself in the fight, that he could not stand
upon his feet. He tried to do it two or three times, but was
really not able, his ankles were so swelled and so painful to
him; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his
ankles, and bathe them with rum, as he had done his father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes,
or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turned his head
about to see for his father; and at last he missed him, at
which he started up, and without speaking a word, flew with
that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet
to touch the ground as he went; but when he came, he found
he had only laid himself down to ease his limbs. So Friday
came back to me presently, and I then told him to help the
Spaniard to the boat; so he took him upon his back, and
carried him beside his father in the boat, and stepping out
again, launched the boat off, and paddled it along the shore
faster than I could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard
too; so he brought them both safe into our creek, and leaving
them in the boat, runs away to fetch the other canoe. As he
passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went.
He told me, "Go fetch more boat." So away he went, like
the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like him; and he
had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got to it
by land ; so he wafted me over, and then went to help our new
guests out of the boat, which he did; but they were neither
of them able to walk, so that poor Friday knew not what
to do.
At last, we made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and
Friday and I carried them up both together upon it between
us. But when we got them to the outside of our wall, or forti-
fication, we were at a worse loss than before, for it was impos-
sible to get them over; and I was resolved not to break it
down. So I set to work again; and Friday and I, in about
two hours' time, made a very handsome tent, covered with old
sails, and above with boughs of trees, being in the same space
without our outward fence, and between that and the grove
of young wood which I had planted; and here we made them
two beds of such things as I had, namely, of good rice straw,
with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover them
on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself very rich
in subjects; and it was a merry reflection which I frequently
made, how like a king I looked. First of all, the whole
country was my own mere property, so that I had an un-
doubted right of dominion. Secondly, my people were per-
fectly subjected; I was the absolute lord and lawgiver; they
all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay down their
lives, if there had been occasion of it, for me. It was
remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they were of
three different religions: my man Friday was a Protestant; his
father was a pagan and a cannibal; and the Spaniard was a
Papist. However, I allowed liberty of conscience to all my
subjects. ,
As soon as I had secured my two weak, rescued prisoners,
and given them shelter, and a place to rest upon, I began to
think of making some provision for them; and the first thing
I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid
and a goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed. Then I
cut off the hinder quarter, and chopping it into small pieces,
I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them
a very good dish of flesh and broth, and we all enjoyed it and
cat heartily.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to
take one of the canoes and go and fetch our muskets and
other fire-arms from the place of battle; and the next day I
ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies df the savages,
which lay open to the sun, and would presently be offensive;
and I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous feast: all of which he punctually performed.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two
new subjects; and first I set Friday to inquire of his father
what he thought of the escape of the savages in (hat canoe,
and whether we might expect a return of them with a power
too great for us to resist. His first opinion was, that the
savages in the boat never could live out the storm which ble^w
that night they went off, but must be drowned, or driven south
to those other shores, where they were as sure to be devoured
as they were to be drowned, if they were cast away; but as to
what they would do, if they came on shore, he said, he knew
not; but it was his opinion that they were so dreadfully
frightened with the manner of their being attacked, the noise
and the fire, that he believed they would tell their people they
were all killed by thunder and lightning, and not by the hand
of man; and that the two which appeared (namely Friday and
I) were two heavenly spirits and furies come down to destroy
them, and not with weapons. And this old savage was right;
for though they escaped the sea, they gave such dreadful
accounts in their own country (as I heard afterwards), that
they never ventured from that part to my island again.
But I was under continual apprehensions for some time, and
kept upon my guard, I and all my army; for, as we were now
four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of them in
the open field.
In a li.ttle time, however, no more canoes appearing, the
fear of them coming wore off, and I began to take my former
thoughts of a voyage to the main into consideration, being
likewise assured, by Friday's father, that I might depend upon
good usage from their nation, on his account, if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I had a
serious discourse with the Spaniard, •and when I understood
that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portu-
guese, who having been cast away, and made their escape to
that side, lived there at peace indeed with the savages, but
were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I
asked him all^be particulars of their voyage, and found they
were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata to the
Havannah, being directed to leave their loading there, which
was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back what European
goods they could meet with there; that they had five Portu-
guese seamen on board, whom they took out of another wreck;
that five of their own men were drowned when first their ship
was lost; and that these escaped through infinite dangers and
hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast,
where they expected to be devoured every moment.
He told me they had some arms with them, but they were
perfectly useless, for they had neither powder nor ball, the
washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a
little, which they used at their first landing to provide them-
selves some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them there,
and if they had formed no design of making an escape. He
said they had many consultations about it, but having neither
vessel, nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their
counsels always ended in tears and despair. I asked him
how he thought they would receive a proposal from me, which
might tend towards an escape; and, whether, if they were all
here, it might not be done.
He told me they were all under the greatest distress imagin-
able, and if I would undertake their relief, they would live
and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve
them, if possible, and to send the old savage and the Spaniard
over to them to treat. But when he had gotten all things in
readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started an objection,
which had so much prudence in it on the one hand, and so
much sincerity on the other hand, that I could not but be well
satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of
his comrades for at least half a year. The case was thus : —
He had been with us now about a month, during which time
I had let him see in what manner I had provided, with the
assistance of Providence, for my support; and he saw evi-
dently what stock of corn and rice I had laid up, which, as it
was more than sufficient for myself, so it was not sufficient, at
least without good husbandry, for my family, now it was
increased to the number of four; but much less would it be
sufficient, if his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen,
still alive, should come over; and, least of all, would it be
sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a
voyage to any of the Christian colonies of America. So he
told me he thought it would be more advisable to let him and
the two others dig and cultivate more land, as much as I
could spare seed to sow; and that we should wait another
harvest, then we might have a supply of corn for his country-
men, when they should come; for want might be a temptation
to them to disagree, or not think themselves delivered, other-
wise than out of one difficulty into another.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that
I could not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well
as I was satisfied with his fidelity. So we fell to digging, all
four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with
permitted; and in about a month's time, by the• end of which
it was seed-time, we had gotten as much land cured, and
trimmed up, as we sowed twenty-two bushels of barley on, and
sixteen jars of rice, which was, in short, all the seed we had
to spare.
Having now society enough, and our number being sufficient
to put us out of fear of savages, if they had come, unless their
number had been very great, we went freely all over the island,
wherever we found occasion; and as we had our escape or
deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least for
me, to have the means of it out of mine. To this purpose, I
marked out several trees, which I thought fit for our work, and
I set Friday and his father to cutting them down; and then I
caused the Spaniard to oversee and direct their work. I
showed them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a
large tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the like,
till they had made about a dozen large planks of good oak,
near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two inches
to four inches thick. What prodigious labor it took up, any
one may imagine.
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of
tame goats as much as I could; and to this purpose I made
Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with
Friday the next day, for we took our turns; and, by this
means, we got about twenty young kids to breed up with the
rest; for, whenever we shot the dam we saved the kids, and
added them to our flock. But, above all, the season for curing
the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious quantity to
be hung up in the sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicant,
where raisins are cured, we should have filled sixty or eighty
barrels; and these with our bread, was a great part of our
food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order. It was
not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island; but,
however, it was enough to answer our end, for, from our
twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought in and thrashed out
above two hundred and twenty bushels, and the like in propor-
tion of the rice, which was store enough for our food to the
next harvest, though all the fourteen Spaniards had been on
shore with me; or, if we had been ready for a voyage, it would
very plentifully have victualled our ship to have carried us to
any part of the world, that is to say, of America. When we
had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn, we fell to
work to make more wicker work, namely, great baskets in
which we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dex-
terous at this part.
And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests I
expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main,
to see what he could do with those he had left behind him
there. I gave him strict charge not to bring any man with
him, who would not first swear, in the presence of himself and
the old savage, that he would in no way injure, fight with, or
attack the person he should find in the island, who was so
kind as to send for them, in order to their deliverance; but
that they would stand by and defend him against all such
attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely under
and subjected to his command: and that this should be put in
writing, and signed with their hands.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old savage
went away in one of the canoes which they came in, when
they were brought as prisoners to be devoured by the savages.
I gave each of them a musket, and about eight charges of
powder and ball, charging them to be very careful of both,
and not to use either of them, but upon very urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by
me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and
some days. I gave them provisions of bread and of dried
grapes, sufficient for themselves for many days, and sufficient
for all their countrymen for about eight days; and wishing
them a good voyage, I let them go, agreeing with them about
a signal they should hang out at their return, by which I
should know them again, when they came back, at a distance
before they came on shore.
They went away, with a fair gale, on the day that the moon
was at the full, by my account, in the month of October, as
near as I could tell.
. It was no less than eight days I waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen occurrence intervened, of which the
like has not, perhaps, been heard of in history. I was fast
asleep in my hut one morning, when my man Friday came
running in to me, and called aloud, "Master, master, they are
come, they are come!" I jumped up, and, regardless of
danger, went out, as soon as I could get my clothes on,
through my little grove; I went without my arms, which it was
not my custom to do; but I was surprised, when, turning my
eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat, at about a league and
a half distance, standing in for the shore, with a shoulder-of-
mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to
bring them in. Also, I observed, that they did not come
from that side which the shore lay on, but from the southern-
most end of the island. Upon this I called Friday in, and
bade him lie close, for these were not the people we looked
for, and that we did not know yet whether they were friends
or enemies. In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspec-
tive glass, to see what I could make of them; and, having
taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I
used to do when I was apprehensive of anything, and to take
my view plainer, without being discovered. I had scarce set
my foot on the hill, when my eye plainly discovered a ship
lying at anchor, at about two leagues and a half distance from
me, S. S. E., but not above- a league and a half from the
shore. It appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the
boat an English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in, though the joy of
seeing a ship, and one which I had reason to believe was
manned by my own countrymen, and consequently friends, was
such as I cannot describe; but yet I had some secret doubts
hanging about me, I cannot tell from whence they came, bid-
ding me to be on my guard. I began to consider what busi-
ness an English ship could have here ; since it was not the
way to or from any part of the world where the English had
any traffic; and I knew there had been no storm to drive
them in there, as in distress; and that if, they were English
really, it was probable they were here upon no good design,
and that I had better continue as I was than fall into the
hands of thieves and murderers.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, when I saw the
boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to
thrust in at, for the convenience of landing: however, as they
did not come quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet
where I formerly landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore
upon the beach, at about half a mile from me, which was
very happy for me; for, otherwise, they would have landed
just, as T may say, at my door, and would soon have beaten
me out of my castle, and, perhaps, have plundered me of all
I had.
When they were on •shore, I was fully satisfied they were
Englishmen, at least most of them ; one or two I thought were
Dutch, but it did not prove so. There were, in all, eleven
men, whereof three I found were unarmed, and (as I thought)
bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped
on shore, they took these three out of the boat as prisoners.
One of the three I could perceive using the most passionate
13
gestures of entreaty, affliction, and despair; the other two
lifted up their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned
indeed, but not so much as the first.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what
the meaning of it could be. Friday called out to me, in Eng-
lish, as well as he could, "O master, you see English mans
eat prisoners as well as savage mans." "Why," said I, "do
you think they are going to eat them, then?" "Yes," says
Friday, "they will eat them." "No, no," said I, "Friday, I
am afraid they will murder them, indeed, but you may be sure
they will not eat them."
All this while I had no thoughts of what the matter really
was, but expected every moment the three prisoners would be
killed; and once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm, with
a great cutlass or sword, to strike one of the poor men, and I
expected to see him fall every moment. I wished heartily
now for my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with
him; or that I had any way to have come undiscovered
within shot of them, that I might have rescued the three men,
for they had no fire-arms that I saw.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three
men by the insolent seamen, I saw that the fellows ran scat-
tering about the land, as if they wanted to see the country. I
observed, also, that the three other men had liberty to go
where they pleased, but that they sat down all three upon the
ground, very pensive, and looked like men in despair.
It was just at the top of high water when these people came
on shore, and while partly they stood parleying with the pris-
oners they brought, and partly while they rambled about to
see what kind of place they were in, they had carelessly
stayed till the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed con-
siderably away, leaving the boat aground. They had left two
men in the boat, who, as I found afterwards, having drank a
little too much brandy, fell asleep. However, one of them
wakening sooner than the other, and finding the boat too fast
aground for him to stir it, hallooed for the rest, who were
straggling about, upon which they all soon came to the boat,
but it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft, oozy sand,
almost like a quicksand. In this condition, like true seamen,
who are, perhaps, the least of all mankind given to fore-
thought, they gave it over, and away they strolled about the
country again; and I heard one of them say aloud to another
(calling them off from the boat), "Why, let her alone, Jack,
can't ye! She'll float next tide." By which I was fully con-
firmed what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself close, not once daring to stir
out of my castle, any farther than to my place of observation
near the top of the hill. I knew it would be no less than ten
hours before the boat could be afloat again, and by that time
it would be dark, and I might be more at liberty to see their
motions, and to hear their discourse, if they had any.
In the mean time, I fitted myself up for a battle, as before,
though with more caution, knowing I had to do with another
kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered Friday also to
load himself with arms. I took myself two fowling-pieces,
and I gave him three muskets. My figure indeed was very
fierce; I had my formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great
cap I have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols
in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said before, not to have made any
attempt until it was dark; but about two o'clock, being the
heat of the day, I found that they were all gone straggling into
the woods, and, as I thought, were all laid down to sleep.
The three poor distressed men, too anxious for their condition
to get any sleep, were, however, sat down under the shelter of
a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I
thought, out of sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn
something of their condition. Immediately I marched with
my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable
for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-
like figure as I did. I came as near them undiscovered as I
could, and then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to
them, in Spanish, "What are ye, gentlemen?"
They started up at the noise, but were ten times more con-
founded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure I made.
They made no answer at all, but I thought I perceived them
just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in English:
— " Gentlemen," said I, "do not be surprised at me ; perhaps
you may have a friend near you when you do not expect it."
"He must be sent directly from heaven, then," said one of
them very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same
time, "for our condition is past the help of man." "All help
is from heaven, sir," said I, "but can you put a stranger in
the way how to help you, for you seem to be in some great
distress? I saw you when you landed ; and when you seemed
to make application to the brutes that came with you, I saw
one lift up his sword to kill you."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trem-
bling, looking like one astonished, returned, "Am I talking to
God or man? Is it a real man, or an angel?" "Be in no fear
about that, sir," said I, "if God had sent an angel to relieve
you, he would have come better clothed, and armed after
another manner, than you see me. Pray lay aside your fears;
I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you, you
see. I have one servant only: we have arms and ammunition,
tell us freely, can we serve you? What is your case?"
"Our case, sir," said he, "is too long to tell you, while our
murderers are so near; but, in short, sir, I was commander of
that ship, my men have mutinied against me, they have been
hardly prevailed upon not to murder me, and, at last, have set
me on shore in this desolate place, with these two men with
me, one my mate, the other a passenger, where we expected to
perish, believing the place to be uninhabited, and know not
yet what to think of it."
"Where are those brutes, your enemies?" said I; "do you
know where they are gone?" "There they are, sir," said he,
pointing to a thicket of trees ; " my heart trembles for fear they
have seen us, and heard you speak; if they have, they will
murder us all."
"Have they any fire-arms ?" said I. He answered, "They
had only two pieces, and one which they left in the boat."
"Well, then," said I, "leave the rest to me. I see they are
asleep. It is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we
rather take them prisoners?" He told me there were two
desperate villains among them, that was scarce safe to show
any mercy to, but if they were secured, he believed all the rest
would return to their duty. I asked him which they were. He
told me he could not, at that distance, describe them; but he
would obey my orders in anything I would direct. "Well,"
said I, " let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they
awake, and we will resolve farther." So they willingly went
back with me, till the woods covered us from them. "Look
you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliverance, are you
willing to make two conditions with me?" He anticipated my
proposals, by telling me, that both he and the ship, if recov-
ered, should be wholly directed and commanded by me in
everything; and if the ship was not recovered, he would live
and die with me, in what part of the world soever I would
send him, and the two others said the same. •
"Well," said I, "my conditions are but two; first, that
while you stay on this island with me, you will not pretend to
any authority here; and if I put arms in your hands, you will,
upon all occasions, give them up to me, and do no prejudice
to me or mine, upon this island; and, in the mean time, be
governed by my orders. Secondly, that if the ship is, or may
be, recovered, you will carry me and my man to England
passage free." He gave me all the assurances that the inven-
tion and faith of man could devise, that he would comply with
these most reasonable demands, and, besides, would owe his
life to me, and acknowledge it, upon all occasions, as long as
he lived.
"Well, then," said I, "here are three muskets for you, with
powder and ball. Tell me next what you think is proper to be
done." He showed all the testimony of his gratitude that he
was able; but offered to be wholly guided by me. I told him
I thought it was hard venturing anything, but the best method
I could think of was to fire upon them at once, as they lay;
and if any were not killed at the first volley, and offered to
submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's
providence to direct the shot.
He said, very modestly, that he was loath to kill them, if he
could help it, but that those two were incorrigible villains, and
had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they
escaped we should be undone still, foi they would go on board
and bring the whole ship's company, and destroy us all.
"Well, then," said I, " necessity legitimates my advice; for it
is the only way to save our lives." However, seeing him still
cautious of shedding blood, I told him they should go them-
selves, and manage as they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them
awake, and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I
asked him if either of them were the men who, he had said,
were the heads of the mutiny. He said, " No." "Well, then,"
said I, "you may let them escape; and Providence seems to
have awakened them on purpose to save themselves. Now,"
said I, "if the rest escape you, it is your fault."
Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him in
his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with
him, each man a piece in his hand. The two men who were
with him, going first, made some noise, at which one of the
seamen, who was awake, turned about, and seeing them com-
ing, cried out to the rest; but it was too late then, for the
moment he cried out, the two men fired, the captain wisely
reserving his own piece. They had so well aimed their shot
at the men they knew, that one of them was killed on the
spot, and the other very much wounded; but, not being dead,
he started up upon his feet, and called eagerly for help to the
other; but the captain, stepping to him, told him it was too
late to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his
villainy, and, with that word, knocked him down with the stock
of his musket, so that he never spoke more. There were
three more in the company, and one of them was also slightly
wounded. By this time I was come; and when they saw their
danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for
mercy. The captain told them he would spare their lives, if
they would give him any assurance of their abhorrence of the
treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear to be
faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carry-
ing her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave
him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be
desired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare their
lives, which I was not against; only I obliged him to keep
them bound, hand and foot, while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday, with the captain's mate,
to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away the oars
and sail, which they did; and, by the by, three straggling
men, that were parted from the rest, came back again upon
hearing the guns fired; and seeing their captain, who was
before their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to
be bound also.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into
one another's circumstances. I began first, and told him my
whole history, which he heard with an attention even to amaze-
ment, and particularly at the wonderful manner of my being
furnished with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my
story is a whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply;
but when he reflected from thence upon himself, and how I
seemed to have been preserved there on purpose to save his
life, the tears ran down his face, and he could not speak a
word more.
After this communication was at an end, I carried him and
his two men into my apartment, leading them in just where I
came out, namely, at the top of the house, where I refreshed
them with such provisions as I had, and showed them all the
contrivances I had made during my long inhabiting this place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amaz-
ing • but, above all, the captain admired my fortification, and
how perfectly I had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees,
which, having been now planted near twenty years, and the
trees growing much faster than in England, was become a little
wood, and so thick, it was impassable in any part of it but at
that one side where I had reserved my little winding passage
into it. This I told him was my castle and my residence, but
that I had a seat in the country, as most princes have, whither
I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him that too
another time; but at present our business was to consider how
to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; but told
me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that
there were •still six-and-twenty hands on board, who, having
entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all for-
feited their lives to the law, would be hardened in it now by
desperation, and would carry it on, knowing that if they were
reduced they should be brought to the gallows as soon as they
came to England, or to any of the English colonies, and that
therefore there would be no attacking them with so small a
number as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it
was a very rational conclusion; and it occurred to me that, in
a little while, the ship's crew, wondering what had become of
their comrades, and of the boat, would certainly come on shore,
in their other boat, to see for them, and that then, perhaps,
they might come armed, and be too strong for us: this, he
allowed, was rational. •
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to
stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might
not carry her off: and taking everything out of her, leave her
so far useless as not to be fit to swim. Accordingly we went
on board, took the arms which were left on board out of her,
and whatever else we found there, which was a bottle of
brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit cakes, a Horn of
powder, and a great lump of sugar, in a piece of canvas; the
sugar was five or six pounds: all which was very welcome to
me, especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had been
without many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore, we knocked
a great hole in her bottom, that if they had come strong
enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the boat.
Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could be
capable to recover the ship; but my view was, that if they
went away without the boat, I did not much question to make
her fit again to carry us away to the Leeward Islands, and call
upon our friends the Spaniards in my way.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by
main strength, heaved the boat up on the beach, so high that
the tide would not float her off at high-water mark; and,
besides, had broken a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly
stopped, and were sat down musing what we should do, we
heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make a waft with her
ancient, as a signal for the boat to come on board; but no
boat stirred, and they fired several times, making other signals
for the boat
At last, when all their signals and firings proved fruitless,
and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them (by the help
of my glasses) hoist another boat off, and row towards the
shore; and we found, as they approached, that there were no
less than ten men in her, and that they had fire-arms with
them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had
a full view of them as they came. The captain knew the
persons and characters of all the men in the boat, of whom he
said that there were three very honest fellows, who, he was
sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpow-
ered and frightened: but that as for the boatswain, who, it
seems, was the chief officer among them, and all the rest, they
were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and were, no
doubt, made desperate in their new enterprise.
We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming
from the ship, considered of separating our prisoners, and had
indeed secured them effectually. Two of them, of whom the
captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and
one of the three delivered men, to my cave, where they were
remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or discov-
ered, or of finding their way out of the woods. They left
them bound, but gave them provisions, and promised them, if
they continued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a
day or two; but that if they attempted their escape, they
should be put to death without mercy. They promised faith-
fully to bear their confinement with patience.
The other prisoners had better usage: two of them were
kept pinioned indeed, because the captain did not like to trust
them, but the other two were taken into my service, upon
their captain's recommendation, and upon their solemnly
engaging to live and die with us.
As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay,
they ran their boat into the beach, and came all on shore,
hauling the boat up after them, which I was glad to see; for I
was afraid they would rather have left the boat, and anchor
some distance from the shore, with some hands in her to
guard her, and so we should not be able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, they ran all to the other boat; and it was
easy to see they were under a great surprise to find her
stripped, and a great hole in the bottom. After this, they set
up a great shout; but it was all to no purpose: then they
came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms,
which indeed we heard, and the echoes made the woods
ring, but it was all one; those in the cave we were sure could
not hear, and those in our keeping, though they heard it well
enough, yet durst give no answer to them.
They were so surprised at this, as they told us afterwards,
that they resolved to go all on board again to their ship, and
let them know there that the men were all murdered, and the
long boat staved; accordingly, they immediately launched
their boat again, and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded at
this, believing they would go on board the ship again, and set
sail, giving their comrades up for lost, and so he should still
lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should have recov-
ered, but he was quickly as much frightened the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but we per-
ceived them all coming on shore again; and they left three
men in the boat, and the rest went up into the country to look
for their fellows. This was a great disappointment to us, for
now we were at a loss what to do; for our seizing those seven
men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the boat
escape, because they would then row away to the ship, and
then the rest of them would be sure to weigh, and set sail, and
so our hope of recovering the ship would be lost. However,
we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of things
might present. The seven men came on shore, and the three
who remained in the boat put her off to a good distance from
the shore, and came to an anchor, to wait for them, so that it
was impossible for us to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together, marching
towards the top of the little hill, under which my habitation
lay, and we could see them plainly, though they could not
perceive us. And when they were come to the brow of the
hill, where they could see a great way into the valleys and
woods which lay towards the northeast part, and where the
island lay lowest, they shouted till they were weary, and then
they sat down to consider of it. Had they gone to sleep
there, as the other party did, they had done for us; but they
were too full of apprehension of danger to venture to go to
sleep, though they could not tell what the danger was.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this
consultation of theirs, namely, that perhaps they would all fire
a volley again, to endeavor to make their fellows hear, and
that we should all sally upon them just at the juncture when
their pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly
yield, and we should have them without bloodshed. I liked
the proposal, provided it was done while we were near enough
to come up to them before they could load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long time,
very irresolute what course to take; at length I told them
there would be nothing to be done, in my opinion, till night;
and then, if they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might
use some stratagem with them in the boat to get them on
shore.
We waited a great while, and were very uneasy; when we
saw them all start up, and march towards the sea. It seems
they had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the dan-
ger of the place, that they resolved to go on board the ship
again, give their companions over for lost, and so go on their
intended voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I imag-
ined they had given over their search, and were for going back
again; and the captain was ready to sink when I •told him my
thoughts, but I presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them
back again, and which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little
creek westward, towards the place where Friday was rescued,
and at about half a mile distance, I bade them halloo as loud
as they could, and as soon as they heard the seamen answer
them, they should return it again, and then, keeping out of
sight, take a round, and then wheel about again to me by
such ways as I directed.
They were just going into the boat, when Friday and the
mate hallooed, and they presently heard them, and answering,
run along the shore westward, towards the voice they heard,
when they were stopped by the creek, — the water being up,
they could not get over, — and called for the boat to come
and set them over, as, indeed, I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that they
took one of the three men out of her, and left only two in the
boat, having fastened her to a stump of a little tree on the
shore.
This was what I wished for ; and immediately leaving Friday
and the captain's mate to their business, I took the rest with
me, and crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the
two men before they were aware, one of them lying on the
shore between sleeping and waking, and, going to start up, the
captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him and knocked him
down, and then called to him in the boat to yield or he was a
dead man.
There needed very few arguments to persuade a single man
to yield, when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade
knocked down: besides, this was, it seems, one of the three
men who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the
crew, and, therefore, was easily persuaded, not only to yield,
but afterwards to join very sincerely with us.
In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so well
managed their business with the rest, that they drew them, by
hallooing and answering, from one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they were
sure they could not reach back before it was dark : and indeed
they were heartily tired themselves also by the time they came
back to us.
It was several hours after Friday came back to me before
they came back to their boat; and we could hear the foremost
of them long before they came quite up, calling to those behind
to come along, and could hear them answer, and complain how
lame and tired they were, and not able to come any faster,
which was very welcome news to us.
At length they came up to the boat, but it is impossible to
express their confusion when they found the boat fast aground
in the creek, and their two men gone; we could hear them
telling one another they were gotten into an enchanted island;
that either there were inhabitants in it, and they should all be
murdered, or else there were devils or spirits in it, and they
should be carried away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their
names, but got no answer. , After some time, we could see
them by the little light there was run about like men in de-
spair; and that sometimes they would go and sit down in the
boat to rest themselves, then come on shore again, and walk
about, and so the same thing over again.
My men would have fallen upon them in the dark, but I was
willing to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could, being
unwilling to hazard the killing any of our men, knowing the
others were well armed. I resolved to wait and make sure of
them, and drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday
and the captain to creep upon their hands and knees, and get
as near them as they possibly could before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture when the boatswain,
who was the principal ringleader, and had now shown himself
the most dispirited of all the rest, walked towards them with
two more of their crew. The captain was so eager at having
the principal rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly
have patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him, for
he only heard his tongue before; but when they came nearer,
the captain and Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at
them.
The boatswain was killed on the spot, the next was shot
through the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die
till an hour or two after, and the third ran for it.
At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with my
whole army, which was now eight men, namely, myself, gener-
alissimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general ; the captain and his
two men; and the three prisoners of war, whom we had
trufeted with arms.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they could
not see our number; and I made the man they had left in the
boat, who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try if
he could bring them to parley, which fell out just as we
desired. So he calls out as loud as he could to one of them,
"Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith answered imme-
diately, "Who's that, Robinson?" for it seems he knew his
voice. The other answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom
Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are all dead
men this moment!"
"Who must we yield to ? — where are they?" says Tom
Smith again. "Here they are," says he. "Here is our cap-
tain, and fifty men with him, have been hunting you this two
hours. The boatswain is killed, Will Frye is wounded, and I
am a prisoner; if you do not yield, you are all lost."
"Will they give us quarter, then," says Tom Smith, "and
we will yield." "I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield," says
Robinson. So he asked the captain, and the captain himself
then called out, "You, Smith, you know my voice; if you lay
down your arms immediately, and submit, you shall all have
your lives, all but Will Atkins."
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, captain,
give me quarter! What have I done? They have all been as
bad as I!" which was not true, for it seems this Will Atkins
was the first man that laid hold of the captain when they first
mutinied. However, the captain told him he must lay down
his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy; by
which he meant me, for they called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their
lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with them, and
two more, who bound them all; and then my great army of
fifty men, which, particularly with those three, were in all
but eight, came up and seized upon them all, and upon their
boat, only that I kept myself and one more out of sight, for
reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think qf seiz-
ing the ship; and as for the captain, now he had leisure to
parley with them, he expostulated with them upon the villainy
of their practices with him, and how certainly it must bring
them to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to the
gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their
lives. As for that, he told them that the governor was an
Englishman, and that he might hang them all there if he
pleased; but, as he had given them quarter, he supposed he
would send them to England, except Atkins, whom he was
commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for
that he would be hanged in the morning. Though this was all
a fiction of his own, yet it had the desired effect; Atkins
fell upon his knees to beg the captain to intercede with the
governor for his life, and all the rest begged of him, for God's
sake, not to be sent to England.
It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was
come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these
fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship. So I
retired in the dark from them, that they might not see what
kind of a governor they had, and called the captain to me.
When I called, as at a good distance, one of the men was
ordered to speak again, and to say to the captain, " Captain,
the commander calls for you ;" and presently the captain
replied, "Tell his excellency I am just a-coming." So they
all believed the commander was just by with his fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my project for
seizing the ship, which pleased him, and resolved to put it in
execution the next morning.
But in order to execute it with more art, and to be sure of
success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that he
should go and take Atkins, and two more of the worse of
them, and send them bound to the cave where the others lay.
So Friday, and the two men who came on shore with the
captain, conveyed them to the cave as to a prison. The other
I ordered to my bower, where they were pinioned, and left
secure enough.
To these, in the morning, I sent the captain, who was to
enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try them and tell
me whether he thought they might be trusted or no, to go on
board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury
done him, of the condition they were brought to, and that
though the governor had given them quarter for their lives, as
to the present action, yet that if they were sent to England,
they would all be hanged in chains; but that if they would
join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would
have the governor's engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be
accepted by men in their condition; they fell down on their
knees to the captain, and promised, with deep imprecations,
that they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that
they should owe their lives to him, and would go with him all
over the world; that they would own him for a father to them
as long as they lived. "Well," says the captain, "I must go
and tell the governor what you say, and see what I can do to
bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an account of
the temper he found them in, and that he verily believed they
would be faithful. However, that we might be very secure, I
told him he should go back again, and choose out five of them,
and tell them that they should see he did not want men, but
that he would take out those five to be his assistants, and that
the governor would keep the other two, and the three that
were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave), as hostages for the
fidelity of those five; and if they proved unfaithful in the exe-
cution, the five hostages should be hanged in chains alive upon
the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor
was in earnest. However, they had no way left them but to
accept it; and it was now the business of the prisoners, as
much as of the captain, to persuade the other five to do their
duty. Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedi-
tion: First, the captain, his mate, and passenger. Second,
then the two prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having their
characters from the captain, I had given their liberty, and
trusted them with arms. Third, the other two, whom I had
kept in my bower, pinioned, these were now released. Fourth,
these five, released at last; so that there were twelve in all,
besides five we kept in the cave, as hostages for the fidelity of
the others.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with those
hands on board the ship; for as for me and my man Friday,
I did not think it proper for us to stir, having seven men left
behind; and it was employment enough for us to keep them
asunder, and supply them with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast;
but Friday went twice a day to them, to supply them with
necessaries; and I made the other two carry provisions to a
certain distance, where Friday was to take it.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the
captain, who told them I was the person the governor had
ordered to look after them, and that it was the governor's
pleasure they should not stir anywhere, but by my direction;
that if they did, they should be fetched to the castle and be
laid in irons; so that we never suffered them to see me as
governor, so now I appeared as another person, and spoke of
the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all
occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him but to furnish
his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He
made his passenger captain of one, with four other men: he
himself, with his mate and five•more, went in the other. And
they contrived their business very well, for they came up to
the ship about midnight. As soon as they came within call
of the ship, he made Robinson hail them, and tell them he had
brought off the men and the boat, but that it was a long time
before they had found them, and the like; holding them in
chat till they came to the ship's side ; when the captain and
the mate, entering first with their arms, immediately knocked
down the second mate and the carpenter with the butt-end of
their muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men.
They secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter-
decks, and began to fasten the hatches to keep them down
who were below, when the other boat, and their men entering
the forechains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the
scuttle which went down into the cook-room, making three men
they found there prisoners. When this was done, and all safe
upon the deck, the captain ordered the mate with three men
to break into the round-house, where the new rebel captain
lay; and he, having taken the alarm and gotten up, now stood
with two men and a boy, having fire-arms in their hands; and
when the mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new cap-
tain and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded
the mate with a musket-ball, which broke his arm, and
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody.
The mate calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and, with his pistol, shot the new
captain through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and
14
came out again behind one of his ears, so that he never spoke
a word; upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken
effectually, without any more lives lost. As soon as the ship
was thus secured, the captain ordered seven guns to be fired,
which was the signal agreed upon with me, to give me notice
of his success, which, you may be sure, I was glad to hear,
having sat watching upon the shore for it till two o'clock in the
morning.
Having heard the signal plainly, I laid me down, and being
very much fatigued, I fell sound asleep, when shortly I was
awoke by the noise of a gun; and, starting up, I heard a man
call me by the name of " Governor," and presently I knew the
captain's voice, when climbing up to the top of the hill, there
he stood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his
arms. "My dear friend and deliverer," says he, "there's
your ship; for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that
belongs to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she
rode, about half a mile off the shore, for they had weighed her
anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and the weather
being fair, had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth
of a little creek, and the tide being up, they had brought the
pinnace in near the place where I had first landed my rafts,
and so landed just at my door.
I was, at first, ready to sink down with surprise, for I saw
my deliverance indeed visibly put into my hands, all things
easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither I
pleased to go. He perceived my situation, and immediately
pulls a bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial,
which he had brought on purpose for me. After I drank it, I
sat down upon the ground, and it was a good while before I
could speak to him.
After some time, I came to myself, and then I embraced
him in my turn, as my deliverer, and we rejoiced together. I
told him, I looked upon him as a man sent from heaven to
deliver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to be a
chain of wonders; and such things as these were the testi-
monies we had of a secret hand of Providence governing the
world, and an evidence that the eyes of an infinite power could
search into the remotest corner of the world, and send help to
the miserable whenever he pleased; nor did I forget to return
thanks to God for all his mercies.
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had
brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded,
and such as the wretches, who had been so long his masters,
had not plundered him of. Upon this he called aloud to his
men, and told them to bring the things ashore that were for
the governor: and it was a splendid present. First, he had
brought me a case of bottles full of cordial waters, six large
bottles of Madeira wine, two pounds of excellent tobacco,
twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork,
with a bag of pease, and about a hundred weight of biscuit. He
brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full of
lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and abundance of other
things. But, besides these, and what was a thousand times
more useful to me, he brought me six clean new shirts, six very
good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat,
and one pair of stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of
his own, which had been worn very little; but the clothes felt
very awkward and uneasy upon me at first.
After all these things were brought into my little apartment,
we began to consult what was to be done with the prisoners
we had, and whether we might venture to take them away with
us or no, especially two of them, whom we knew to be incor-
rigible and refractory to the last degree, and the captain said
he knew that they were such rogues, that there was no oblig-
ing them; and if he did carry them away, it must be in irons,
as malefactors, to be delivered over to justice, at the first Eng-
lish colony he could come at. Upon this, I told him I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it their
own request that he should leave them upon the island, of
which the captain said he should be very glad. I accordingly
sent for them, and entered seriously into discourse with them
upon their circumstances. One of them answered in the name
of the rest, that they had nothing to say but this, that when
they were taken, the captain promised them their lives, and
they humbly implored my mercy. But I told them I knew not
what mercy to show them; for, as for myself, I had resolved
to quit the island with all my men, and had taken passage
with the captain to go to England; and as for the captain, he
would not carry them to England, but as prisoners in irons, to
be tried for mutiny and running away with the ship; the con-
sequence of which, they must needs know, would be the gal-
lows: so that I could not tell which was best for them, unless
they had a mind to take their fate in the island ; if they desired
that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave it; I had some
inclination to give them their lives, if they could shift on
shore. They seemed very thankful for it; and said they would
rather venture to stay there, than to be carried to England to
be hanged.
I then told them I would let them into the story of my living
there, and put them into the way of making it easy to them.
Accordingly I gave them the whole history of the place, and
of my coming to it; showed them my fortifications, the way I
made my bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes, and in a
word, all that was necessary to make them easy. I told them
the story of the Spaniards that were to be expected, for whom
I left a letter, and•made them promise to treat them in common
with themselves.
I left them five muskets, three fowling-pieces, and three
swords. I had about a barrel and a half of powder, which I
left them. I gave them a description of the way I managed
the goats, and directions to milk and fatten them, to make both
butter and cheese. In a word, I gave them every part of my
own story; and I told them I would prevail with the captain
to leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some gar-
den seeds, which I told them I would have been very glad of;
also I gave them the bag of pease which the captain had
brought me, and bade them to be sure to sow and increase
them.
Having done this, I left them the next day, and went on
board the ship. The next morning two of the five men came
swimming to the ship's side, and making a most lamentable
complaint of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship,
for God's sake, for they should be murdered.
The captain pretended to have no power without me; but,
after some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of amend-
ment, they were taken on board, and were shortly after
soundly whipped, after which they proved very honest and
quiet fellows.
Some time after this, I went with the boat on shore, the tide
being up, with the things promised to the men, with which the
captain, at my intercession, sent their chests and clothes,
which they took, and were very thankful for. I also encour-
aged them, by telling them that if it lay in my way to send any
vessel to take them in, I would not forget them.
When I quitted this island, I carried on board, for relics,
the great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one of
my parrots ; also I forgot not to take the money I had had laid
by me so long useless.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, by the
ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon it
twenty-eight years, two months, and nineteen days; being
delivered from the second captivity the same day of the month
that I made my escape from among the Moors at Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England,
the nth of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five
years absent.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger as if I
had never been known there. My benefactor and faithful
steward, whom I left in trust with my money, was alive, but
had had great misfortunes in the world, was become a widow
the second time, and was in very low circumstances. I made
her easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I would give
her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude to her for-
mer care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as much as my
little stock would afford, which at that time would indeed allow
me to do but little for her; but I assured her I would never
forget her former kindness to me; nor did I forget her
when I had sufficient to help her at a future time.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father was
dead, and my mother, and all the family extinct, except two
sisters, and two of the children of one of my brothers; and, as
I had been long ago given over for dead, there had been no
provision made for me, so that, in a word, I found nothing to
relieve or assist me, and the little money I had would not do
much for me, as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not
expect; and this was, that the master of the ship, whom I had
so happily delivered, having given a very handsome account
to the owners of the manner how I had saved the lives of the
men and the ship, they invited me to meet them and some
other merchants concerned, and all together made me a very
handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present of
almost two hundred pounds sterling.
But, after making several reflections upon the circumstances
of my life, and how little way this would go towards settling me
in the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I could get
any information of the state of my plantation in the Brazils,
and of what was become of my partner, who, I supposed, had
for some years now given me over for dead.
With this view, I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived
in April following; my man Friday accompanying me very
honestly in all these ramblings, and proving a most faith-
ful servant upon all occasions. When I came to Lisbon,
I found out by inquiry, and to my particular satisfaction, my
old friend, the captain of the ship, who first took me up at sea,
off the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left
off the sea, having put his son into the ship, and who still used
the Brazil trade. The old man did not know me, and I
scarcely knew him; but he soon recollected me when I told
him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of our old acquaintance,
I inquired after my plantation and my partner. The old man
told me he had not been in the Brazils for about nine years;
but that he could assure me, that when he came away, my
partner was living, but that the trustees, whom I had joined
with him to take cognizance of my part, were both dead; that,
however, he believed that I should have a very good account
of the improvement of the plantation, for that, in the general
belief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees had
given in the account of the produce of my plantation to the
procurator fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case I never
came to claim it, one third to the king, and two thirds to the
monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended for the benefit of
the poor, and for the conversion of the Indians to the Catholic
faith; but that if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the
inheritance, it would be restored; only that the improvement,
or annual production, being, as he said, distributed to char-
itable uses, he thought could not be restored.
I was a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and
inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the trus-
tees should thus dispose of my effects, when they knew that I
had made my will, and made him, the Portuguese captain, my
universal heir, &c. He told me that was true, but as there
was no proof of my being dead, he could not act as executor,
until some certain account should come of my death; and
that, besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with a thing
so remote ; that it was true, he had registered my will, and put
in his claim, and, could he have given any account of my being
dead or alive, he would have acted by procuration, and taken
possession of my ingenio (the sugar-house), and given his son,
who was now in the Brazils, orders to do it.
The old man then asked me if he should put me in a
method to make my claim to the plantation. I told him I
thought to go over to it myself. He said I might do so if I
pleased; but that if I did not, there were ways enough to
secure my right, and immediately to appropriate the profits to
my use; and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon just
ready to go to the Brazils, he made me enter my name in a
public register, with his affidavit, affirming, upon oath, that I
was alive, and that I was the same person who took up the
land for planting the said plantation at first. This being
regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration affixed, he
directed me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a mer-
chant of his acquaintance at the place, and then proposed my
staying with him till an account came of the return.
Never anything was more honorable than the proceedings
upon this procuration; for in less than seven months I re-
ceived a large packet from the survivors of my trustees, the
merchants for whose account I went to sea; and as the Brazil
ships come all in fleets, the same ships which brought my
letters brought my goods, and the effects were safe in the
Tagus before the letters came to my hands. By these, it
appeared I was now master, all on a sudden, of above five
thousand pounds sterling in money, and had an estate, as I
might well call it, in the Brazils, of above a thousand pounds
a-year, as safe as any landed estate in England; in a word, I
was in a condition which I could scarcely understand, or how
to compose myself for its enjoyment.
The first thing I did was to recompense my original bene-
factor, my good old captain, who had been first charitable to
me in my distress, kind to me in the beginning, and honest to
me at the end. I showed him all that was sent me. I told
him that, next to the providence of Heaven, which disposes
all things, it was owing to him; and that it now lay on me to
reward him. So I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw
a procuration, empowering him to be my receiver of the
annual profits of my plantation, and appointing my partner to
account to him, and make the returns by the usual fleets to
him, in my name, adding a clause in the end, being a grant of
one hundred moidores a year during his life, out of the
effects; and fifty moidores a year to his son after him, for his
life: and thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course next,
and what to do with the estate that Providence had thus put
into my hands; and, indeed, I had more care upon my head
now than I had in my silent state of life on the island, where
I wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing but what I
wanted.
As I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to his satisfac-
tion, who had been my former benefactor, so I began to think
of my poor widow, whose husband had been my first benefac-
tor, and she, while it was in her power, my faithful steward
and instructor. So the first thing I did I got a merchant in
Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London, not only to
pay a bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in money a
hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her and comfort her
in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I lived, have a
farther supply. At the same time, I sent my two sisters in the
country, each of them a hundred pounds, they being, though
not in want, yet not in very good circumstances; one having
been married, and left a widow, and the other having a hus-
band not so kind to her as he should be. But, among all m)
relations or acquaintances, I could not yet pitch upon one to
whom I durst commit the gross of my stock.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have set-
tled myself there, for I was. as it were, naturalized to the place,
but that I really did not know with whom to leave my effects
behind me; so I resolved at last to go to England with them,
where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make some acquain-
tance or find some relations that would be faithful to me, and
accordingly I prepared to go for England with all my wealth.
Having settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my
effects into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty was
which way to go to England. I had been accustomed enough
to the sea, and yet I had a strange aversion to go to England
by sea at that time; and though I could give no reason for it,
yet the difficulty increased upon me so much, that though I
had once shipped my baggage in order to go, yet I altered my
mind, and that not once but two or three times.
It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this
might be one of my reasons; but let no man strike the strong
impulses of his own thoughts in cases of such moment. Two
ships, each of which I had engaged to go in, but again with-
drew my agreement, miscarried, namely, one was taken by the
Algerines, and the other was cast away on the Start, near
Torbay, and all the people drowned, except three; so that in
either of those vessels I had been made miserable, and in
which most, it was hard to say.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to
whom I communicated everything, pressed me earnestly not
to go by sea; but either to go by land to the Groyne, and
cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was
but an easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais
and Dover; or go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land
through France. In a word, I was so prepossessed against
my going to sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I
resolved to travel all the way by land, which, as I was not in
haste, and did not value the charge, was by much the pleas-
anter way; and to make it more so, my old captain brought
an English gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who
was willing to travel with me; after which we picked up two
more, who were English, and merchants also, and two young
Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to Paris only, so that we
were in all six of us and five servants ; the two merchants, and
the two Portuguese, contenting themselves with one servant
between two, to save the charge; and as for me, I got an
English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my man
Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable of supply-
ing the place of a servant upon the road.
In this manner we set out from Lisbon; and our company
being all very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop,
whereof they did me the honor to call me captain, as well
because 1 was the oldest man as because I had two servants,
and indeed was the originator of the whole journey.
Four French gentlemen, who had been stopped on the
French side of the passes, as we were now on the Spanish, had
found out a guide, who had brought them over the mountains
by such ways, that they were not much incommoded with
the snow; and, where they met with snow in any quantity,
they said it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their
horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us that he would under-
take to carry us the same way, with no hazard from the snow,
provided we were armed sufficiently to protect us from wild
beasts; for, he said, upon these snow regions it was common
for wolves to show themselves at the foot of the mountains,
being made ravenous for want of food, while the ground was
covered with snow. We told him we were well enough pre-
pared for such creatures as they were, if he would insure us
from a kind of two-legged wolves, from which we were told
most danger was to be apprehended, especially on the French
side of the mountains.
He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind in the way
that we were to go. So we readily agreed to follow him, as
did also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go,
and were obliged to come back again.
Accordingly, we all set out from Pampeluna, with our
guide, on the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was sur-
prised, when, instead of going forward, he came directly back
with us above twenty miles; on the same road by which we
came from Madrid, when, having passed two rivers, and come
into the plain country, we found ourselves in a warm climate
again, where the country was pleasant, and no snow was to be
seen; but, on a sudden, turning to the left, he approached the
mountains by another way; and though, it is true, the hills
and the precipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many
tours, and meanders, and led us by such winding ways, that
we insensibly passed the height of the mountains without
being much encumbered with the snow; and, all on a sudden,
he showed us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and
Gascoigne, all green and flourishing, though indeed they were
at a great distance, and we had some rough way to pass yet.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed
so fast one whole day and night that we could not travel; but
he bade us be easy, we should soon be past it all. We found,
indeed, that we began to descend every day, and to come more
north than before; and so, depending upon our guide, we
went on.
It was about two hours before night, when our guide, being
something before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three
monstrous wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way,
adjoining to a thick wood. Two of the wolves flew upon the
guide, and had he been half a mile before us, he had been
devoured, indeed, before we could have helped him. One of
them fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked the man
with that violence, that he had not time, or not presence of
mind enough to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to
us most lustily. My man Friday being next to me, I bade him
ride up, and see what was the matter. As soon as Friday
came in sight of the man, he hallooed as loud as the other, "O
master! O master!" but, like a bold fellow, rode directly up
to the man, and, with a pistol, shot the wolf that attacked him
through the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday;
for he, having been used to that kind of creature in his coun-
try, had no fear upon him, but went up close to him, and shot
him as above ; whereas, any of us would have fired at a farther
distance, and might, perhaps, have either missed the wolf, or
shot the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than I;
and indeed it alarmed all our company, when, with the noise
of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the most dismal
howling of wolves, and the noise redoubled by the echo of the
mountains.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we
came up he was helping him off from his horse, for the man
was both hurt and frightened, and indeed the last more than
the first.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our guide
told us, if there were any more wolves in the country, we
should find them there; and this was a small plain, sur-
rounded with woods on every side, and a long, narrow defile,
or lane, which we were to pass, to get through the wood, and
then we should come to a village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered the
first wood; and a little after sunset we came into the plain.
We met with nothing in the first wood, except that, in a little
plain within the wood, which was not above two furlongs over,
we saw five great wolves cross the road, full speed, one after
another, as if they had been in chase of some prey they had in
view. They took no notice of us, and were gone, and out of
our sight in a few moments.
This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and that we
might lose no time, we kept going; but we had little more than
loaded our fusils, and put ourselves into readiness, when we
heard a terrible noise in the wood on our left.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky,
which made it the worse on our side; but the noise increasing,
we could easily perceive that it was the howling of those
ravenous creatures; and, on a sudden, we perceived two or
three troops of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one
in our front, and we knew not what course to take; but the
creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about us, in
hopes of prey; and I verily believe there were three hundred
of them. It happened very much to our advantage, that, at
the entrance into the wood there lay some large timber trees,
cut down, and I drew my little troop in among these trees,
and placing ourselves in a line, behind one long tree, I advised
them all to alight, and keeping that tree before us for a breast-
work, to stand in a triangle or three fronts, inclosing our
horses in the centre. We did so; and it was well we did, for
never was a more furious charge than the creatures made upon
us in this place: they came on us with a growling kind of
noise, and mounted the piece of timber, as if they were only
rushing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was
principally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us,
which was the prey they aimed at. I ordered our men to fire
as before, every other man, and they took their aim so sure,
that they killed several wolves at the first volley; but there
was a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on
like devils, those behind pushing on those before. When we
had fired the second volley of our fusils, we thought they
stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone off, but it
was but a moment, for others came forward again, so we fired
two volleys of our pistols, and, I believe, in these four firings,
we killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as
many; yet they came on again.
I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily; so I called
my servant, not Friday, but my other man, and, giving him a
horn of powder, I bid him lay a train all along the piece of
timber, and let it be a large train. He did so; and had but
just time to get away, when the wolves came up to it, and
some were got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol
close to the powder, set it on fire. Those that were upon the
timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell, or
rather jumped in among us, with the force and fright of the
fire. We dispatched these in an instant, and the rest were so
frightened with the light, that they drew back a little.
Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired off in one
volley; and after that we gave a shout: upon this the wolves
turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame
ones, whose dreadful crying and howling scared the rest, so
that they all fled, andleft us.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage
through France, nothing but what other travellers have given
an account of, with much more advantage than I can. I
travelled from Thoulouse to Paris, and, without any consider-
able stay, came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover, the I4th
of January, after having a severe cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had, in a
little time, all my newly discovered estate safe about me, the
bills of exchange which I had brought with me having been
currently paid. My principal guide and privy counsellor was
my good old widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had
sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too great, to
employ for me.
I began to think of leaving my effects with this woman, and
setting out for Lisbon, and so to the Brazils. But now another
scruple came in my way, and that was religion ; for, as I had
entertained some doubts about the Roman religion, even while
I was abroad, especially in my state of solitude, so I knew
there was no going to the Brazils for me, much less going to
settle there, unless I resolved to embrace the Catholic religion,
without any reserve; except, on the other hand, I resolved to
be a sacrifice to my principles, be a martyr for religion, and
die in the Inquisition; so I resolved to stay at home, and, if I
could find means, to dispose of my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who, in
return, gave me notice that he could easily dispose of it there;
but that, if I thought fit to give him leave to offer it in my
name to the two merchants, the survivors of my trustees, who
lived in the Brazils, and most fully understood the value of it,
who lived just upon the spot, and whom I knew to be very
rich, so that he believed they would be fond of buying it, he
did not doubt but I should make four or five thousand pieces
of eight the more for it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to them,
and he did so; and in about eight months more, the ships
being then returned, he sent me an account that they had
accepted the offer, and had remitted thirty-three thousand
pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay
for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form which
they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man, who sent
me bills of exchange for thirty-two thousand eight hundred
pieces of eight for the estate, reserving the payment of one
hundred moidores a-year to him, the old man, during his life,
and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which I
had promised them, and which the plantation was to make
good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given the first part
of a life of fortune and adventure, a life of Providence's
checker-work, and of a variety which the world will seldom be
able to show the like of. Beginning foolishly, but closing
much more happily than I had ever any reason even to hope
for.
Any one would think that, in this state of complicated good
fortune, I was past running any more hazards; but I was
inured to a wandering life, had no family, nor many relations,
nor, however rich, had I contracted much acquaintance; and
though I had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not
keep that country out of my head, and had a great mind to be
upon the wing again, especially I could not resist the strong
inclination I had to see my island.
My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me from it,
and so far prevailed with me, that for almost seven years she
prevented my running abroad; during which time I took my
two nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into my care.
The eldest, having something of his own, I bred up as a gen-
tleman, and gave him a settlement of some addition to his
estate after my decease; the other I put out to the captain of
a ship, and, after five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enter-
prising young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him
to sea. And thisf young fellow afterwards drew me in, old as
I was, to farther adventures myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here. For, first
of all, I married, and had three children, two sons and one
daughter. But my wife dying, and my nephew coming home,
with good success, from a voyage to Spain, my inclination to
go abroad, and his importunity, prevailed, and I engaged to
go in his ship as a private trader to the East Indies. In this
voyage I visited my new colony in the island, saw my succes-
sors, the Spaniards; had the whole story of their coming to
and adventures in the island, after my departure. All these
things, with some very surprising incidents, in some new
adventures of my own, for ten years more, I may, perhaps, give
a farther account of hereafter.
THE FARTHER ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
{HAT homely proverb used on so many occasions in
England, namely, That what is bred in the bone will
not go out of the flesh, was never more verified than
in the story of my life. Any one would think that after thirty-
five years' affliction, and a variety of unhappy circumstances,
which few men, if any, ever went through before, and after
near seven years of peace and enjoyment in the fulness of all
things; growing old, and when, if ever, it might be allowed
to me to have had such experience of every state of middle
life, as to know which was most adapted to make a man
happy; I say, after all this, any one would have thought that
the native propensity to rambling, which first sent me out
into the world, should be worn out, and that I might at sixty-
one have been inclined to stay at home, and have done ven-
turing life and fortune any more. \
Nay, farther, the common motive for foreign adventures was
taken away in me; for I had no fortune to make, I had noth-
ing to seek: for, if I had gained ten thousand pounds, I had
been no richer; for I had already sufficient for my wants, and
for those I had to leave it to; and that I had was visibly
increasing; for having no great family, I could not spend what
I had, unless I would set up for an expensive way of living,
such as a great family, servants, equipage, gayety, and the
like, which were things I had no inclination to; so that I had
nothing indeed to do but to sit still, enjoy what I had got, and
see it increase daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least not
enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad
again, which hung about me like a chronic distemper; partic-
ularly the desire of seeing my new plantation in the island,
and the colony I left there, which run in my head continually.
I dreamed of it all night, and my imagination run upon it all
day. It was uppermost in all my thoughts, and my fancy
worked so steadily and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in
my sleep; in short, nothing could move it from my mind; it
even broke so violently into all my discourses, that it made my
conversation tiresome; for I could talk of nothing else, all my
discourse run into it, even to impertinence, and I saw this
myself. One time in my sleep I had the villainy of three
pirate sailors so vividly related to me by the first Spaniard and
Friday's father, that it was surprising; they told me how they
barbarously attempted to murder all the Spaniards, and that
they set fire to the provisions they had laid up, on purpose to
distress and starve them, things that I had never heard of,
and that indeed were never all of them true in fact: but it was
so warm in my imagination, and so realized to me, that to the
hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but that it was or
would be true; also how I resented it when the Spaniard
complained to me, and how I brought them to justice, tried
them, and ordered them all three to be hanged. What there
was really in this shall be seen in its place ; •for, however I
came to form such things in my dream, and what secret
converse of spirits injected it, yet there was very much of it
true.
In this kind of temper I lived some years; I had no enjoy-
ment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diversion but
what had something or other of this in it, so that my wife, who
saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told me very seriously
one night, that she believed there was some powerful impulse
of Providence upon me, which dragged me thither again; and
that she thought nothing hindered my going but thoughts of
my wife and children. She told me it was true she could not
think of parting with me; but she was assured, that if she
were to die, it would be the first thing I would do; so, as it
seemed to her that the thing was determined above, she would
not be the only obstruction to it: " If I thought fit and resolved
to go " — here she found me very intent upon her words, and
that I looked very earnestly at her; so that it a little disor-
dered her, and she stopped. I asked her why she did not go
on, and say what she was going to say? But I perceived her
heart was too full, tears stood in her eyes. "Speak out, my
dear," said I; "are you willing I should go?" "No," says
she, very affectionately, " I am far from willing ; but if you are
resolved to go," says she, "rather than I will be the only
hindrance, I will go with you; for though I think it a prepos-
terous thing for one of your years, and in your condition, yet
if it must be," said she again, weeping, "I won't leave you;
for if it be of Heaven, you must do it; there is no resisting it;
and if Heaven makes it your duty to go, it is also mine to go
with you ; or otherwise dispose of me, that I may not obstruct
it."
This affectionate behavior of my wife's brought me a little
out of the vapors, and I began to consider what I was doing;
I corrected my wandering fancy, and began to argue sedately
with myself, what business I had, after threescore years, and
after such a life of sufferings and disasters, closed in so happy
and easy a manner, I say, what business had I to rush into
new hazards and adventures, fit only for youth and poverty to
run into?
I considered also my new engagement; that I had a wife,
one child already born, and my wife then great with another;
that I had all the world could give me, and had no need to
seek hazards for gain: that I was declining in years, and
ought to think rather of leaving what I had gained than of
seeking to increase it; that as to what my wife had said, of its
being an impulse from Heaven, and that it should be my duty
to go, I had no notion of that; so after many of these cogita-
tions, I struggled with the power of my imagination, reasoned
myself out of it, as I believe people may always do in like
cases, if they will; and, in a word, I conquered. I composed
myself with such arguments which my present condition fur-
nished me plentifully with: and I resolved to divert myself
with other things, to engage in some business that might
effectually tie me up from any excursions of this kind; for I
found the feeling return upon me chiefly when I was idle, and
had nothing to do, or anything of moment immediately before
me.
To this purpose I bought a little farm in the county of Bed-
ford, and resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little
convenient house upon it, and the land about it I found was
capable of great improvement, and in many ways it suited my
inclination, which delighted in cultivating, managing, plant-
ing, and improving of land; and particularly, being an inland
country, I was removed from among ships, sailors, and things
relating to the remote parts of the world.
In a word, I farmed my own land, I had no rent to pay, was
limited by no articles, I could pull up or cut down as I
pleased: what I planted was for myself, and what I improved
was for my family; and having thus left off all thoughts of
wandering, I had not the least discomfort in any part of my
life, as to this world. Now I thought indeed, that I enjoyed
the middle state of life that my father so early recommended
to me, — a kind of heavenly life, something like what is de-
scribed by the poet upon the subject of a country life.
Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, and youth no snare.
But in the middle of all this felicity, one unforeseen blow
from Providence unhinged me at once; and drove me, by its
consequences, into a deep relapse into the wandering disposi-
tion: which, as I may say, being born in my very blood, soon
recovered its hold over me, and, like the returns of a violent
distemper, came on me with an irresistible force; so that noth-
ing could remove it. This blow was the loss of my wife. For
a time I was inconsolable. It is not my purpose here to write
an elegy upon my wife, to paint her particular virtues, and
make my court to the sex by the flattery of a funeral sermon.
She was, in a few words, the stay of my affairs, the centre of
all my enterprises; by her prudence I had been reduced to
that happy compass I was in, from the most extravagant and
ruinous projects that fluttered in my head as above; she did
more to guide my rambling genius, than a mother's tears, a
father's instructions, a friend's counsel, or my own reasoning
powers could do. I was happy in listening to her arguments
and in being moved by her tears and entreaties. I was to the
last degree desolated and dislocated in the world by the loss
of her.
When she was gone, the world looked awkward around me;
I was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the
Brazils when I went first on shore there; and as much alone,
though surrounded with servants, as I was in my island. I
knew neither what to do, or what not to do I saw the world
busy round me, one part laboring for bread, and the other
part squandering in vile excesses or empty pleasures, both
equally miserable, because the end they proposed still fled
from them. The man of pleasure surfeited of his vice, heaped
up work for sorrow and repentance; and the men of labor
spent their strength in daily strugglings for bread to maintain
the vital strength they labored with; so living in a daily circu-
lation of sorrow, living but to work, and working but to live,
as if daily bread were the only end of wearisome life, and a
wearisome life the only occasion of daily bread.
This led me to think of the life I lived in my kingdom, the
island ; where I suffered no more corn to grow than I wanted;
and bred no more goats than I had use for: where the money
lay in the drawer till it grew mouldy.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought to have
done, and as reason and religion dictated, would have taught
me to search farther than human enjoyments for a full felicity.
The reason and end of life was something certainly superior
to all these things, and this was either to be possessed, or at
least hoped for, on this side the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone ; I was like a ship without
a pilot, that could only run before the wind; my thoughts run
off again into the old affair, my head was quite turned with the
whimsies of foreign adventure; and all the pleasant innocent
amusements of my farm and my garden, my cattle, and my
family, which before entirely possessed me, were now nothing
to me; they had no relish, and were like music to one that has
no ear, or food to one that has no taste. In a word, I resolved
to leave off house-keeping, let my farm, and return to London:
and in a few months after I did so.
When I came to London, I was as uneasy as I was before;
I had no relish to the place, no employment in it, nothing to
do but to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be
said, he is perfectly useless in God's creation, and it matters
not to the rest of his kind, whether he be dead or alive, a state
of existence which of all circumstances was the most my aver-
sion, who had been all my days used to an active life; I would
often say to myself, "A state of idleness is the very dregs
of life ;" and indeed I thought I was much more suitably
employed, when I was twenty-six days in making me a deal
board.
It was now the beginning oT the year 1693; my nephew,
who, as I have observed before, I had brought up to the sea,
and had made him commander of a ship, was come home from
a short voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made; he
came to me, and told me that some merchants of his acquain-
tance had been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to
the East Indies and to China as private traders; "And now,
uncle," says he, "if you will go to sea with me, I will engage
to land you upon your old habitation at the island, for we are
to touch at the Brazils."
My nephew knew not how far my wandering propensities
had returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in
his thoughts; but that very morning before he came I had,
in much confusion of thought, and after revolving every part
of my circumstances, come to this resolution, namely, That I
would go to Lisbon and consult with my old sea-captain ; and,
if it was rational and practicable, I would go and see the
island again, and see what had become of my people there. I
had been pleasing myself with the thought of peopling the
place, and carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent
for the possession, and I know not what besides; when in the
middle of all this, in comes my nephew, as I have said, with
his project of carrying me thither, in his way to the East
Indies.
I paused at his words, and looking steadily at him, "What
devil," said I, "sent you on this unlucky errand?" My
nephew stared, as if he had been frighted at first; but per-
ceiving I was not much displeased with the proposal, he
recovered himself. "I hope it may not be an unlucky propo-
i
sal, sir," says he; "I dare say you would be pleased to see
your new colony there, where you once reigned with more
felicity than most of your brother monarchs."
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that I
told him, in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I
would go with him: but I told him also, I would not promise
to go any further than my own island. "Why, sir," says he,
"you don't want to be left there again, I hope?" "Can you
not take me up again on your return?" said I. He told me
it might be that the merchants would not allow him to come
that way with a laden ship of such value, it being a month's
sail out of his way, and might be three or four. "Besides,
sir, if I should miscarry," said he, " and not return at all, then
you would be just reduced to the condition you were in
before."
This was very rational; but we soon found out a remedy for
it, which was to carry a framed sloop with us, which, being
taken in pieces and shipped on board the ship, might, by the
help of some carpenters, whom we also agreed to carry with
us, be set up again in the island ; and finished, fit to go to sea,
in a few days.
I was not long in resolving; for indeed the importunities of
my nephew joined in so effectually with my inclination, that
nothing could oppose them: on the other hand, my wife being
dead, nobody concerned themselves so much for me, as to
persuade me one way or other, except my ancient good friend
the widow, who earnestly entreated me to consider my years,
my easy circumstances, and the needless hazard of a long
voyage; and, above all, my young children: but it was all to
no purpose; I had an irresistible desire to the voyage; and
such was the impression I had upon my mind for the voyage,
that I told her I thought it would be a kind of resisting Provi-
dence if I should attempt to stay at home ; after this she ceased
her expostulations, and joined with me, not only in making pro-
vision for my voyage, but also in settling my family affairs in
my absence, and providing for the education of my children.
In order to this, I made my will, and settled the estate I
had in such a manner for my children, and placed it in such
hands, that I was perfectly easy; satisfied that they would
have justice done them, whatever might befall me ; as for their
education, I left it wholly to my widow, with a sufficient main-
tenance to herself for her care: all of which she richly
deserved; for no mother could have taken more care in their
education, or understand it better; and I lived to thank her
for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of Janu-
ary, 1694, and I with my man Friday went on board in the
Downs on the 8th, having, besides the frame of that sloop
which I mentioned above, a very considerable cargo of all
kinds of necessary things for my colony, which, if I did not
find in good condition, I resolved at least to leave it so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to
place there, as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there
upon my own account, while I stayed, and either to leave them
there, or carry them forward, as they should appear willing;
particularly I carried two carpenters, a smith, and a very
handy ingenious fellow who was a cooper by trade, but was
also a general mechanic; for he was dexterous at making
wheels, and handmills to grind corn, was a good turner, a
good pot-maker; he also made anything that was proper to
make of earth, or of wood; in a word, we called him our
"Jack of all trades."
With these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go
passenger to the East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards
consented to stay on our plantation, and proved as handy a
fellow as could be desired, in many other businesses besides;
for, as I observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employ,
ments.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not kept an
account of the particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity of
linen, and some thin English stuffs, enough for clothing the
Spaniards I expected to find there, comfortably for the next
seven years; these materials, with gloves, hats, shoes, stock-
ings, and all such things as they could want for wearing,
amounted to above 200 pounds, including some beds, bedding,
and household stuff, particularly kitchen utensils, with pots,
kettles, pewter, brass, &c., and near a hundred pound more in
iron-work, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges,
and every necessary thing I could think of.
L...
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees,
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all
sizes, and two pieces of brass cannon; and, because I knew
not what time, and what extremities I was providing for, I
carried a hundred barrels of powder, besides swords, cutlasses,
and the iron part of some pikes and halberds; so that, in
short, we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores; and I
made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck guns more
than he wanted for his ship, to leave behind, to assist us to
maintain possession of the island.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used
to meet with; yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad
weather did happen, which made the voyage longer than I ex-
pected; and I, who had never made but one voyage, namely,
my first voyage to Guinea, in which I might be said to come
back again, as the voyage was at first designed, began to think
the same ill fate still attended me; and that I was born to be
never contented with being on shore, and yet to be always
unfortunate at sea.
Contrary winds first put up to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-
bound two-and-twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with
the disaster, that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in
the utmost plenty; so that while we lay here we never
touched the ship's stores, but rather added to them; here also
I took in several live hogs, and two cows, and calves, which I
resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on shore in my isl-
and; but we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them.
We set out the sth of February, from Ireland, and had a
very fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember, it might
be about the 20th of February in the evening, late, when the
mate having the watch, came into the round-house, and told us
he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired; and while he
was telling us of it, a boy came in and told us the boatswain
heard another. This made us all run out upon the quarter-
deck, where for a while we heard nothing, but in a few min-
utes we saw a very great light, and found that there was some
very terrible fire at a distance; immediately we had recourse
to our reckonings, and all agreed that there could be no land
in the direction of the fire, no, not for 500 leagues, for it
appeared at W. N. W. Upon this we concluded it must be
some ship on fire at sea; from the noise of guns heard just
before, we concluded it could not be far off, and stood directly
towards it. The farther we sailed, the greater the light
appeared, though the weather being hazy we could perceive
nothing but the flames for a while; in about half an hour's
sailing, the wind being fair for us, though not much of it, and
the weather clearing up a little, we could plainly discern a
great ship on fire in the middle of the sea.
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster; I recollected
what condition I was in when taken up by the Portuguese
Captain; but how much more deplorable the circumstances of
the poor creatures belonging to this ship must be if they had
no other ship in company with them: upon this I immediately
ordered that five guns should be fired, one soon after another,
that, if possible, we might give notice to them that there was
help at hand, and that they might endeavor to save themselves
in their boat; for though we could see the flame of the ship,
yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning
ship drove, waiting for daylight; when on a sudden, to our
great terror, though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew
up in the air, and immediately, that is to say, in a few minutes,
all the fire was out, and the rest of the ship sunk; this was a
terrible, and indeed afflicting sight; for the sake of the poor
men, who, I concluded, must be either all destroyed in the
ship, or be in the utmost distress in their boat in the middle
of the ocean, which at present, by reason it was dark, I could
not see; however, to direct them as well as I could, I caused
lights to be hung out in all the parts of the ship ; and kept firing
guns all the night long; letting them know by this, that there
was a ship not far off.
About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered the
ship's boats, by the help of our glasses; there were two of
them, both thronged with people, and deep in the water; we
perceived they rowed, the wind being against them; that they
flaw our ship, and did their utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we
saw them; and hung a waft out, as a signal for them to come
on board ; and then made more sail, standing directly to them.
In a little more than half an hour we came up with them, and,
in a word, took them all in, being no less than sixty-four men,
women, and children ; for there were a great many passengers.
We found it was a French merchant-ship of 300 ton, homeward
bound from Quebec. The master gave us a long account of
the distress of his ship, how the fire began in the steerage by
the negligence of one of the men; it was, as everybody
thought, entirely put out: when they found that some sparks
of the first fire had got into another part of the ship, so diffi-
cult to come at, that they could not quench it, till getting
between the timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, it
penetrated into the hold, and mastered all the skill and appli-
cation they were able to exert. They got into their boats,
which, to their great comfort, were pretty large: being a long
boat and a great shallop, besides a small skiff, which was of no
great service to them, other than to carry some fresh water
and provisions. They had sails, oars, and a compass; and
were preparing to make the best of their way back to New-
foundland, the wind blowing an easy gale at S. E. by E. They
had as much provisions and water, as, with sparing it so as to
be next door to starving, might support them about twelve
days, in which, if they had no bad weather, and no contrary
winds, the captain hoped he might reach the banks of New-
foundland. But there were many chances against them;
storms to overset and founder them; rains and cold to be-
numb their limbs; contrary winds to keep them out and
starve them; that it must have been next to miraculous if
they had escaped in this way. In the midst of their consulta-
tions, every one being hopeless, and ready to despair, as the
captain told me with tears in his eyes, they heard the guns
which I caused to be fired at first seeing the light: this
revived their hearts, and gave them the notice that there was
a ship at hand for their help. Upon hearing these guns, they
took down their masts and sails; and the sound coming from
the windward, they resolved to lie by till morning. Some
time after, hearing no more guns, they fired three muskets,
one a considerable while after another; but these, the wind
being contrary, we never heard. Some time after that again,
they were still more agreeably surprised with seeing our lights,
and hearing the guns which I caused to be fired during the
night: this set them to work with their oars to keep their
boats a-head, at least that we might the sooner come up with
them; and at last, to their inexpressible joy, they found we
saw them.
It is impossible for me to express the strange ecstasies, the
variety of postures, which these poor people threw themselves
into, to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliv-
erance. Grief and fear are easily described; sighs, tears,
groans, and a very few motions of the head and hands, make
up the sum of its variety; but an excess of joy, a surprise of
joy, has a thousand extravagances in it: they were thrown into
a kind of frenzy; there were some in tears, some raging and
tearing themselves, as if they had been in the greatest agonies
of sorrow; some stark raving and downright lunatic; some
ran about the ship stamping with their feet, others wringing
their hands; some were dancing, some singing, some laughing,
more crying; many quite dumb, not able to speak a word;
others sick and vomiting, several swooning, and ready to faint;
and a few were crossing themselves and giving God thanks.
Perhaps the particular nation they belonged to had something
to do with this. The French are allowed to be more volatile,
more passionate, and more sprightly, and their spirits more
fluid than any other nations. I am not philosopher enough to
determine the cause, but nothing I had ever seen before came
up to it; the ecstasies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in,
when he found his father in the boat, came the nearest to it;
and the surprise of the master, and his two companions, whom
I delivered from the villains that set them on shore in the
island, came a little way towards it; but nothing that I saw
either in Friday, or anywhere else in my life, could compare
to this.
There were two priests amonc; them, one an old man, and
the other a young one. As soon as the old man set his foot
on board our ship, and saw himself safe, he dropped down
stone-dead, to all appearance; not the least sign of life could
be perceived in him; our surgeon immediately applied proper
remedies to recover him; and was the only man in the ship
that believed he was not dead. He opened a vein in his arm,
having first chafed and rubbed the part, so as to warm it as
much as possible: upon this the blood, which only dropped at
first, flowed something freely; in three minutes after, the man
opened his eyes; and about a quarter of an hour after that, he
spoke, grew better, and was quite well; after the blood was
stopped, he walked about, told us he was perfectly well, took
a dram of cordial which the surgeon gave him, and was what
we call come to himself; about a quarter of an hour after,
they came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was
bleeding a Frenchwoman that had fainted; and told him the
priest had gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve
the change of his circumstances, and again this put him into
an ecstasy of joy: his spirits whirled about faster than the
vessels could convey them; the blood grew hot and feverish;
and the man was as fit for Bedlam as any creature that ever
was in it: the surgeon would not bleed him again in that con-
dition, but gave him something to put him to sleep, which,
after some time, operated upon him, and he waked the next
morning perfectly composed and well.
The younger priest behaved with more self-command, and
was really an example of a serious well-governed mind ; at his
first coming on board the ship, he threw himself flat on his
face, prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliverance;
in which I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really
thinking he was in a swoon; but he spake calmly; thanked
me; told me he was giving God thanks for his deliverance;
begged me to leave him a few moments, and that, next to his
Maker, he would give me thanks also. He continued in that
posture about three minutes, or a little more, after I left him;
then came to me, as he had said he would, and, with a great
deal of seriousness and affection, but with tears in his eyes,
thanked me, that had, under God, given him, and so many
miserable creatures, their lives. After this, he applied himself
to his country folks; labored to compose them; persuaded,
entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his utmost to
keep them within the exercise of their reason. With some he
had success, though others were, for a time, out of all govern-
ment of themselves.
We were something disordered by these extravagances
among our new guests for the firsyt day; but when they
retired, lodgings being provided for them as well as our ship
would allow, and had slept heartily, as most of them did, they
were quite another sort of people the next day.
Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the
kindness shown them, was wanting; the French, it is known,
are naturally apt enough to exceed that way. The captain,
and one of the priests, came to me the next day; and desiring
to speak with me and my nephew, the commander, began to
consult with us what should be done with them; and first they
told us, that, as we had saved their lives, so all they had was
little enough as a return to us for that kindness received. The
captain said they had saved some money, and some things of
value in their boats, catched hastily up out of the flames; and
if we would accept it, they were ordered to make an offer of it
all to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere in
our way, whence they might get passage to France.
My nephew was for accepting their money, but began to
consider what to do with them afterwards. I knew what it
was to be set on shore in a strange country; and if the Portu-
guese captain that took me up at sea had taken all I had for
my deliverance, I must have starved, or have been as much a
slave at the Brazils, as I had been in Barbary; perhaps a
Portuguese is not a much better master than a Turk, if not, in
some cases, a much worse.
I therefore told the French captain that it was our duty to
relieve them, as we were fellow-creatures, and as we would
desire to be so delivered, if we were in the like extremity; that
we had done nothing for them, but what we believed they
would have done for us if our cases had been reversed, but
that we took them up to save them, not to plunder them ; or
to set them on shore and leave them: that this would be first
to save them from death, and then kill them ourselves; save
them from drowning, and then abandon them to starving ; and
therefore nothing should be taken from them. As to setting
them on shore, our ship was bound to the East Indies; and
though we were driven out of course to the westward a great
way, directed perhaps by Heaven for their deliverance, yet it
was impossible for us willfully to change our voyage; nor could
my nephew, the captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom
he was under charter-party to pursue his voyage by the way
of the Brazils; all he could do for them was, to put ourselves
in the way of meeting with ships homeward-bound from the
West Indies, and get them passage, if possible, to England or
France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind,
they could not but be very thankful for it: but they were in
great consternation, especially the passengers, at the notion of
being carried away to the East Indies. They entreated me,
seeing that I was driven so far to the westward before I met
with them, I would at least keep on the same course to the
Banks of Newfoundland, where it was probable I might meet
with some ship or sloop that they might hire to carry them
back to Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part;
and therefore I inclined to agree to it; for indeed I consid-
ered, that to carry this whole company to the East Indies,
would not only be an intolerable severity upon the poor peo-
ple, but would be ruining our whole voyage by devouring all
our provisions; so I thought it no breach of charter-party, but
what an unforeseen accident, in which no one could say we
were to blame, made absolutely necessary to us; for the laws
of God and man would have forbid that we should refuse to
take up two boats full of people in such a distressed condition;
and the nature of the thing, as well respecting ourselves as the
poor people, obliged us to set them on shore somewhere or
other for their deliverance ; so I consented that we would carry
them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit;
and if not, to Martinico in the West Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty
good; and as the winds had continued in the points between
N. E. and S. E. a long time, we missed several opportunities
of sending them to France; for we met several ships bound
for Europe, whereof two were French from St. Christopher's;
but they had been so long beating up against the wind, that
they durst not take in passengers for fear of wanting provi-
sions for the voyage, as well for themselves as for those they
should take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a
week after this, that we made the Banks of Newfoundland,
where, to shorten my story, we put all the French people on
board a bark, which they hired at sea to put them on shore
there, and afterwards to carry them to France: when I say, all
the French went on shore, I should remember, that the young
priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies,
desired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on
the coast of Coromandel, which I readily agreed to: for I
wonderfully liked the man, and had very good reason to do so,
as will appear afterwards; four of the seamen also entered
themselves into our ship, and proved very useful fellows.
From hence we directed our course for the West Indies,
steering away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together,
sometimes with little or no wind at all, when we met with
another subject for our humanity to work upon, almost as
deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes
N. and the 19th day of March, 1694, when we spied a sail, our
course being S. E. and by S. We soon perceived it was a
large vessel, and that she bore up to us; but could make noth-
ing of her, till coming a little nearer, we found she had lost
her maintop-mast, foremast, and bowsprit; she was a ship of
Bristol, but had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes, a
few days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane,
while the captain and chief mate were both gone on shore;
they had been some weeks at sea, and had already met with
another storm; they were almost starved for want of pro-
visions, besides the fatigues they had undergone; their bread
and flesh was quite gone, they had not an ounce left in the
ship, and had had none for eleven days; the only relief they
had, was, that their water was not all spent, and they had
about half a barrel of flour left, also sugar enough, and seven
casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant, on
board, who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was
ready to sail, unhappily came on board the evening before the
hurricane began; and, having no provisions of their own left,
they were in a more deplorable condition than the rest; for
the seamen being reduced to such an extreme necessity them-
selves, had no compassion, we may be sure, for the poor pas-
sengers ; and they were indeed in a condition that their misery
is very hard to describe.
We immediately supplied them with what we could spare;
and indeed I had so far overruled things with my nephew,
that I would have victualled them, though we had gone away
to the coast of America to have supplied ourselves; but there
was no necessity for that.
But now they were in a new danger • for they were afraid of
eating too much, even of that little we gave them: the second
mate, now commander, brought six men with him in his boat;
but these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and were so
weak, they could hardly sit to their oars: the mate himself
was very ill, and half-starved; for he declared he had reserved
nothing from the men, and went share and share alike with
them in every bit of food. I cautioned them to eat sparingly
while I set meat before them, not forgetting the starving crew
that were left on board, for I ordered my own boat to go on
board the ship, with my mate and twelve men, to carry them a
sack of bread and four or five pieces of beef to boil. Our
surgeon charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while
they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room to prevent
the crew taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before
it was well boiled, and then to give every man but a very little
at a time; by this caution he saved the men, who would other-
wise have killed themselves with the very food that was given
them to save their lives.
At the same time I ordered the mate to go into the great
cabin, and see what condition the passengers were in, and, if
they were alive, to comfort them, and give them what refresh-
ment was proper; the surgeon giving him a large pitcher with
some of the prepared broth which he had given to the mate,
and which he did not question would restore them gradually.
Not satisfied with this, but having a great mind to see the
scene of misery which I knew the ship itself would present me
with, in a more lively manner than I could have it by report, I
took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me,
and went myself a little after in their boat.
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult to get the
victuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate
observed his orders, and kept a good guard at the cook-room
door; and the men he placed there, after using all possible
persuasion to them to have patience, kept them off by force;
however, he caused some biscuit cakes to be dipped in the pot,
and thus softened with the liquor of the meat, which they
call brewis, gave one to each of them, to stay their stomachs,
telling them it was for their own safety that he was obliged to
give them but a little at a time. But it was all in vain, and
had I not come on board, with their own commander and offi-
cers, and with good words and some threats also of giving
them no more, I believe they would have broke into the cook-
room by force, and torn the meat out of the furnace ; for words
are indeed of very small force with a hungry belly: however,
we pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously for
the first time, and the next time gave them more, and at last
filled their bellies, and the men did well enough. But the
misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another
nature, and far beyond the rest.
The poor mother, who was a woman of sense and good
breeding, had spared all she could get so affectionately for her
son, that at last she entirely sunk under it: and when the
mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with
her back up against the sides, between two chairs, which were
lashed fast, and her head sunk in between her shoulders, like
a corpse, though not quite dead. The mate said all he could
to revive and encourage her, and with a spoon put some broth
into her mouth: she opened her lips, and lifted up one hand,
but could not speak; yet she understood what he said, and
made signs to him, intimating that it was too late for her, but
pointed to her child, as if she would have said they should
take care of him.
However, the mate, who was much moved with the sight,
endeavored to get some of the broth into her mouth; and, as
he said, got two or three spoonfuls down, though I question
whether he could be sure of it or not; but it was too late,
she died the same night.
The youth who was preserved at the price of this most
affectionate mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a
cabin-bed stretched out, with hardly any life left in him; he
had a piece of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the
rest of it. However, being young, and having more strength
than his mother, the mate got something down his throat, and
he began sensibly to revive, but by giving him some time after
two or three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and
brought it up again.
The next care was the poor maid: she lay all along the deck
hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down
with an apoplexy, and struggled for life; her limbs were dis-
torted, one of her hands was clasped round the frame of a
chair, and she griped it so hard, that we could not easily make
her let go; her other arm lay over her head, and her feet lay
both together, set fast against the frame of the cabin-table; in
short, she lay just like one in the last agonies of death, and
yet she was alive too. The poor creature was not only starved
with hunger, and terrified with the thoughts of death, but was
broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she loved most ten-
derly, and whom she saw dying two or three days before.
With great application our surgeon recovered her as to life,
but he had her upon his hands as to her senses, for she was
little less than distracted for a considerable time after.
Our business, however, was to relieve the distressed ship's
crew, but not to lie by for them; and though they were willing
to steer the same course with us for some days, yet we could
carry no sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts:
however, as their captain begged of us to help him set up a
maintop-mast, and a kind of topmast to his jury foremast,
we did, as it were, lie by him for three or four days; and then,
having given him five barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two
hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of pease, flour, and what
other things we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar,
some rum, and some pieces of eight of them for satisfaction,
we left them, taking on board with us, at their own earnest
request, the youth, and the maid, and all their goods.
I was now in the latitude of 19 deg. 32 min. and had hith-
erto had a tolerable voyage as to weather, though at first the
winds had been contrary. For brevity's sake I shall now only
observe, that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the
loth of April, 1694. It was with no small difficulty that I
found the place, for as I came to it before on the south and
east side of the island, coming from the Brazils, so now com-
ing in between the main and the island, and having no chart
for the coast, nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw
it. We beat about a great while, therefore, and went on shore
on several islands in the mouth of the great river Oroonoque,
but none for my purpose; only this I learned by my coasting
the shore, that I was under a great mistake before, in suppos-
ing that the land I saw from the island I lived in was a con-
tinent: it was in reality a long island, or rather a group of
islands, stretching from one to the other side of the extended
mouth of that great river; and that the savages who came to
my island were not properly those which we call Caribbees,
but islanders, and other barbarians of the same kind, who
inhabited the islands on our side. In short, I visited several
of these islands to no purpose; some I found were inhabited,
and some were not. On one of them I found some Spaniards,
and thought at first they lived there ; but speaking with them I
found they had a sloop in a small creek hard by, and that they
came hither to make salt, and catch pearl-muscles, but they
belonged to the island of Trinidad, which lay further north, in
latitude 10 and n degrees.
At last, however, coasting from one island to another, some-
times with the ship, sometimes with the Frenchmen's shallop
(which we had found a convenient boat, and therefore kept
with their very good will), at length I came fair on the south
side of my island, and I presently knew the very countenance
of the place; so I brought the ship safe to an anchor, broad-
side to the little creek where was my old habitation.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked
him if he knew where he was? He looked about a little, and
presently clapping his hands, cried, "O yes, O there,. O yes,
O there!" pointing to our old habitation, and fell a dancing
and capering like a mad fellow, and I had much ado to keep
him from jumping into the sea, to swim on shore to the place.
"Well, Friday," says I, "do you think we shall find anybody
here, or no? and what do you. think, shall we see your father?"
The fellow stood mute as a stock a good while; but when
I named his father, the poor affectionate creature looked
dejected, and the tears ran down his face very plentifully.
"What is the matter, Friday?" said I. "Are you troubled
because you may see your father?" "No, no," says he, shak-
ing his head, "no see him more, no ever more see again."
"Why so," said I, "Friday, how do you know that?" "O
no, O no," says Friday, "he long die; long ago, he much old
man." "Well, well," says I, "Friday, you don't know; but
shall we see any one else, then?" The fellow, it seems, had
better eyes than I, and he points just to the hill above my old
house; and though we lay half a league off, he cries out, " We
see! we see! yes, we see much man there, and there, and
there." I looked, but I could see nobody, no, not with the
glass; which was, I•suppose, because I could not hit the
place; for the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the
next day, five or six men stood there to look at the ship, not
knowing what to think of it.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused the
English ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give
them notice we were friends; about half a quarter of an hour
after, we perceived smoke rising from the side of the creek ; so
I immediately ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me ; and,
. hanging out a white flag, or flag of truce, I went directly on
shore, taking with me the young priest I mentioned, to whom
I had told the whole story of my living there, and the manner
of it, and every particular, both of myself, and those I left
there; which had made him extremely desirous to go with me.
We had besides about sixteen men very well armed, if we had
found any new guest there which we did not know of; but we
had no need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water,
we rowed directly into the creek ; and the first man I fixed my
eye upon was the Spaniard, whose life I had saved, and whom
I knew by his face perfectly well. I intended to go on shore
first myself; but there was no keeping Friday in the boat: for
the affectionate creature had spied his father at a distance, a
good way off from the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing
of him; and if prevented from going on shore, he would have
jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, than he
flew to his father like an arrow out of a bow. It would have
made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to
have seen the first transports of this poor fellow's joys, when
he came to his father; how he embraced him, kissed him,
stroked his face, took him up in his arms, set him down upon
a tree, and lay down by him; then •stood and looked at him as
any one would look at a strange picture, for a quarter of an
hour together; then lie down upon the ground, and stroke his
legs and kiss them, and then get up again, and stare at him;
one would have thought the fellow bewitched; but it would
have made a dog laugh to see how the next day his passion
run out another way. In the morning he walked along the
shore, to and again, with his father, several hours, always
leading him by the hand, as if he had been a lady; and every
now and then he would fetch something or other for him from
the boat, either a lump of sugar or a dram, a biscuit, or some-
thing or other that was good. In the afternoon his frolics ran
another way; for then he would set the old man down upon
the ground, and dance about him, and make a thousand antic
postures and gestures; and all the while he did this, he would
be talking to him, and telling him one story after another of
his travels, and of what had happened to him abroad, to divert
him. In short, if the same filial affection were always found
in Christians to their parents, one would be tempted to say,
there would have been hardly any need of the fifth command-
ment.
It would be endless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first, whom
I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved: he came
towards the boat, attended by another, carrying a flag of truce
also; he did not know me at first, had no notion even of its
being me, till I spoke to him. "Seignor," said I in Portuguese,
"do you not know me?" He spoke not a word ; but giving his
musket to the man that was with him, threw his arms abroad,
and saying something in Spanish that I did not perfectly hear,
came forward and embraced me, telling me, he was inexcus-
able not to know that face again that he had once seen, as of
an angel from heaven sent to save his life: he said abundance
of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard always
knows how; and then beckoning to the person that attended
him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He then asked
me if I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give
me possession of my own house again, and where I should see
there had been but mean improvements. So I walked along
with him; but, alas! I could no more find the place, than if I
had never been there; for they had planted so many trees,
and placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to one
another, that in ten years' time they had grown so big, that
the place was inaccessible, except by such windings, and blind
ways, as those only who made them could find.
I asked them, what put them upon all these fortifications?
He told me, I would say there was need enough of it, when I
learnt how they had passed their time, especially after they
found that I was gone. He could not but have satisfaction in
my good fortune, when he heard that I had gone away in a
good ship; he had oftentimes a strong persuasion that one
time or other he should see me again; but nothing that ever
befell him in his life, he said, was so surprising and afflicting
to him, at first, as the disappointment he was under when he
came back to the island, and found I was not there.
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom he said he had a long story to tell me;
the Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the
savages, only that their number was so small. "And," says he,
"had they been strong enough, we had been all long ago in
purgatory ;" and with that he crossed himself on the breast.
"But, sir," says he, "I hope you will not be displeased when I
shall tell you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for
our own preservation, to disarm them, and make them our
subjects, who would not be content with being moderately our
masters, but would be our murderers." I answered, I was
heartily afraid of it when I left them there; and nothing
troubled me at my parting from the island, but that they were
not come back, that I might have put them in possession of
everything first, and leave the others in a state of subjection,
as they deserved: but that if they had reduced them to it, I
was very glad, and should be very far from finding any fault
with it; for I knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungovern-
able savages, fit for any manner of mischief.
While I was speaking, came the man whom he had sent
back, and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were
in, it was impossible to guess what nation they were of; but he
made all clear both to them and to me. First, he turned to
me, and pointing to them, he said, "These, sir, are some of the
gentlemen who owe their lives to you;" and then turning to
them, and pointing to me, he let them know who I was; upon
which they all came up one by one, not as if they had been
sailors, and ordinary fellows, and I the like, but really as if
they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I a monarch, or
a great conqueror: their behavior was to the last degree oblig-
ing and courteous, and yet mixed with a manly majestic grav-
ity, which very well became them; and, in short, they had so
much more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive
their civilities, much less how to return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in the island,
after my going away, is so very remarkable, and has so many
incidents, which the former part of my relation will help the
reader to understand, that I cannot but commit them to the
reading of those that come after me. I shall, however, no
longer trouble them with a relation in the first person, which
will put me to the expense of a thousand said I's, and said
he's, and he told me's, and I told him's, and the like; but I
shall collect the facts historically from memory, as they were
related to me.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can, I
must go back to the circumstances in which I left the island,
and in which the persons were, of whom I am to speak. And
first, it is necessary to repeat, that I had sent away Friday's
father and the Spaniard, the two whose lives I had rescued
from the savages; I say, I had sent them away in a large
canoe to the main, as I then thought it, to fetch over the
Spaniard's companions, whom he had left behind, in order to
save them from the like calamity that he had been in, and in
order to succor them for the present, and that, if possible, we
might together find some way for our deliverance afterward.
When I sent them away, I had not the least room to hope
for my own deliverance any more than I had twenty years
before; much less had I any foreknowledge of an English
ship coming on shore there to fetch me off; and it could not
but be a very great surprise to them, when they came back,
not only to find that I was gone, but to find three strangers
left on the spot, possessed of all that I had left behind me,
which would otherwise have been their own.
The first thing, which I inquired into, was that he would
give me a particular account of his voyage back to his coun-
trymen with the boat. . He told me there was little variety in
that part; for nothing remarkable happened to them on the
way, they having very calm weather, and a smooth sea: for
his countrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that
they were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was the principal
man among them, the captain of the vessel they had been
shipwrecked in having been dead some time): they were, he
said, the more surprised to see him, because they knew that he
was fallen into the hands of savages, who, they were satisfied,
would devour him as they did all the rest of their prisoners;
that when he told them the story of his deliverance, and in
what manner he was furnished for carrying them away, it was
like a dream to them; their astonishment, they said, was
something like that of Joseph's brethren, when he told them
who he was, and told them the story of his exaltation in Pha-
raoh's court: but when he showed them the arms, the powder,
the ball, and the provisions that he brought them for their
voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a just share of
the joy of their deliverance, and immediately prepared to come
away with him.
Their first business was to get canoes; and in this they
were obliged to trespass upon their friendly savages, so far as
to borrow two large canoes or periaguas, on pretense of going
out a-fishing. In these they came away the next morning;
for they had no baggage, neither clothes, or provisions, or
anything in the world, but what they had on them, and a few
roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread. He was
in all three weeks absent, and in that time I had the occasion
offered for my escape, leaving three of the most impudent,
hardened, ungovernable villains behind me, that a man could
desire to meet with. The only just thing the rogues did, when
the Spaniards came on shore, was to give my letter to them
with provisions and other such relief, as I had ordered them
to do ; they gave them also the long paper of directions, which
I had left with them, containing the particular methods which
I took for managing every part of my life there; how I baked
my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my corn; how I
cured my grapes, made my pots, in a word, everything I did:
all this being written down, they gave to the Spaniards, two oi
whom understand English well enough; nor did they refuse to
accommodate the Spaniards with other things, for they agreed
very well for some time; they gave them an equal admission
into the house or cave, and they began to live very sociably
together; the head Spaniard, who had seen my method, and
Friday's father together, managed all their affairs: for, as for
the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island,
shooting parrots, and catching tortoises: the Spaniards pro-
vided their suppers for them, when they came home at night.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, but the
others could not find in their heart to let them alone long;
like the dog in the manger, they would not eat themselves,
neither would they let others eat. The differences, neverthe-
less, were at first but trivial, and such as are not worth relat-
ing; but at last it broke out into open war, and it begun with
all the rudeness and insolence that can be imagined, without
reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and indeed to
common sense; and though the first relation of it came from
the Spaniards, whom I may call the accusers, yet when I
came to examine the fellows themselves, they could not deny
a word of it.
But before I came to the particular of this part, I must
supply a defect in my former relation, bearing upon these
events: just as we were weighing anchor to set sail, a quarrel
broke out on board our ship, which was likely to have pro-
duced a second mutiny; nor was it appeased till the captain,
interfering, parted them by force, putting two of the most
refractory fellows, who had been active in the former disorders,
in irons; threatening to carry them to England in that state,
and have them hanged there for mutiny and plotting to run
away with the ship. This frighted some other men in the
ship; and they put it into the heads of the rest, that the cap-
tain only gave them good words for the present, intending
when he reached an English port that they should be all put
into gaol, and tried for their lives. The mate got intelligence
of this, and acquainted us with it; upon which it was desired,
that I should go down and satisfy the men, that if they behaved
well during the rest of the voyage, all they had done for the
time past should be pardoned. So I went, and passing my
honor to them to that effect, caused the two men who were in
irons to be released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night,
the wind also falling calm, and next morning we found that
our two men who had been in irons, had stole each of them a
musket, and other weapons, with powder and shot, and had
taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet hauled up, and
ran away with her to their companions in roguery on the
shore. I ordered the long-boat on shore, with twelve men
and the mate, to seek them, but they could not be found, for
they all fled into the woods when they saw the boat coming on
shore. He returned leaving everything as he found it, bring-
ing the pinnace away.
These two additional men made their number five; but the
other three villains were so much wickeder than these, that
after they had been two or three days together, they turned the
new-comers out of doors to shift for themselves. When the
Spaniards came, they would have persuaded the three English
brutes to take in their two countrymen again, that, as they
said, they might be all one family ; but they would not hear of
it; so the two poor fellows lived by themselves, and finding
that by industry and application they could live very comfort-
ably, they pitched their tents on the north shore of the island,
but a little more to the west, so as to be out of danger from
the savages, who always landed on the east parts.
Here they built themselves two huts, one to lodge in, and
the other to lay up their magazines and stores; and the
Spaniards having given them some corn for seed, and espe-
cially some of the pease which I had left, they dug, planted,
and inclosed after the pattern I had set for them, and began
to live pretty well. Their first crop of cor,n was on the ground,
and though it was but a little bit of land which they had dug
up at first, having had but little time, yet it was enough to
relieve them, and find them in bread or other eatables; and
one of the fellows, being the cook's mate of the ship, was very
ready at making soup, puddings, and such other preparations,
as the rice and the milk, arid such little flesh as they got, fur-
nished him with the means.
They were going on this little thriving way, when the three
rogues, their countrymen, in mere wanton humor, and to insult
them, came and bullied them, told them the island was theirs;
that the governor, meaning me, had given them possession of
it, and nobody else had any right to it; and, damn them, they
should build no houses upon their ground, unless they agreed
to pay them rent for it.
The two men thought them jesting at first; asked them to
come and sit down, and see what fine houses they had built,
asking what rent they demanded; and one of them merrily
added, since they were the ground-landlords, he hoped if they
built tenements upon the land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of all landlords, grant them a
long lease; and find them a scrivener to draw up the writings.
One of the three, in a rage, told them they should see it was
no jest; and going to a little place at a distance, where the
honest men had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a
firebrand and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very
fairly set it on fire; and it would have been all burnt do%vn in
a few minutes, if one of the two had not run to the fellow,
thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his feet, and that
not without some difficulty too.
The fellow turned upon him with a pole he had in his hand:
and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run
into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His comrade
seeing the danger they were both in, ran in after him, and
immediately they both came out with their muskets; and the
man that was first struck at with the pole, knocked the fellow
down, that had begun the quarrel, with the stock of his mus-
ket, and that before the other two could come to help him;
and then seeing the rest come at them, they stood together,
and presenting their pieces, bade them stand off.
The others had fire-arms with them too: but one of the two,
bolder than his comrade, told them if they offered to move
hand or foot, they were dead men; and boldly commanded
them to lay down their arms. They did not indeed lay down
their arms; but, seeing him so resolute, it brought them to a
parley, and they consented to take their wounded man with
them, and begone. Indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded
sufficiently with the blow; but they were much in the wrong
not to disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and
have got immediately to the Spaniards. Henceforth the three
villains studied nothing but revenge, and ever}• day gave them
some indication that they did so. They trod down their corn,
shot their three young kids, and a she-goat which the poor
men had bred up tame for their store; and, in a word, plagued
them night and day, till the two men were driven to desper-
ation, and they resolved to fight them all three the first fair
opportunity. They resolved to go to the castle, as they called
my old dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards all
lived together at that time, intending to have a fair battle, and
that the Spaniards should stand by to see fair play. So they
got up one morning before day, and came to the place, called
out the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that
answered, that they wanted to speak with them.
It had so happened that the day before two of the Spaniards,
having been in the woods, had seen one of the two English-
men, whom, for distinction, I call the honest men; and he
had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards, of the barbarous
usage they met with from their three countrymen, how they
had ruined their plantation, and destroyed their corn, that they
had labored so hard to bring forward, and killed the milch-
goat, and their three kids, which Was all they had provided for
their sustenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning the
Spaniards, did not assist them again, they would be starved.
When the two Spaniards came home at night, they reproved
the three Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly
terms, asking how they could be so cruel, the others being
harmless inoffensive fellows, subsisting by their own labor, and
that it had cost them a great deal of pains to bring things to
the state they had reached.
One of the Englishmen asked very briskly, "What had
they to do there? They came on shore without leave, and
should not plant or build upon the island; it was none of
their ground." "Why," says the Spaniard, very calmly,
"Seignior Inglese, they must not starve." The Englishman
replied, like a true rough-hewn tarpaulin, "they might starve
for him, but they should not plant or build." "But what
must they do then, Seignior?" says the Spaniard. Another
of the brutes returned, "Do! they should be our servants,
and work for us." "But how can you expect that of them?"
says the Spaniard; "they are not bought with your money;
you have no right to make them servants." The Englishmen
answered, the island was theirs, the governor had given it to
them, and no man had anything to do there but themselves;
and with that swore by his Maker, that they would go and
burn all their new huts; they should build none upon their
land.
"Why, Seignior," says the Spaniard, "by the same rule, we
must be your servants too." "Aye," says the bold dog, " and
so you shall too, before we have done with you," mixing two
or three oaths in the proper intervals of his speech. The
Spaniard only smiled at this, and made him no answer. How-
ever, this little discourse had heated them; and starting up,
one says to the other, I think it was he they called Will At-
kins, "Come, Jack, let us go and have another brush with
them; we will demolish their castle, I warrant me; they shall
plant no colony in our dominions."
Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a
gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things
among themselves, of what they could do with the Spaniards,
too, when opportunity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems,
did not so perfectly understand their language as to know all
these particulars; only that, in general, they were threatened
for taking the part of the two Englishmen.
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that
evening, the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems
they wandered about the country part of the night; and then
lying down in the place which I used to call my bower, they
were weary, and overslept themselves. They seem to have
resolved on waiting till midnight, and then to take the two
poor men when they were asleep; intending, as they acknowl-
edged afterwards, to set fire to their huts while they were in
them, and either bum them in them, or murder them as they
came out: and, as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was
very strange they should not have kept themselves awake.
However, as the two men had also a design upon them,
though a much fairer one than that of burning and murdering,
it happened, and very luckily for them all, that they were up
and gone abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues came to
their huts.
When they came there and found the men gone, Atkins,
who it seems was the forwardest man, called out to his com-
rades, "Ha! Jack, here's the nest; but d• n them, the
birds are flown :" they mused awhile to think what should be
the occasion of their being gone abroad so soon, and presently
suggested that the Spaniards had given them notice of their
intention; with that they shook hands, and swore to one
another that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As
soon as they had made this bloody bargain, they fell to work
with the poor men's habitation; they did not set indeed fire to
anything, but they pulled down both their little houses, and
pulled them so limb from limb, that they left not a stick
standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where they stood;
they tore all their little collected household stuff in pieces, and
threw everything about in such a manner, that the poor men
afterwards found some of their things a mile away from their
habitation. Having pulled up all the young trees the poor
men had planted, destroyed an inclosure they had made to
secure their cattle and their corn; and, in a word, sacked and
plundered everything as completely as a herd of Tartars would
have done; they returned to the old habitation. Had the
parties met at this juncture, there certainly would have been
bloodshed among them; for they were all very stout, resolute
fellows, to give them their due.
When the three came back, like furious creatures, flushed
with the rage which the work they had been about put them
into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what they
had done, by way of scoff and bravado; and one of them step-
ping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple
of boys at play, takes his hat from his head, and giving it a
twirl about, fleering it in his face, says he to him, "And you,
Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do
not mend your manners." The Spaniard, who, though a quiet,
civil man, was as brave as a man •could desire to be, and
withal a strong, well-made man, looked steadily at him for a
good while; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stept
gravely up to him, and with one blow of his fist, knocked him
down, as an ox is felled with a pole-axe. At this one of the
rogues fired his pistol at the Spaniard, missing his body
indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but one of
them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled freely. The
blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he
really was, and that put him into some heat, for before he was
perfectly calm; but now resolving to go through with his
work, he stooped and took the fellow's musket whom he had
knocked down, and was just going to shoot the man who had
fired at him; when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the
cave, came out, calling to him not to shoot; they stept in,
secured the other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, finding they had made the
Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own countrymen,
they began to cool; and giving the Spaniards better words,
would have had their arms again; but the Spaniards consid-
ering the feud that was between them and the other two Eng-
lishmen, thinking that would be the best method they could
take to keep them from killing one another, told them they
would do them no harm; and if they would live peaceably,
they would be very willing to assist and associate with them,
as before; but that they could not think of giving them their
arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do mischief to
their own countrymen.
The rogues being refused their arms, they went raving away,
and raging like madmen, threatening what they would do,
though they had no fire-arms: but the Spaniards, despising
their threatening, told them they should take care how they
offered any injury to their plantations or cattle; for if they did,
they would shoot them, as they would do wild beasts, wher-
ever they found them; and if they fell into their hands alive,
they should certainly hang them. This was far from cooling
them; but away they went, raging and swearing like furies.
As soon as they were gone, came back the two men in equal
rage and passion enough, though of another kind; for, having
been at their plantation, and finding it all demolished and
destroyed, they had provocation enough; they could scarce
have room to tell their tale, so eager the Spaniards were to
tell them theirs; and it was strange enough to find, that three
men thus bully nineteen, and receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially after
having thus disarmed them, made light of all their threaten-
ings; but the two Englishmen resolved to have their revenge
against them, what pains soever it might cost to find them out.
But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them, that
as they had disarmed them, they could not consent that they
should pursue them with fire-arms, and perhaps kill them:
"but," said the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, "we
will endeavor to make them do you justice, if you will leave it
to us, for, as there is no doubt but they will come to us again
when their passion is over, being unable to subsist without our
assistance, we promise you to make no peace with them with-
out having a full satisfaction for you; and upon this condition
we hope you will promise to use no violence to them, other
than in self-defense." The two Englishmen yielded to this
proposal with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested,
they did it only to prevent bloodshed, and to make all easy at
last, "for," said they, "we are not so many of us ; here is room
enough for us all, and it is a great pity we should not be all
good friends." At length they did consent, awaiting the issue
for some days with the Spaniards. In five days the three
vagrants, tired with wandering, and almost starved with
hunger, having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs all that while,
came back to the grove; and finding my Spaniard, who, as I
have said, was the governor, and two more with him, walking
by the side of the creek, they came up in a humble, submissive
manner, and begged to be received again into the family. The
Spaniards treated them civilly, but told them they had acted
so unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by
them (the Spaniards), that they could not come to any conclu-
sion without consulting the two Englishmen, and the rest;
but, however, they would go to them, and discourse about it,
and they should know the result in half an hour. It may be
guessed fhat they were very hard put to it; for it seems, as
they were to wait this half-hour for an answer, they begged he
would send them out some bread in the mean time; which he
did, sending them at the same time a large piece of goat's
flesh, and a boiled parrot; which they eat very heartily, for
they were hungry enough.
After half an hour's consultation they were called in, and a
long debate ensued, their two countrymen charging them with
the ruin of all their labor, and a design to murder them; all
which they owned before, and therefore could not deny now;
upon the whole, the Spaniard acted the moderator between
them; and as they had urged the two Englishmen not to hurt
the three, while they were naked and unarmed, so they now
obliged the three to go and build their fellows two huts, one
to be of the same, and the other of larger dimensions than
they were before; to fence their ground again, where they had
pulled up the fences; plant trees in the room of those pulled
up, dig up the land again for planting corn, where they had
spoiled it; and in a word to restore everything to the same
state in which they found it, as near as they could ; for entirely
it could not be, the season for corn, and the growth of the
trees and hedges, being beyond recovery.
Well, they submitted to all this; and as they had plenty of
provisions, they grew more orderly, and the whole society
began to live pleasantly and agreeably together; only that
these three fellows could never be persuaded to work; I
mean, for themselves, except now and then a little, just as
they pleased; however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that
if they would be friendly and live sociably together, and study
the general welfare of the plantation, they would be content to
work for them, and let them walk about and be as idle as they
pleased; having thus lived pretty well together for a month or
two, the Spaniards gave them their arms again, and gave them
liberty to go abroad with them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms, and got
17
abroad, before the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent
and troublesome as before: but, an incident happening pres-
ently upon this, which endangered the safety of them all, they
were obliged to lay by all private resentments, and look to the
preservation of their lives.
It happened one night, that the Spaniard whose life I had
saved, who was now the captain, or leader, or governor of the
rest, found himself very uneasy in the night, and could by no
means get any sleep: he was perfectly well in body, as he told
me the story, only he found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind
ran upon men fighting and killing of one another, while he
was broad awake, he could not by any means get to sleep;
in short, he lay awake a great while; but growing more and
more uneasy, he resolved to rise: as they lay upon goat-skins,
laid thick upon such couches and pads as they had made for
themselves, not in hammocks and ship beds as I did, so they
had little to do, when they were willing to rise, but to get up
on their feet, and perhaps put on a dress, such as it was, and
their shoes. Being up, he looked out; but could see little
or nothing; the darkness, and the trees which I had planted,
were now grown tall, and intercepted his sight, so that he
could only look up, and see that it was a clear starlight
night; and, hearing no noise, he returned and laid him down
again; but still he could not sleep, nor could he compose him-
self to any thing like rest; his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and yet he knew not why.
Having made some noise in rising and walking about, going
out and coming in, another of them waked, and calling, asked
who it was that was up? The governor told him, how it had
been with him. "Say you so," says the other Spaniard;
"such things are not to be slighted; there is certainly some
mischief working near us;" and presently he asked "Where
are the Englishmen?" "They are all in their huts, safe
enough," says he. It seems the Spaniards had kept posses-
sion of the main apartment, making a place, where the three
Englishmen, since their last mutiny, always quartered by
themselves, and could not come at the rest. "Well," says
the Spaniard, "there is something in it, I am persuaded from
my own experience; I am satisfied our embodied spirits con-
verse with, and receive intelligence from spirits unembodied
inhabiting the invisible world; and that this friendly notice is
given for our advantage, if we only know how to make use of
it." "Come," says he, "let us go out and look abroad; and
if we find nothing to justify our trouble, I will tell you a story
to the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my
proposing it."
In a word, they went out to go up to the top of the hill,
where I used to go; but being strong, and in good company,
they used none of my precautions of going up by the ladder,
and then pulling it up to ascend a second stage to the top, but
were going round through the grove unconcerned and unwary,
when they were surprised by seeing a light as of fire, a very
little way off from them, and hearing the voices of men, not of
one or two, but in great number.
In all the discoveries I had made of savages landing on the
island, it was my constant care to prevent them discovering
that there were inhabitants on the island; and when they
came to know it, they felt it so effectually, that they who got
away were scarce able to give any account of it, for we disap-
peared quickly, nor did ever any that had seen me escape to
tell any one else, except the three savages who jumped into the
boat, in our last encounter. It presently appeared of those
men, that so great a number as came now together, came
ignorantly, and by accident, on their usual bloody errand;
and it was their business, either to have concealed themselves,
and avoid being seen at all, so as to lead the savages to sup-
pose there were no inhabitants in the place, or to have fallen
upon them so effectually, as that not a man of them should
have escaped, which could only have been done by getting in
between them and their boats; but this presence of mind was
wanting, the consequence was the ruin of their tranquillity for
a great while.
The governor, and the man with him, surprised at what they
, saw, ran back immediately, and raised their fellows, giving
them an account of the imminent danger they were all in ; they
again as readily took the alarm, but could not be persuaded
to stay close where they were; they must run out to see how
things stood.
While it was dark, indeed, this was all well enough, and
they had opportunity enough, for some hours, to view the sav-
ages by the light of three fires they had made at some distance
from one another; what they were doing was a mystery, and
what to do themselves they knew not; for, first, the enemy
were too numerous to he cut off; and, secondly, they did not
keep together, but were divided into several parties along the
shore.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight;
and finding that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore,
they made no doubt, but that, first or last, some of them would
chop in upon some place or other, where they would see the
token of inhabitants ; they were also in great perplexity for
their flock of goats, for it would have been little less than
starving them, if they should be destroyed; so the first thing
resolved upon was to dispatch three men before it was light,
namely, two Spaniards and an Englishman, to drive all the
goats away to the great valley where the cave was, and, if
need were, to drive them into the very cave itself.
Could they have seen the savages in one body, and at a
distance from their canoes, they would have attacked them if
they had been a hundred; but that could not now be ; they
were some of them two miles apart. After having mused a
great while on the course they should take, and beaten their
brains in considering their present circumstances, they re-
solved at last, while it was still dark, to send out the old
savage (Friday's father) as a spy, to learn, if possible, some-
thing concerning them, what they came for, and what they
intended to do. The old man readily undertook the task, and,
stripping himself naked, as the savages were, away he went:
after he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word, that
he had been among them undiscovered, that he found they
were two parties, and of two several nations at war with one
another: they had had a great battle in their own country, and
both sides, having taken prisoners in the fight, they had by
mere chance landed in the island to feast upon their prisoners,
and make merry; but coming to the same place had spoiled
their mirth; they were in great rage with one another; and
being so near, he believed they would fight again as soon as
daylight appeared; but he did not perceive that they had any
notion of anybody's being on the island but themselves. He
had hardly made an end of his story, when it appeared by the
unusual noise they made, that the two little armies were
engaged in a bloody fight.
Friday's father used every argument he could to persuade
our people to lie close, and not be seen; he told them, their
safety required it, that they had nothing to do but to lie still,
and the savages would kill one another to their hands, and
then the rest would go away; and it would have happened so.
But it was impossible to prevail, especially upon the English-
men ; their curiosity overcame all such prudentials, they must
run out and see the battle; however, they used some caution
too; they went farther into the woods, and placed .themselves
to advantage, where they might securely see the fight, and, as
they thought, remain unseen; but the savages did see them,
as we shall find hereafter.
The battle was very fierce; one of the Englishmen said he
could perceive among them were men of great bravery, of
invincible spirit, and of great policy in guiding the fight. The
battle, he said, held two hours, before they could guess which
party would be beaten; but then it appeared that the party
which was nearest our habitation was the weakest, and after a
time some of them began to fly; this put our men again into
a great consternation, lest any of those that fled should run
for shelter into the grove before their dwelling, and thereby
discover the place. They resolved that they would stand to
their arms within the wall, and whoever came into the grove,
they should sally out over the wall, and kill them, so that
none should return to give an account of it: they ordered
also, that it should be done with their swords, or by knocking
them down with the stock of the musket, but not by shooting
them, for fear of raising an alarm by the noise.
As was expected, so it fell out; three of the routed army
fled for life, and crossing the creek, ran directly into the place,
not in the least knowing whither they went, but running as
into a thick wood for shelter; the scout ^hey kept abroad gave
notice of this within, with the addition, that the conquerors
had not pursued them, or seen which way they went. Upon
this the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would not
suffer them to kill the three fugitives; but sending three men
out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, and
come in behind them, so as to surprise and take them prison-
ers, which was done; the residue of the conquered people fled
to their canoes and got off to sea; the victors retired, making
little or no pursuit, but drawing themselves into a body, gave
two great screaming shouts by way of triumph, and so the
fight ended; the same day, about three o'clock in the after-
noon, they also marched to their canoes. And thus the
island was again free, and they saw no savages for several
years after.
When they were all gone, our people came out of their den;
and, viewing the field of battle, they found about two-and-
thirty dead bodies upon the spot; some were killed with
great long arrows, some of which were found sticking in their
bodies; but most of them were killed with great wooden
swords, sixteen or seventeen of which they found in the field
of battle, and as many bows, with a great many arrows. These
swords were great strange unwieldy things, and they must be
very strong men that used them: most of those that were
killed with them had their heads smashed to pieces, or, as we
call it in English, their brains knocked out, and several of
their arms and legs broken; so that it is evident they fight
with inexpressible rage and fury. We found not one wounded
man that was not stone dead; for either they stay by their
enemy till they have quite killed them, or they carry all the
wounded away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while:
the sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences
appeared terrible to the last degree, even to them, if ever they
should fall into the hands of those creatures, who would not
only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we kill
our cattle. They professed to me, that the thoughts of being
eaten up like beef or mutton, though it was supposed it was
not to be till they were dead, had something in it so horrible,
that it nauseated their very stomachs, made them sick when
they thought of it, and filled their minds with such unusual
terror, that they were not themselves for some weeks after.
This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes I have
been speaking of; and, for a great while after, they were very
tractable, and went about the common business of the society;
they planted, sowed, reaped, and all began to be natural-
ized to the country; but some time after this they fell again
into such measures which brought them into a great deal of
trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I have observed; and
these three being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them
servants, and taught them to work for them; and, as slaves,
they did well enough; but they did not take their measures
with them, as I did by my man Friday; they did not insure
their gratitude upon the principle of having saved their lives,
and then instruct them in the rational principles of life, civil-
izing and reducing them by kind usage and affectionate treat-
ment; but, as they gave them their food every day, so they
gave them their work too, and kept them fully employed in
drudgery; therefore, they never had them to assist them and
fight for them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to
me as the very flesh upon my bones.
Being now all good friends, they began to consider whether,
seeing the savages particularly haunted that side of the island,
and that there were more remote and retired parts of it equally
adapted to their way of living, they should not rather remove
their habitation, and plant in some place of greater security
for their cattle and corn. After long debate, it was concluded
that they would not remove their habitation; because some
time or other they thought they might hear from their governor
again, meaning me; and if I should send any one to seek
them, I should be sure to direct them to that side of the isl-
and, where, if they should find the place demolished, it would
be concluded that the savages had killed us all. But as to
their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove a part of them
into the valley where my cave was, where there was land
enough, and to plant part of their corn there too, so that if one
part was destroyed, the other might be saved; they never,
however, trusted the three savages, their prisoners, with a
knowledge of the plantation they had made in that valley, or
of any cattle, much less of the cave there, which they kept as
a safe retreat in case of necessity; they carried thither also
the two barrels of powder which I had left them. They agreed
also, as I had carefully covered it first with a wall or fortifica-
tion, and then with a grove of trees; so they also set to work
to cover and conceal the place yet more effectually than
before: to this purpose, as I had planted trees for some good
distance before the entrance, they went on in the same man-
ner, and filled up the rest of that whole space of ground, from
the trees I had set, quite down to the side of the creek, where,
as I said, I landed my floats, and even into the very ooze
where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any place to
land, or any sign that there had been any landing thereabout.
This they did by planting stakes as I had done, which being
of wood very forward to grow, they took care to have them
generally much larger and taller than those which I had
planted, and as they planted them thick and close together,
when they had been growing three or four years there was no
piercing into the plantation with the eye to any considerable
way; as for that part which I had planted, the trees were
grown as large as a man's thigh ; and among them they placed
so many other short ones, and so thick, that in a word it stood
a growing, impenetrable palisado for a quarter of a mile: a
little dog could hardly get between the trees, they stood so
close. The same was done by all the ground to the right
hand, and to the left, and round even to the top of the hill;
leaving no way, even for themselves to come out, but by the
ladder placed up to the side of the hill, which was lifted up
after them, and placed again from stage to stage up to the top.
They had lived two years after this in perfect retirement,
and had no more visits from the savages: they had indeed an
alarm given early one morning; for some of the Spaniards
being out on the west end of the island, which, by the way,
was that end where I never went for fear of being discovered,
they saw above twenty canoes of Indians just coming on
shore.
They made the best of their way home, in hurry enough,
giving the alarm to their comrades; they kept close all that
day and the next, going out only at night to make observa-
tion; but wherever the savages went, they did not land that
time on the island. Now, however, they had another broil
with the three Englishmen; one of whom, a most turbulent
fellow, being in a rage with one of the three slaves, because
the fellow had not done something which he bid him do,
and seeming a little untractable on his showing him, drew a
hatchet out of a frog-belt, in which he wore it by his side, fell
upon the poor savage, not to correct, but to kill him. One of
the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the poor fellow a
barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head,
but struck into his shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the
poor creature's arm off, ran to him, and entreating him not to
murder the poor man, stepped in between him and the savage,
to prevent mischief.
The fellow, being enraged the more at this, struck at the
Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would serve him as
he intended to serve the savage; which the Spaniard perceiv-
ing, avoided the blow, and with a shovel, which he had in his
hand (for they all were working in the field about their corn
land), knocked the brute down: another of the Englishmen,
running at the same time to help his comrade, knocked the
Spaniard down; and then two more Spaniards coming to help
their man, the third Englishman fell in upon them. They had
none of them any fire-arms, or other weapons than hatchets
and tools, except this third Englishman; he had one of my old
rusty cutlasses, with which he made at the two last Spaniards
and wounded them both. This fray set the whole family in an
uproar, and more help coming in, they took the three English-
men prisoners. The next question was, What should be done
with them? They had been so often mutinous, and were so
furious, so desperate, and so idle withal, that it was difficult to
know what course to take with them, for they were mischiev-
ous to the highest degree, and valued not what hurt they did
to any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live with
them.
The governor told them in so many words, that if they had
been his own countrymen, he would have hanged them; for
all laws, and all governors, were appointed to preserve society,
and those who were dangerous to the society ought to be
expelled from it; but as they were Englishmen, and it was to
the generous kindness of an Englishman that they all owed
their preservation and deliverance, he would use them with all
possible lenity, and leave them to the judgment of the other
two Englishmen, their fellow-countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said, they
desired it might not be left to them; "for," says he, "I am
sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows;" and with that
he gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the three, had
proposed to have all the five Englishmen join together and
murder all the Spaniards when they were in their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to William
Atkins. , "How, Seignior Atkins," says he, "would you mur-
der us all? What have you to say to that?" That hardened
villain was so far from denying it, that he said it was true, and
declared with an oath that they would do it still before they
had done with them. "Well, but Seignior Atkins," said the
Spaniard, "what have we done to you that you will kill us?
And what would you get by killing us? And what must we
do to prevent you killing us? Must we kill you? Why will
you put us to the necessity of this, Seignior Atkins?" says
the Spaniard very calmly, and smiling.
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's mak-
ing a jest of it, that, had he not been withheld, and without
weapons, he would have attempted to kill the Spaniard in the
middle of all the company.
This hair-brained carriage obliged them to consider seri-
ously what was to be done. The two Englishmen, and the
Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of opinion they
should hang one of the three for an example to the rest; and
that particularly it should be he that had twice attempted to
commit murder with his hatchet; and indeed there was some
reason to believe he had done it, for the poor savage was in
such a miserable condition from the wound he had received,
that it was thought he could not live.
But the governor Spaniard still said, No, it was an English-
man that had saved all their lives, and he would never consent
:o put an Englishman to death; nay, he said, if he had been
killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left to speak,
it should be a request that they should pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the governor Span-
iard, that there was no gainsaying it; and as merciful counsels
are most apt to prevail, where they are so earnestly pressed,
so they all came into it; but then it was to be considered
what should be done to keep them from doing the mischief
they designed; for all agreed, governor and all, that means
were to be used for preserving the society from danger. After
a long debate it was agreed, first, that the three should be
disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun, or powder, or
shot, or sword, or other weapon, and that they should be
turned out of the society, and left to live where they would,
and how they could, by themselves; but that none of he rest,
either Spaniards or English, should converse or have anything
to do with them; that they should be forbid to come within a
certain distance of the place where the rest dwelt; and that if
they offered to commit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill,
or destroy any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or
cattle belonging to the society, that they should be shot down
wherever they could find them.
The governor, a man of great humanity, musing over this
sentence, turned to the two honest Englishmen, and said,
"Hold; you must reflect that it will be long ere they can
raise corn and cattle of their own, and they must not starve;
we must therefore allow them provisions." So he caused to be
added to it, that they should have a proportion of corn given
them to last them eight months, and seed to sow, by which
time they might be supposed to raise some of their own; that
they should have six milch-goats, four he-goats, and six kids,
given them, as well for present subsistence as for a store; and
that they should have tools given them for their work in the
field, such as, six hatchets, an axe, a saw, and the like; but
they should have none of these tools or provisions, unless they
would swear solemnly that they would not use them to the
hurt or injury of the community.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out
to shift for themselves. They went away sullen and refrac-
tory, neither contented to go away or to stay; but as there
was no remedy, they went, pretending to go and choose a
place where they should plant and live by themselves: provis-
ions being given them, but no weapons.
About four or five days after, they came again for some
victuals, and gave the governor an account where they had
pitched their tents, and marked themselves out a habitation
and plantation. It was a very convenient place indeed, on the
remotest part of the island, N. E., much about the place where
I landed in my first voyage, when I was driven out to sea, the
Lord knows whither, in my attempt to sail round the island.
Here they built themselves two handsome huts, close under
the side of the hill, having some trees growing already to the
three sides of it; so that by planting others, it would be very
easily concealed from the sight, unless narrowly searched for.
They desired some dried goat-skins for beds and covering,
which were given them ; and upon giving their words that they
would not disturb the rest, or injure any of their plantations,
hatchets were given them, and what other tools could be
spared: some pease, barley, and rice, for sowing, and, in a
word, all they wanted except arms and ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six months, and
had got in their first harvest, though the quantity was but
small, the quantify of land they had planted being but little;
for, indeed, having all their plantation to form, they had a
great deal of work upon their hands; and when they came to
make boards, and pots, and such things, they were quite out
of their element, and could make nothing of it. When the
rainy season came on, for want of a cave in the earth, they
could not keep their grain dry, and it was in great danger of
spoiling, and this humbled them much; so they came and
begged the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily
did, and in four days worked a great hole in the side of the
hill for them, big enough to secure their corn and other things
from the rain; but it was but a poor place at best, compared
to mine, and especially as mine was then, for the Spaniards
had grea.tly enlarged it, and made several new apartments
in it.
About three quarters of a year after this separation, a new
frolic took these rogues, which, together with their former vil-
lainy, brought mischief enough upon them, and had very near
been the ruin of the whole colony. The three associates
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life they led,
seeing no hope of bettering it; and a whim took them, that
they would make a voyage to the continent from whence the
savages came, and try if they could not seize upon some pris-
oners among the natives there, and bring them home, so as to
make them do the laborious part of the work for them.
The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone no
further; but they did nothing, and proposed nothing, that had
not either mischief in the design, or mischief in the event; so
the three fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning,
and in very humble terms desired to be admitted to speak
with them. The Spaniards very readily heard what they had
to say, which was this: that they were tired of living in the
manner they did; that they were not handy enough to provide
the necessaries they wanted; and that having no help, they
found they should be starved; but if the Spaniards would give
them leave to take one of the canoes which they came over
in, and give them arms and ammunition proportioned for
their defense, they would go over to the main to seek their for-
tune, and so deliver them from the trouble of supplying them
with any other provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them ; •but yet
very honestly represented to them the certain destruction they
were running into ; told them they had suffered such hardships
upon that very spot, that they could, without any spirit of
prophecy, tell them that they would be starved or murdered,
and bade them consider well of it. They replied audaciously
that they should be starved if they stayed here, for they could
not work and would not work, and they could but be starved
abroad; and if they were murdered, there was an end of them,
they had no wives or children to cry after them; and, in
short, insisted importunately upon their demand, declaring
that they would go, whether they would give them arms or no.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they
were resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, in no
condition to defend themselves; and though they could ill
spare their fire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet
they would let them have two muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass,
and each man a hatchet, which they thought sufficient for
them.
In a word, they accepted the offer; and having baked them
bread enough to serve for a month, and given them as much
goat's flesh as they could eat while it was sweet, and a great
basket full of dried grapes, a pot full of fresh water, and a
young kid alive to kill, they boldly set out in a canoe for a
voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty miles broad.
The boat was indeed a large one, and would have very well
carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big
for them to manage; but as they had a fair breeze and the
flood tide with them, they did well enough: they made a mast
of a long pole, and a sail of four large goat-skins dried, which
they had sewed or laced together, and away they went merrily
enough: the Spaniards called after them Bon Veajo, and no
man ever thought of seeing them again. The Spaniards and
the two honest Englishmen would often congratulate each
other on the quiet and comfortable life they led now those
turbulent fellows were gone; as for their ever coming again,
that was the remotest thing from their thoughts; when, be-
hold, after twenty-two days' absence, one of the Englishmen
being abroad upon his planting-work, sees three strange men
coming towards him at a distance, two of them with guns
upon their shoulders.
Away ran the Englishman as if he was bewitched, coming
frighted and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him
they were all undone,.for there were strangers landed upon
the isla•nd; they could not tell who. The Spaniard, pausing
awhile, says to him, "How do you mean, you cannot tell who?
They are the savages to be sure." "No, no," says the Eng-
lishman, "they are men in clothes with arms." "Nay, then,"
says the Spaniard, "why are you concerned? If they are not
savages, they must be friends ; for there is no Christian nation
upon earth but will do us good rather than harm."
While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen,
and standing without the wood which was new planted, hal-
looed to them ; they presently knew their voices, and so all their
wonder ceased. But now the admiration was turned upon
another question, viz., What could be the matter, and what
had brought them back again?
It was not long before the men were brought in; and
inquiring where they had been, and what they had been doing,
they gave them a full account of their voyage — in a few
words, they reached the land in two days, or something less;
but finding the people alarmed at their coming, and preparing
with bows and arrows to fight them, they durst not go on
shore, but sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till
they came to a great opening, by which they perceived that
the land they saw from our island was not the main, but an
island. Entering that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the right hand to the north, and several more to the
west; being resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one
of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on shore; and
found the people very courteous and friendly to them, giving
them roots, and spme dried fish, and appearing very sociable;
the women, as well as the men, being very forward to supply
them with anything they could get for them to eat, bringing it
to them a great way upon their heads.
They continued here four days, and inquired, as well as they
could of them by signs, what nations were this way, and that
way; and were told of several fierce and terrible races that
lived almost every way; who, as they made signs to them,
used to eat men; but as for themselves, they said, they never
eat men or women, except only such as they took in war, and
then they owned that they made a great feast and eat their
prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that
kind ; and they told them about two moons ago, pointing to
the moon, and then to two fingers; and that their great king
had two hundred prisoners now, which he had taken in his
war; and they were feeding them to make them fat for the
next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous to see
those prisoners; but the other mistaking them, thought they
were desirous to have some of them to carry away for their
own eating. So they beckoned to them, pointing to the set-
ting sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify, that the
next morning, at sun-rising, they would bring some for them;
and accordingly, the next morning, they brought down five
women and eleven men, and gave then) to the Englishmen to
carry with them on their voyage, just as we would bring so
many cows and oxen down to a sea-port town to victual a
ship.
Brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to
do: to refuse the prisoners would have been the highest
affront to the savage gentry that offered them; and what to do
with them they knew not. However, after consultation, they
resolved to accept of them; and, in return, they gave the sav-
ages that brought them one of their hatchets, an old key, a
knife, and six or seven of their bullets, which, though they did
not understand, they seemed extremely pleased with: and
then, tying the poor creatures' hands behind them, they (the
people) dragged the poor prisoners into the boat.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they
received them, otherwise they would certainly have been ex-
pected to kill two or three of them the next morning, inviting
the donors at the same time to dinner. Having taken their
leave with all the ceremonies that could pass between people,
neither of whom understood a word said, they put off, and
came back towards Ihe first island, where they set eight of
their prisoners at liberty. In their voyage they endeavored to
communicate with their prisoners, but they could not be made
to understand anything; when unbound the poor creatures
screamed out, especially the women, as if they had just felt the
knife at their throats; for they immediately concluded they
were unbound on purpose to be killed. If they gave them
anything to eat, it was the same thing, it was given for fear
they should sink in flesh; if they looked at one of them more
particularly, it was to see whether he or she was fattest and
fittest to kill; nay, when they began to use them kindly, and
treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner
or a supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable
history of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their
new family was. And being told that they had brought them
on shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come
up to beg some victuals for them, the whole colony resolved to
go down to the place and see them, taking Friday's father
with them.
When they came into the hut there they sat all bound; for
when they had brought them on shore, they bound their hands
that they might not make their escape j there, I say, they sat,
all of them stark naked: first, there were three men, lusty,
comely fellows, well-shaped, straight and fair limbs, about
thirty to thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof two
might be from thirty to forty, two more not above four or five
and twenty, and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen
or seventeen. The women were well-favored, agreeable per-
sons, both in shape and features, only tawny; and two of
them, had they been white, would have passed for very hand-
some women, having very agreeable countenances, and a very
modest behavior, especially when they came afterwards to be
clothed and dressed, though the dress was a very indifferent one.
The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our
Spaniards, who were men of the most calm, sedate tempers,
and perfect good humor, that ever I met with, and, in particu-
lar, of great modesty, as will presently appear. I say the
sight was very uncouth, to see three naked men, and five
naked women, all together bound, and expecting every mo-
ment to be dragged out and have their brains knocked out,
and then to be eaten up like a calf that is killed for a dainty.
The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Fri-
day's father, to go in and see if he knew any of them; and
then, if he understood their speech. As soon as the old man
came in, he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them;
neither could any of them understand a word he said, or a sign
he could make, except one of the women. This was enough,
however; he soon satisfied them that they had fallen into
Christian hands, who abhorred eating men or women, and
assured them they would not be killed ; at this they discovered
such joy, and by such awkward and several ways, as is hard
to describe, for it seems they were of several nations. The
woman who interpreted was now bid to ask them if they were
willing to be servants, and to work for the men who had
brought them away. At which they all fell a dancing; and
presently one fell to taking up this, and another that, anything
that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, as an intimation that
they were willing to work.
The governor, who feared that having the women among
them would presently be attended with some inconveniency,
and that it might occasion strife, and perhaps blood, asked
the three men what they intended to do with these women,
and whether they intended them for servants or wives. One
of the Englishmen answered very boldly and readily that they
would use them as both. To which the governor said, " I am
not going to restrain you from it; you are your own masters
as to that; but to avoid disorders and quarrels among you, I
desire that you will all engage that if any of you take any of
these women as wife, that he shall take but one, and that, hav-
ing taken one, none else should touch her; for it is but rea-
sonable that each should maintain the woman he takes." All
this appeared so just that every one agreed to it without any
difficulty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed
to take any of them? But every one of them answered " No ;"
some of them said they had wives in Spain, and the others did
not like women that were not Christians, and all together
declared that they would not touch one of them; on the other
hand, the five Englishmen took them every one a wife, and so
they set up a new form of living, for the Spaniards and Fri-
day's father lived as before in my old habitation, which they
had enlarged exceedingly within. The three servants which
they had taken in the late battle of the savages, lived with
them; and these carried on the main part of the colony, sup-
plying all the rest with food, and assisting them in anything as
they could, as necessity required.
But the wonder of this story was, how five such refractory,
ill-matched fellows should agree about these women, and that
two of them should not pitch upon the same, especially seeing
two or three of them were, without comparison, more agree-
able than the others; but they took a good way enough to
prevent quarreling among themselves, for they set the five
women by themselves in one of their huts, while they went all
into the other, and drew lots among themselves who should
choose first.
When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus,
and fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition
returned upon them again, and they firmly believed that they
were now going to be devoured; accordingly, when the Eng-
lish sailor came in and fetched out one of them, the rest set
up a most lamentable cry, and hung about her, and took their
leave of her with such agonies and such affection, as would
have grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor was it pos-
sible for the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not to
be immediately murdered, till they fetched the old man, Fri-
day's father, who instantly let them know, that the five men
who had fetched them out one by one, had chosen them for
their wives.
When they had done, and the fright the women were in was
a little over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came
and helped them; and, in a few hours, they had built them
every one a new hut or tent for their lodging apart, for those
they had already were crowded with their tools, household
stuff, and provisions. The three wicked ones had pitched
farthest off, and the two honest ones nearer, but both on the
north shore of the island, so that they continued separated as
before; and thus my island was peopled in three places, and,
as I might say, three towns were planted.
And here it is very well worth observing that, as it often
happens in the world, the two honest fellows had the two
worst wives, and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth
hanging, had three clever, diligent, careful, and ingenious
wives; not that the two first were bad wives as to their tem-
per or humor, for all the five were most willing, quiet, passive
creatures, rather like slaves than wives, but they were not
alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or alike cleanly and
neat. Another observation I must make in honor of a dili-
gent application on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothful,
negligent, idle temper on the other ; when I came to the place,
and viewed the several improvements, the two men had far
outdone the three; they had indeed both of them as much
ground laid out for corn as they wanted, for nature dictated
that it was to no purpose to sow more corn than they wanted;
but the difference of the cultivation, of the planting, of the
fences, and, indeed, of everything else, was easy to be seen at
a glance.
The two men had innumerable young trees planted about
their huts, and though they had twice had their plantation
demolished, once by their own countrymen, and once by the
enemy, yet they had restored it again, and everything was
thriving and flourishing about them; they had grapes planted
in order, and managed like a vineyard. They had also found
out a retreat in the thickest part of the woods, where, though
there was no natural cave, as I had found, yet they had made
one with the incessant labor of their hands, where they secured
their wives and children from the enemy, having, by sticking
innumerable stakes and poles of quick growing wood, made
the wood impassable, except in one place, where they climbed
up to get over the outside part, and then went in by ways of
their own making.
As to the other three, though they were more civilized and
much less quarrelsome, having not the same opportunity, yet
one of the certain companions of a profligate mind never left
them, and that was their idleness. It is true they planted
corn and made fences; but Solomon's words were never better
verified than in them, — "I went by the vineyard of the sloth-
ful, and it was overgrown with thorns ;" for when the Span-
iards came to view their crop, they could not see it in some
places for weeds; the hedge had several gaps in it, where the
wild goats had got in and eaten up the corn; perhaps here
and there a dead bush was crammed in to stop them out for
the present, but it was only shutting the stable door after the
steed was stolen; whilst the two verified Solomon's words in
another place, "That the diligent hand makes rich;" for
everything grew and thrived, and they had plenty within and
without; they had more tame cattle than the other, more
utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more pleasure
and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and
cleanly within doors; and having learned the English ways of
dressing and cooking from one of the Englishmen, who, as I
said, was cook's mate on board the ship, they dressed their
husbands' victuals very nicely indeed, whereas the other could
not be brought to understand it; but then the husband, who,
as I say, had been cook's mate, did it himself; but the men
themselves loitered about, fetched turtle's eggs, and caught
fish and birds: in a word, anything but labor, and they fared
accordingly: the diligent lived well and comfortable, and the
slothful lived hard and beggarly; and so I believe, generally
speaking, it is all over the world.
Early one morning there came on shore five or six canoes
of Indians, or savages, call them which you please; and there
is no room to doubt they came upon the old errand of feeding
upon their prisoners, but that part was now so familiar to the
Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not concern
themselves much about it, their only business was to lie con-
cealed, and if they were not seen by any of the savages, they
would go off again quietly when their business was done, hav-
ing as yet not the least notion of there being any inhabitants
in the island. But an accident spoiled all their measures, and
made it known among the savages that there were inhabitants
there, which in the end led to the desolation of the whole
colony. After the canoes with the savages had gone off, the
Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them had the
curiosity to go to the place where they had been to see what
they had been doing. Here, to their great surprise, they
found three savages left behind, lying fast asleep upon the
ground; it was supposed that they had either been so gorged
with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they fell asleep, and
would not stir when the others went, or they had wandered
into the woods, and did not come back in time.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and
perfectly at a loss what to do: the Spaniard governor, as it
happened, was with them, and his advice was asked; but he
professed he knew not what to do: as for slaves, they had
enough already; and as to killing them, they were none of
them inclined to that. The Spaniard governor told me they
could not think of shedding innocent blood; for as to them,
the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded none of
their property, and they thought they had no just quarrel
against them to justify them in taking away their lives.
After some consultation, therefore, they resolved that they
would lie still a while longer, till, if possible, these three men
might be gone; but then the governor Spaniard recollected
that the three savages had no boat, and that if they were left
to rove about the island, they would certainly discover that
there were inhabitants in it, and so they should be undone
again in that way.
Upon this they went back again, and found the fellows fast
asleep still; so they resolved to waken them, and take them
prisoners, and they did so: the poor fellows were strangely
frighted when they were seized upon and bound; they were
afraid, like the women, that they should be murdered and
eaten.
It was very fortunate that they did not carry them home to
their castle, I mean to my palace under the hill; but to the
bower, where was the chief country work, such as the keeping
the goats, planting the corn, &c., and afterwards they carried
them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here they were set to work, though it was not much they
had for them to do; and whether it was by negligence in
guarding them, or that they thought the fellows could not
mend themselves, I know not, but one of them run away; and
taking to the woods, they never saw him more. They had
good reason to believe, however, that he got home in some
other boats or canoes of savages, who came on shore three or
four weeks afterwards, on one of their revels, and went off
again in two days' time. This incident terrified them all ex-
ceedingly; for they concluded, and that not without good
cause, that if this fellow got home among his comrades, he
would certainly give report that there were people in the
island, and how weak and few they were; for this savage, as I
observed before, had never been told, and it was very happy
he had not, how many they were in all, or where they lived,
nor had he ever seen or heard the report of their guns: he
knew nothing of the cave in the valley, or of the new retreat
which the two Englishmen had made.
About two months after this, six canoes of savages, with
about seven or eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing
along the north side of the island, where they never used to
come before, landing about an hour after sunrise, at a conven-
ient place, a mile or so from the habitation of the two English-
men, where the man had been kept. As the Spaniard governor
said, had they been all there, the damage would not have been
so much, for not a man of them would have escaped; but the
case differed now very much, for two men to fifty was great
odds. The two men had the happiness to discover them
about a league off, so that it was above an hour before they
landed; and as they landed a mile from the huts, it was some
time before they could come at them. Now having great
reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first thing they
did was to bind the two slaves which were left, and cause two
of the three men, brought with the women, who, it seems,
proved very faithful to them, to lead them with their two
wives, and whatever they could carry away with them, to their
retirement in the woods, and there to bind the two fellows
hand and foot till they heard farther.
In the next place, seeing the savages all come on shore, and
that they bent their course directly that way, they opened the
fences where their milch-goats were kept, and drove them all
out to straggle into the woods, whither they pleased, that the
savages might think they were all bred wild. When the two
poor frighted men had secured their wives and goods, they
sent the other slave they had of the three, who came with the
women, and who was at their place by accident, away to the
Spaniards with all speed, to give the alarm, and desire speedy
help; and in the mean time they took their arms, and what
ammunition they had, and retreated towards the place in the
wood where their wives were sent, keeping at a distance; yet
so that they might see, if possible, which way the savages
took.
They had not gone so far, but that from a rising ground,
they could see the little army of their enemies come on di-
rectly to their habitation, and in a moment more could see all
their huts and household stuff flaming up together, to their
great grief and mortification; for they sustained a loss, to
them irretrievable, at least for some time. They kept their
station, however, till they found the savages, like wild beasts,
spread themselves all over the place, rummaging every way,
and every place they could think of, in search of prey; and,
in particular, for the people, of whom it now plainly appeared
they had had intelligence. Seeing this, the two Englishmen,
not thinking themselves secure where they were, thought it
proper to make another retreat about half a mile farther,
believing, as it afterwards happened, that the farther they
strolled, the fewer of the savages would be found together.
The next halt was at the entrance of a very thick-grown
part of the woods, where stood an old trunk of a tree, which
was hollow, and vastly large; in this tree they both took their
stand, resolving to see what might offer.
They had not stood there long, when two of the savages
appeared running directly that way, as if they had already had
notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack them.
A little farther off they spied three more coming after them,
and five more beyond them, all coming the same way; besides
this, they saw seven or eight more at a distance running an-
other way; in a word, they ran in every direction, like sports-
men beating for game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity, whether they
should stand, and keep their posture, or fly; but after a very
short debate with themselves, they considered, that if the sav-
ages ranged the country thus, before help came, they might,
perhaps, find out their retreat in the woods, and then all would
be lost; so they resolved to wait for them there; and if there
were too many to deal with, then they would get to the top of
the tree, from which they doubted not their ability to defend
themselves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition lasted,
even though all the savages who landed, which was near fifty,
were to attack them.
Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether
they should fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and so
take the middle party; by which the two and the five that
followed would be separated; and they resolved to let the
two first pass by, unless they should spy them in the tree, and
come to attack them. The two first savages confirmed them
in this resolution, by turning away towards another part of the
wood; but the three, and the five after them, came forward
directly to the tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were
there. Seeing them come so straight towards them, they
resolved to take them in a line as they came, and fire one at a
time ; perhaps the first shot might hit them all three; to which
purpose, the man who was to fire put three or four small bul-
lets into his piece, and having a fair loophole, as it were, from
a broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being
seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards of the
tree, so that he could not miss. As the savages came on, they
plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that
had escaped from them ; they both knew him distinctly, and
resolved that he should not escape; so the other stood ready
with his piece, to fire a second, in case he did not drop at the
first shot. But the first was too good a marksman to miss.
As the savages kept near one another, in a line, he fired, and
hit two of them directly: the foremost was killed outright,
being shot in the head; the second, which was the runaway
Indian, was shot through the body, and fell, but was not quite
dead; and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, per-
haps by the same ball that went through the body of the
second; and being dreadfully frighted, though not much hurt,
he sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling in a hid-
eous manner.
The five that were behind, more frighted by the noise than
sensible*of the danger, stood still at first; for the woods made
the sound a thousand times bigger than it really was; the
echoes rattling from one side to another, and the fowls rising
from all parts, screaming and making every sort of noise,
according to their kind.
All being silent again, however, and not knowing what the
matter was, they came on unconcerned till they came to the
place where their companions lay, in a condition miserable
enough; and here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible
that they were within reach of the same mischief, stood hud-
dled over the wounded man, talking, and, as may be sup-
posed, inquiring of him how he came to be hurt: he told them
that a flash of fire first, and immediately after that, thunder
from their gods, had killed those two, and wounded him. Oui
two men, though, as they confessed to me, it grieved them to
kill so many poor creatures, who at the same time had no
notion of their danger; yet, having them all thus in their
power, and the first having loaded his piece again, resolved to
let fly both together among them; and, singling out by agree-
merit which to aim at, they shot together, and killed, or very
much wounded, four of them; the fifth, frighted even to death,
though not hurt, fell with the rest; so that our men, seeing
them all fall together, thought they had killed them all.
This belief made our two men come boldly out from the
tree before they had charged their guns again, which was a
wrong step; and they were under some surprise, when they
came to the place, and found no less than four of the men
still alive, and of these, two very little hurt, and one not at
all: this obliged them to fall upon them with the stocks of
their muskets, and first they made sure of the runaway savage
that had been the cause of all the mischief; and of another
that was hurt in the knee, they put them out of their pain;
then the man that was not hurt at all came and kneeled before
them, with his two hands held up, and made a piteous appeal
to them, by gestures and signs, for his life; but could not say
one word to them that they understood.
However, they signed to him to sit down at the foot of a
tree there by; and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope-
twine, which he had by great chance in his pocket, tied his
two feet fast together, and his two hands behind him, and
there they left him; and with what speed they could, made
after the other two which were gone before, fearing that they,
or some other of them, should find the way to their covered
place in the woods, where their wives and goods they had left
lay. They came once in sight of the two men, but it was at a
great distance; however, they had the satisfaction to see them
cross over a valley, towards the sea, in a direction quite con-
trary to that which led to their retreat. Satisfied with this,
they went back to the tree where they had left their pris-
oner; but he was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn, with
which they had bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were now as greatly concerned as before, not knowing
what course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in
what numbers; so they resolved to go towards the place where
their wives were, to see if all was well there, and relieve their
anxiety; for though the savages were their own country folk,
yet they were terribly afraid of them, the more, perhaps, for
the knowledge they had of them.
When they reached it, they found the savages had been in
the wood, and very near the place, but had not found it; for
it was indeed rendered all but inaccessible, the trees standing
so thick before it, that it could only be found by persons seek-
ing it, directed by those that knew it: they found everything
very safe, only the women in a terrible fright. Here they had
the comfort of seeing seven of the Spaniards come to their
assistance; the other ten, with their servants, and Old Friday,
I mean Friday's father, were gone in a body to defend their
bower, and the corn and cattle kept there, in case the savages
should have roved over to that side of the country; but they
did not spread so far. With the seven Spaniards, came one
of the three savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners for-
merly, and with them also came the savage the Englishmen
had left bound hand and foot at the tree; for it seems they
came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and un-
bound the eighth, and brought him along with them, where,
however, they were obliged to bind him again, as they had the
two others, who were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a burden to them; and they
were so afraid of their escaping, that they were resolving to
kill them all, believing they were under an absolute necessity
to do so, for their own preservation; but the Spaniard gov-
ernor would not consent to it; he ordered, for the present,
that they should be sent to my old cave in the valley, and
kept there, with two Spaniards to guard them. They were
bound there hand and foot for that night.
The two Englishmen were so encouraged by the presence
of the Spaniards, that they were not inclined to stay any longer
there; but taking five of the Spaniards, with four muskets and
a pistol among them, and two stout quarter-staves, away they
went in quest of the savages; first, they came to the tree
where the men lay that had been killed; but it was easy to
see that some more of the savages had been there; for they
had attempted to carry their dead men away, and had dragged
two of them a good way, but had given it over: from thence
they advanced to the first rising ground, whence they had seen
their camp destroyed, and where they had the mortification
still to see the smoke rising; but neither could they here see
any of the savages: they then resolved, though with all possi-
ble caution, to go forward towards their ruined plantation ; but
before reaching it, coming in sight of the sea-shore, they
plainly saw the savages embarking in their canoes. They
were sorry at first to find there was no way to come at them,
to give them a parting blow; but, upon the whole, they were
very well satisfied to be rid of them.
The poor Englishmen being thus a second time ruined, and
all their property destroyed, the others agreed to help•them to
rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies. Their three
countrymen, not noted for any inclination to do good, never-
theless, when they heard of their misfortunes (for they, living
remote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till all was over),
offered their help and assistance, and did very friendly work
for several days, to restore their habitation, and prepare
necessaries for them; and thus, in a little time, they were set
upon their legs again.
Two days after this, they had the farther satisfaction of
seeing three of the savages' canoes come driving on shore, and
at some distance from them, two drowned men; by which they
had reason to believe, that they had met with a storm at sea,
which had overset some of them; for it had blown very hard
the very night after they went off.
It was five or six months after this, before they heard any
more of the savages: in this time our men were in hopes they
had either forgot their former disasters, or given up all hopes
of better success, when, on a sudden, the island was invaded
by a formidable fleet of no less than eight-and-twenty canoes
full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs,
wooden swords, and such like engines of war; they were in
such numbers that it threw all our people into the utmost con-
sternation.
As they landed in the evening, and at the easternmost side
of the island, our men had that night to consult and consider
what to do; in the first place, knowing that their being en-
tirely concealed was their only safety formerly, so it would be
much more so now, when their enemies were so numerous.
They resolved, therefore, first of all to pull down the huts
which were built for the two Englishmen, and drive away their
goats to the old cave; supposing that the savages would go
directly thither, as soon as it was day, to play the old game
over again, though they did not now land within two leagues
of it.
In the next place, they drove away all the flock of goats
they had at the old bower, as I called it, which belonged to
the Spaniards; in short, they left as little appearance of inhab-
itants anywhere as was possible; and the next morning early
they posted themselves, with all their force, at the plantation
of the two men, to wait for their coming. As they guessed, so
it happened; these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the
east end of the island, came ranging along the shore, directly
towards the place, to the number of two hundred and fifty, as
near as our men could judge. Our force was small indeed;
but what was worse, they had not arms for all their number.
The whole account, it seems, stood thus. First as to men.
Seventeen Spaniards, five Englishmen, one Old Friday, or
Friday's father; three the three slaves, taken with the women,
who proved very faithful; three other slaves who lived with
the Spaniards.
To arm these they had eleven muskets, five pistols, three
fowling-pieces, five muskets, or fowling-pieces, which were
taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced; two
swords, three old halberds.
To the slaves they did not give either musket or fusil, but
they had every one a halberd, or long staff, like a quarter-staff,
with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by
his side a hatchet: also every one of our men had hatchets.
Two of the women could not be prevailed upon, but they
would come into the fight; and they had bows and arrows,
which the Spaniards had taken from the savages, when the
first action happened, which I have spoken of, where the
Indians fought with one another; the women had hatchets
too.
The Spaniard governor, who I have described so often,
commanded the whole; and Wm. Atkins, who, though a
dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a bold daring fellow, com-
manded under him. The savages came forward like lions,
and our men, which was the worst of their fate, had no advan-
tage in their situation; only that Will Atkins, who now proved
a most useful fellow, with six men, was planted just behind a
small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, with orders to
let the first band of them pass by, and then fire into the mid-
dle of them; retreating as nimbly as he could, as soon as he
had fired, round a part of the wood, and so coming in behind
the Spaniards, who.stood with a thicket of trees also before
them.
When the savages came on, they ran straggling about in
every direction without order; Atkins let about fifty of them
pass; then, seeing the rest coming in a very thick throng, he
ordered three of his men to fire, having loaded their muskets
with six or seven bullets a-piece, each about as big as large
pistol bullets. How many they killed or wounded they never
knew; but the consternation and surprise among the savages
was inexpressible ; they were frighted to the last degree to
hear such a dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and
others wounded, but seeing nobody that did it; while in the
middle of their fright, Atkins, and his other three, let fly again
among the thickest of them; and in less than a minute, the
other three being again loaded, gave them a third volley. Had
Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as they had
fired, as they were ordered to do; or had the rest of the body
been at hand to have poured in their shot eontinually, the
savages had now been effectually routed; for their terror prin-
cipally arose from the superstitious dread that they were killed
by the gods with thunder and lightning, not seeing by whom
they were hurt; but Atkins, staying to load again, revealed
the cheat; some of the savages, who were at a distance, spying
them, came upon them behind; and though Atkins and his
men fired at them also, two or three times, and killed above
twenty, retiring as fast as they could, yet they wounded Atkins
himself, and killed one of his fellow Englishmen with their
arrows, as they did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the
Indian slaves who came with the women. This slave was a
most gallant fellow, and fought most desperately, killing five
of them with his own hand, he having no weapon but one of
the armed staves, and a hatchet.
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two
other men killed, they retreated to a rising ground in the
wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon them,
retreated also; for their number was so great, that though
above fifty of them were killed, and more wounded, yet they
came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of danger, and shot
their arrows like a cloud; and it was observed, that their
wounded men, when not quite disabled, were made outrageous
by their wounds, and fought like madmen.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the
Englishman, that were killed, behind them; and the savages,
when they came up to them, vented their rage on their bodies
in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs, and heads,
with their clubs and wooden swords, like true savages. But,
finding our men were gone, they did not seem inclined to pur-
sue them; but drew themselves up in a kind of ring, which is,
it seems, their custom, and shouted twice, in token of their
victory; after which they had the mortification of seeing
several of their wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss
of blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up
together, upon a rising ground, Atkins, though iie was
wounded, would have had him march, and cha/.ge them
again all together at qnce; but the prudent Spaniard re-
plied, "Seignfor Atkins, you see how their wounded men
fight; let them alone till morning; all these wounded men
will be stiff and sore with their wounds, and faint with the
loss of blood; and so we shall have the fewer to engage."
The advice was good; but Will Atkins replied merrily, "That
is true, Seignior, and so shall I be too; and that is the reason
I would go on while I am warm." "Well, Seignior Atkins,"
says the Spaniard, "you have behaved gallantly, and done
your part; we will fight for you, if you cannot come on; but
I think it best to stay till morning ;" so they waited.
But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the
savages in great disorder about their dead and wounded, and
great apparent confusion and noise among them wnere they
lay, it was resolved to fall upon them in the night, especially
if they could give them but one volley before they were dis-
covered, which they had a fair opportunity of doing, for one
of the two Englishmen, in whose quarter the fight began, led
them round between the woods and the sea-side, westward, and
then turning short south, they came so near where the thickest
of them lay, that before they were seen or heard, eight mus-
kets were fired in among them, and did dreadful execution;
in half a minute more eight others followed, pouring in their
small shot in such a quantity, that abundance were killed and
wounded; and all this while they were not able to see who
hurt them, or which way to fly.
The Spaniards charged again, with the utmost expedition,
and then divided themselves into three bodies, resolved to fall
in among them all together; they in each body eight persons,
that is to say, twenty-four, whereof were twenty-two, men and
two women, who, by the way, fought desperately.
They divided the fire-arms equally in each party, and so of
the halberds and staves. They would have had the women
keep back; but they said they were resolved to die with their
husbands. Having thus formed their little army, they marched
out from among the trees, and came up to the very teeth of
the enemy, shouting and hallooing as loud as they could; the
savages stood all together, but in the utmost confusion, hear-
ing the noise of our men shouting from three quarters to-
gether; they would have fought if they had seen us; and, as
soon as we came near enough to be seen, some arrows were
shot, and poor Old Friday was wounded, though not danger-
ously. But our men gave them no time; running up to them,
they fired among them three ways, and then fell in with the
butt-ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and
hatchets, and laid about them so well, that, in a word, the
savages set up a dismal screaming and howling, and fled in all
directions to save their lives.
Our men were tired with the execution; they killed or mor-
tally 'vounded, in the two fights, about 180 of them ; the rest
being frighted out of their wits, scoured through the woods,
and over the hills, with all the speed fear and nimble feet
could give them; and, as we did not trouble ourselves much
to pursue them, they got all together to the sea-side, where
they had landed, and where their canoes still lay. But their
disaster was not at an end yet; for it blew a terrible storm of
\
wind that evening from the seaward, so that it was impossible
for them to go off; nay, the storm continuing all night, when
the tide came up, their canoes were most of them driven by
the surge of the sea so high upon the shore that it required
infinite toil to get them off again; and some of them were
even dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one
another.
Our men, though cheered by victory, yet got little rest that
night; but having refreshed themselves as well as they could,
they resolved to march to that part of the island where the
savages had fled. This necessarily led them over the place
where the fight took place, where they found several of the
poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past recovery; a sight
disagreeable enough to generous minds. The savages, who
were their servants, dispatched those poor creatures with their
hatchets. At length they came in view of the miserable re-
mains of the army of savages. There appeared to be about
100 still; their posture was generally sitting upon the ground,
with their knees up towards their mouth, and the head put
between the two hands, leaning down upon the knees. When
our men came within two musket shot of them, the Spaniard
governor ordered two muskets to be fired without ball, to
alarm them; this he did, that by their countenance he might
know what to expect, namely, whether they were still in heart
to fight, or were so heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and
discouraged. The stratagem took; for as soon as the savages
heard the first gun, and saw the flash of the second, they
started up to their feet in the greatest consternation imagin-
able; and as our men advanced swiftly towards them, they all
ran away screaming and yawling, with a kind of howling noise
which our men did not understand, never having heard it
before; and thus they ran up the hills into the country. At
first, our men had much rather that the weather had been
calm, and that they all had got away to sea; but they did not
then consider, that this would probably have been the occasion
of their coming again in such multitudes as to be irresistible,
or, at least, in such numbers, and so often, as to desolate the
island, and starve them out. Will Atkins, therefore, who, not-
withstanding his wound, kept always with them, proved the
best counsellor in this case • his advice was, to take the advan-
tage that offered, and clap in between them and their boats,
and so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any
more to plague the island.
They consulted long about this; some were against it, for
fear of making the wretches fly into the woods, and become
desperate; when they would have to hunt them down like
beasts, having their plantations continually rifled, .and their
tame goats destroyed.
Will Atkins told them, they had better have to do with 100
men, than with 100 nations; that as they must destroy their
boats, so they must destroy the men, or be destroyed them-
selves. In a word, he showed them the necessity of it so
plainly, that they all came into his plan; they went to work
immediately with the boats, and, getting some dry wood
together from a dead tree, they tried to set them on fire; but
they were so wet, that they would not burn. However, the
fire so burned the upper part, that it soon made them unfit
for swimming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw
what they were about, some of them came running out of the
woods, and coming as near as they could to our men, kneeled
down and cried, "Oa, Oa, Waramakoa," and some other
words of their language, which none of the others understood;
but as they made pitiful gestures and strange noises, it was
easy to see they begged to have their boats spared, and that
they would be gone, and never come there again.
But our men were now satisfied that they had no way to
preserve themselves, or to save their colony, but effectually to
prevent any of these people from ever going home again;
depending upon this, that if ever one of them got back to tell
the story, the colony was undone; so that letting them know
that they should not have any mercy, they fell to work with
their canoes, and destroyed every one that the storm had not
destroyed before; at this sight the savages raised a hideous
cry in the woods; after which they ran about the island like
distracted men; so that, in a word, our men did not know
what to do with them.
While they thus made those people desperate, the Span-
iards did not, as they ought to have done, keep very good
guard upon their plantations; for though they had driven
away the cattle, and the Indians did not find out their main
retreat, namely, my old castle at the hill, nor the cave in the
valley; yet they found out the bower, and pulled it all to
pieces, breaking all the fences and planting about it; trod all
the corn under foot; tore up the vines and grapes, then
almost ripe; and did an inestimable damage, though to them-
selves, not one farthing worth of service. Though our men
were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet they were in
no condition to pursue them; they were too nimble of foot for
our men when they found them singly, and our men durst not
go about singly, for fear of being surrounded by numbers;
fortunately, they had no weapons; for though they had bows,
they had no arrows left, nor any materials to make them.
The distress they were reduced to was indeed deplorable;
but our men were also very much harassed; for though their
retreats were preserved, yet their provision was destroyed, and
their harvest spoiled ; and what to do they knew not; the only
refuge they had was the stock of cattle in the valley by the
cave, and some little corn which grew there, and the planta-
tion of the three Englishmen, now reduced to two, one of them
being killed by an arrow, which struck him on the side of his
head, just under the temples, so that he never spoke more.
The first thing concluded upon was to drive them up to the
farther part of the island, so that if any more savages came on
shore, they might not find one another; then, that they would
daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many of them as they
could come at, till they had reduced their number; and if
they could at last tame them, they would give them corn, and
teach them how to plant, and live upon their daily labor. In
order to this, they followed them, and so terrified them with
their guns, that if any of them fired a gun at an Indian, even
if he did not hit him, he would fall down from fear. So dread-
fully frighted they were, that they kept out of sight, farther
and farther, till at last our men, following them, and every
day killing or wounding some of them, they kept so much up
in the woods and hollow places, that they were reduced to the
utmost misery for want of food; and many were afterwards
found dead in the woods, starved to death.
When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and
pity especially moved the Spaniard governor, who was a gen-
tlemanly, generous-minded man. He proposed, if possible, to
take one of them alive, and bring him to act as interpreter, to
go among his fellows, and see if they might be brought to
some conditions, that might lead to saving their lives. One
of them was at last surprised, weak, and half-starved. He
was sullen at first, and would neither eat nor drink; but find-
ing himself kindly treated, and no violence offered him, he at
last grew tractable. They brought Old Friday to him, who
talked often with him, and told him how kind the others would
be to them all; that they would not only save their lives-, but
would give them a part of the island to live in, provided they
would agree to keep in their own bounds, and not come
beyond it, to injure or prejudice others; that they should
have corn given them to plant and grow for their bread, bread
also for their present subsistence; and Old Friday bade the
fellow go and talk with his countrymen, and see what they said
to it; assuring them, that if they did not agree immediately,
they should be all destroyed.
The poor wretches, humbled, and reduced in number to
about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer,
and begged to have some food given them; upon which
twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed, with three
Indian slaves, and Old Friday, marched to the place where
they were; the three Indian slaves carried them a large quan-
tity of bread, some rice boiled up to cakes, and dried in the
sun, and three live goats; and they were ordered to go to the
side of a hill, where they sat down, eat the provisions very
thankfully, and turned out most faithful fellows to their
words; for, except when they came to beg victuals, they
never came out of their bounds.
They had been taught both to plant corn, make bread, breed
tame goats, and milk them; they wanted nothing but wives,
and they soon would have been a nation: they were confined
to a neck of land, surrounded by high rocks behind them, and
a plain lying towards the sea before them, on the southeast
corner of the island; they had land enough, and it was very
good and fruitful; about a mile and a half broad, and three
or four miles in length. Our men had taught them to make
wooden spades, such as I had made for myself; and gave
them twelve hatchets, and three or four knives; and there
they lived, the most harmless, innocent creatures that ever
were heard of. After this the colony enjoyed a perfect tran-
quillity from attacks of the savages; not but that now and
then some canoes of savages came on shore for their triumphal,
unnatural feasts; but as they were of several nations, and,
perhaps, had never heard of those that came before, or the
reason of it, they did not make any search or inquiry after
their countrymen; and if they had, it would have been very
hard to have found them out.
Thus, I have given a full account of all that had happened
to the time of my return, at least, that was worth notice. The
Indians, or savages, were wonderfully civilized by them; they
frequently went among them, but forbid, on pain of death, any
one of the Indians coming to them, because they would not
have their settlement betrayed again.
One thing was very remarkable, namely, that the}' taught
the savages to make wicker work, or baskets; but they soon
outdid their masters; for they made abundance of most ingen-
ious things in wicker work; particularly all sorts of baskets,
sieves, bird-cages, cupboards, &c., as also chairs to sit on,
stools, beds, couches, and abundance of other things, being
very ingenious at such work, when they were once put in the
way of it.
My coming was a particular relief to these people, because
we furnished them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pick-
axes, and all things of that kind which they could want.
With the help of these tools they were so very handy, that
they came, at last, to build up their huts, or houses, very
handsomely; raddling, or working it up like basket work, all
the way round, which was a very extraordinary piece of ingen-
uity, and looked very odd; but was an exceeding good fence,
as well against heat as against all sorts of vermin; and our
men were so taken with it, that they got the savages to come
and do the like for them; so that when I came to see the two
Englishmen's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if they
lived like bees in a hive; and as for Atkins, who was now
become a very industrious, necessary, and sober fellow, he
had made himself such a tent of basket work, as I believe was
never seen. It was 120 paces round in the outside, as I meas-
ured by my steps; the walls were as close worked as a
basket, in panels or squares, of thirty-two in number, and very
strong, standing about seven foot high: in the middle was
another not above twenty-two paces round, but built still
stronger, being eight square in its form, and in the eight
corners stood eight very strong posts, round the top of
which he laid strong pieces, pinned together with wooden
pins, from which he raised a pyramid for a roof of eight
rafters, very handsome, I assure you, and very well joined
together, though he had no nails, and only a few iron spikes,
which he made himself, out of the old iron that I had left
there; and indeed, this fellow showed abundance of ingenuity
in several things; he made a forge, with a pair of wooden
bellows to blow the fire: he made himself charcoal for his
work, and he formed out of one of the iron crows a middling
good anvil to hammer upon; in this manner he made many
things, but especially hooks, staples and spikes, bolts and
hinges. But to return to the house; after he had pitched the
roof of his innermost tent, he worked it up between the rafters
with basket work, so firm, and thatched that over again so
ingeniously with rice straw, and over that a large leaf of a
tree, which covered, the top, that his house was as dry as if it
had been tiled or slated. He owned, indeed that the savages
made the basket work for him.
The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all round this
inner apartment, and long rafters lay from the two-an•d-thirty
angles to the top posts of the inner house, being-about-twenty
foot distant; so that there was a space like a walk within the
outer wicker wall, and without the inner, near twenty foot wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker
work, but much fairer, and divided it into six apartments, so
that he had six rooms on a floor, and out of every one of these
there was a door; first, into the entry, or coming into the
main tent; and another door into the space or walk that was
round it; so that walk was also divided into six equal parts,
which served not only for retreat, but to store up any neces-
saries which the family had occasion for. These six spaces
not taking up the whole circumference, what other apartments
the outer circle had, were thus ordered: as soon as you were
in at the door of the outer circle, you had a short passage
straight before you to the door of the inner house; but on
either side was a wicker partition, and a door in it, by which
you went, first, into a large room, or store-house, twenty foot
wide, and about thirty foot long, and through that into another
not quite so long: so that in the outer circle were ten hand-
some rooms, six of which were only to be come at through the
apartments of the inner tent, and served as closets or retiring
rooms to the respective chambers of the inner circle : and four
large warehouses or barns, or what you please to call them,
which went in through one another, two on either hand of the
passage that led through the outer door to the inner tent.
Such a piece of basket work, I believe, was never seen in
the world before; nor a house or tent so neatly contrived,
much less so built: in this great bee-hive lived the three
families; that is to say, W. Atkins, and his companion; the
third was killed, but his wife remained with three children;
for she was, it seems, big with child when he died; and the
other two were not at all backward to give the widow her full
share of everything, I mean, as to their corn, milk, grapes,
&c.; and when they killed a kid, or found a turtle on the
shore; so that they all lived well enough, though it was true,
they were not so industrious as the other two, as has been
observed already.
Having made myself thoroughly acquainted with the state
of the colony, I entered into a serious discourse with the
Spaniard, whom I called governor, about their stay in the
island; for as I was not come to carry any of them off, so it
would not be just to take some and leave others.
On the other hand, I told him, I came to establish them
there, not to remove them; and then I let them all know, that
I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them. That
I had been at a great charge to supply them with all things
necessary, as well for their convenience as their defence; and
that I had such and such particular persons with me, as well
to increase and recruit their number, as by the particular
necessary employments which they were bred to, being artif-
icers, to assist them in those things, in which, at present, they
were to seek.
They were all together when I talked thus to them; and
before I delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked
them one by one, if they had entirely forgot and buried their
early animosities, and would shake hands with one another,
and engage in a strict friendship, and union of interests, so
that there might be no more misunderstandings or jealousies.
Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good-humor,
said, they had met with afflictions enough to make them all
sober, and enemies enough to make them all friends. That,
for his part, he would live and die with them; and was so far
from designing anything against the Spaniards, that, he owned,
they had done nothing but what his own mad humor made
necessary, and that he would have done, perhaps, much worse
in their case: and that he would ask their pardon, if I desired
it, for the foolish and brutish things he had done to them; he
was willing and desirous of living on terms of entire friendship
and union with them; and would do anything that lay in his
power to convince them of it: as for going to England, he
cared not if he did not go thither this twenty years.
The Spaniards said, they had indeed, at first, disarmed and
excluded Will Atkins, and his two countrymen, for their bad
conduct. And they appealed to me, for the necessity they
were under to do so; but that Will Atkins had behaved him-
self so bravely in the great fight they had with the savages,
and on several occasions since, and had showed himself so
faithful to, and so concerned for the general interest, that
they had forgotten all that was past, and thought he merited
as much to be trusted with arms, and supplied with neces-
saries, as any of them; and that they had testified their satis-
faction in him, by committing the command to him, next to
the governor himself; and as they had an entire confidence in
him, and all his countrymen, so they acknowledged they had
merited that confidence, by all the methods that honest men
could merit to be valued and trusted: and they most heartily
embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance, that they
would never have any interest separate from one another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we
appointed the next day to dine all together; and, indeed, we
made a splendid feast. I caused the ship's cook and his mate
to. come on shore, and dress our dinner; and the old cook's
mate we had on shore assisted. We brought on shore six
pieces of good beef, and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's
provision, with our punch bowl, and materials to fill it; and
in particular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret, and
ten bottles of English beer; things that neither the Spaniards
or the Englishmen had tasted for many years; and which, it
may be supposed, were exceeding acceptable.
The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids, which the
cooks roasted; and three of them were sent covered up close,
on board the ship to the seamen, that they might feast on
fresh meat from the shore, as we did with their salt meat from
on board.
After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, I
brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that there might be
no dispute about dividing, I showed them that there was suf-
ficient for them all; desired that they might all take an equal
quantity of the goods that were for wearing; that is to say,
equal when made up.
Then I presented to them the people I had brought with
me; particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters,
all of them most necessary people; but above all, my general
artificer, than whom they could not name anything that was
more useful to them; and the tailor, to show his concern for
them, went to work immediately, and with my leave made
them every one a shirt the first thing he did; and what was
still more, he taught the women not only how to sew and
stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to make the
shirts for their husbands, and for all the rest.
As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful
they were, for they took in pieces all my clumsy, unhandy
things, and made them clever, convenient tables, stools, bed-
steads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and everything they wanted
of that kind.
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave
ever}• man a digging spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had
no harrows or ploughs; and to every separate place, a pick-
axe, a crow, a broadaxe, and a saw; always appointing, that
as often as any was broken, or worn out, they should be sup-
plied without grudging, out of the general stores that I left
behind.
Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors,
and all sorts of tools and iron-work, they had without tale, as
they required; for no man would care to take more than they
wanted; and he must be a fool that would waste or spoil
them, on any account whatever. And for the use of the smith,
I left two tons of unwrought iron for a supply.
The magazine of powder and arms I had brought with me
was in such profusion that they could not but rejoice; for
now every man could march as I used to do, with a musket
upon each shoulder, if there was occasion; and were able to
fight 1,000 savages, if they had but some little advantages of
situation.
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother
was starved to death, and the maid also • she was a sober,
well-educated, religious young woman, and behaved so in-
offensively, that every one gave her a good word. They had
both of them come to me, and desired I would give them leave
to remain on the island, and be entered among my family, as
they called it. I agreed readily; and they had a little plot of
ground allotted to them, where they had three tents or houses
set up, surrounded with a basket work palisado'd like Atkins's,
adjoining to his plantation; their tents were contrived so, that
they had each of them a room apart to lodge in, and a middle
tent, like a great store-house, to lay all their goods in, and to
eat and drink in. And now the other two Englishmen removed
their habitation to the same place; and so the island was
divided into three colonies, and no more; namely, the Span-
iards, with old Friday, and the first servants, at my old habita-
tion under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital city, and
where they had so enlarged and extended their works, as well
under as on the outside of the hill, that they lived, though
perfectly concealed, yet full at large. Never was there such a
little city in a wood, and so hid, I believe, in any part of the
world. For I verily believe 1,000 men might have ranged the
island a month, and, if they had not known there was such a
thing, and looked on purpose for it, they would not have
found it.
The other colony was that of W. Atkins's, where there were
four families of Englishmen, I mean those I had left there,
with their wives and children. Three savages, that were
slaves, the widow and children of the Englishman that was
killed; the young man and the maid; and, by the way, we
made a wife of her• also before we went away. There were
also the two carpenters and the tailor I brought with me for
them; and the smith also, who was a very necessary man to
them, especially as a gunsmith, to take care of their arms;
and my other man, whom I called Jack of all trades; who
was in himself as good almost as twenty men, for he was not
only a very ingenious fellow, but very merry withal; and,
before I went away, we married him to the honest maid that
came with the youth in the ship, I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say
something of the French ecclesiastic I had taken out of the
ship burnt at sea. This man was a Roman, perhaps of the
most possible type in the eyes of Protestants ; first he was a
Papist; secondly, a Popish priest; and, thirdly, a French
Popish priest. But justice demands of me to give him a due
character; and I must say, he was a grave, sober, pious, and
most religious person; exact in his life, extensive in his char-
ity, and exemplary in almost everything he did.
The first hour that I began to converse with him, after he
had agreed to go with me to the East Indies, I found reason
to delight exceedingly in his conversation. He first began to
converse with me about religion in the most obliging manner
imaginable. "Sir," says he, "you have not only, under God
(and at that he crossed his breast), saved my life, but you
have admitted me to go this voyage in your ship, and by your
obliging civility, have taken me into your family, giving me an
opportunity of free conversation. Now sir," says he, "you see
by my habit what my profession is; and I guess your's by
your nation. I may think it my duty, and doubtless it is so,
to use my utmost endeavors, on all occasions, to bring all the
souls I can to embrace the Catholic doctrine; but, as I am
under your permission, and in your family, I am bound in
justice to your kindness, as well as in decency and good man-
ners, to be under your government; and therefore I shall not,
without your leave, enter into any debates on religion, in
which we may not agree, farther than you shall give me
leave."
I told him, his carriage was so modest, that I could not but
acknowledge it; that it was true, we were such people as they
call heretics; "but that he was not the first Catholic that I
had conversed with, without carrying the questions to any
height in debate; that he should not find himself the worse
used for being of a different opinion from us."
Having thus arranged the terms of our intercourse, he gave
me a most diverting account of his life, and of the many ex-
traordinary events of it; of many adventures which had
befallen him in the few years that he had been abroad in
the world; he had been five times shipped and unshipped on
his present voyage, and never been able to reach the place
whither the ships he was in were at first designed. His first
intent was, to have gone to Martinico; and went on board a
ship bound thither at St. Maloe; but was forced into Lisbon
by bad weather; the ship received some damage, by running
aground in the mouth of the river Tagus, and was obliged to
unload her cargo there. Finding a Portuguese ship there,
bound to the Madeiras and ready to sail, he went on board,
but the master being an indifferent mariner, had been out in
his reckoning, and they drove to Fial, where he sold his
cargo. He was then as far as the Banks, where he met with
a French ship bound from France to Quebec, and from thence
to Martinico. Bnt when he came to Quebec, the master of
the ship died, and the ship proceeded no farther. So the next
voyage he shipped himself for France, in the ship that was
burnt, when we took them up at sea, and then shipped with
us for the East Indies. He now came to me one morning,
and told me with a very grave countenance, that he had, for
two or three days, desired an opportunity of some discourse
with me, which, he hoped, should not be displeasing to me,
because he thought it might, in some measure, correspond
with my general design, which was the prosperity of my new
colony; and, perhaps, might put it, at least more than he yet
thought it was, in the way of God's blessing.
I looked a little surprised at his discourse; and after a long
conversation, in which I was compelled more than ever to
admire this man's pious and self-sacrificing spirit, I learned
that his conscience was shocked to find the five Englishmen
living on with the five women though unmarried, and he urged
me to put an end to this unholy union.
"Sir," said he, " the essence of the sacrament of matrimony
consists not only in the mutual consent of the parties to take
one another as man and wife, but in the formal and legal
obligation that there is in the contract, to compel the man and
woman, at all times, to own and acknowledge each other;
obliging the man to abstain from all the other women, to
engage in no other contract while these subsist.
"And how shall a blessing succeed your endeavors in this
place, however good in themselves, and however sincere in
your design, while these men, who at present are your subjects,
under your absolute government and dominion, are allowed by
you to live in open adultery?
"Again, sir," said he, " though I do not acknowledge your
religion, or you mine, yet we should be glad to see even the
devil's servants taught to know the general principles of the
Christian religion; that they might at least hear of God, and
of a Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and of a future state^
things which we all believe; they would at least be so much
nearer coming into the bosom of the true church than they
are now, in the public profession of idolatry, and devil-worship.
"O, sir," he added, " this thing is not your fault, nor is it
too late yet. Give me leave to talk with those poor men about
it, and then leave them to the mercy of Christ. It is our busi-
ness to assist them, encourage them, and instruct them; and,
if you will give me leave, and God His blessing, I do not
doubt but the poor ignorant souls shall be brought into the
great circle of Christianity."
And now came his concluding petition. "It is a maxim,
sir, that is, or ought to be, received among all Christians, of
what church, or pretended church soever, namely, the Chris-
tian knowledge ought to be propagated by all possible means,
and on all possible occasions. It is on this principle that our
church sends missionaries into Persia, India, and China; and
that our clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly engage in
the most hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous resi-
dence, among murderers and barbarians, to teach them the
knowledge of the true God, and to bring them over to embrace
the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have such an opportunity,
here are six or seven-and-thirty poor savages to be brought
over from idolatry to the knowledge of God, their Maker and
Redeemer."
I explained to him my engagements in regard to the ship,
and the impossibility of my undertaking the office he would
thrust upon me. "It is a valuable thing," said I, "to be an
instrument in God's hand, to convert seven-and-thirty heathens
to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an ecclesiastic, and
are given over to the work, so that it seems naturally to fall
into the way of your profession, how is it that you do not
rather offer yourself to undertake it than press me to it?"
Upon this he faced about, just before me, as we walked
along, and, putting me to a full stop, made me a very low bow.
"I most heartily thank God, and you, sir," says he, "for giv-
ing me so evident a call to so blessed a work; and if you
think yourself discharged from it, and desire me to undertake
it, I will most readily do it, and think it a happy reward for
all the hazards and difficulties of such a broken, disappointed
voyage as I have met with, that I may be dropped at last into
so glorious a work."
I discovered a kind of rapture in his face, while he spoke
this to me; his eyes sparkled like fire, his face glowed, and
his color came and went, as if he had been falling into fits: in
a word, he was fired with the joy of being embarked in such a
work.
"Yes, sir," says he, "I would give Christ and the Blessed
Virgin thanks all my days, if I could be made the least happy
instrument of saving the souls of these poor men, though I
was never to set my foot off of this island, or see my native
country any more: but since you will honor me," says he,
"with putting me into this work, I have one humble petition
to you besides." "What is that?" said I. "It is, that you
will leave your man Friday with me, to be my interpreter to
them, and to assist me; for, without some help, I cannot
speak to them, or they to me."
I was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday, because I
could not think of parting with him, and that for many rea-
sons: he had been the companion of my travels; he was
faithful and affectionate to the last degree ; and I had resolved
to do something considerable for him, if he outlived me. Then
I knew, that as I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, he
would never embrace another profession, or believe his old
master to be a heretic. However, a sudden thought relieved
me in this strait, and it was this: I told him I could not say
that I was willing to part with Friday, though a work, that to
him was of more value than his life, ought to be to me of
much more value than the keeping or parting with a servant.
But, on the other hand, I was persuaded that Friday would by
no means consent to leave me. I had promised I would
never put him away; and he had promised and engaged to
me that he would never leave me. He seemed very much con-
cerned at this; for he had no rational access to these poor
people, seeing he did not understand one word of their lan-
guage, or they one word of his. To remove this difficulty, I
told him that Friday's father had learned Spanish, which I
found he also understood, and would serve him for an inter-
preter; but Providence gave another and very happy turn to
all this.
When we came to the Englishmen, to whose quarter I was
going when this conversation took place, I sent for them all
together; and after reminding them what I had done for
them, I talked to them about their wives.
They all gave me the answer that I expected, namely, that
there was nobody to marry them; that they agreed before the
governor to keep them as their wives; and they thought, as
things stood with them, they were as legally married as if they
had been married by a parson, and with all the formalities in
the world.
I told them, that no doubt they were married in the sight
of God; but the laws of man being otherwise, I could not
think it was convenient they should continue together as man
and wife; for that it was both scandalous to men, and offen-
sive to God, who never could bless them if they went on thus.
All this went on as I expected; and they told me, especially
Will Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the rest, that they
loved their wives as well as if they had been born in their own
native country, and would not leave them upon any account
whatever; and they did verily believe their wives were as vir-
tuous and as modest as any women could possibly be; and
they would not part with them on any account.
This was just as I would have it; the priest was not with
me at that moment, but was not far off. So, to try him far-
ther, I told him I had a clergyman with me, and, if he was
sincere, I would have him married the next morning; and bid
him consider of it, and talk with the rest. He said, as for
himself, he need not consider of it at all; for he was very
ready to do it, and was glad I had a minister with me; and
he believed they would be all willing also. I then told him,
that my friend, the minister, was a Frenchman, and could not
speak English; but that I would act as clerk between them.
He never so much as asked me whether he was a Papist or
Protestant; which was indeed what I was afraid of. And so
we parted. I went back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins
went in to talk with his companions.
Before I went from their quarter, they all came to me, and
told me they had been considering what I had said; that they
were very glad to hear I had a clergyman in my company;
and they were very willing to give me the satisfaction I de-
sired, and would be formally married as soon as I pleased;
for they were far from desiring to part with their wives; and
that they meant nothing but what was very honest, when they
chose them. The women were easily made sensible of the
meaning of the thing, and were very well satisfied with it, as,
indeed, they had reason to be; so they failed not to attend all
together, at my apartment, the next morning, where I brought
out my clergyman: and though he had not on a minister's
gown, after the manner of England, or the habit of a priest,
after the manner of France, yet having a black vest, something
like a cassock, with a sash round it, he did not look very un-
like a minister; and as for his language, I was his interpreter.
After a most Christian-like discourse, which I interpreted
to the men, in which they were exhorted to persuade their
wives to embrace Christianity, he married three couple; but
Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. After this, my
clergyman, waiting awhile, was curious to know where Atkins
was gone; and, turning to me, says he, "I entreat you, sir,
let us walk out of your labyrinth here, and look • I dare say
we shall find this poor man somewhere or other, talking seri-
ously to his wife, and teaching her already something of
religion." I began to be of the same mind; so we went out
together; and I carried him by a way which none knew but
myself, and where the trees were so thick set, that it was not
easy to see through the thicket of leaves, and far harder to see
in than to see out; when, coming to the edge of the wood, I
saw Atkins, and his tawny savage wife, sitting under the shade
of a bush, very eager in discourse. I stopped short, till my
clergyman came up to me; and then, having showed him
where they were, we stood and looked very steadily at them a
good while.
We observed him very earnest with her, pointing up to the
sun and to every quarter of the heavens; then down to the
earth, then out to the sea, then to himself, then to her, to the
woods, to the trees. "Now," says my clergyman, "you see
my words are made good; the man preaches to her; mark
him; now he is telling her that God has made him, and her,
and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the woods, the trees." "I
believe he is," said I. Immediately after we perceived Will
Atkins start up upon his feet, fall down on his knees, and lift
up both his hands; we suppose he said something, but we
could not hear him: it was too far for that: he did not con-
tinue kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again
by his wife, and talks to her again. We perceived then the
woman very attentive; but whether she said anything or no,
we could not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees,
I could see the tears run plentifully down my clergyman's
cheeks; and I could hardly forbear myself; but it was a great
affliction to us both, that we were not near enough to hear any-
thing that passed between them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer, for fear of dis•
23
turbing them: so we resolved to see an end of this piece of
still conversation; and it spoke loud enough to us, without
the help of voice. He sat down again, as I have said, close
by her, and talked again earnestly to her; and two or three
times we could see him embrace her most passionately; an-
other time we saw him take out his handkerchief, and wipe
her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a transport very un-
usual; and after several of these things, we saw him on a
sudden jump up again, and lend her his hand to help her up;
when immediately leading her by the hand a step or two, they
both kneeled down together, and continued so about two
minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, " St.
Paul, St. Paul! behold he prayeth!" I was afraid Atkins
would hear him; therefore I entreated him to withhold him-
self awhile, that we might see an end of the scene, which to
me, I must confess, was the most affecting, and yet the most
agreeable, that ever I saw in my life. This continued about
half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked away; so that
we could see no more of them in that situation.
Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business
there was over; so we went back our own way; and when we
came back, we found them waiting to be called in. Observing
this, I asked my clergyman if we should discover to him that
we had seen him under the bush, or no; and it was his opin-
ion we should not; but that we should talk to him first, and
hear what he would say to us: so we called him in alone,
nobody being in the place but ourselves.
The result of our questioning was, that Atkins confessed
that his father had been a clergyman, that his own wicked
behavior had brought his gray hairs with sorrow to the grave,
and that now his conscience was awakened, he was full of
remorse and repentance for his past conduct; in fact, he was
truly penitent, and although it was no easy thing to make the
wife understand the doctrines of Christianity, it at length
appeared that she so far comprehended them as to wish for
baptism before they married.
This was explained to me by my priest, who, turning him-
self to me, said he believed there must be more to do with
this woman than to marry her; that she ought to be baptized
first.
I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for going
about it presently. "No, no! hold, sir," said he, "though I
would have her be baptized by all means, yet I must observe,
that Will Atkins, her husband, has brought her, in a wonder-
ful manner, to embrace a religious life; and has given her
just ideas of the being of a God, of his power, justice, mercy;
yet I desire to know of him, if he has said anything to her of
Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of sinners; of the nature of
faith in Him; and redemption by Him; of the Holy Spirit,
the resurrection, the last judgment, and a future state."
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him: but the poor
fellow fell immediately into tears; he told us he had said
something to her of all those things, but that he was himself
so wicked a creature, and his own conscience so reproached
him with his ungodly life, that he trembled at the apprehen-
sions, that her knowledge of him should lessen the attention
she should give to those things, and make her rather contemn
religion than receive it; but he was assured, he said, that her
mind was so disposed to receive due impressions of all those
things, that if I would but discourse with her, she would make
it appear to my satisfaction, that my labor would not be lost
upon her.
Accordingly I called•her in, and placing myself as inter-
preter, the good man explained them with the sincerity of a
Christian, and without any of the Roman Catholic errors. In
a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace the knowledge
of Christ, and of redemption by Him, not with wonder and
astonishment only, as she did the first notions of a God, but
with joy and faith, with an affection, and a surprising degree
of understanding, scarce to be imagined, much less to be ex-
pressed; and at her own request she was baptized.
When he was preparing to baptize her, I entreated him,
that he would perform that office with some caution, that the
man might not perceive he was of the Roman churcty, because
of other ill consequences which might attend a difference
among us in that very religion which we were instructing the
other in. He told me that as he had no consecrated chapel,
no proper things for the office, I should see he would do it in
a manner that I should not know by it that he was a Roman
Catholic myself, if I had not known it before: and so he did;
for saying only some words over to himself in Latin, which I
could not understand, he poured a whole dish full of water
upon the woman's head, pronouncing in French very loud,
"Marv," — which was the name her husband desired me to
J •
give her, for I was her godfather, — "I baptize thee in the
name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost;"
so that none could know anything by it, what religion he was
of: he gave the benediction afterwards in Latin; but either
Will Atkins did not know but it was in French, or else did not
take notice of it at that time.
As soon as this was over, we married them; and after the
marriage was over, he turned himself to Will Atkins, and in a
very affectionate manner exhorted him not only to persevere
in that good disposition he was in, but to support the convic-
tions that were upon him, by a resolution to reform his life:
told him it was in vain to say he repented, if he did not for-
sake his crimes; represented to him, how God had honored
him with being the instrument of bringing his wife to the
knowledge of the Christian religion; and that he should be
careful he did not dishonor the grace of God; and that if he
did, he would see the heathen a better Christian than himself.
Having thus brought the affair of the island to a narrow
compass, I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the
young man, whom I had taken out of the famished ship's
company, came to me, and told me, he understood I had a
clergyman with me, and that he had a match too, which he
desired might be finished before I went, between two Chris-
tians; which he hoped would not be disagreeable to me.
I knew this must be the young woman who was his mother's
servant, for there was no other Christian woman on the island;
so I began to persuade him not to do anything of that kind
rashly; but he interrupted me, smiling, and told me, with a
great deal of modesty, that I was mistaken in my guesses;
that he had nothing of that kind in his thoughts. In fact he
told me it was my Jack of all trades and his maid Susan, he
wished to see married.
I was most agreeably surprised when he named the match;
for indeed I thought it very suitable. The character of that
man I have given already; and as for the maid, she was a
very honest, modest, sober, and religious young woman; had a
very good share of sense, was agreeable enough in her person;
spoke very handsomely, and to the purpose.
The match being proposed in this manner, we married them
the same day; and, as I was father at the altar, as I may say,
and gave her away, so I gave her a portion; for I appointed
her and her husband a handsome large space of ground for
their plantation.
One thing I must not omit to mention among the arrange-
ments I completed before I left them. And this is, that being
now settled in a kind of commonwealth among themselves,
and having much business in hand, it seemed odd to have
seven-and-thirty Indians live in a nook of the island, indepen-
dent, and unemployed; for, excepting the providing them-
selves food, which they had difficulty enough in too, some-
times, they had no manner of employment; I proposed
therefore to the governor Spaniard, that he should visit
them with Friday's father, and propose to them to remove,
and either plant for themselves, or take them into their several
families as servants, to be maintained for their labor, but with-
out being slaves; for they had their liberty given them by
capitulation, and, as it were, articles of surrender, which ought
not to be broken. They most willingly embraced the proposal,
and came all very cheerfully along with him; so we allotted
them land and plantations, which three or four accepted of,
but all the rest chose to be employed as servants in the sev-
eral families we had settled.
All the east end of the island was still left uninhabited, that
if any of the savages should come on shore there, for their
usual customary barbarities, they might come and go; if they
disturbed nobody, nobody would disturb them; and no doubt
but they were often ashore, and went away again; for I never
heard that the planters were ever attacked or disturbed any
more.
It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to my
friend, the clergyman, that the work of converting the savages
might, perhaps, be set on foot in his absence, to his satisfac-
tion. I told him, we would either call them all together, and
leave it in charge with them, or go to them one by one, which
he thought best; so we divided it, he to speak to the Span-
iards, who were all Papists, and I to the English, who were
all Protestants; and we recommended it earnestly to them,
and made them promise that they would never make any
distinction of Papist or Protestant, in their exhorting the
savages to turn Christians.
When I came to W. Atkins's house — I may call it so; for
such a house, or such a piece of basket work, I believe was
not standing in the world again ;— I say when I came there, I
found the young woman I have mentioned above, and W.
Atkins's wife were become intimates; and this prudent,
religious young woman had perfected the work Will Atkins
had begun; and though it was not above four days after what
I have related, yet the new baptized woman was such a Chris-
tian, as I have seldom heard of any like her.
It came next into my mind, in the morning, before I went
to them, that amongst all the needful things I had to leave
with them, I had not left them a Bible; in which I showed
myself less considerate for them, than my good friend the
widow was when she sent me the cargo of an hundred pounds
from Lisbon, where she packed up three Bibles and a Prayer-
book. However the good woman's charity had a greater
extent than ever she imagined; for they were reserved for the
comfort and instruction of those that made much better use of
them than I had done.
I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to
Will Atkins's tent, or house, I found the young woman and
Atkins's baptized wife had been discoursing of religion to-
gether; for Will Atkins told it me, with a great deal of joy. I
asked if they were together now? And he said " Yes; " so I
went into the house, and he with me, and we found them
together, very earnest in discourse. "O, sir," says Will
Atkins, "when God has sinners to reconcile to Himself, and
aliens to bring home, He never wants a messenger. My wife
has got a new instructor; I knew I was unworthy, as I was
incapable of that work; that young woman has been sent
hither from Heaven; she is enough to convert a whole island
of savages." The young woman blushed, and rose up to go
away, but I desired her to sit still; I told her "she had a
good work upon her hands, and I hoped God would bless her
in it."
And now I have done with the island. I left them all in
good circumstances, and in a flourishing condition, and went
on board my ship again, having been five-and-twenty days
among them; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the
island till I came to remove them. After talking a little, I
put my hand in my pocket, and pulled out my Bible. "Here,
Atkins," said I, " I have brought you an assistant you had not
before." The man was confounded, and, turning to his wife
with the book in his hand, "Here, my dear," said he, "did
not I tell you our God, though He lives above, could hear
what we said? Here is the book I prayed for." And tears
of joy ran down his face, for he cried like a child.
The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting,
we set sail, and arrived at the Bay of All Saints, in the Brazils,
in about twenty-two days: meeting nothing remarkable in our
passage but this. That about three days after we sailed, being
becalmed, and the current setting strong to the E. N. E., run-
ning, as it were, into a bay on the land-side, we were driven
something out of our course ; and once or twice our men cried
out, "Land to the eastward;" but whether it was the conti-
nent, or islands, we could not tell by any means. But the
third day, towards evening, the sea smooth and the weather
calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered, towards the land,
with something very black, not being able to discover what it
was; till, after some time, our chief mate going up the main
shrouds a little way, and looking at them with a glass, cried
out, it was an army. I could not imagine what he meant by
an army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a fool, or
some such word. "Nay, sir," says he, "do not be angry, for
it is an army, and a fleet too; for I believe there are a thou-
sand canoes, and you may see them paddle along, and they
are coming towards us too, apace."
I was a little surprised, but I told the sailors they had noth-
ing to fear but fire; and therefore they should get their boats
out, and fasten them, one close by the head, and the other by
the stern, and man them both well, and wait the issue in that
posture: this I did, that the men in the boats might be ready,
with skeets and buckets, to put out any fire these savages
might endeavor to fix to the outside of the ship.
In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little•while
they came up with us, but never was such a horrid sight seen
by Christians. My mate was much mistaken in his calculation
of their number, I mean of a thousand canoes; the most we
could make of them when they came up, being about a hun-
dred and twenty-six; and enough of them too; for some of
them had sixteen or seventeen men in them, and some more,
and the least of them six or seven. When they came nearer
to us, they seemed to be struck with wonder and astonishment.
They came boldly up, however, very near, and seemed about
to row round us; but we called to our men in the boats, not
to let them come too near them.
This very order brought us to an engagement with them,
without our designing it; for five or six of their large canoes
came so near our long-boat, that our men beckoned with their
hands to them to keep them back; which they understood
very well, and went back; but in their retreat about fifty
arrows came on board us from those boats; and one of our
men in the long-boat was very much wounded. I called to
them not to fire by any means; but we handed down some
deal board into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a
kind of a fence, like waste boards, to cover them from the
arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again
About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a body
astern of, and pretty near us, so near that we could easily dis-
cern them, though we could not tell their design. I now
found they were some of my old friends, the same sort of
savages that I had been used to engage with; and in a little
time more they rowed a little farther out to sea, till they came
directly broadside with us, and then rowed down straight upon
us, coming so near that we could hear them speak. I ordered
all my men to keep close, lest they should shoot any more
arrows, and make all our guns ready; but being so near as to
be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon the deck, and
call out aloud to them in his language to know what they
meant, which accordingly he did. Whether they understood
him or not, I know not; but, as soon as he had called to
them, six of them, who were in the foremost boats, exhibited
a gesture of great contempt. Whether this was done as a
defiance, or a challenge, or as a signal to the rest, we knew
not; but immediately Friday cried out, "They are going
to shoot;" and unhappily for him, they let fly about 300 of
their arrows; and, to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Fri-
day, no other man being in their sight. The poor fellow was
shot with no less than three arrows, and about three more
fell very near him; such unlucky marksmen they were.
I was so enraged with the loss of my old servant, the com-
panion of all my sorrows and solitudes, that I immediately
ordered five guns to be loaded with small shot, and four with
great; and gave them such a broadside as they had never
heard in their lives before, to be sure.
They were not above half a cable length off when we fired;
and our gunners took their aim so well, that three or four of
their canoes were overset, as we had reason to believe, by one
shot only.
I can neither tell how many we killed, or how many we
wounded, at this broadside ; but surely such a fright and hurry
was never seen among such a multitude; there were thirteen
or fourteen of their canoes split, and overset in all; and the
men all swimming about; the rest, frightened out of their wits,
scoured away as fast as they could, taking but little care to
save those whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot; so
I suppose they were many of them lost; and our men picked
up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour after
they were all gone.
The small shot from our cannon must needs have killed
and wounded a great many; but, in short, we never knew
anything how it went with them; for they fled so fast, that in
three hours, or thereabouts, we could not see above three or
four straggling canoes ; nor did we ever see more of them ; for
a breeze springing up the same evening, we weighed and set
sail for the Brazils.
We had a prisoner indeed, but the creature was so sullen,
that he would neither eat nor speak; and we all fancied he
would starve himself to death; but I took a way to cure him,
for I made them take him into the long-boat, and make him
believe they would toss him into the sea again, and so leave
him where they found him if he would not speak: they really
did throw him into the sea, and come away from him, and
then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to
them in his tongue, though they knew not one word of what
he said. However, at last, they took him in again, and then
he began to be more tractable.
We were now under sail again, but I was disconsolate for
my man Friday. We had one prisoner, as I have said; but it
was a long while before we could make him understand any-
thing; but, in time, our men taught him some English, and he
began to be a little tractable: afterwards we inquired what
country he came from, but could make nothing of what he
said; for his speech was so odd, all gutterals, and spoke in
the throat in such a hollow, odd manner, that we could never
form a word after him. .
And now I must take my last leave of poor honest Friday 1
We buried him with all the decency and solemnity possible,
by putting him into a coffin, and throwing him into the sea;
and I caused them to fire eleven guo^s over him : and so ended
the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most affec-
tionate servant that ever man had.
We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil, and, in about
twelve days' time, we made land in the latitude of five degrees
south of the line, being the northeastermost land of all that
part of America. We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore
four days, when we made the Cape St. Augustine, and in three
days more came to an anchor off of the bay of All Saints, the
old place of my deliverance, from whence came both my good
ind evil fate.
Here my honest and truly pious clergyman left me; a ship
being ready to go to Lisbon, he asked me leave to go thither
in her; being still, as he observed, bound never to finish any
voyage he began. How happy had it been for me, if I had gone
with him. But it was too late now; all things Heaven appoints
are best; had I gone with him, I had never had so many
things to be thankful for, and you had never heard of the
second part of the Travels and Adventures of Robinson Cru-
soe; so I must leave here the fruitless exclaiming at myself,
and go on with my voyage.
From the Brazils we made directly away over the Atlantic
sea, to the Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerable good
voyage. Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a super-
cargo on board, who was to direct all her motions, after she
arrived at the Cape. We made therefore no stay, longer than
was needful to take in fresh water, but made the best of our
way for the coast of Coromandel; we were indeed informed
that a French man-of-war of fifty guns, and two large merchant
ships, were gone for the Indies; and, as I knew we were at
war with France, I had some apprehensions of them ; but they
went their own way, and we heard no more of them.
We touched first at the island of Madagascar, where, though
the people are fierce and treacherous, and, in particular, very
well armed with lances and bows, which they use with incon-
ceivable dexterity, yet we fared very well with them awhile;
they treated us very civilly; and for some trifles which we
gave them, such as knives, scissors, &c., they brought us eleven
good fat bullocks, middling in size, but very good in flesh •
which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present
spending, and the rest to salt for the ship's use.
We were obliged to stay here some time, after we had fur-
nished ourselves with provisions; and I, that was always too
curious to look into every nook of the world wherever I came,
was for going on shore as often as I could. It was on the
east side of the island that we went on shore one evening;
and the people, who, by the way, are very numerous, came
thronging about us, and stood gazing at us at a distance; but
as we had traded freely with them, and had been kindly used,
we thought ourselves in no danger; but when we saw the
people, we cut three boughs out of a tree, and stuck them at a
distance from us, which, it seems, is a mark in the country, not
only of truce and friendship, but when it is accepted, the other
side set up three poles, or boughs, also; which is a signal that
they accept the truce too; but then this is a known condition
of the truce, that you are not to pass beyond their three poles
towards them, nor they to come past your three poles or
boughs towards you; so that you are perfectly secure within
the three poles: and all the space between your poles and
theirs, is market for free converse, traffic, and commerce.
When you go there you must not carry your weapons with
you; and if they come into that space, they stick up their
javelins and lances at the first poles, and come on unarmed.
It happened one evening, when we went on shore, that
a greater number than usual of these people came down, but
all was very friendly and civil, and they brought in several
kinds of provisions, for which we satisfied them with such toys
as we had; their women also brought us milk and roots, and
several things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet; and
we made us a little tent, or hut, of some boughs of trees, and
lay on shore all night. I know not why, but I was not so well
satisfied to lie on shore as the rest; and the boat riding at an
anchor, about a stone cast from the land, with two men in her,
I made one of them come on shore, to get some boughs of
trees to cover us, and spreading the sail on the bottom of the
boat, I lay with them all night in the boat under the boughs.
About two o'clock in the morning we heard a terrible noise
on shore, one of our men calling out for God's sake to bring
the boat in, and come and help them, for they were all like to
be murdered; at the same time, five muskets were discharged,
and that three times over; rousing immediately, I caused the
boat to be thrust in, and with the three fusils we had on
board, hastened to assist our men. We got the boat soon to
the shore; and our men plunged into the water, to get to the
boat with all the expedition they could, being pursued by be-
tween three and four hundred natives. Our men were but nine
in all, and only five of them had fusils with them; the rest had
indeed pistols and swords, but they were of small use to them.
We took up seven of them, and with difficulty enough too,
three of them being badly wounded; and what was worse,
while we stood in the boat, we were in as much danger as
they were on shore; for they poured their arrows in upon us
so thick, that we were fain to barricade the side of the boat
with benches, and two or three loose boards, which we had,
by mere accident, or providence, in the boat. Had it been
daylight, they are, it seems, such exact marksmen, that if they
could have seen but the least part of any of us, they would
have been sure of us. We had a little sight of them, by the
light of the moon, as they stood pelting us from the shore
with darts and arrows; and, having got ready our fire-arms,
we gave them a volley. We could hear by their cries, that we
had wounded several ; however, they stood thus in battle ar-
ray on the shore till break of day, while we could not tell how
to weigh our anchor, or set up our sail, because we must
needs stand up in the boat, where we were sure to be hit; we
made signals of distress to the ship, which rode a full league
off, yet my nephew, the captain, hearing our firing, and per-
ceiving by the glasses the posture we lay in, pretty well
understood our positions, and weighing anchor with all speed,
he stood as near the shore as he durst with the ship, and then
sent another boat, with ten hands in her, to our assistance,
and one of the men, taking the end of a tow-line in his hand,
and keeping our boat between him and the enemy, so that
they could not perfectly see him, swam on board us, and made
the line fast to the boat; upon which we slipt our little
cable, leaving our anchor behind; they soon towed us out of
reach of the arrows; we all the while lying close behind the
barricade we had made.
As soon as we could get from between the ship and the
shore, she laid her broadside to it, and run along just by them,
pouring in a broadside loaded with pieces of iron and lead,
small bullets, and such like stuff, besides the great shot, which
made a terrible havoc among them.
When we got on board, and were fairly out of danger, we
had time to examine into the occasion of this fray; it came
out, that an old woman, who had come to sell us some milk,
brought a young woman with her, who also brought some
roots or herbs; and while the old woman was selling us the
milk, one of our men offered some rudeness to the younger
one; at which the old woman made a great noise. The sea-
man would not quit his prize, but carried her out of her sight,
among the trees, it being almost dark; and now the old
woman made an outcry among the people she came from;
who attacked us as we have seen; and it was great odds that
we had not all been destroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance that was thrown at
him, just at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the
tent they had set up; the rest came off free, all but the fellow
who was the occasion of the mischief, who paid dear enough
for his black mistress, for we didn't hear what became of him
for a great while. We lay upon the shore for two days though
the wind was fair, and made signals for him; our boat sailed
up and down shore, for several leagues, but in vain; so we
were obliged to give him over; and if he alone had suffered,
the loss had been the less.
I could not feel satisfied myself, however, without venturing
on shore once more, to try if I could learn anything of him : it
was the third night after the action before I ventured, and I
was careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be attacked
again; but I ought indeed to have been sure, that the men I
went with had been under my command, before I engaged in
a thing so hazardous and mischievous. We started twenty
stout fellows with us as any in the ship, besides the supercargo
and myself; and we landed two hours before midnight, at the
same place where the natives stood drawn up the evening
before. My design was to surprise one or two of them, per-
haps we might get our man again, by way of exchange.
We landed without noise, and divided the men into two
bodies, whereof the boatswain commanded one, and I the
other. We neither saw nor heard anybody stir when we
landed; and marched up one body at a distance from the
other, to the place, but at first could see nothing, it being very
dark; by and by, however, our boatswain, that led the first
party, stumbled and fell over a dead body. This made them
halt for my coming up here; when the moon began to rise, we
could easily discern the havoc we had made among them. We
told two-and-thirty bodies upon the ground, whereof two were
not quite dead. Some had an arm, and some a leg, shot off;
and one his head. Those that were slightly wounded, we sup-
posed they had carried away.
When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all we
could come at, I was resolved on going on board; but the
boatswain and his party sent me word, that they were resolved
to make a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as they
called them, dwelt, and asked me to go along with them; and
if they could find them as still they fancied they should, thej
did not doubt getting a good booty; and it might be, they
might find Tom Jeffry there.
Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough
what answer to have given them; for I should have com-
manded them instantly on board; but as they sent me word
they were resolved to go, and only asked me and my company
to go along with them, I positively refused it, and rose up in
order to go back to the boat. One or two of the men began
to importune me to go; and, when I refused positively, began
to grumble, and say they were not under my command, and
they would go. "Come, Jack," says one of the men, "will
you go with me? I will go for one." Jack said he would;
and another followed; and then another ; and, in a word, they
all left me but one, who was persuaded to stay: so the super-
cargo and I, with the third man, went back to the boat, where,
we told them, we would stay for them, and take in as many of
them as should be left; for I told them, it was a mad thing
they were going about, and supposed most of them would run
the fate of Tom Jeffry.
Well, they all went away, and though the attempt was des-
perate, and such as none but madmen would have gone about,
yet, to give them their due, they went about it as warily as
boldly. They went on a little way, and found a cow tied to a
tree; this they presently concluded would be a good guide to
them. In a word, the cow led them directly to the town,
•which, as they report, consisted of above two hundred houses,
or huts; and in some of these they found several families
living together. Here they found all in Silence, as profound
as sleep, and a country that had never seen an enemy, could
make them. While they were holding counsel what course to
take, three of them, that were a little before the rest, called
out aloud, that they had found Tom Jeffry; they all ran up to
the place, and so it was indeed, for there they found the poor
fellow, hanged up naked by one arm, and his throat cut. The
sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, that
they swore to one another, that not an Indian that came into
their hands should have quarter; and to work they went
immediately. Their first care was to get something that would
soon take fire. As soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor
frighted creatures rushed out to save their lives; but met with
their fate in the attempt, and especially at the door, where they
drove them back, the boatswain himself killing one or two
with his pole-axe. The house being large, and many in it, he
did not care to go in, but called for a hand grenade, and threw
it in among them, which at first frighted them; but when it
burst, made such havoc among them, that they cried out in a
hideous manner.
In short, most of the principal natives who were in the open
part of the house were killed or hurt with the grenade, two or
three more, who pressed to the door, which the boatswain and
two more kept, with the bayonets in the muzzles of their
pieces, were dispatched in that way. But there was another
apartment in the house, where the prince, or king, and several
others, were, and these they kept in, till the house, which was
by this time a mass of flame, fell in upon them, and they were
smothered, or burnt together.
All this while they fired not a gun, because they would not
waken the people faster than they could master them; but
the fire now began to waken them fast enough, so that our
fellows were glad to keep together; for the fire grew so
raging, all the houses being made of light combustible stuff,
that they could hardly bear the street between them; and
their business was to follow the fire for the surer execution.
As fast as the fire forced the people out of the burning houses,
our people were ready at their doors to knock them on the
head, still calling and hallooing to one another to remember
Tom Jeffrys. *
While this was doing, I was very uneasy, and especially
when I saw the flames of the town, which, it being night,
seemed to be close by. My nephew too, who was roused by
his men, seeing such a fire, and not knowing what exigence
we might be in, he takes another boat, and with thirteen more
men, comes himself on shore to me. Finding how matters
stood, he determined to go to the assistance of his men, only
regretting he had left so many men in the ship; for he could
not think of having his men lost for want of help. And away
he went. Nor was I more able to stay behind. The captain
ordered two men to row back in the pinnace, and fetch twelve
men more, leaving the long-boat at anchor; six of the men
now sent for, were to keep the two boats, and six more come
after us; which left only sixteen men in the ship; for the
whole ship's company were now brought into this mischief.
The first object we met with was the ruins of a hut or house,
or rather the ashes of it, for the house was consumed; and
just before it lay four men and three women killed. In short,
there were instances of rage altogether barbarous, and of a
fury something more than human: we thought it impossible
our men could have been guilty of it. My very soul shrunk
within me, and my blood ran chill in my veins, when I saw
this; however, we took means to let the poor creatures know
that we would not hurt them, and they came to us with piteous
lamentation to save them, and crept all together in a huddle,
close behind us, as for protection. I left my men drawn up
together, and charged them to hurt nobody, but, if possible,
to get at some of our people, and see what devil it was
possessed them, and what they intended to do; and, in a
word, to command them off; assuring them, that if they
stayed till daylight, they would have a hundred thousand
men about their ears. While I was issuing my orders to the
men, four of them made their appearance, with the boatswain
at their head, roving over the heaps of bodies they had killed,
all covered with blood and dust, and looking for more people to
massacre; our men hallooed to them, and with much ado, one
of them made them hear. As soon as the boatswain saw us,
he set up a shout of triumph. "Captain," says he, "noble
captain, I am glad you are come; we have not half done yet;
the villainous hell-hound dogs! I will kill as many of them
as poor Tom had hairs upon his head; we have sworn to
spare none of them; we will root out the very nation of them
from the earth:" and thus he ran on, out of breath too with
action, and would not give me leave to speak a word.
At last, raising my voice that I might silence him a little,
"Barbarous dog! what are you doing? I will not have one
\
creature more touched upon pain of death. I charge you,
upon your life, to stop your hands, and stand still there, or
you are a dead man."
"Why, sir," says he, "do you know what they have done?
If you want a reason for what we have done, come hither;"
and with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging upon a
tree, with his throat cut.
I confess I was urged on then myself, and when the men I
carried with me saw the sight, I had much to do to restrain
them; nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and told me,
in their hearing, that he was only fearful of the men being
overpowered. Upon these words, away ran eight of my men
with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their bloody
work. It was quite out of my power to restrain them, and I
came away pensive and sad; for I could not bear the sight,
much less the horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches
that fell into their hands.
By the time the men got to the shore again with the pin-
nace, our men began to appear; they came dropping in, not
in two bodies, and in form, as they went, but all in small knots,
straggling here and there in such a manner, that a small force
of resolute men might have cut them all off. But the dread of
them was upon the whole country. The next day we set sail;
so we never heard any more of it. One would think this
should have been enough to have warned us against going on
shore again among heathens and barbarians; but it is impos-
sible to make mankind wise, except at their own expense ; and
their experience seems to be always of most use to them when
it is dearest bought, and most valued when it comes too late.
We were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from thence
to the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the
chief of the supercargo's trading lay at the Bay of Bengal,
where if he missed of his market, he was to go on to China,
and return to this coast as he came home.
The first disaster that befell us was in the Gulf of Persia,
where five of our men, venturing on shore on the Arabian side
of the Gulf, were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all
killed, or carried away into slavery; the rest of the boat's
crew not being able to rescue them, and had but just time to
get off themselves. I began to upbraid them with the just
retribution of Heaven in this case, but the boatswain very
warmly told me he thought I went farther in my censures than
I could show any warrant for; that none of those five men,
who were now lost, were of the number of those who went on
shore to the massacre of Madagascar (so I always called it,
though our men could not bear the word massacre with any
patience): and, indeed, this last circumstance, as I have said,
put me to silence for the present. But my frequent preaching
to them on this subject had worse consequences than I
expected; and the boatswain, who had been the head of the
attempt, came up boldly to me one time, and told me, he
found that I continually brought that affair upon the stage;
that I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the men
very ill on that account, and himself in particular; that as I
was but a passenger, and had no command in the ship, or
concern in the voyage, they were not obliged to bear it; that
they did not know but I might have some ill design in my
head, and, perhaps, to call them to an account for it when
they came to England; and that, therefore, unless I would
resolve to have done with it, and also not to concern myself
any farther with him, or any of his affairs, he would leave the
ship; for he did not think it was safe to sail with me among
them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then
told him, that I did confess that I had all along opposed the
massacre of Madagascar, for such I would always call it; and
that I had on all occasions spoken my mind freely about it,
though not more upon him than any of the rest; that as to my
having no command in the ship, that was true, nor did I
exercise any authority; I only took the liberty of speaking my
mind in things which publicly concerned us all; and what
concern I had in the voyage, that was none of his business;
that I was a considerable owner of the ship, and in that claim
I conceived I had a right to speak, even farther than I had
yet done, and would not be accountable to him, or any one
else; and began to be a little warm with him. He made but
little reply to me at that time, and I thought that affair had
been over, but I was mistaken. We were at this time on the
road to Bengal; and, being arrived there and wishing to
see the place, I went on shore with the supercargo, to divert
myself; and towards evening was preparing to go on board,
when one of the men came to me, and told me he would not
have me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they
had orders not to carry me on board again. Any one may
guess what a surprise I was in at so insolent a message; and
I asked the man who bade him deliver that errand to me? He
told me the coxswain. I said no more to the fellow, but bade
him let them know he had delivered his message, and that I
had given him no answer to it.
I immediately went, and found out the supercargo, and told
him the story, adding, what I presently foresaw, namely, that
there would certainly be a mutiny in the ship; and entreated
him to go immediately on board the ship in an Indian boat,
'and acquaint the captain of it; but I might have spared this
intelligence, for, before I had spoken to him on shore, the
matter was effected on board: the boatswain, the gunner, the
carpenter, and, in a word, all the inferior officers, as soon as I
was gone off in the boat, came up to the quarter-deck, and
desired to speak with the captain; and there the boatswain,
making a long harangue (for the fellow talked very well), and
repeating all he had said to me, told the captain in few
words, that as I was now gone peaceably on shore, they were
loath to use any violence with me ; which, if I had not gone on
shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have
gone. They, therefore, thought fit to tell him, that as they
shipped themselves to serve in the ship under his command,
they would perform it well and faithfully; but if I would not
quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it, they would
all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him; and at that
word ALL, he turned his face about towards the mainmast,
which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them; at
which all the seamen, being got together there, cried out,
"One and ALL, One and ALL!"
My nephew was a man of spirit, and of great presence of
mind, and though he was surprised, you may be sure, at the
thing, yet he told them calmly he would consider of the thing;
but that he could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me
about it: he used some arguments with them, to show them
the unreasonableness and injustice of the thing; but it was all
in vain; they swore, and shook hands round, before his face,
that they would go all on shore, unless he would engage to
them, not to suffer me to come any more on board the ship.
To bring this disagreeable subject to a conclusion, my nephew
came on shore to me, and it was arranged that all my things
and as much money as I wanted should be sent on shore, and
that I should find my way to England as well as I might.
I was now alone in the remotest part of the world, as I
think I may call it; for I was near three thousand leagues, by
sea, farther off from England than I was at my island; only,
it is true, I might travel here by land, over the Great Mogul's
country to Surat; might go from thence to Bassora by sea, up
the Gulf of Persia, and from thence might take the way of the
caravans over the desert of Arabia to Aleppo and Scanderoon;
from thence, by sea, again to Italy, and so overland through
France. And this put together, might be at least a full diam-
eter of the globe; but, if it were to be measured, I suppose it
would appear to be a great deal more.
I had another way before me, which was to wait for an
English ship, coming to Bengal from Achin, in the island of
Sumatra, and get a passage on board them for England; but
as I came hither without any concern with the English East
India Company, so it would be difficult to go from hence
without their license, or by favor of the captains of the ships,
or of the company's factors; and to all I was an utter
stranger.
Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by contraries,
to see the ship set sail without me; a treatment, I think, a man
in my circumstances scarce ever met with before, except by
pirates running away with the ship, and setting those who
would not agree with their villainy on shore: indeed, this was
the next door to it, both ways. However, my nephew left me
a companion, and a servant; the first was clerk to the purser,
who engaged to go with me; and the other was his own
servant. I took a lodging in the house of an Englishwoman,
where several merchants lodged, some French, two Italians, or
rather Jews, and one Englishman. After a long stay here, and
many proposals made for my return to England, but none
falling out to my mind, the English merchant, with whom I
had now contracted an intimate acquaintance, came to me one
morning: "Countryman," says he, "I have a project to com-
municate to you, which may, for aught I know, suit with your
wishes, when you shall have thoroughly considered it. Here
we are posted, you by accident, and I by my own choice, in a
part of the world very remote from our own country; but it is
in a country where, by us who understand trade and business,
a great deal of money is to be got: if you will put a thousand
pound to my thousand pound, we will hire a ship here, the
first we can get to our minds ; you shall be captain, I will be
merchant, and we will go a trading voyage to China: for what
should we stand still for? The whole world is in motion,
rolling round and round; all the creatures of God, heavenly
bodies and earthly, are busy and diligent: why should we be
idle? There are no drones in the world but men: why should
we be of that number?"
I liked his proposal very well; and the more so, because it
seemed to be expressed with so much good-will, and in so
friendly a manner. I will not say, but that I might, by my
loose and unhinged circumstances, be the fitter to embrace a
proposal for trade, or, indeed, for anything else; whereas,
otherwise, trade was none of my element. However, I might,
perhaps, say, with some truth, that if trade was not my element,
rambling was; and no proposal for seeing any part of the
world which I had never seen before, could possibly come
amiss to me. It was, however, some time before we could get
a ship to our minds; and when we got a vessel, it was not
easy to get English sailors; that is to say, so many as were
necessary to govern the voyage, and manage the sailors which
we should pick up. After some time we got a mate, a boat-
swain, and a gunner, English; a Dutch carpenter, and three
Portuguese foremast men; with these, we found we could do
well enough, having Indian seamen, such as they are, to make
up. We made the voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra,
and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our
wares for opium, and some arrack; the first, a commodity
which bears a great price among the Chinese, and which, at
that time, was very much wanted there; in a word, we went up
to Chushan; made a very great voyage; were eight months out;
and returned to Bengal: and I was very well satisfied with my
adventure, and got so much money by it, and such an insight
into the method of getting more, that, had I been twenty years
younger, I should have been tempted to have stayed here, and
sought no farther for making my fortune.
But I had a kind of impatience upon me to be nearer home,
and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable which way to
go. In the interval of these consultations, my friend, who
was always upon the search for business, proposed another
voyage to me, among the Spice Islands; and to bring home a
loading of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts; places
where, indeed, the Dutch do trade, but islands belonging
partly to the Spaniards; though we went not so far, but to
some other, where they have not the whole power as they have
at Batavia.
But to be short with my speculations, I must here refer to
one that brought us into great trouble. A little while after
this, there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a
coaster, not an European trader, and of about two hundred
tons burden: the men, as they pretended, having been so
sickly, that the captain had not men enough to go to sea with,
he lay by at Bengal; and, having got money enough, or being
willing, for other reasons, to go to Europe, he gave public
notice, that he would sell his ship: this came to my ears and
I had a great mind to buy it. So I goes home to my partner,
and told him of it: he considered awhile, for he was no rash
man neither; but musing some time, he replied, "She is a
little too big; but, however, we will have her." Accordingly
we bought the ship; and, agreeing with the master, we paid
for her, and took possession; when we had done so, we
resolved to induce the men, if we could, to join her with those
we had, for the pursuing our business; but on a sudden, they
having received no wages, not one of them was to be found.
We inquired much about them, and at length were told, that
they were all gone together, by land, to Agra, the great city of
the Mogul's residence; and from thence were to travel to
Surat, and so by sea to the Gulf of Persia. The very ground
over which I wanted to go myself, and nothing had so heartily
troubled me a good while, as that I missed the opportunity of
going with them; but I was much better satisfied a few days
after, when I came to know what sort of fellows they were; for,
in short, their history was, that this man they called captain
was the gunner only, not the commander; that they had been a
trading voyage, in which they were attacked on shore by some
of the Malaccans, who had killed the captain and three of his
men; and that after the captain was killed, these men, eleven
in number, had resolved to run away with the ship, which they
did; and had brought her in at the Bay of Bengal, leaving the
mate and five men more on shore; of whom we shall hear
farther.
Well; let them come by the ship how they would, we came
honestly by her, as we thought; though we did not, I confess,
examine into things so exactly as we ought.
But having picked up some more English seamen here after
this and some Dutch, we now resolved for a second voyage to
the southeast, for cloves, &c.; that is to say, among the Phil-
ippine and Molucca isles.
In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up
and down a great while in the Straits of Malacca, and among
the islands, we were no sooner got clear of those difficult seas,
but we found our ship had sprung a leak, and we were not
able, by all our industry, to find out where it was. This forced
us to make for some port; and my partner, who knew the
country better than I did, directed the captain to put into the
river of Cambodia; for I had made the English mate, one Mr.
Thompson, captain, not being willing to take the charge of the
ship upon myself.
While we were here, and going often on shore for refresh-
ment, there comes to me one day an Englishman, and he was,
it seems, a gunner's mate on board an English East India ship,
which rode in the same river, up at or near the city of Cam-
bodia. What brought him hither we knew not at the time;
but he comes up to me, and, speaking English, " Sir," says he,
"you are a stranger to me, and I to you; but I have some-
thing to tell you, that very nearly concerns you."
I looked steadily at him a good while, and thought at first I
had known him, but I had not. "If it very nearly concerns
me," said I, " and not yourself, what moves you to tell it me?"
"I am moved," says he, " by the imminent danger you are in;
and, for aught I see, you have no knowledge of it." "I know
no danger I am in," said I, "but that my ship is leaky, and I
cannot find the leak out; but I purpose to lay her aground
to-morrow, to see if I can find it." "But, sir," says he,
"leaky or not leaky, find it or not find it, you will be wiser
than to lay your ship on shore to-morrow, when you hear what
I have to say to you. Do you know, sir," says he, " the town
of Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river? And
there are two large English ships about five leagues on this
side, and three Dutch." "Well," said I, " and what is that to
me?" "Why, sir," says he, " is it for a man that is upon such
adventures as you are, to come into a port, and not examine
first what ships there are there, and whether he is able to deal
with them? I suppose you do not think you are a match for
them?" I was amused very much at his discourse, but not
amazed at it; for I could not conceive what he meant; and I
turned short upon him, and said, "Sir, I wish you would
explain yourself; I cannot imagine what reason I have to be
afraid of any Company's ship, or Dutch ships; I am no inter-
loper; what can they have to say to me?"
He looked like a man half angry, half pleased; and, paus-
ing awhile, but smiling, "Well sir," says he, "if you think
yourself secure, you must take your chance; I am sorry your
fate should blind you against good advice; but assure yourself,
if you do not put to sea immediately, you will the very next
tide be attacked by five long-boats full of men; and, perhaps,
if you are taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and the par-
ticulars be examined afterwards. I thought, sir," added he,
"I should have met with a better reception than this, for doing
you a piece of service of such importance." "I can never be
ungrateful," said I, " for any service, or to any man that offers
me any kindness; but it is past my comprehension what they
should have such a design upon me for. However, since you
say there is no time to be lost, and that there is some villain-
ous design in hand against me, I will go on board this minute,
and put to sea immediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if
we can swim without stopping it. But, sir," said I, " shall I go
away ignorant of the reason of all this? Can you give me no
further light into it?"
"I can tell you part of the story, sir," says he, "but I have
a Dutch seaman here with me, and, I believe, I could persuade
him to tell you the rest; but there is scarce time for it. But
the short of the story is this, the first part of which, I suppose,
you know well enough, namely, that you was with this ship at
Sumatra; that there your captain was murdered by the Malac-
cans, with three of his men; and that you, or some of those that
were on board with you, ran away with the ship, and are since
turned PIRATES. This is the sum of the story, and you will all
be seized as pirates, I can assure you, and executed with very
little ceremony; for you know merchants' men show but little
law to pirates, if they get them into their power.
"Now you speak plain English," said I, "and I thank you;
and, though I know nothing that we have done to deserve the
character we seem to have, but came honestly and fairly by.
the ship; yet hearing what you say, and that you seem to
mean honestly, I will be upon my guard." "Nay, sir," says
he, " do not talk of being upon your guard; the best defense
is to be out of the danger: if you have any regard to your life,
and the lives of your men, put out to sea without fail at high-
water; and as you have a whole tide before you, you will be
too far out before they can come down; for they only came
away at high-water; and as they have twenty miles to come,
you get near two hours of them by the difference of the tide,
not reckoning the length of the way; besides, as they are only
in boats, they will not venture to follow you far out to sea,
especially if it blows."
"Well," says I, "you have been very kind in this: what
shall I do for you to make you amends?" "Sir," says he,
"you may not be so willing to make me any amends, because
you may not be convinced of the truth of it: I will make an
offer to you; I have nineteen months' pay due to me on board
the ship , in which I came out from England; and the
Dutchman, that is with me, has seven months' pay due to him;
if you will make good our pay to us, we will go along with you.
If you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if
we convince you, that we have saved your lives, and the ship,
and the lives of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to
you."
I consented readily to this, and went immediately on
board, and the two men with me. As soon as I came to the
ship's side, my partner, who was on board, came on the quar-
ter-deck, and called to me with great joy, singing out, "We
have stopped the leak! we have stopped the leak!" "Say
you so?" said I; "thank God; but weigh the anchor then
immediately." "Weigh !" said he, " what do you mean by that?
What is the matter?" "Ask no questions," says I, "but all
hands up anchor without losing a minute." He was surprised;
but called the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor
to be got up; and a little land-breeze blowing, we stood out to
sea; then I called him into the cabin, and told him the story at
large; and we called in the men, and they told us the rest of
it; but as it took us a great deal of time before we had done,
a seaman comes to the cabin-door, and calls out to us, that the
captain bade him tell us, we were chased. "Chased!" said I,
"by whom, and by what?" "By five sloops, or boats," says
the fellow, "full of men." "Very well," said I; "then there
is something in it." I now ordered all the men to be mustered,
and told them briefly that there was a design to seize the ship,
and to take us for pirates; and asked them, if they would
stand by us, and by one another? The men answered, cheer-
fully, that one and all, they would live and die with us. Then I
asked the captain what way he thought best for us to manage
a fight with them; for resist them I was resolved we would,
and that to the last drop. He said, readily, that the way was
to keep them off with our great shot as long as we could, and
then to fire at them with our small arms, as long as we could;
if they were too strong for us, then we should retire to our
close quarters; perhaps they had not materials to break open
our bulk-heads, or get in upon us.
The gunner had, in the mean time, trained two guns to bear
fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and loaded
them with musket-bullets, and small pieces of old iron, and
•whatever came to hand; and thus we made ready for fight;
but all the while keeping out to sea. We could see, at a dis-
tance, five large long-boats following us, with all the sail they
could make. Two we could see, by our glasses, which were
English, outsailed the rest, and were nearly two leagues ahead
of the others, and gained upon us considerably, and likely to
come up with us. We fired a gun therefore without a shot, to
intimate that they should bring to; and we put out a flag of
truce as a signal for parley; but they kept crowding after us,
till they came within shot. Upon this we took in our white
flag, they having made no answer to it, hung out the red flag,
and fired at them with a shot. Notwithstanding this, they
came on till we could call to them with a speaking-trumpet,
ordering them to keep off at their peril. They still crowded
after us, and endeavored to come under our stern, so as to
board us on our quarter. Seeing them resolute for mischief,
I ordered the ship to bring to, so that they lay upon our broad-
side, when we fired five guns at them; one of them had been
levelled so truly as to carry away the stern of the hindermost
boat, and compel them to take down their sail, all running to
the head of the boat to keep her from sinking; she lay by,
having had enough of it; but the foremost boat still crowding
after us, we made ready to receive her.
While this was going on, another of the three boats made
up to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her; and we
could afterward see her take out the men. We called again to
the foremost boat, and asked her business with us, but had no
answer; only she crowded close under our stern. Upon this
our gunner, a dexterous fellow, run out his two chase guns, and
again fired at her; but the shot missing, the men in the boat
shouted, waved their caps, and came on; getting quickly ready
again, the gunner fired among them the second time; one shot
fell among the men, and as we could easily see, had done a
great deal of mischief; taking no notice of that we weared the
ship again, and brought our quarter to bear upon them; and,
firing three more guns, the boat was split almost to pieces, her
rudder, and a piece of her stern, shot away; so they handled
their sail immediately, and were in great disorder. Our gun-
ner let fly two more guns at them again; where he hit them
we could not see, but seeing the boat was sinking, and some
of the men already in the water, I manned the pinnace, which
was kept close by our side, with orders to pick up as many as
they could before the boats came up. Three men were picked
up, one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good while
before we could recover him. As soon as they were on board
we crowded all the sail, and stood farther out to sea. When
the other three boats came up to the first two, they gave over
their chase.
Being thus delivered from a great danger, we changed our
course, so as to conceal whither we were going; so we stood
out to sea eastward, quite out of the course of all European
ships, whether they were bound to China, or anywhere else,
within the commerce of the European nations.
When at sea we learnt from the two seamen the meaning of
all that had passed; we found also that we had the credit of
being a set of pirates who had already taken an English and
two Dutch ships very richly laden. This was a report which
required immediate refutation; this could only be done by
returning at once to Bengal, from whence we came, without
putting in at any port whatever; there we could give account
of ourselves, could prove where we were when the ship put in,
who we bought her of, and the like; we should be sure to
have some justice, and not be hanged first and judged after-
wards. But then came the consideration that we were on the
wrong side of the Straits of Malacca; and that if the alarm
were given, we should be waylaid by the Dutch of Batavia as
well as the English elsewhere; that if we should be taken, as
it were, running away, we should even condemn ourselves, and
there would want no more evidence to destroy us.
This danger a little startled my partner, and it was resolved
to go away to the coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of
China; and pursuing the first design, as to trade, find some
way or other to dispose of the ship, and come back in some
of the vessels of the country. Accordingly we steered away
N. N. E., keeping above fifty leagues off from the usual course
to the eastward. My partner, who was well acquainted with
the coast, was to put into some port on the coast of Cochin-
china, or the Bay of Tonquin; intending to go afterwards to
Macao, a town once in the possession of the Portuguese, and
where still a great many European families resided, particularly
the missionary priests who usually went thither, in order to
their going forward to China. And accordingly, though after
a tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened for
provisions, we came within sight of the coast very early one
morning. Upon reflection we resolved to put into a small
river, which, however, had depth enough of water for us,
and to see if we could, either overland or by the ship's pin-
nace, come to know what ships were in the port thereabouts.
This happy step was, indeed, our deliverance; for, though we
did not immediately see any European ships in the bay, yet the
next morning there came two Dutch ships, and a third with-
out colors, which we believed to be a Dutchman, also passed
by at about two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of
China; and in the afternoon two English ships passed, steer-
ing the same course. The place we were in was wild and bar-
barous, the people thieves, even by occupation or profession.
Nevertheless, as our ship had never quite recovered her
trim after the leak which we succeeded in stopping so fortu-
nately, we resolved, while we were in this place, to lay her on
shore, take out what heavy things we had on board, which
were not many, and to wash and clean her bottom; and, if
possible, to find out where the leaks were. Accordingly, hav-
ing lightened the ship, and brought all our guns, and other
movable things, to one side, we tried to bring her down, that
we might come at her bottom; but, on second thoughts, we
did not care to lay her dry on ground, neither could we find
out a proper place for it. The inhabitants, seeing the ship down
on one side in such a manner, and heeling towards the shore,
and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom,
with stages, and with their boats on the off side, they presently
concluded that the ship was cast away.
On this supposition they came all about us in two or three
hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats, having some of
them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to
have come on board and plundered the ship; and if they found
us there, to have carried us away for slaves. When they came
to the ship, however, and began to row round her, they dis-
covered us all hard at work on the outside of the ship's bottom
and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as every seafaring
man knows how. They stood for a while gazing at us, and we,
who were a little surprised, could not imagine what their de-
sign was; but being willing to be sure, we sent some of the
hands into the ship, to hand down arms and ammunition to
those that were at work to defend themselves with, if there
should be occasion; and it was no more than need; for they
agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a wreck; that we
were all at work, endeavoring to save her, or to save our lives
by the help of our boats; and when we handed our arms into
the boats, they concluded by that motion, that we were endeav-
oring to save some of our goods. Upon this they came down
upon us, as if it had been in a line of battle. Our men, seeing
so many of them, were frighted at first, for we lay in a bad
posture to fight; but I called to the men who worked upon the
stages, to slip down, and get up the side into the ship; and
those in the boats I ordered to row round and come on board,
while the few of us who were on board worked with all the
strength we had, to bring the ship to rights; but neither the
men upon the stage nor those in the boats could do as they
were ordered before the enemy were upon them. Two of their
boats boarded our long-boat, and attempted to lay hold of the
men.
The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman, a
stout fellow, who, having a musket in his hand, laid it down in
the boat, like a fool, as I thought. But he knew what he was
about; for he grappled his antagonist, and dragged him by
main force out into our boat, where, taking him by the two
ears, he beat his head so against the boat's gunnel that the fel-
low died in his hands. In the mean time, a Dutchman, who
stood next, took up the musket, and with the butt-end of it,
knocked down five of those who attempted to enter the boat.
But this was doing little towards resisting thirty or forty men,
who, fearless, because ignorant of their danger, began to throw
themselves into the long-boat, where we had but five men to
defend it; but an accident gave our men a complete victory,
which deserved our laughter rather than anything else; and
that was this.
The carpenter was preparing to grave the outside of the
ship, and pay the seams where he had caulked her, to stop
the leaks, and had two kettles, one filled with boiling pitch,
and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, just ready to let down
into the boat; and the carpenter's assistant had a great iron
ladle in his hand, with which he supplied the men that were
at work with the stuff. Two of the enemy's men entered the
boat just where this fellow stood, being in the fore-sheets; he
immediately saluted them with a ladleful of the stuff, boiling
hot, which, being half naked, so burnt and scalded them that
they roared out like two bulls, and leaped both into the sea.
The carpenter saw the result with great satisfaction, and cried
out, "Well done, Jack, give them some more of it;" and
stepping forward himself, takes a mop, and dipping it into the
pitch-pot, he threw it among them so plentifully, that they
were scalded and burnt in a most frightful manner, and made
such a howling as never was heard before; for it is worth ob-
serving that though pain naturally makes all people cry out, yet
every nation has a particular mode of exclamation, and makes
noises as different from one another as is their speech. The
noise these creatures made was howling, for I never heard any-
thing more like the noise of the wolves which I heard in the
forest of Languedoc.
I was never better pleased with a victory, for we obtained it
almost without bloodshed; our danger was imminent; but I
was sick of killing these poor wretches, even in my own de-
fense, for they knew no better, and in attacking us followed
their instincts ; and I thought it was a sad life, which could only
be preserved by killing our fellow-creatures. While this was
doing, we had with great dexterity brought the ship almost to
rights; and, having shipped the guns again, the gunner called
to me, to bid our boat get out of the way, for he would let fly
among them. I requested him not to fire, for the carpenter
would do the work with the help of another pitch-kettle, which
the cook was preparing. But the enemy had enough of it in
their first attack, they would not come on again; and seeing
the ship afloat, as it were, and upright, begun to see their mis-
take, and gave over the enterprise. Thus we got clear of this
merry fight; and having got some rice, and some roots and
bread, with about sixteen good big hogs, on board, two days
before, we resolved to stay here no longer, but go forward,
whatever came of it, having no desire to ply our pitch-kettle in
a second attack.
We therefore got all our things on board the same evening,
and the next day, having finished our work on board, and
finding our ship was perfectly cured of her leaks, we set sail,
keeping to the N. E. towards the isle of Formosa, where we
came to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh provisions.
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China,
till we knew we were beyond all the ports where European
ships usually come. Being now in latitude of 30°, we resolved
to stand in for the shore; a boat came off two leagues to us,
with an old Portuguese pilot on board, who came to offer his
service. We took him on board; upon which, without asking
us whither we would go, he dismissed the boat. Thinking
that we might take the old man where we would, I began to
talk with him about carrying us to the Gulf of Nanquin, which
he readily agreed to, and while we were still in discourse, the
ship went forward, and, in about thirteen days' sail, came to
anchor in the southwest point of the great Gulf of Nanquin.
When we came on shore, the old pilot, who was now a firm
friend, got us a lodging, and also a warehouse for our goods;
he also brought us acquainted with three missionary Romish
priests, who were in town, and who had been there some time.
One of these was a Frenchman, father Simon; he was a jolly,
well-conditioned man, very free in his conversation, not seem-
ing so serious and grave as the others, a Portuguese and a
Genoese; but father Simon was courteous, easy in his manner,
and very agreeable company; the other two were more re-
served, seemed rigid and austere, and applied seriously to the
work they came about.
Father Simon was appointed to go up to Pekin, the royal
seat of the Chinese emperor; and waited only for another
priest, who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go
along with him; and we scarce ever met, without an urgent
invitation to accompany him on his journey. He would show
me all the glorious things of that mighty empire; and among
the rest, the greatest city in the world ; "a city," said he, " that
your London, and our Paris, put together, cannot be equal
to." This was the city of Pekin. Dining with him one day,
and being very merry together, I showed some little inclination
to go with him, and he pressed me and my partner very hard,
and with a great many persuasions, to consent. "Why, father
Simon," says my partner, " why should you desire our company
so much? You know we are heretics, and you do not love us,
nor can you keep us company with any pleasure." "O!"
says he, "you may, perhaps be good Catholics in time; my
business here is to convert heathens; and who knows but I
may convert you too?" "Very well, father," said I, "so you
will preach to us all the way." "I will not be troublesome to
you," says he; "our religion does not divest us of good man-
ners; besides," says he, "we are here like countrymen; and
so we are, compared to the place we are in; and if you are
Huguenots, and I a Catholic, we may be all Christians at last;
at least," said he, "we are all gentlemen, and we may converse
so, without being uneasy to one another." In the mean time
we had our ship and merchandise to dispose of; our old Por-
tuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who bought all
our opium, and gave us a very good price for it, paying us in
gold by weight, some in small pieces of their own coin, and
some in small wedges, of about ten or eleven ounces each.
While we were dealing with him for our opium, it came into
my head that he might, perhaps, deal with us for the ship too;
and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him. He shrunk
up his shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to him; but,
in a few days after, he came to me, with one of the missionary
priests for his interpreter, and told me, he had a proposal to
make to me; it was this: he had bought a great quantity of
goods of us when he had no thoughts of buying the ship; and
that, therefore, he had not money enough to pay for the ship;
but if I would let the same men who were in the ship navigate
her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan, and would send
them from thence to the Philippine islands with another load-
ing, which he would pay the freight of, before they went from
Japan; and that, at their return from that voyage, he would
buy the ship. I began to listen to this proposal; and so eager
did my head still run upon rambling, that I began to entertain
a notion of going myself with him, and so to sail from the
Philippine islands away to the South Seas; and accordingly I
asked the Japanese merchant, if he would not hire us to the
Philippine islands, and discharge us there. He said, no, he
could not do that; for then he could not have the return of his
cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan, he said, at the
ship's return. Well, still I was for taking him at that proposal,
and going myself; but my partner, wiser than I, persuaded me
from it, representing the dangers, as well of the seas as of
the Japanese, who are a false, cruel, and treacherous people;
and then of the Spaniards at the Philippines; more false,
more cruel, and more treacherous than they.
We were now on shore in China. In the mean time, we vis-
ited the city of Nanquin, a ten days' journey into the interior,
and at a future period we accompanied father Simon to Pekin,
which occupied us twenty-four days. The people we found
haughty, imperious, and insolent, in the midst of the grossest
simplicity and ignorance; for all their famed ingenuity is no
more. And my friend, father Simon, and I used to be very
merry upon these occasions, to see the beggarly pride of these
people: for example, coming by the house of a country gen-
tleman, as father Simon called him, about ten leagues off of
the city of Nanquin, we had, first of all, the honor to ride with
the master of the house about two miles; the state he rode in,
being a strange mixture of pomp and poverty. The habit of
this greasy Don was very proper for a scaramouch, or merry-
andrew, being a dirty calico, with all the tawdry and trapping
of a fool's coat, such as hanging sleeves, tassels, and cuts and
slashes almost on every side; it covered a taffety vest, as
greasy as a butcher, and which testified, that his honor must
needs be a most exquisite sloven.
His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling creature, such
as in England might sell for about thirty or forty shillings; and
he had two slaves following him on foot, to drive the poor
creature along: he had a whip in his hand, and he belabored
the beast as fast about the head as his slaves did about the
tail; and thus he rode by us with about ten or twelve servants;
and we were told he was going from the city to his country
seat, about half a league before us. We travelled on gently,
but this figure of a gentleman rode away before us; and as
we stopped at a village about an hour to refresh us, when we
came by the country seat of this great man, we saw him in a
little place before his door, eating his repast; it was a kind of
a garden, but he was easy to be seen; and we were given to
understand, that the more we looked on him, the better he
would be pleased.
At length we arrived at Pekin: I had nobody with me but
the youth, whom my nephew the captain had left to attend
upon me as a servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent;
and my partner had nobody with him but one servant, who was
a kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to
see the court, we bore his charges and used him as an inter-
preter, for he understood the language of the country, and
spoke good French and a little English; and, indeed, this old
man was most useful to us everywhere, for we had not been
above a week at Pekin when he came to us laughing: "Ah,
Seignior Inglese," says he, " I have something to tell you, will
make your heart glad." "What can that be ?" says I; "I do
not know anything in this country that can either give me joy
or grief." "Yes, yes," said the old man in broken English,
"make you glad, me sorrow;" sorry he would have said.
This made me more inquisitive. "Why," said I, "will it make
you sorry?" "Because," said he, "you have brought me here
twenty-five days' journey, and will leave me to go back alone;
and which way shall I get to my port afterwards, without a
ship, without a horse, without pecune?" So he called money,
in his broken Latin, of which he had abundance to make us
merry withal.
In short, he told us there was a great caravan of Muscovite
and Polish merchants in the city, and they were preparing to
journey, by land, to Muscovy, and he was sure we would take
the opportunity to go with them. I confess I was surprised
with this news; a secret joy spread itself over my whole soul,
which I cannot describe; at last I turned to him, — " How do
you know this ?" said I. Says he, " I met this morning an
old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, or one you call a
Greek, who is among them ; he ca•me last from Astracan, and
was designing to go to Tonquin, but has altered his mind, and
is now resolved to go with the caravan to Moscow, and so
down the river Wolga to Astracan. "Well, seignior," says I,
"do not be uneasy about being left to go back alone; if I
return to England by this means it shall be your fault if you
go back to Macao at all." We then consulted together; my
partner told me he would do just as I would; for he had set-
tled all his affairs so well at Bengal, and left his effects in such
good hands, and had made so good a voyage here, if he could
vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as might be worth
the carriage, he would be content to go to England, and make
his voyage back to Bengal by one of the company's ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed, that if our Portugal
pilot would go with us, we would not only bear his charges to
Moscow, or to England, but we agreed to give him a quantity
of coined gold for his services, which, as I compute it, came
to about 175 pounds sterling between us.
It was in the beginning of February, our style, when we set
out from Pekin. I had bought ninety pieces of fine damasks,
with about two hundred pieces of other very fine silks, of sev-
eral sorts, some mixed with gold. Besides this we bought
a very large quantity of raw silk, and some other goods, which
loaded in all eighteen camels for our share, besides those we
rode upon; which, with two or three spare horses, and two
horses loaded with provisions, made us, in short, twenty-six
camels and horses in our retinue. The company was very
great, and as near as I can remember, made between three and
four hundred horse, and upward of a hundred and twenty men,
very well armed, and provided for all events. For, as the
eastern caravans are subject to be attacked, by the Arabs, so
are these by the Tartars. There were people of several na-
tions, Muscovites chiefly; for there were above sixty of them
who were merchants or inhabitants of Moscow, though of them
some were Livonians; and, to our particular satisfaction, five
of them were Scots, who appeared also to be men of great ex-
perience, and of very good substance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who
were five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants
to a great council, as they called it. At this great council
every one deposited a certain quantity of money to a common
stock, for the necessary expense of buying forage on the way,
where it was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the
guides, getting horses, and the like. And here they consti-
tuted the journey, as they called it, namely: they named cap-
tains and officers to draw us all up, and give the command in
case of an attack, and gave every one their turn of command.
In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for
protection against the Tartars; and a very great work it is, go-
ing over hills and mountains where the rocks are impassable,
and over precipices such as no enemy could possibly climb.
They tell us its length is near a thousand English miles;
but that the country is five hundred, in a straight measured
line, which the wall bounds, without measuring the windings
and turnings it takes; it is about four fathom high, and as
many thick in some places.
After we had passed this mighty nothing, called a wall, we
began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the people liv-
ing in fortified towns and cities, being subject to the inroads
and depredations of the Tartars, who rove about in troops or
hordes, keeping no order, and understanding no discipline;
their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures, taught nothing,
and fit for nothing. Our leader for the day gave leave for
about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they call it; and what
was this but a hunting of sheep! However, it may be called
hunting, too; for the creatures are the wildest and swiftest of
foot that ever I saw of their kind; only they will not run a
great way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the
chase; for they appear generally thirty or forty in a flock, and,
like true sheep, always keep together when they fly.
In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet
with about forty Tartars. Whether they were hunting mutton
as we were, or whether they looked for another kind of prey, I
know not; but as soon as they saw us one of them blew a
kind of a horn very loud, but with a barbarous sound that I
had never heard before; and, by the way, never care to hear
again. One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to •
be amongst us, and told us that we had nothing to do but to
charge them immediately, without loss of time; and drawing
us up in a line, he asked if we were ready to follow him, and
rode directly up to them. They stood gazing at us, but as
soon as they saw us advance they let fly their arrows, which,
however, missed us very happily.
We halted, and fired, sending them leaden bullets for
wooden arrows, following our shot full gallop, sword in hand;
for so our bold Scot directed. He showed such vigor, bravery,
and cool courage on this occasion, that I never saw any man in
action fitter for command. As soon as we came up to them,
we fired our pistols in their faces, and then drew; but they
fled in the greatest confusion imaginable; the only stand any
of them made was on our right, where three, having a kind of
scimitar in their hands, and their bows hanging at their backs,
by signs, called the rest to come back. Our brave comman-
der gallops up close to them, and with his fusil knocks one
of them off his horse, killed the second with his pistol, and
the third ran away; and thus ended our fight; but all our
mutton got away. We had not a man killed or hurt; but, as
for the Tartars, there were about five of them killed; who
were wounded, we knew not.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, but in
about five days we entered a vast great wild desert, which
held us three days and nights' march; and we were obliged to
carry our water with us in great leather bottles, and to encamp
all night. A kind of border that might be called No Man's
Land; being a part of the Great Karakathy,• or Grand Tar-
tary.
We saw two or three times little parties of the Tartars, and
once a party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us,
doubtful, apparently, whether to attack us or not. We trav-
elled near a month after this, the ways being not so good as at
first, though still in the dominions of the Emperor of China;
but lay, for the most part, in villages, some of which were
fortified, because of the incursions of the Tartars.
At one of these towns, wishing to buy a camel, and having
agreed for the price, I was coming away, when, on a sudden,
came up five Tartars on horseback; two of them seized the
fellow leading the camel, while the other three stepped up to
me and my old pilot; seeing us, as it were, unarmed, for I had
no weapon about me but my sword, which could but ill defend
me against three horsemen. The first that came up stopped
short upon my drawing my sword; but a second coming upon
my left, gave me a blow on the head, which I never felt till
afterwards, and wondered, when I came to myself, what was
the matter with me, and where I was, for he laid me flat on
the ground; but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese,
having a pistol in his pocket, and seeing me down, stepped up
to the fellow that had struck me, and pulling him by main
force a little towards him with one hand, with the other, he
shot him in the head, laying him dead on the spot; he then
stepped up to him who had stopped us, made a blow at him
with his scimitar, but missing the man, cut his horse into the
side of his head, cut one of his ears off by the root, and a
great slice down the side of his face. The poor beast, enraged
with the wound, was no more to be governed by his rider ; but
away he flew, and carried him quite out of the pilot's reach;
and at some distance, rising up upon his hind legs, threw
down the Tartar, and fell upon him.
In this interval the poor Chinese seeing the Tartar down,
and his horse fallen upon him, he runs to him, and seizing
upon an ugly ill-favored weapon he had by his side, something
like a pole-axe, he wrenched it from him, and made shift to
knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But my old man had
the third Tartar to deal with still; he did not fly, nor did he
come on to fight, but stands stock still. The old man falls to
work with his tackle to charge his pistol; but as soon as the
Tartar saw the pistol away he scoured, and left my pilot, — my
champion, as I called him afterward, a complete victor.
By this victory we lost a camel and gained a horse. When
we came back to the village the man demanded to be paid for
the camel; I disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing be-
fore the Chinese judge of the place. To give him his due, he
acted with a great deal of prudence and impartiality; and
having heard both sides, he gravely asked the Chinese man
that went with me to buy the camel, whose servant he was?
"I am no servant," says he, "but went with the stranger."
"At whose request? " says the justice. "At the stranger's re-
quest," says he. "Why, then," said the justice, " you were the
stranger's servant for the time, and the camel being delivered
to his servant, it was delivered to him, and he must pay for it."
I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to say;
I paid willingly for the camel, and sent for another.
We were now approaching the city of Naum, a frontier town
of the Chinese empire; they call it fortified, and so it is, as
fortifications go there. We wanted above two days' journey of
this city, when messengers arrived to tell all travellers and
caravans to halt, till they had a guard sent for them; for that
an unusual body of Tartars, ten thousand in all, had appeared
about thirty miles from the city. Accordingly, two days after,
we had two hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison of the
Chinese on our left, and three hundred more from the city of
Naum, and with those we advanced boldly; the three hundred
soldiers from Naum marched in our front, the two hundred in
our rear, and our men on each side of our camels with our
baggage, and the whole caravan in the centre. Early one
morning we marched from a little town called Changu, where
we had to ferry across a river, beyond which we entered upon
a desert of about fifteen or sixteen miles; there, by the cloud
of dust raised, we saw an enemy was at hand, and they were
at hand, indeed, for they came on upon the spur.
The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big
the day before, began to stagger, the soldiers frequently look-
ing behind them; which is a certain sign in a soldier that he
is just ready to run away. My old pilot was also of my mind:
"Seignior Inglese," says he, "those fellows must be encour-
aged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tartars come on, they
will never stand." "I am of your mind," said I, "but what
must be done?" "Done !" said he; "let fifty of our men ad-
vance, and flank them on each wing, and encourage them, and
they will fight like brave fellows in brave company; but with-
out, every man will turn his back." Accordingly fifty of us
marched to the right wing, and fifty to the left, and the rest
made a line of support: and so we marched, leaving the last
two hundred men as a reserve to guard the camels, and, if
need were, to assist the last fifty.
The Tartars came on in an innumerable company. They
viewed our posture, traversing the ground in the front of our
line ; and as we found them within gunshot, our leader ordered
the two wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each
wing with their shot, which was done; but they went off, I
suppose to give an account of the reception thev had met with;
for the party halted, stood awhile, as if to consider, and, wheel-
ing off to the left, they gave over their design.
Two days after this we came to the city of Naun, or Naum.
We thanked the governor for his care for us, and collected to
the value of one hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which we
gave to the soldiers sent to guard us; and here we rested one
day. After this we passed several great rivers, and two dread-
ful deserts, one of which we were sixteen days passing over,
and which, as I said, was to be called No Man's Land; and
on the 13th of April we came to the frontiers of the Musco-
vite dominions. I think the first city, or town, or fortress,
whatever it might be called, that belonged to the Czar of Mus-
covy, was called Argun, being on the west side of the river
Argun.
I could not but feel an infinite satisfaction that I was arrived
in a Christian country, or, at least, in a country governed by
Christians; for though the Muscovites do, in my opinion, but
just deserve the name of Christians, it is a blessing to be
brought into a country where the name of God, and of. a Re-
deemer, is known, worshipped, and adored.
Yet I soon found out that while the garrisons and governor
of these countries were Russians, and professed Christians,
the inhabitants of the country were mere pagans, sacrificing to
idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and stars, or all the host
of heaven; and not only so, but were, of all the heathens and
pagans that ever I met with, the most barbarous, except only
that they did not eat man's flesh, as our savages of America
did. Between Arguna, where we entered the Muscovite do-
minions, and the mixed Russian and Tartar city of Nertzins-
kay, which took us twenty days, I got so disgusted with the
mummeries performed before one of their idols, at a village
near the town, that I rode up to the image or monster, call it
what you will, and with my sword cut the bonnet that was on
its head in two in the middle, so that it hung down by one of
the horns ; and one of our men that was with me, took hold of
the sheep-skin that covered it. and pulled at it, when, behold, a
most hideous outcry and howling run through the village, and
two or three hundred people came about my ears, so that I
was glad to scour for it; for we saw some had bows and
arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visit them again.
Accordingly, when our caravan rested three nights at Nert-
zinskay, which was about four miles off, I communicated my
project to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of1 whose courage I
had had sufficient testimony. I told him what I had seen, and
my indignation, and my resolution. If I could get but four or
five men well armed to go with me to go and destroy that
abominable idol; and let them see that it had no power to
help itself, much less help them that offered sacrifices to it.
He laughed at me, but finding me resolute, he told me he
would go with me; and bring a stout fellow, one of his coun-
trymen, to go also with us; " one," says he, " as famous for his
zeal as you can desire." In a word, he brought me his com-
rade, a Scotsman, whom he called Captain Richardson; and
we agreed to go, only us three, and my only man servant, and
the very next night about midnight, the caravan being to set
forward in the morning, the Scots merchant brought a Tartar's
robe of sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and
had provided the same for himself and his countryman, so
that the people, if they saw us, should not be able to deter-
mine who we were. Having mixed up some combustible mat-
ter with aqua-vitae, gunpowder, and such other materials as we
could get, and having a good quantity of tar in a little pot,
about an hour after night set in, we set out upon our expedi-
tion.
We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and
found that the people had not the least jealousy of danger
attending their idol; the night was cloudy, yet the moon gave
us light enough to see that the idol stood just in the same
posture and place that it did before. The people seemed to
be all at their rest; only that in the great hut, we saw the
three priests, and some five or six with them; we concluded,
therefore, that if we set the wild-fire to the idol, these men
would come out immediately, and run to the place to rescue it
from the destruction we intended for it. It was too bulky to
be carried away, so we were at a loss again. "Well then,"
said the Scots merchant, " I will tell you what we will do; we
will try to take them prisoners, tie their hands behind them,
and make them stand still, and see their idol destroyed."
We knocked gently, and seized them as they came out, and
immediately tied them. The last of them stepping back, and
crying out, my Scots merchant went in after him, and taking
out a composition we had made, that would only smoke and
stink, he set fire to it, and threw it among them: by that time
the other Scotsman and my man taking charge of the two
men who were already bound, and tied together also by the
arm, led them away to the idol, and left them there. The fuse
we had thrown in, soon filled the hut with so much smoke, that
they were almost suffocated; we then threw in a small leather
bag of another kind, which flamed like a candle, and, follow-
ing it in, we found there were but four people left, two men
and two women, engaged, as we supposed, about some of their
diabolical sacrifices. They appeared, in short, frighted to
death, at least so as to sit trembling and stupid, and not able
to speak, neither, for the smoke. We bound them as we had
the other, and all without any noise. When we had done this,
and carried them all together to the idol, we fell to work, and
first daubed it all over with tar, and such other stuff as we had;
then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and mouth with gunpow-
der, and wrapped up a great piece of wild-fire in his bonnet;
and then sticking all the combustibles we had brought with us
upon him, we looked about to see if we could find anything else
to help to burn him; when my man remembered, that by the
tent, or hut, where the men were, there lay a heap of dry for-
age, which he and one of the Scotsmen run and fetched their
arms full of. Now we took all our prisoners, and brought
them, having untied their feet and ungagged their mouths, and
set them just before their monstrous idol, and then set fire to
the whole.
We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts, till
the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol blew
up, and, we could perceive, had split and deformed the shape;
and, in a word, till we saw it burn into a mere block or log of
wood; and then setting the dry forage to it, we found it would
be quite consumed; when we began to think of going away;
but the Scotsman said, " No, we must not go; for these poor
deluded wretches will all throw themselves into the fire, and
burn themselves with the idol." So we resolved to stay till
the forage was burnt down too, and then we came away and
left them.
In the morning we appeared among our fellow-travellers,
exceeding busy in getting ready for our journey; nor could
any man suppose that we had been anywhere but in our beds.
But it did not end so; the next day came a great multitude of
the country people, not only of this village, but of a hundred
more, for aught I know, to the town gates; and, in a most
outrageous manner, demanded satisfaction of the Russian gov-
ernor, for the insulting their priests, and burning their great
Cham-Chi-Thaungu.
The governor told them there was a caravan gone towards
Russia that morning, and the caravan having a hint from the
governor, marched two days and two nights without any con-
siderable stop, fortunately taking the south side of the Lake
Si•hanks Oscer, while the pursuers took the north. After jour-
neying three days, they found their mistake, and came pouring
in upon us, towards the dusk one evening. The enemy did
not come on us like thieves, as we expected, but sent three
messengers to demand the men to be delivered to them, that
had abused their priests. The leader of the caravan sent
word that he was well assured it was not done by any of
our camp; that we were peaceable merchants, and we had
done no harm to them, or to any one else; and that therefore
they must look farther for their enemies. They were far from
being satisfied with this for an answer; but a cunning fellow,
a Cossack, in the pay of the Muscovites, relieved us from this
great danger. Taking his bow and arrows, and getting on
horseback, he rides away from our rear back, taking a great
circuit, and coming to the army of the Tartars, as if he had
been sent express after them, he tells them that the people
who had burnt their Cham-Chi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka,
a town four or five days to the south, with another caravan.
In less than three hours they were entirely out of our sight,
and we never heard any more of them, but passed safely on to
the city of Jarawena. From this city we had a frightful des-
ert, which held us three-and-twenty days' march. After we
had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty well in-
habited. After this we had to pass the nation of the Ton-
gueses. Having passed through this country, and another
desert of at least four hundred miles, we came to Janezay, a
Muscovite city or station, on the great river of that name,
which, they told us. parted Europe from Asia. From this
river to the great river Oby, we crossed a wild, uncultivated
country, whither the Muscovite criminals, that are not put to
death, are banished.
I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs, till
I came to Tobolsk!, the capital city of Siberia, where I thought
it much my better way to let the caravan go on, and to make
provision to winter where I was, in the latitude of sixty de-
grees. This being the country where the state criminals of
Muscovy are all banished, this city was full of noblemen,
princes, gentlemen, colonels, and, in short, all degrees of the
nobility, gentry, soldiery, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here
was the famous Prince Galitzen, the old General Robostisky,
and several other persons of note, and some ladies.
By means of my Scots merchant, who, nevertheless, I parted
with here, I made an acquaintance with several of these gentle-
men, and some of them of the first rank; and from these, in
the long winter nights, in which I stayed here, I received sev-
eral very agreeable visits. Among others the Prince ,
one of the banished ministers of state belonging to the Czar
of Muscovy. My measures being fixed, for Archangel, and
not for Muscovy, or the Baltic, about the latter end of May, I
began to pack up. Before leaving, I sent my servant to the
prince, with a small present of tea, and two pieces of China
damask, and four little wedges of Japan gold, which did not
all weigh above six ounces, or thereabout; but were far short
of the value of his sables, which, indeed, when I came to
England, I found worth near two hundred pounds. He ac-
cepted the tea and one piece of the damask, and one of the
pieces of gold, which had a fine stamp upon it, of the Japan
coinage, which I found he took for the rarity of it, but would
not take any more, and he sent word by my servant that he
desired to speak with me. Thinking how easy it would have
been to have taken any of these exiles with me, I had pro-
posed to the prince to make his escape with me, engaging to
put him on board an English or Dutch ship, which he had de-
clined.
When I came to him, he told me I knew what had passed
between us, and hoped I would not move him any more in
that affair; but that, since I had made such a generous offer
to him, he asked me if I had kindness enough to offer the same
to another person that he would name to me, in whom he took
a great interest. I told him that I could not say I inclined to
do so much for any one but himself, for whom I had a particu-
lar respect, and should have been glad to have been the in-
strument of his deliverance; however, if he would please to
name the person to me, I would give him my answer, and
hoped he would not be displeased with me, if he was with
my answer. He told me it was only his son, who, though I
had not seen, was in the same condition with himself, and
above two hundred miles from him, on the other side the
Oby; but that, if I consented, he would send for him.
I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made
some ceremony in letting him understand that it was wholly
on his account; and that, seeing I could not prevail on him, I
would show my respect to him by my concern for his son; but
these things are too tedious to repeat here. He sent away the
next day for his son, and in about twenty days he came back
with the messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded with
very rich furs, and which, in the whole, amounted to a very
great value. His servants brought the horses into the town,
but left the young lord at a distance till night, when he came
incognito into our apartment, and his father presented him to
me; and, in short, we concerted there the manner of our
travelling, and everything proper for the journey.
It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place,
a city, I believe, little heard of in the world; and, indeed, it
is so far out of the road of commerce, that I know not how it
should be talked of. "We now formed a very small caravan,
being only thirty-two horses and camels in all, and all of them
passed for mine, though my new guest was proprietor of eleven
of them. It was most natural, also, that I should take more
servants with me than I had before, and the young lord passed
for my steward; what great man I passed for myself I forget
now. We had here the worst and the largest desert to pass
over that we met with in all the journey; indeed I call it
the worst, because the way was very deep in some places, and
very uneven in others; the best we had to say for it, was, that
we thought we had no troops of Tartars and robbers to fear,
for they never came on this side the river Oby, or at least
but very seldom ; but we found it otherwise.
My young lord had with him a faithful Muscovite servant,
or rather a Siberian servant, who was perfectly acquainted
with the country; and led us by private roads, so that we
avoided coming into the principal towns and cities upon the
great road, such as Tumen, Soloy Kamaskoy, and several oth-
ers; where the Muscovite garrisons are very curious and strict
in their observations upon travellers, fearing lest any of the
banished persons of note should make their escape that way
into Muscovy; by this means, as we were kept out of the
cities, so our whole journey was through a desert, and we
were obliged to encamp and lie in our tents.
We entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which,
in these parts, is the boundary between Europe and Asia; and
the first city on the European side was called Soloy Kamas-
koy, the great city on the river Kama; beyond this, we had a
vast desert to pass, which, by relation, is near seven hundred
miles long in some places, and covered with forests. In pass-
ing this great forest, after all our danger had in imagination
disappeared, I thought we must have been plundered and
robbed, and even murdered by a troop of thieves; of what
country they were, whether the roving bands of the Ostiachi,
or wild people on the bank of the Oby, who had ranged thus
far; or whether they were the sable-hunters of Siberia, I am
at a loss to know; but they were all on horseback, carried
bows and arrows, and were at first about five-and-forty in
number; they carne within about two musket shot of us, sur-
rounding us with their horse, and looked very earnestly upon
us; upon which we drew up in a little line before our camels,
being sixteen men in. all. I did not feel that we were quite
safe where we were, but at about a quarter of a mile's distance
off on our left, was a little grove or clump of trees, which stood
close together, and very near the road; I immediately resolved
to advance to those trees, and fortify ourselves there as well as
we could. We advanced immediately with what speed we
could, and gained that little wood, the Tartars making no
attempt to hinder us. When we came thither, we found, to our
great satisfaction, that it was a swampy, springy piece of
ground, and, on the one side, a very great spring of water,
which, running out in a little rill or brook, was a little farther
off joined by another of the like bigness; it was, in short, the
head or source of a considerable river, called the Wirtska.
The trees growing about this spring were not above two
hundred, but were very large and stood pretty thick; so that
as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves perfectly safe from the
enemy, unless they alighted and attacked us on foot.
But to make this more difficult, our Portuguese, with inde-
fatigable application, cut down great arms of the trees, and
laid them hanging, not cut quite off, from one tree to another;
so that he made a continued fence almost round us.
We stayed here, waiting the motion of the enemy some hours,
without perceiving they made any motion; when about two
hours before night, they came down directly upon us; and
though we had not perceived it, we now found, that they had
been joined by some more, so that they were near fourscore
horse, whereof, however, we fancied some were women. They
came on till they were within half shot of our little wood, when
we fired one musket without ball, and called to them in the
Russian tongue, to know what they wanted, and bid them
keep off; but they came on with a double fury directly up to
the wood-side, not imagining we were barricaded that they
could not break in ; our old pilot was our captain, as well as he
had been our engineer; and desired us not to fire upon them
till they came within pistol shot, and that we might be sure to
kill: he gave the word to fire when some of them were only
within two pikes' length of us, and we aimed so true, that we
killed fourteen of them, and wounded several others, as also
several of their horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces
with two or three bullets.
They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated
immediately about one hundred rods from us; in which time
we loaded our pieces again, and seeing them keep that dis-
tance, we sallied out, and catched four or five of their horses,
whose riders, we supposed, were killed; and coming up to the
23
dead, we could easily perceive they were Tartars, but knew
not from what country, or how they came to make an excursion
such an unusual length.
About an hour after, they made a motion to attack us again,
and rode round our little wood, to see where else they might
break in; but finding us always ready to face them, they went
off again. We slept little, you may be sure; but spent the
most part of the night in strengthening our •situation, and
barricading the entrances into the wood; keeping a strict
watch, we waited for daylight, and, when it came, it gave us a
very unwelcome discovery indeed: for the enemy, who, we
thought, were discouraged with the reception they had met
with, were now increased to no less than three hundred, and
had set up eleven or twelve huts and tents, as if they were
resolved to besiege us; and this little camp they had pitched
upon the open plain, at about three quarters of a mile from us.
This was a terrible discovery; I gave myself over for lost.
As for my partner he was raging: he declared, that to lose his
goods would be his ruin; and he would rather die than be
starved; and he was for fighting it out. The young lord also,
as gallant as ever flesh showed itself, was for fighting to the
last also; and my old pilot was of opinion that we were able
to resist them all; but towards evening, we found that the
number of our enemies still increased: perhaps, as they were
abroad in several parties for prey, the first had sent out
scouts to call for help, and to acquaint the others of the
booty; and we did not know but by the morning they might
still be a greater number; so I began to inquire of those peo-
ple we had brought from Tobolski, if there was no other or
more private ways, by which we might avoid them in the
night, and perhaps, either retreat to some town, or get help to
guard us over the desert.
The Siberian told us, that if we wished to avoid them, and
not fight, he would engage to carry us off in the night to a
way that went north towards the Petraz, by which he made no
question but we might get away, and the Tartars never be
the wiser; but he said, his lord had told him he would not re-
treat, but would rather fight. Having satisfied him that his
master knew better than to require sixteen men to fight four
hundred, we prepared for departure. As soon as it began to
be dark, we kindled a fire in our little camp, which we kept
burning, and prepared so as to make it burn all night, that
the Tartars might conclude we were still there; but, as soon
as we could see the stars (for our guide would not stir be-
fore), having all our horses and camels ready laden, we fol-
lowed our new guide, who, I soon found, steered himself by
the pole, or north star, all the country being level for a long
way.
When we had travelled very hard for two hours, it began to
be lighter still; not that it was quite dark all night, but the
moon began to rise, so that, in short, it was rather lighter
than we wished it to be; but by six o'clock the next morning
we were forty miles off, though the truth is, we almost spoiled
our horses. Here we found a Russian village, named Kirma-
zinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of the Kalmuck
Tartars that day. About two hours before night we set out
again, and travelled till eight the next morning, though not
quite so hard as before; and about seven o'clock we passed a
little river, called Kirtza, and came to a large town inhabited
by Russians, and very populous, called Ozomys. There we
heard, that several troops, or hordes of Kalmucks had been
abroad upon the desert, but that we were now completely out
of danger from them. Here we were obliged to get some
fresh horses, and having need enough of rest, we stayed five
days; my partner and I agreeing to give the honest Siberian,
who brought us thither, the value of ten pistoles for his con-
duct.
In five days more we came to Veussima, upon the river
Witzogda, and running into the Dwina; we were very happily
near the end of our travels by land, that river being navigable
in seven days' passage to Archangel: from hence we came to
Lawrenskoy, the third of July; and providing ourselves with
two luggage-boats, and a barge, for our own convenience, we
embarked the seventh, and arrived all safe at Archangel the
eighteenth, having been a year and five months and three days
on the journey, including our stay of eight months and odd
days at Tobolski.
We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the
arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had not a
Hamburgher come in above a month sooner than any of the
English ships; considering that the city of Hamburgh might
happen to be as good a market for our goods as London,
we all took freight with him; and having put my goods on
board, it was most natural for me to put my steward on board
to take care of them ; by which means my young lord had a
sufficient opportunity to conceal himself, never coming on
shore in all the time we stayed there; and this he did, that
he might not be seen in the city, where some of the Moscow
merchants would certainly have seen and discovered him.
We sailed from Archangel the twentieth of August the same
year; and, after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived in the
Elbe the thirteenth of September. Here my partner and I
found a very good sale for our goods, as well those of China
as the sables, &c. of Siberia; and dividing the produce of our
effects, my share amounted to .£3,475 17•f• 3^. notwithstanding
so many losses we had sustained, and charges we had been
at; only remembering that I had included in this about six
hundred pounds' worth of diamonds, which I had purchased at
Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up the
Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna, where he resolved
to seek protection, and where he could correspond with those
of his father's friends who were left alive. He did not part
without all the testimonies he could give me of gratitude for
the service I had done him, and his sense of my kindness to
the prince his father.
To conclude: having stayed near four months in Ham-
burgh, I came from thence overland to the Hague, where I
embarked in the packet, and arrived in London the loth of
January, 1705, having been gone from England ten years and
nine months.
And here, resolving to harass myself no more, I am pre-
paring for a longer journey than all these, having lived sev-
enty-two years a life of infinite variety, and learned sufficiently
to know the value of retirement, and the blessing of ending
our days in peace.
THE END.
J
THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
AND
STRANGE SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER,
WHO LIVED EIGHT AND TWENTY YEARS ALL ALONE IN AN UNIN-
HABITED ISLAND ON THE COAST OF AMERICA, NEAR THE
MOUTH OF THE GREAT RIVER OF ORONOOQUE; HAVING
BEEN CAST ON SHORE BY SHIPWRECK, WHEREIN
ALL THE MEN PERISHED BUT HIMSELF. WITH
AN ACCOUNT HOW HE WAS AT LAST AS
STRANGELY DELIVERED BY PIRATES. ALSO
THE FURTHER ADVENTURES, WRIT-
TEN BY HIMSELF.
BY DANIEL DEFOE.
WITH EIGHT ILLUSTRATIONS BY THOMAS NAST.

NEW YORK:
PUBLISHED BY KURD AND HOUGHTON.
XUbetsftte JJtesx.
1873.
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by
KURD AND HOUGHTON,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of
New York.
RIVERSIDE, CAMBRIDGE:
STEREOTYPED AND PRINTED BY
H. O. HOUGHTON AND COMPANY.
THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES
or
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of
a good family, though not of that country, my father
being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at
Hull: he got a good estate by merchandise, and leaving off
his trade, lived afterward at York; from whence he had mar-
ried my mother, whose relations were named Robinson, a very
good family in that country, and from whom I was called
Robinson Kreutznaer; but by the usual corruption of words in
England, we are now called, nay, we call ourselves, and write
our name Crusoe; and so my companions always called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-colo-
nel to an English regiment of Foot in Flanders, formerly com-
manded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at
the battle near Dunkirk against the Spaniards. What became
of my second brother I never knew, any more than my father
or mother knew what became of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade,
my head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts.
My father, who was very ancient, had given me a competent
share of learning, as far as house education and a country
free school generally goes, and designed me for the law; but
I would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea; and my
inclination to this led me so strongly against the will, nay, the
commands of my father, and against all the entreaties and
persuasions of my mother and other friends, that there seemed
to be something fatal in that propension of nature tending
directly to the life of misery which was to befall me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and ex-
cellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He
called me one morning into his chamber, where he was con-
fined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with me upon
this subject: he asked me what reasons, more than a mere
wandering inclination, I had for leaving my father's house and
my native country, where I might be well introduced, and had
a prospect of raising my fortune by application and industry,
with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me it was for men
of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring superior for-
tunes on the other, who went abroad upon adventures, to rise
by enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertakings
of a nature out of the common road; that these things were
all either too far above me, or too far below me; that mine
was the middle state, or what might be called the upper sta-
tion of low life, which he had found by long experience was
the best state in the world, the most suited to human happi-
ness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships, the labor and
sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind, and not embar-
rassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the upper
part of mankind. He told me, I might judge of the happi-
ness of this state, by this one thing, namely, that this was the
state of life which all other people envied; that kings have
frequently lamented the miserable consequences of being born
to great things, and wish they had been placed in the middle
of the two extremes, between the mean and the great; that the
wise man gave his testimony to this, as the just standard of true
felicity, when he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.
He bade me observe it, and I should always find, that the
calamities of life were shared among the upper and lower part
of mankind; but that the middle station had the fewest dis-
asters, and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the
higher or lower part of mankind; nay, they were not sub-
jected to so many distempers and uneasinesses either of body
or mind, as those were who, by vicious living, luxury, and
extravagances on one hand, or by hard labor, want of nec-
essaries, and mean or insufficient diet on the other hand,
bring distempers upon themselves by the natural conse-
quences of their way of living; that the middle station of
life was calculated for all kind of virtues and all kind of
enjoyments; that peace and plenty were the handmaids of
a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quietness,
health, society, all agreeable diversions, and all desirable
pleasures, were the blessings attending the middle station
of life; that this way men went silently and smoothly through
the world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with the
labors of the hands or of the head, not sold to the life of
slavery for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed circum-
stances, which rob the soul of peace, and the body of rest;
not enraged with the passion of envy, or secret burning lust
of ambition for great things ; but in easy circumstances sliding
gently through the world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of
living without the bitter, feeling that they are happy, and
learning by every day's experience to know it more sensibly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affec-
tionate manner, not to play the young man, not to precipitate
myself into miseries which nature and the station of life I
was born in, seemed to have provided against; that I was
under no necessity of seeking my bread; that he would do
well for me, and endeavor to enter me fairly into the station
of life which he had been just recommending to me; and
that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it must be
my mere fate or fault that must hinder it, and that he should
have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty
in warning me against measures which he knew would be to
my hurt; in a word, that as he would do very kind things for
me if I would stay and settle at home as he directed, so he
would not have so much hand in my misfortunes, as to give
me any encouragement to go away; and to close all, he told
me I had my elder brother for an example, to whom he had
used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from going
into the Low Country wars, but could not prevail, his young
desires prompting him to run into the army, where he was
killed; and though he said he would not cease to pray for me,
yet he would venture to say to me, that if I did take this fool-
ish step, God would not bless me, and I would have leisure
hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his counsel when
there might be none to assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his discourse, — which was
truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did not know it to
be so himself, — I say, I observed the tears run down his face
very plentifully, and especially when he spoke of my brother
who was killed; and that when he spoke of my having leisure
to repent, and none to assist me, he was so moved, that he
broke off the discourse, and told me his heart was so full, he
could say no more to me.
I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as, indeed, who
could be otherwise, and I resolved not to think of going
abroad any more, but to settle at home according to my fa-
ther's desire. But, alas! a few days wore it all off; and, in
short, to prevent any of my father's further importunities, in a
few weeks after I resolved to run quite away from him. How-
ever, I did not act so hastily neither, as my first heat of res-
olution prompted, but I took my mother, at a time when I
thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told her that
my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that
I should never settle to anything with resolution enough to go
through with it, and my father had better give me his consent
than force me to go without it; that I was now eighteen
years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or
clerk to an attorney; that I was sure, if I did, I should never
serve out my time, and I should certainly run away from my
master before my time was out, and go to sea; and if she
would speak to my father to let me go but one voyage abroad,
if I came home again and did not like it, I would go no more,
and I would promise by a double diligence to recover that
time I had lost.
This put ray mother into a great passion: she told me, she
knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon
any such subject; that he knew too well what was my interest
to give his consent to anything so much for my hurt, and that
she wondered how I could think of any such thing after such
a discourse as I had had from my father, and such kind and
tender expressions as she knew my father had used to me, and
that, in short, if I would ruin myself, there was no help for
me; but I might depend I should never have their consent to
it; that for her part she would not have so much hand in my
destruction; and I should never have it to say, that my
mother was willing when my father was not.
Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as
I heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him, and
that my father, after showing a great concern at it, said to her,
with a sigh, "That boy might be happy if he would stay at
home, but if he goes abroad, he will be the most miserable
wretch that was ever born; I can give no consent to it."
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose,
though in the mean time I continued obstinately deaf to all
proposals of settling to business, and frequently expostulating
with my father and mother about their being so positively de-
termined against what they knew my inclinations prompted
me to. But being one day at Hull, where I went casually,
and without any purpose of making an elopement that time
— but I say, being there, and one of my companions being
about to sail to London, in his father's ship, and prompting
me to go with them, with the common allurement of seafaring
men, namely, that it should cost me nothing for my passage, I
consulted neither father nor mother any more, nor so much as
sent them word of it; but leaving them to hear of it as they
might, without asking God's blessing, or my father's, without
any consideration of circumstances or consequences, and in
an ill hour—God knows — on the first of September, 1651,
I went on board a ship bound for London. Never any young
adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or contin-
ued longer than mine. The ship was no sooner gotten out of
the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and the waves to
rise in a most frightful manner; and as I had never been at
sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terri-
fied in mind. I began now seriously to reflect upon what I
had done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of
Heaven for my wicked leaving my father's house, and aban-
doning my duty; all the good counsel of my parents, my
father's tears and my mother's entreaties, came now fresh into
my mind, and my conscience, which was not yet come to the
pitch of hardness to which it has been since, reproached me
with the contempt of advice, and the breach of my duty to
God and my father.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had
never been upon before, went very high, though nothing like
what I have seen many times since; no, nor like what I saw a
few days after: but it was enough to affect me then, who was
but a young sailor, and had never known anything of the
matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed us up,
and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought, in the
trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more; and
in this agony of mind I made many vows and resolutions,
that if it would please God here to spare my life this one voy-
age, if ever I got once my foot upon dry land again I would
go directly home to my father, and never set it into a ship
again while I lived; that I would take his advice, and never
run myself into such miseries as these any more. Now I saw
plainly the goodness of his observations about the middle
station of life, how easy, how comfortably he had lived all his
days, and never had been exposed to tempests at sea, or
troubles on shore; and I resolved that I would, like a true re-
penting prodigal, go home to my father.
These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the
storm continued, and indeed some time after; but the next
day the wind was abated and the sea calmer, and I began to
be a little inured to it: however, I was very grave for all that
day, being also a little sea-sick still; but towards night the
weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charming
fine evening followed; the sun went down perfectly clear, and
rose so the next morning; and having little or no wind, and a
smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought,
the most delightful that ever I saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick,
but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea that was
so rough and terrible the day before, and could be so calm
and so pleasant in so little time after. And now, lest my
good resolutions should continue, my companion, who had
indeed enticed me away, comes to me. "Well, Bob," says he
(clapping me upon the shoulder), "how do you do after it? I
warrant you were frighted, wan't you, last night, when it blew
but a cap full of wind?" "A cap full do you call it?" said
I. "It was a terrible storm." "A storm, you fool you," re-
plies he; "do you call that a storm? why it was nothing at
all; give us but a good ship and sea-room, and we think noth-
ing of such a squall of wind as that; but you're but a fresh-
water sailor, Bob: come, let us make a bowl of punch, and
we'll forget all that . Do you see what charming weather it is
now?" To make short this sad part of my story, we went
the old way of all sailors; the punch was made, and I was
made drunk with it, and in that one night's wickedness I
drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon my past
conduct, and all my resolutions for my future. In a word, as
the sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and settled
calmness by the abatement of that storm, so the hurry of my
thoughts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being
swallowed up by the sea being forgotten, and the current of
my former desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and
promises that I made in my distress. I found indeed some
intervals of reflection, and the serious thoughts did, as it were,
endeavor to return again sometimes; but I shook them off,
and roused myself from them as it were from a distemper,
and applying myself to drink and company, soon mastered
the return of those fits, for so I called them, and I had in five
or six days got as complete a victory over conscience as any
young fellow that resolved not to be troubled with it could de-
sire. But I was to have another trial for it still; and Provi-
dence, as in such cases generally it does, resolved to leave me
entirely without excuse. For if I would not take this for a
deliverance, the next was to be such a one as the worst and
most hardened wretch among us would confess both the dan-
ger and the mercy.
The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth
Roads; the wind having been contrary, and the weather calm,
we had made but little way since the storm. Here we were
obliged to come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind con-
tinuing contrary, namely, at southwest, for seven or eight
days, during which time a great many ships from Newcastle
came into the same roads, as the common harbor where the
ships might wait for a wind from the river.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but should have
tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too fresh, and
after we had lain four or five days blew very hard. However,
the roads being reckoned as good as a harbor, the anchorage
good, and our ground-tackle very strong, our men were un-
concerned, and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but
spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the sea;
but the eighth day in the morning, the wind increased, and we
had all hands at work to strike our topmasts, and make every-
thing snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy as pos-
sible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship
rid forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or
twice our anchor had come home; upon which our master or-
dered out the sheet-anchor, so that we rode with two anchors
ahead, and the cables veered out to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I
began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of the
seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant in the busi-
ness of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and out of his
cabin by me, I could hear him softly to himself say several
times, "Lord, be merciful to us; we shall be all lost, we shall
be all undone," and the like. During these first hurries, I was
stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the steerage, and
cannot describe my temper. I could ill reassume the first
penitence which I had so apparently trampled upon, and
hardened myself against: I thought the bitterness of death
had been past, and that this would be nothing like the first.
But when the master himself came by me, as I said just now,
and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully frighted; I
got up out of my cabin, and looked out; but such a dismal
sight I never saw: the sea went mountains high, and broke
upon us every three or four minutes: when I could look about,
I could see nothing but distress round us: two ships that rid
near us, we found, had cut their masts by the board, being
deep loaden; and our men cried out, that a ship which rid
about a mile ahead of us was foundered. Two more ships
being driven from their anchors, were run out of the roads to
sea at all adventures, and that with not a mast standing. The
light ships fared the best, as not so much laboring in the sea;
but two or three of them drove, and came close by us, run-
ning away with only their spritsail out before the wind.
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the mas-
ter of our ship to let them cut away the foremast, which he
was very unwilling to do; but the boatswain protesting to him,
that if he did not, the ship would founder, he consented; and
when they had cut away the foremast, the mainmast stood
so loose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged to
cut her away also, and make a clear deck.
Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all
this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been in such a
fright before at but a little. But if I can express at this dis-
tance the thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in ten-
fold more horror of mind upon account of my former convic
tions, and the having returned from them to the resolutions I
had wickedly taken at first, than I was at death itself; and
these, added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a
condition, that I can by no words describe it. But the worst
was not come yet: the storm continued with such fury, that
the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never known a
worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep loaden, and
wallowed in the sea, that the seamen every now and then
cried out she would founder. It was my advantage in one
respect, that I did not know what they meant by founder,
till I inquired. However, the storm was so violent, that I
saw what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and
some others more sensible than the rest, at their prayers,
and expecting every moment when the ship would go to the
bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all the rest
of our distresses, one of the men that had been down on pur-
pose to see, cried out, we had sprung a leak; another said
there was four foot water in the hold. Then all hands were
called to the pump. At that very word my heart, as I thought,
died within me, and I fell backwards upon the'side of my bed
where I sat, into the cabin. However, the men roused me,
and told me, that I who was able to do nothing before, was as
well able to pump as another: at which I stirred up, and went
to the pump and worked very heartily. While this was doing,
the master seeing some light colliers, who, not able to ride out
the storm, were obliged to slip and run away to sea, and would
not come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress.
I, who knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised, that
I thought the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing hap-
pened. In a word I was so surprised, that I fell down in a
swoon. As this was a time when everybody had his own life
to think of, nobody minded me, or what was become of me;
but another man stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me
aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead, and it
was a great while before I came to myself.
We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder; and though the storm
began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could swim
till we might run into a port, so the master continued firing
guns for help; and a light ship who had rid it out just ahead
of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the
utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it was impossible
for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's
side; till at last, the men rowing very heartily, and venturing
their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the
stern with the buoy to it, and then veered it out a great
length, which they, after great labor and hazard, took hold of,
and we hauled them close under our stern and got all into
their boat. It was to no purpose for them or us after we were
in the boat to think of reaching to their own ship, so all agreed
to let her drive, and only to pull her in towards shore as
much as we could, and our master promised them, that if the
boat was staved upon shore he would make it good to their
master; so partly rowing and partly driving, our boat went
away to the northward, sloping towards the shore almost as
far as Winterton-Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of
our ship before we saw her sink, and then I understood for
the first time what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea.
I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up when the
seamen told me she was sinking; for from that moment they
rather put me into the boat than that I might be said to go
in: my heart was as it were dead within me, partly with fright,
partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet
before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet laboring at the
oars to bring the boat near the shore, we could see (when our
boat mounting the waves we were able to see the shore) a
great many people running along the shore to assist us when
we should come near; but we made but slow way towards the
shore, nor were we able to reach the shore, till being past the
light-house at Winterton, the shore falls off to the westward
towards Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the violence
of the wind: here we got in, and, though not without much
difficulty, got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards on foot
to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were used with
great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by particular merchants and
owners of ships, and had money given us sufficient to carry us
either to London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have
gone home, I had been happy, and my father, an emblem of
our blessed Saviour's parable, had even killed the fatted calf
for me; for hearing the ship I went away in was cast away in
Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before he had any as-
surance that I was not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that
nothing could resist; and though I had several times loud
calls from my reason and my more composed judgment to go
home, yet I had no power to do it. I know not what to call
this, nor will I urge that it is a secret overruling decree that
hurries us on to be the instruments of our own destruction,
even though it be before us, and that we rush upon it with our
eyes open. Certainly nothing but some such decreed una-
voidable misery attending, and which it was impossible for me
to escape, could have pushed me forward against the calm
reasonings and persuasions of my most retired thoughts, and
against two such visible instructions as I had met with in my
first attempt.
My comrade who had helped to harden me before, and who
was the master's son, was now less forward than I. The first
time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was
not till two or three days, for we were separated in the town
to several quarters, — I say, the first time he saw me, it ap-
peared his tone was altered; and looking very melancholy,
and shaking his head, asked me how I did, and telling his
father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only for a
trial, in order to go farther abroad; his father, turning to me
with a very grave and concerned tone, " Young man," says he,
"you ought never to go to sea any more; you ought to take
this for a plain and visible token that you are not to be a sea-
faring man." "Why, sir," said I, "will you go to sea no
more?" "That is another case," said he; "it is my calling,
and therefore my duty; but as you made this voyage for a
trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given you of what you
are to expect if you persist; perhaps this is all befallen us on
your account, like Jonah, in the ship of Tarshish. Pray," con-
tinued he, "what are you? and on what account did you go
to sea?" Upon that I told him some of my story; at the
end of which he burst out with a strange kind of passion:
"What had I done," says he, " that such an unhappy wretch
should come into my ship? I would not set my foot in the
same ship with thee again for a thousand pounds." However,
he afterwards talked very gravely to me, and exhorted me to
go back to my father and not tempt Providence to my ruin;
told me I might see a visible hand of Heaven against me.
"And, young man," said he, "depend upon it if you do not
go back, wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but
disasters and disappointments, till your father's words are ful-
filled upon you."
We parted soon after; for I made him little answer, and I
saw him no more; which way he went, I know not. As for
me, having some money in my pocket, I travelled to London
by land; and there, as well as on the road, had many strug-
gles with myself, what course of life I should take, and whether
I should go home, or go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that
offered to my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me
how I should be laughed at among the neighbors, and should
be ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even
everybody else; from whence I have since often observed,
how incongruous and irrational the common temper of man-
kind is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to
guide them in such cases, namely, that they are not ashamed
to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the
action for which they ought justly to be esteemed fools, but
are ashamed of the returning, which only can make them be
esteemed wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncer-
tain what measures to take, and what course of life to lead.
An irresistible reluctance continued to going home; and as I
stayed a while, the remembrance of the distress I had been in
wore off, and as that abated, the little motion I had in my de-
sires to a return wore off with it, till at last I quite laid aside
the thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.
That evil influence which carried me first away from my
father's house, that hurried me into the wild notion of raising
my fortune, and that imprest those conceits so forcibly upon me,
as to make me deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties
and even the command of my father, — I say, the same influ-
ence, whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate of all
enterprises to my view; and I went on board a vessel bound
to the coast of Africa, or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voy-
age to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures I
did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though I might
indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet at the
same time I had learned the duty and office of a foremast
man, and in time might have qualified myself for a mate or
lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was always my fate
to choose for the worse, so I did here; for having money in
my pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I would always
go on board in the habit of a gentleman, and so I neither had
any business in the ship, nor learned to do any.
It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good company in
London, which does not always happen to such loose and un-
guided young fellows as I then was; the devil generally not
omitting to lay some snare for them very early: but it was
not so with me. I first fell acquainted with the master of a
ship who had been on the coast of Guinea, and who, having
had very good success there, was resolved to go again; and
who, taking a fancy to my conversation, which was not at all
disagreeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind to see
the world, told me if I would go the voyage with him I should
be at no expense; I should be his messmate and his compan-
ion, and if I could carry anything with me, I should have all
the advantage of it that the trade would admit, and perhaps
I might meet with some encouragement.
I embraced the offer, and entering into a strict friendship
with this captain, who was an honest and plain-dealing man, I
went the voyage with him, and carried a small adventure with
me, which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend the cap-
tain, I increased very considerably; for I carried about 4o/.
in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy.
This 4o/. I had mustered together by the assistance of some
of my relations whom I corresponded with, and who, I be-
lieve, got my father, or at least my mother, to contribute so
much as that to my first adventure.
This was the only voyage which I may say was successful
in all my adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and
honesty of my friend the captain, under whom also I got a
competent knowledge of the mathematics, and the rules of
navigation, learned how to keep an account of the ship's
course, take an observation, and, in short, to understand some
things that were needful to be understood by a sailor; for, as
he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn, and, in
a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a merchant;
for I brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold dust for
my adventure, which yielded me in London at my return,
almost 3oo/., and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts
which have since so completed my ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too; partic-
ularly, that I was continually sick, being thrown into a violent
fever by the excessive heat of the climate; our principal trad-
ing being upon the coast, from the latitude of fifteen degrees
north even to the line itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to
my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to
go the same voyage again, and I embarked in the same vessel
with one who was his mate in the former voyage, and had now•
got the command of the ship. This was the unhappiest voy-
age that ever man made ; for though I did not carry quite TOO/.
of my new gained wealth, so that I had 2oo/. left, and which I
lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet
I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first
was this, namely: Our ship, making her course towards the
Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and the Afri-
can shore, was surprised in the gray of the morning by a
Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail
she could make. We crowded also as much canvas as our
yards would spread, or our masts carry, to have got clear;
but finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly
come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight; our
ship having twelve guns, and the rogue eighteen. About three
in the afternoon he came up with us, and bringing to, by mis-
take, just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as
he intended, we brought eight of our guns to bear on that
side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which made him
sheer off again, after returning our fire, and pouring in also
his small shot from near 200 men which he had on board.
However, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping•
close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to defend our-
selves; but laying us on board the next time upon our othei
quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who immedi-
ately fell to cutting and hacking the decks and rigging. We
plied them with small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and such
like, and cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut
short this melancholy part of our story, our ship being dis-
abled, and three of our men killed, and eight wounded, we
were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners into Sal-
lee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I ap-
prehended, nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's
court, as the rest of our men were, but was kept by the cap-
tain of the rover as his proper prize, and made his slave,
being young and nimble, and fit for•his business. At this sur-
prising change of my circumstances, from a merchant to a
miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I
looked back upon my father's prophetic discourse to me, that
I should be miserable, and have none to relieve me, which,
I thought, was now so effectually brought to pass, that I could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken
me, and I was undone without redemption. But, alas! this
was but a taste of the misery I was to go through, as will
appear in the sequel of the story.
As my new patron or master had taken me home to his
house, so I was in hopes that he would take me with him
when he went to sea again, believing that it would some time
or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portuguese
man-of-war, and that then I should be set at liberty. But
this hope of mine was soon taken away; for when he went
to sea, he left me on shore to look after his little garden, and
do the common drudgery of slaves about his house; and when
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in
the cabin to look after the ship.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method
I might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least
probability in it: nothing presented to make the supposition
of it rational; for I had nobody to communicate it to, that
would embark with me; no fellow-slave, no Englishman,
Irishman, or Scotchman, there but myself; so that for two
years, though I often pleased myself with the imagination, yet
I never had the least encouraging prospect of putting it in
practice.
After about two years an odd circumstance presented itself,
which put the old thought of making some attempt for my
liberty again in my head: my patron lying at home longer
than usual, without fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was
for want of money, he used constantly, once or twice a week,
sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's
pinnace, and go out into the road a fishing; and as he always
took me and a young Maresco with him to row the boat, we
made him very merry, and I proved very dexterous in catch-
ing fish: insomuch, that sometimes he would send me with a
Moor, one of his kinsmen, •and the youth, the Maresco as they
called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.
It happened one time, that going a fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a
league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing we
knew not whither or which way, we labored all day, and all
the next night, and when the morning came we found we had
pulled off to sea instead of pulling in for the shore, and that
we were at least two leagues from the shore; however, we got
well in again, though with a great deal of labor, and some
danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morn-
ing, but particularly we were all very hungry.
But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take
more care of himself for the future; and having lying by him
the long boat of our English ship he had taken, he resolved
he would not go a fishing any more without a compass and
some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship, who
also was an English slave, to build a little state-room or cabin
in the middle of the long boat, like that of a barge, with a
place to stand behind it to steer and hale home the main-
sheet, and room before for a hand or two to stand and work
the sails. She sailed with what we call a shoulder-of-mutton
sail; and the boom gibed over the top of the cabin, which
lay very snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with
a slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some small lockers
to put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink,
particularly his breac}, rice, and coffee.
We went frequently out with this boat a fishing, and as I
was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went with-
out me. It happened that he had appointed to go out in
this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with two or three
Moors of some distinction in that place, and for whom he had
provided extraordinarily; and had therefore sent on board the
boat over night a larger store of provisions than ordinary, and
had ordered me to get ready three fusees with powder and
shot, which were on board his ship, for that they designed
some sport of fowling as well as fishing.
I got all things ready as he directed, and waited the next
morning with the boat washed clean, her flag and pendants
out, and everything to accommodate his guests; when by and
by my patron came on board alone, and told me his guests
had put off going, upon some business that fell out, and or-
dered me with the man and boy, as usual, to go out with the
boat and catch them some fish, for that his friends were to sup
at his house; and commanded that as soon as I got some fish
I should bring it home to his house; all which I prepared to
do.
This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into
my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship
at my command; and my master being gone, I prepared to
furnish myself, not for a fishing business, but for a voyage;
though I knew not, neither did I so much as consider, whither
I should steer; for anywhere to get out of that place was my
way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretense to speak to
this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board; for
I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron's bread:
he said, that was true; so he brought a large basket of rusk
or biscuit of their kind, and three jars with fresh water, into
the boat. I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood,
which it was evident by the make were taken out of some
English prize; and I conveyed them into the boat while the
Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before for our
master. I conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax into the
boat, which weighed above half a hundredweight, with a par-
cel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all
which were of great use to us afterwards; especially the wax
to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which he
innocently came into also ; his name was Ismael, who they call
Muly, or Moley; so I called to him, — " Moley," said I, "our
patron's guns are on board the boat; can you not get a little
powder and shot, it may be we may kill some alcamies (a fowl
like our curlews) for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gun-
ner's stores in the ship?" "Yes," says he, "I'll bring some ;"
and accordingly he brought a great leather pouch which held
about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more; and an-
other with shot, that had five or six pounds, with some bullets,
and put all into the boat; at the same time I had found some
powder of my master's in the great cabin, with which I filled
one of the large bottles in the case, which was almost empty;
pouring what was in it into another: and thus furnished with
everything needful, we sailed out of the port to fish. The
castle which is at the entrance of the port knew who we were,
and took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out
of the port before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to
fish. The wind blew from the N. N. E. which was contrary to
my desire; for had it blown southerly I had been sure to have
made the coast of Spain, and at least reached to the bay of
Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which way it would, I
would be gone from that horrid place where I was, and leave
the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and catched nothing, for
when I had fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that
he might not see them, I said to the Moor, "This will not
do; our master will not be thus served; we must stand farther
off:" he thinking no harm agreed, and being in the head of
the boat set the sails; and as I had the helm I run the boat
out near a league farther, and then brought her to as if I would
fish, when giving the boy the helm, I slept forward to where
the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for something be-
hind him, I took him by surprise with my arm under his legs,
and tossed him clear overboard into the sea. He rose immedi-
ately, for he swam like a cork, and calling to me, begged to be
taken in : told me he would go all over the world with me; he
swam so strong after the boat that he would have reached me
very quickly, there being but little wind; upon which I
stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowling-
pieces, I presented it at him, and told him I had done him
no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him none:
"but," said I, "you swim well enough to reach the shore, and
the sea is calm ; make the best of your way to shore, and I will
do you no harm, but if you come near the boat I'll shoot you
through the head; for I am resolved to have my liberty : " so
he turned himself about and swam for the shore, and I make
no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was an excellent
swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me,
and have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to
trust him. When he was gone I turned to the boy, who they
called Xury, and said to him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to
me I'll make you a great man; but if you will not stroke your
face to be true to me," that is swear by Mahomet and his
father's beard, "I must throw you into the sea too ;" the boy
smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently that I could not
mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, and go all over
the world with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I
stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to
windward, that they might think me gone towards the Straits'
mouth (as indeed any one that had been in their wits must
have been supposed to do), for who would have supposed we
were sailed on to the southward to the truly Barbarian coast,
where whole nations of negroes were sure to surround us with
their canoes, and destroy us; where we could never once go
on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more
merciless savages of human kind? ,
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my
course, and steered directly south and by east, bending my
course a little toward the east, that I might keep in with the
shore; and having a fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth
quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe by the next day at
three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made the land, I
could not be less than 150 miles south of Sallee ; quite beyond
the emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any other
king thereabouts, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the
dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that
I would not stop, or go on shore, or come to an anchor. The
wind continuing fair till I had sailed in that manner five days,
and the wind shifting to the southward, I concluded also that
if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also would
now give over; so I ventured to make the coast, and came to
an anchor in the mouth of a little river, I knew not what, or
where; neither what latitude, what country, what nation, or
what river: I neither saw, or desired to see any people, the
principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into this
creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as
it was dark, and discover the country; but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the barking,
roaring, and howling of wild creatures of we knew not what
kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and
begged of me not to go on shore till day. "Well, Xury," said
I, "then I won't, but it may be we may see men by day, who
will be as bad to us as those lions." "Then we give them the
shoot gun," says Xury, laughing ; "make them run way." Such
English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. How-
ever I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a
dram (out of our patron's case of bottles) to cheer him up:
after all Xury's advice was good, and I took it; we dropped
our little anchor and lay still all night; I say still, for we
slept none; for in two or three hours we saw vast great crea-
tures (we knew not what to call them) of many sorts, come
down to the sea-shore and run into the water, wallowing and
washing themselves for the pleasure of cooling themselves;
and they r^de such hideous howlings and yellings that I
never indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too; but
we were both more frighted when we heard one of these
mighty creatures come swimming towards our boat: we could
not see him, but we might hear him by his blowing to be a
monstrous huge and furious beast. Xury said it was a lion,
and it might be so for aught I know; but poor Xury cried to
me to weigh the anchor and row away. "No," says I, "Xury,
we can slip our cable with a buoy to it and go off to sea; they
cannot follow us far." I had no sooner said so, but I per-
ceived the creature (whatever it was) within two oars' length,
which something surprised me; however I immediately stept
to the cabin-door, and taking up my gun fired at him, upon
which he immediately turned about and swam towards the
shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and hid-
eous cries and howlings, that were raised, as well upon the
edge of the shore, as higher within the country, upon the
noise or report of the gun; a thing I have some reason to be-
lieve those creatures had never heard before: this convinced
me that there was no going on shore for us in the night upon
that coast, and how to venture on shore in the day was an-
other question too; for to have fallen into the hands of any
of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the
hands of lions and tigers; at least we were equally apprehen-
sive of the danger of it.
Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore some-
where or other for water, for we had not a pint left in the
boat; when or where to get it was the point . Xury said, if I
would let him go on shore with one of the jars, he would find
if there was any water, and bring some to me. I asked him
why he would go? why I should not go, and he stay in the
boat? The boy answered with so much affection that made
me love him ever after. Says he, " If wild mans come, they
eat me, you go way." "Well, Xury," said I, "we will both go,
and if the wild mans come, we will kill them: they shall eat
neither of us ;" so I gave Xury a piece of rusk-bread to eat,
and a dram out of our patron's case of bottles which I men-
tioned before; and we hauled the boat in as near the shore as
we thought was proper, and waded on shore; carrying noth-
ing but our guns, and two jars for water.
I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the
coming of canoes with savages down the river: but the boy,
seeing a low place about a mile up the country, rambled to it;
and by and by I saw him come running towards me. I
thought he was pursued by some savage, or frighted with some
wild beast, and I ran forward towards him to help him; but
when I came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over
his shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot, like a
hare, but different in color, and longer legs; however we were
very glad of it, and it was very good meat ; but the great joy
that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good
water, and seen no wild mans.
But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains
for water; for a little higher up the creek where we were, we
found the water fresh when the tide was out, which flowed but
a little way up; so we filled our jars and feasted on the hare
we had killed, and prepared to go on our way, having seen no
footsteps of any human creature in that part of the country.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very
well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verde
Islands also, lay not far off from the coast. But as I had no
instruments to take an observation to know what latitude we
were in, and did not exactly know, or at least remember, what
latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for them, or
when to stand off to sea towards them; otherwise I might
now easily have found some of these islands. But my hope
was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to that part
where the English traded, I should find some of their vessels
upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take
us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was,
must be that country, which, lying between the emperor of
Morocco's dominions and the Negroes, lies waste, and unin-
habited, except by wild beasts, the Negroes having abandoned
it, and gone farther south for fear of the Moors; and the
Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its bar-
renness; and indeed both forsaking it because of the prodi-
gious number of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious
creatures which harbor there; so that the Moors use it for
their hunting only, where they go like an army, two or three
thousand men at a time; and indeed for near an hundred
miles together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste
uninhabited country by day; and heard nothing but bowlings
and roaring of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the day-time I thought I saw the Peak of
Teneriffe, being the high top of the mountain Teneriffe in the
Canaries; and had a great mind to venture out in hopes of
reaching thither; but having tried twice, I was forced in again
by contrary winds, the sea also going too high for my little
vessel, so I resolved to pursue my first design and keep along
the shore.
Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water after we
had left this place; and once in particular, being early in the
morning, we came to an anchor under a little point of land
which was pretty high, and the tide beginning to flow, we lay
still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him
than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me that
we had best go farther off the shore; "for," says he, "look,
yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock fast
asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful mon-
ster indeed, for it was a terrible great lion that lay on the side
of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill that hung
as it were a little over him. "Xury," says I, "you shall go on
shore and kill him : Xury looked frighted, and said, " Me kill 1
he eat me at one mouth ;" one mouthful he meant. However,
I said no more to the boy, but bade him lie still; and took
our biggest gun, which was almost musquet-bore, and • loaded
it with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid
it down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets; and the
third, for we had three pieces, I loaded with five smaller bul-
lets. I took the best aim I could with the first piece, to have
shot him into the head; but he lay so with his leg raised a
little above his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee,
and broke the bone. He started up growling at first, but
finding his leg broke, fell down again, and then got up upon
three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard.
I was a little surprised that I had not hit him on the head;
however, I took up the second piece immediately, and though
he began to move off, fired again, and shot him into the head,
and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make but little
noise, but lay struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and
would have me let him go on shore. "Well, go," said I. So
the boy jumped into the water, and taking a little gun in one
hand, swam to the shore with the other hand, and coming
close to the creature, put the muzzle of the piece to his
ear, and shot him into the head again, which dispatched him
quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food: and I
was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon
a creature that was good for nothing to us. However, Xury
said he would have some of him; so he comes on board, and
asked me to give him the hatchet. "For what, Xury?" said I.
"Me cut off his head," said he. However, Xury could not cut
off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him,
and it was a monstrous great one.
I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of him
might one way or other be of some value to us; and I re-
solved to take off his skin, if I could. So Xury and I went
to work with him; but Xury was much the better workman at
it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed it took us up both
the whole day; but at last we got the hide off him, and
spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun effectually
dried it in two days' time, and it afterwards served me to lie
upon.
After this stop, we made pn to the southward continually
for ten or twelve days, living very sparing on our provisions,
which began to abate very much, and going no oftener into
the shore than we were obliged to for fresh water: my design
in this was, to make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is to
say anywhere about the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes
to meet with some European ship ; and if I did not, I knew not
what course I had to take, but to seek for the Islands, or per-
ish there among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, which sailed either to the coast of Guinea or to Bra-
zil, or to the East Indies, made this Cape, or those Islands;
and, in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this
single point, either that I must meet with some ship or must
perish.
When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer,
as I have said, I began to see that the land was inhabited;
and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw people
stand upon the shore to look at us; we could also perceive
they were quite black, and stark naked. I was once inclined
to have gone on shore to them; but Xury was my better coun-
sellor, and said to me, '• No go, no go :" however I hauled in
nearer the shore that I might talk to them, and I found they
ran along the shore by me a good way. I observed they had
no weapons in their hands except one, who had a long slender
stick, which Xury said was a lance, and that they would throw
them a great way with good aim. So I kept at a distance, but
talked with them by signs as well as I could; and particularly
made signs for something to eat: they beckoned to me to
stop my boat, and they would fetch me some meat; upon this
I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran
up into the country, and in less than half an hour came back,
and brought with them two pieces of dry flesh and some corn,
as is the produce of their country; but we neither knew what
the one nor the other was: however, we were willing to ac-
cept it, but how to come at it was our next dispute, for I was
not for venturing on shore to them, and they were as much
afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us all, for they
brought it to the shore and laid it down, and went and stood
a great way off till we fetched it on board, and then came
close to us again.
We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to
make them amends; but an opportunity offered that very in-
stant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we were lying by
the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the other
(as we took it) with great fury, from the mountains towards the
sea: whether it was the male pursuing the female, or whether
they were in sport or in rage, we could not tell, any more than
we could tell whether it was usual or strange, but I believe it
was the latter; because, in the first place, those ravenous crea-
tures seldom appear but in the night; and in the second
place, we found the people terribly frighted, especially the
women. The man that had the lance or dart did not fly from
them, but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran di-
rectly into the water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon
any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea, and
swam about as if they had come for their diversion. At last
one of them began to come nearer our boat than at first I ex-
pected, but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with
all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both the others.
As soon as he came fairly within my reach, I fired, and shot
him directly into the head. Immediately he sunk down into
the water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down as if
he was struggling for life; and so indeed he was: he imme-
diately made to the shore, but between the wound, which was
his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died just
before he reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor
creatures at the noise and the fire of my gun; some of them
were even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with
the very terror. But when they saw the creature dead, and
sunk in the water, and that I made signs to them to come to
the shore, they took heart and came to the shore, and began
to search for the creature. I found him by his blood staining•
the water; and by the help of a rope, which I slung round
him, and gave the negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore,
and found that it was a most curious leopard, spotted and fine
to an admirable degree, and the Negroes held up their hands
with admiration to think what it was I had killed him
with.
The • other creature, frighted with the flash of fire and the
noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the
mountains from whence they came, nor could I at that dis-
tance know what it was. I found quickly the Negroes were
for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have
them take it as a favor from me, which when I made signs to
them that they might take him, they were very thankful for.
Immediately they fell to work with him, and though they had
no knife, yet with a sharpened piece of wood they took off his
skin as readily, and much more readily, than we could have
done with a knife: they offered me some of the flesh, which I
declined, making as if I would give it them, but made signs
for the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought me
a great deal more of their provision, which, though I did not
understand, yet I accepted; then I made signs to them for
some water, and held out one of my jars to them, turning it
bottom upward, to show that it was empty, and that I wanted
to have it filled. They called immediately to some of their
friends, and there came two women, and brought a great ves-
sel made of earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun; this
they set down for me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore
with my jars, and filled them all three.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was,
and water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward
for about eleven days more, without offering to go near the
shore, till I saw the land run out a great length into the sea, at
about the distance of four or five leagues before me; and, the
sea being very calm, I kept a large offing to make this point:
at length, doubling the point at about two leagues from the
land, I saw plainly land on the other side to seaward; then I
concluded, as it was most certain indeed, that this was the
Cape de Verd, and those the islands, called from thence Cape
de Verd Islands. However, they were at a great distance,
and I could not tell what I had best do, for if I should be
taken with a fresh of wind I might neither reach one nor the
other.
In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stept into the
cabin and set me down, Xury having the helm, when on a
sudden the boy cried out, " Master, master, a ship with a sail;"
and the foolish boy was frighted out of his wits, thinking it
must needs be some of his master's ships sent to pursue us,•
when I knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach.
I jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw not only the
ship, but that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was
bound to the coast of Guinea for Negroes. But when I ob-
served the course she steered, I was soon convinced they were
bound some other way, and did not design to come any nearer
to the shore; upon which I stretched out to sea as much as I
could, resolving to speak with them if possible.
With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be
able to come in their way, but they would be gone by before
I could make any signal to them. But after I had crowded
to the utmost, and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by
the help of their perspective-glasses, and that it was some
European boat, which, as they supposed, must belong to some
ship that was lost; so they shortened sail to let me come up.
I was encouraged with this, and as I had my patron's flag on
board, I made a waft of it to them for a signal of distress, and
fired a gun, both which they saw; for they told me they saw
the smoke, though they did not hear the gun. Upon these
signals they very kindly•brought-to, and lay-by for me, and in
about three hours' time I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish,
and in French ; but I understood none of them; but at last
a Scottish sailor, who was on board, called to me, and I an-
swered him, and told him I was an Englishman, that I had
made my escape out of slavery from the Moors at Sallee.
Then they bade me come on board, and very kindly took me
in, and all my goods.
It was inexpressible joy to me, that any one would believe,
that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a mis-
erable and almost hopeless condition as I was in, and imme-
diately offered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a return
for my deliverance; but he generously told me he would take
nothing from me, but that all I had should be delivered safe to
me when I came to the Brazils ; "for," says he, " I have saved
your life on no other terms than I would be glad to be sayed
myself; and it may one time or other be my lot to be taken up
in the same condition: besides," says he, "when I carry you
to the Brazils, so great a way from your own country, if I
should take away from you what you have, you will be starved
there, and then I only take away that life I have given. No,
no, Seignor, Mr. Englishman, I will carry you thither in
tharity, and those things will help you to buy your subsistence
Aere, and your passage home again."
As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was just in the
performance to a tittle, for he ordered the seamen that none
should offer to touch anything I had; then he took everything
into his own possession, and gave me back an exact inventory
of them, that I might have them; even so much as my earthen
jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he saw, and
told me he would buy it of me for the ship's use, and asked
me what I would have for it? I told him he had been so gen-
erous to me in everything that I could not offer to make any
price of the boat, but left it entirely to him; upon which he
told me he would give me a note of his hand to pay me 80
pieces of eight for it at Brazil; and when it came there, if any
one offered to give more, he would make it up; he offered me
also 60 pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which I was
loth to take; not that I was not willing to let the captain
have him, but I was very loth to sell the poor boy's liberty,
who had assisted me so faithfully in procuring my own.
However, when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be
just, and offered me this medium, that he would give the boy
an obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Chris-
tian. Upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to
him, I let the captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in
All-Saints-Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I
was once more delivered from the most miserable of all con-
ditions of life, and what to do next with myself I was now to
consider.
The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never
enough remember; he would take nothing of me for my pas-
sage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty
for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and caused
everything I had in the ship to be punctually delivered me;
and what I was willing to sell he bought, such as the case of
bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees-wax,
for I had made candles of the rest; in a word, I made about
220 pieces of eight of all my cargo, and with this stock I went
on shore in the Brazils.
I had not been long here, but being recommended to the
house of a good honest man like himself, who had an Ingenio,
as they call it, that is, a plantation and a sugar house; I
lived with him some time, and acquainted myself by that
means with the manner of their planting and making of sugar;
and seeing how well the planters lived, and how they grew
rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get license to settle there,
I would turn planter among them, resolving in the mean time to
find out some way to get my money, which I had left in Lon-
don, remitted to me. To this purpose, getting a kind of a letter
of naturalization, I purchased as much land that was uncured
as my money would reach, and formed a plan for my planta-
tion and settlement, and such a one as might be suitable to the
stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England.
I had a neighbor, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. I call him neighbor, because his
plantation lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably
together. My stock was but low, as well as his; and we
rather planted for food, than anything else, for about two
years. However, we began to increase, and our land began
to come into order; so that the third year we planted some
tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground ready
for planting canes in the year to come; but we both wanted
help; and now I found more than before, I had done wrong
in parting with my boy Xury.
But alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right, was no
great wonder: I had no remedy but to go on; I was gotten
into an employment quite remote to my genius, and directly
contrary to the life I delighted in, and for which I forsook my
father's house, and broke through all his good advice; nay, I
was coming into the very middle station, or upper degree of
low life, which my father advised me to before; and which if
I resolved to go on with, I might as well have staid at home,
and never have fatigued myself in the world as \ had done:
and I used often to say to myself, I could have done this as
well in England among my friends, as have gone five thou-
sand miles off to do it among strangers and savages in a wil-
derness, and at such distance as never to hear from any part
of the world that had the least knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the
utmost regret . I had nobody to converse with, but now and
then this neighbor: no work to be done, but by the labor of
my hands; and I used to say, I lived just like a man cast
away upon some desolate island, that had nobody there but
himself. But how just has it been, and how should all men
reflect, that, when they compare their present conditions with
others that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to make the
exchange, and be convinced of their former felicity, by their
experience; I say how just has it been, that the truly solitary
life I reflected on in an island of mere desolation should be
my lot, who had so often unjustly compared it with the life
which I then led, in which, had I continued, I had in all prob-
ability been exceeding prosperous and rich.
I was in some degree settled in my measures for carrying
on the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the
ship that took me up at sea, went back ; for the ship remained
there, providing his loading and preparing for his voyage,
near three months; when, telling him what little stock I had
left behind me in London, he gave me this friendly and sincere
advice: "Seignor Inglese," says he (for so he always called
me), "if you will give me letters, and a procuration here in
form to me, with orders to the person who has your money
in London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as
I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this coun-
try, I will bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my
return; but since human affairs are all subject to changes and
disasters, I would have you give orders but for one hundred
pounds sterling, which you say is half your stock, and let the
hazard be run for the first; so that if it come safe, you may
order the rest the same way; and if it miscarry, you may have
the other half to have recourse to it for your supply."
This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that
I could not. but be convinced it was the best course I could
take ; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman
with whom I had left my money, and a procuration to the
Portuguese captain, as he desired.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all
my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I had met with
the Portugal captain at sea, the humanity of his behavior, and
what condition I was now in, with all other necessary direc-
tions for my supply; and when this honest captain came to
Lisbon, he found means, by some of the English merchants
there, to send over, not the order only, but a full account of
my story, to a merchant at London, who represented it effect-
ually to her; whereupon, she not only delivered the money,
but out of her own pocket sent the Portugal captain a very
handsome present for his humanity and charity to me.
The merchant in London vesting this hundred pounds in
English goods, such as the captain had written for, sent them
directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me
to the Brazils; among which, without my directions (for I was
too young in my business to think of them), he had taken care
to have all sorts of tools, iron-work, and utensils necessary for
my plantation, and which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived I thought my fortune made, for I
was surprised with joy of it; and my good steward the cap-
tain had laid out the five pounds which my friend had sent him
for a present for himself, to purchase, and bring me over a ser-
vant under bond for six years service, and would not accept of
any consideration, except a little tobacco, which I would have
him accept, being of my own produce.
Neither was this all; but my goods being all English man-
ufactures, such as cloth, stuffs, baize, and things particularly
valuable and desirable in the country, I found means to sell
them to a very great advantage, so that I may say I had more
than four times the value of my first cargo, and was now infi-
nitely beyond my poor neighbor, I mean in the advancement
of my plantation: for the first thing I did, I bought me a
Negro slave, and an European servant also; I mean another
besides that which the captain brought me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means
of our greatest adversity, so it was with me. I went on the
next year with great success in my plantation; I raised fifty
great rolls of tobacco on my own ground, more than I had
disposed of for necessaries among my neighbors; and these
fifty rolls, being each of above an hundred-weight, were well
cured and laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon.
And now, increasing in business and in wealth, my head began
to be full of projects and undertakings beyond my reach;
such as are indeed often the ruin of the best heads in busi-
ness.
Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had room
for all the happy things to have yet befallen me, for which my
father so earnestly recommended a quiet retired life, and of
which he had so sensibly described the middle station of life
to be full; but other things attended me, and I was still to be
the willful agent of all my own miseries; and particularly to
increase my fault, and double the reflections upon myself,
which in my future sorrows I should have leisure to make.
All these miscarriages were procured by my apparent obsti-
nate adhering to my foolish inclination of wandering abroad,
and pursuing that inclination in contradiction to the clearest
views of doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit of
those prospects and those measures of life, which nature and
Providence concurred to present me with, and to make my
duty.
As I had done thus in breaking away from my parents, so I
could not be content now, but I must go and leave the happy
view I had of being a rich and thriving man in my new plan-
tation, only to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising
faster than the nature of the thing admitted; and thus I cast
myself down again into the deepest gulf of human misery
that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be consistent with
life and a state of health in the world.
To come then by the just degrees to the particulars of this
part of my story; you may suppose, that having now lived
almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning to thrive and
prosper very well upon my plantation, I had not only learned
the language, but had contracted acquaintance and friendship
among my fellow planters, as well as among the merchants at
St. Salvadore, which was our port; and that in my discourses
among them I had frequently given them an account of my
two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading
with the Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase upon
the coast, for trifles, such as beads, toys, knives, scissors,
hatchets, bits of glass, and the like, not only gold dust,
Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, &c., but Negroes for the ser-
vice of the Brazils, in great numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my discourses on
these heads, but especially to that part which related to the
buying Negroes, which was a trade at that time not only not
far entered into, but as far as it was, had been carried on by
the Assientos, or permission of the kings of Spain and Portu-
gal, and engrossed in the public, so that few Negroes were
bought, and those excessively dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very
earnestly, three of them came to me the next morning, and
told me they had been musing very much upon what I had
discoursed with them of the last night, and they came to
make a secret proposal to me ; and after enjoining me secrecy,
they told me that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to
Guinea; that they had all plantations as well as I, and were
straitened for nothing so much as servants; that as this was a
trade that could not be carried on, because they could not
publicly sell the Negroes when they came home: so they de-
sired to make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore
privately, and divide them among their own plantations; and
in a word, the question was, whether I would go as their su-
percargo in the ship, to manage the trading part upon the
coast of Guinea; and they offered me that I should have my
equal share of the Negroes, without providing any part of the
stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had it been
made to any one that had not had a settlement and plantation
of his own to look after, which was in a fair way of becoming
very considerable, and with a good stock upon it. But for me,
that was thus entered and established, and had nothing to do
but go on as I had begun, for three or four years more, and to
have sent for the other hundred pounds from England, and
who in that time, and with that little addition, could scarce
have failed of being worth three or four thousand pounds ster-
ling, and that increasing too; for me to think of such a voy-
age, was the most preposterous thing that ever man in such
circumstances could be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no
more resist the offer, than I could restrain my first rambling
designs, when my father's good counsel was lost upon me. In
a word, I told them I would go with all my heart, if they
would undertake to look after my plantation in my absence,
and would dispose of it to such as I should direct if I mis-
carried. This they all engaged to do, and entered into writ-
ings or covenants to do so; and I made a formal will, dispos-
ing of my plantation and effects, in case of my death, making
the captain of the ship that saved my life, as before, my uni-
versal heir; but obliging him to dispose of my effects as I
had directed in my will, one half of the produce being to
himself, and the other to be shipped to England.
In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects,
and keep up my plantation. Had I used half as much pru-
dence to have looked into my own interest, and have made a
judgment of what I ought to have done and not to have done,
I had certainly never gone away from so prosperous an under-
taking, leaving all the probable views of a thriving circum-
stance, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its
common hazards; to say nothing of the reasons I had to ex-
pect particular misfortunes to myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of
my fancy rather than my reason; and accordingly, the ship
being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things done
as by agreement by my partners in the voyage, I went on
board in an evil hour, the 1st of September — being the same
day eight years that I went from my father and mother at
Hull, in order to act the rebel to their authority, and the fool
to my own interest.
Our ship was about 120 tons burden, carried 6 guns, and
14 men, besides the master, his boy, and myself. We had on
board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit
for our trade with the Negroes, such as beads, bits of glass,
shells, and odd trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives,
scissors, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away
to the northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch
over for the African coast when they came about ten or twelve
degrees of northern latitude, which it seems was the manner
of their course in those days. We had very good weather,
only excessive hot, all the way upon our own coast till we
came the height of Cape St. Augustino; from whence, keep-
ing farther off at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if
we were bound for the isle Fernand de Noronha, holding our
course N. E. by N. and leaving those isles on the east. In
this course we passed the line in about twelve days' time, and
were by our last observation in seven degrees twenty-two min-
utes northern latitude, when a violent tornado or hurricane
took us quite out of our knowledge. It began from the south-
east, came about to the north-west, and then settled into the
north-east, from whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that
for twelve days together we could do nothing but drive, and
scudding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate and
the fury of the winds directed; and during these twelve days
I need not say that I expected every day to be swallowed up,
nor indeed did any in the ship expect to save their lives.
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm, one
of our men died of fever, and one man and the boy washed
overboard. About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little,
the master made an observation as well as he could, and
found he was in about eleven degrees north latitude, but that
he was twenty-two degrees of longitude difference west from
Cape St. Augustino: so that he found he was gotten upon the
coast of Guinea, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river
Amazones, toward that of the river Oronoque, commonly
called the Great River, and began to consult with me what
course he should take, for the ship was leaky and very much
disabled, and he was going directly back to the coast of
Brazil.
I was positively against that; and looking over the charts
of the sea-coast of America with him, we concluded there
was no inhabited country for us to have recourse to, till we
came within the circle of the Caribbee Islands, and therefore
resolved to stand away for Barbadoes, which, by keeping off
at sea, to avoid the indraught of the bay or gulf of Mexico,
we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days'
sail; whereas, we could not possibly make our voyage to the
coast of Africa without some assistance, both to our ship and
to ourselves.
With this design we changed our course, and steered away
N. W. by W in order to reach some of our English islands,
where I hoped for relief; but our voyage was otherwise de-
termined; for being in the latitude of twelve degrees eighteen
minutes, a second storm came upon us, which carried us away
with the same impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of
the very way of all human commerce, that had all our lives
been saved, as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being
•devoured by savages than ever returning to our own country.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our
men early in the morning cried out, " Land "! and we had no
sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing
whereabouts in the world we were, but the ship struck upon a
sand, and in a moment, her motion being so stopped, the sea
broke over her in such a manner, that we expected we should
all have perished immediately; and we were immediately
driven into our close quarters, to shelter us from the very
foam and spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the like con-
dition, to describe or conceive the consternation of men in
such circumstances. We knew nothing where we were, or
upon what land it was we were driven, whether an island or
the main, whether inhabited or not inhabited; and as the rage
of the wind was still great, though rather less than at first, we
could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many min-
utes without breaking in pieces, unless the winds, by a kind
of miracle, should turn immediately about. In a word, we
sat looking one upon another, and expecting death every mo-
ment, and every man acting accordingly as preparing for
another world, for there was little or nothing more for us to do
in this. That which was our present comfort, and all the
comfort we had, was, that contrary to our expectation the ship
did not break yet, and that the master said the wind began to
abate.•
Now, though we found that the wind did a little abate, yet
the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too
fast for us to expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful con-
dition indeed, and had nothing to do but to think of saving
our lives as well as we could. We had a boat af our stern
just before the storm, but she was first staved by dashing
against the ship's rudder, and in the next place she broke
away, and either sunk or was driven off to sea, so there was
no hope from her. We had another boat on board but how
to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing; however
there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would
break in pieces every minute, and some told us she was ac-
tually broken already.
In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the
boat, and with the help of the rest of the men, they got her
slung over the ship's side, and getting all into her, let go, and
committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy
and the wild sea; for though the storm was abated consider-
ably, yet the sea went dreadful high upon the shore, and might
well be called den wild zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a
storm.
And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw
plainly that the sea went so high, that the boat could not live,
and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to making
sail, we had none, nor, if we had, could we have done any-
thing with it, so we worked at the oar towards the land,
though with heavy hearts, like men going to execution; for
we all knew that when the boat came nearer the shore she
would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the
sea. However, we committed our souls to God in the most
earnest manner, and the wind driving us towards the shore,
we hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling as
well as we could towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether steep or
shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could rationally give
us the least shadow of expectation was, if we might happen
into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where by
great chance we might have run our boat in, or got under the
lee of the land, and perhaps made smooth water. But there
was nothing of this appeared; but as we made nearer and
nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a
half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came
rolling a-stern of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup-de-
grace. In a word, it took us with such a fury, that it overset
the boat at once; and separating us, as well from the boat as
from one another, gave us not time hardly to say, O God! for
we were all swallowed up in a moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt
when I sunk into the water; for though I swam very well, yet
I could not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw
breath, till that wave having driven me, or rather carried me,
a vast way on towards the shore, and having spent itself, went
back, and left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead
with the water I took in. I had so much presence of mind,
as well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the main land
than I expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavored to make
on towards the land as fast as I could, before another wave
should return and take me up again. But I soon found it was
impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as
high as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had
no means or strength to contend with. My business was to
hold my breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I could;
and so by swimming to preserve my breathing, and pilot my-
self towards the shore, if possible. My greatest concern now
being that the sea, as it would carry me a great way towards
the shore when it came on, might not carry me back again
with it when it gave back towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me at once 20
or 30 feet deep in its own body, and I could feel myself car-
ried with a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore a
very great way; but I held my breath, and assisted myself to
swim still forward with all my might. I was ready to burst
with holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising up, so,
to my immediate relief, I found my head and hands shoot out
above the surface of the water; and though it was not two
seconds of time that I could keep myself so, yet it relieved
me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was covered
again with water a good while, but not so long but I held it
out; and finding the water had spent itself, and began to re-
turn, I struck forward against the return of the waves, and
felt ground again with my feet. I stood still a few moments
to recover breath, and till the water went from me, and then
took to my heels and ran with what strength I had far-
ther towards the shore. But neither would this deliver me
from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me
again, and twice more I was lifted up by the waves and car-
ried forwards as before, the shore being very flat.
The last time of these two had well near been fatal to me;
for the sea having hurried me along as before, landed me, or
rather dashed me, against a piece of a rock, and that with
such force, as it left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to
my own deliverance; for the blow taking my side and breast,
beat the breath as it were quite out of my body; and had it not
returned again immediately, I must have been strangled in the
water; but I recovered a little before the return of the waves,
and seeing I should be covered again with the water, I resolved
to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so hold my breath,
if possible, till the wave went back. Now as the waves were
not so high as at first, being near land, I held my hold till the
wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me
so near the shore that the next wave, though it went over me,
yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the
next run I took I got to the main-land, where, to my great
comfort, I clambered up the clefts of the shore, and sat me
down upon the grass, free from danger, and quite out of the
reach of the water.
I was now landed and safe on shore, and began to look up
and thank God that my life was saved in a case wherein there
was some minutes before scarce any room to hope. I believe
it is impossible to express to the life what the ecstasies and
transports of the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say,
out of the very grave. I walked about on the shore, lifting
up my hands, and my whole being; as I may say, wrapt up in
the contemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand
gestures and motions which I cannot describe, reflecting upon
all my comrades that were drowned, and that there should
not be one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I never
saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three of
their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the breach and
froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it lay so
far off, and considered, Lord! how was it possible I could get
on shore!
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of
my condition, I began to look around me, to see what kind of
place I was in, and what was next to be done; and I soon
found my comforts abate, and that, in a word, I had a dread-
ful deliverance. For I was wet, had no clothes to shift me,
nor anything either to eat or drink to comfort me; neither
did I see any prospect before me, but that of perishing with
hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts ; and that which
was particularly afflicting to me, was, that I had no weapon
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to
defend myself against any other creature that might desire to
kill me for theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a
knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a box; this was
all my provision, and this threw me into terrible agonies of
mind, that for a while I ran about like a madman. Night
coming upon me, I began with a heavy heart to consider what
would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that
country, seeing at night they always come abroad for their
prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time was,
to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir, but thorny, which
grew near me, and where I resolved to sit all night, and con-
sider the next day what death I should die, for as yet I saw
no prospect of life. I walked about a furlong from the shore,
to see if I could find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to
my great joy; and having drank, and put a little tobacco in
my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and getting
up into it endeavored to place myself so as that if I should
sleep I might not fall; and having cut me a short stick, like
a truncheon, for my defense, I took up my lodging, and having
been excessively fatigued I fell fast asleep, and slept as com-
fortably as, I believe, few could have done in my condition,
and found myself the most refreshed with it that I think I ever
was on such an occasion.
When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the
storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before;
but that which surprised me most was, that the ship was
lifted off in the night from the sand where she lay by the
swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the
rock which I first mentioned, where I had been so bruised by
the dashing me against it. This being within about a mile
from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to stand
upright still, I wished myself on board, that, at least, I might
save some necessary things for my use.
When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked
about me again, and the first thing I found was the boat,
which lay as the wind and the sea had tossed her, up upon
the land, about two miles on my right hand. I walked as far
as I could upon the shore to have got to her, but found a
neck or inlet of water between me and the boat, which was
about half a mile broad; so I came back for the present,
being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to
find something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the tide
ebbed so far out that I could come within a quarter of a mile
of the ship, and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief;
for I saw evidently, that if we had kept on board, we had
been all safe, that is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and
I had not been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of
all comfort and company, as I now was. This forced tears
from my eyes again, but as there was little relief in that, J
resolved, if possible, to get to the ship, so I pulled off my
clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and took the
water; but when I came to the ship, my difficulty was still
greater to know how to get on board, for as she lay aground,
and high out of the water, there was nothing within my reach
to lay hold of. I swam round her twice, and the second time
I spied a small piece of rope, which I wondered I did not see
at first, hang down by the fore-chains so low as that with great
difficulty I got hold of it, and by the help of that rope got up
into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the ship
was bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold, but
that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her
head low almost to the water. By this means all her quarter
was free, and all that was in that part was dry ; for you may
be sure my first work was to search and to see what was
spoiled and what was free; and first I found that all the
ship's provisions were dry and untouched by the water; and
being very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-room and
filled my pockets with biscuit, and eat it as I went about
other things, for I had no time to lose. I also found some
rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and1
which I had indeed need enough of to spirit me for what was
before me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat to furnish my-
self with many things which I foresaw would be very neces-
sary to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be
had, and this extremity roused my application. We had sev-
eral spare yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and a
spare topmast or two in the ship. I resolved to fall to work
with these, and flung as many of them overboard as I could
manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope that they
might not drive away; when this was done I went down the
ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast
together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a raft,
and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them
cross-ways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it
was not able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too
light; so I went to work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut
a spare topmast into three lengths, and added them to my
raft, with a great deal of labor and pains: but hope of fur-
nishing myself with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond
what I should have been able to have done upon another oc-
casion.
My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable
weight; my next care was what to load it with, and how to
preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I
was not long considering this. I first laid all the planks or
boards upon it that I could get, and having considered well
what I most wanted, I first got three of the seamen's chests,
which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered them
down upon my raft. The first of these I filled with provis-
ions, namely, bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of
dried goat's flesh, which we lived much upon, and a little re-
mainder of European corn which had been laid by for some
fowls which we brought to sea with us, but the fowls were
killed. There had been some barley and wheat together;
but, to my great disappointment, I found afterwards that the
rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found sev-
eral cases of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were
some cordial waters, and in all about five or six gallons of
rack; these I stowed by themselves, there being no need to
put them into the chest, nor no room for them. While I was
doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though very calm;
and I had the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waist-
coat, which I had left on shore, upon the sand, swim away;
as for my breeches, which were only linen and open-kneed, I
swam on board in them and my stockings. However, this put
me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough, but
took no more than I wanted for present use; for I had other
things which my eye was more upon — as, first, tools to work
with on shore; and it was after long searching that I found
out the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize
to me, and much more valuable than a ship-loading of gold
would have been at that time. I got it down to my raft, even
whole as it was, without losing time to look into it, for I knew
in general what it contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There
were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two
pistols; these I secured first, with some powder-horns, and a
small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there
were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where
our gunner had stowed them; but with much search I found
them, two of them dry and good, the third had taken water.
Those two I got to my raft, with the arms ; and now I thought
myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how I should
get to shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor rudder,
and the least capful of wind would have overset all my navi-
gation.
I had three encouragements: a smooth, calm sea, the tide
rising and setting into the shore, and what little wind there
was blew me towards the land; and thus, having found two
or three broken oars belonging to the boat, and besides the
tools which were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe and a
hammer, and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or
thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I found it drive a
little distant from the place where I had landed before, by
which I perceived that there was some indraft of the water,
and consequently I hoped to find some creek or river there,
which I might make use of as a port to get to land with my
cargo.
As I imagined, so it was. There appeared before me a
little opening of the land, and I found a strong current of the
tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well as I could to keep
in the middle of the stream; but here I had like to have suf-
fered a second shipwreck, which, if I had, I think verily
would have broke my heart; for knowing nothing of the coast,
my raft run aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and not
being aground at the other end, it. wanted but a little that all
my cargo had slipped off towards that end that was afloat, and
so fallen into the water. I did my utmost, by setting my back
against the chests, to keep them in their places, but could not
thrust off the raft with all my strength, neither durst I stir
from the posture I was in; but holding up the chests with all
my might, stood in that manner near half an hour, in which
time the rising of the water brought me a little more upon 3
level; and a little after, the water still rising, my raft floated
again, and I thrust her off with the oar I had into the chan-
nel; and then driving up higher, I at length found myself in
the mouth of a little river, with land on both sides, and a
strong current or tide running up. I looked on both sides for
a proper place to get to shore, for I was not willing to be
driven too high up the river, hoping in time to see some ship
at sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as near the
coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the
creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I'guided my
raft, and at last got so near, as that, reaching ground with my
oar, I could thrust her directly in. But here I had liked to
have dipped all my cargo in the sea again: for that shore ly-
ing pretty steep, that is to say sloping, there was no place to
land, but where one end of the float, if it run on shore, would
lie so high, and the other sink lower as before, that it would
endanger my cargo again. All that I could do, was to wait
till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft with my oar
like an anchor to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a
flat piece of ground, which I expected the water would flow
over; and so it did. As soon as I found water enough (for
my raft drew about a foot of water), I thrust her on upon that
flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her by
sticking my two broken oars into the ground; one on one side
near one end, and one on the other side near the other end;
and thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and
all my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper
place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods to secure
them from whatever might happen. Where I was I yet knew
not; whether on the continent or on an island, whether inhab-
ited or not inhabited, whether in danger of wild beasts or not.
There was a hill not above a mile from me, which rose up very
steep and high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills
which lay as in a ridge from it northward. I took out one of
the fowling-pieces, and one of the pistols, and an horn of pow-
der, and thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to the top of
that hill; where, after I had with great labor and difficulty
got to the top, I saw my fate to my great affliction, namely,
that I was in an island environed every way with the sea, no
land to be seen, except some rocks which lay a great way oflfj
and two small islands less than this, which lay about three
leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I
saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of whom however I saw none ; yet I saw abundance
of fowls, but knew not their kinds, neither when I killed them
could I tell what was fit for food, and what not. At my com-
ing back, I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a
tree on the side of a great wood — I believe it was the first
gun that had been fired there since the creation of the world.
I had no sooner fired, but from all parts of the wood there
arose an innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, making
a confused screaming, and crying every one according to his
usual note; but not one of them of any kind that I knew.
As for the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of hawk,
its color and beak resembling it, but had no talons or claws
more than common; its flesh was carrion and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, and
fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up
the rest of that day; and what to do with myself at night I
knew not, nor- indeed where to rest; for I was afraid to lie
down on the ground, not knowing but some wild beast might
devour me, though, as I afterwards found, there was really no
need for those fears.
However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round
with the chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and
made a kind of a hut for that night's lodging. As for food, I
yet saw not which way to supply myself, except that I had
seen two or three creatures, like hares, run out of the wood
where I shot the bird.
I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many
things out of the ship which would be useful to me, and par-
ticularly some of the rigging and sails, and such other things
as might come to land, and I resolved to make another voy-
age on board the vessel, if possible; and as I knew that the
first storm that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces,
I resolved to set all other things apart till I got everything
out of the ship that I could get. Then I called a council,
that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should take back the
raft; but this appeared impracticable, so I resolved to go as
before, when the tide was down, and I did so, only that I
stripped before I went from my hut, having nothing on but a
checkered shirt, and a pair of linen trousers, and a pair of
pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship, as before, and prepared a second
raft, and having had experience of the first, I neither made
this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard ; but yet I brought
away several things very useful to me; as first, in the carpen-
ter's stores, I found two or three bags full of nails and spikes,
a great screw jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and above all,
that most useful thing called a grindstone. All these I se-
cured, together with several things belonging to the gunner,
particularly two or three iron crows, and two barrels of mus-
ket-bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with
some small quantity of powder more, a large bag full of small
shot, and a great roll of sheet lead; but this last was so
heavy, I could not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I
could find, and a spare foretop-sail, hammock, and some bed-
ding; and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought
them all safe on shore, to my very great comfort.
I was under some apprehensions during my absence from the
land, that at least my provisions might be devoured on shore;
but when I came back, I found no sign of any visitor, only
there sat a creature like a wild cat upon one of the chests,
which, when I came towards it, ran away a little distance, and
then stood still. She sat very composed and unconcerned,
and looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be ac-
quainted with me. I presented my gun at her, but as she did
not understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did
she offer to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of bis-
cuit, though by the way I was not very free of it, for my store
was not great. However, I spared her a bit, I say, and she
went to it, smelled it, ate it, and looked, as pleased, for more;
but I thanked her, and could spare no more, so she marched
off.
Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was fain to
open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels (for
they were too heavy, being large casks), I went to work to
make me a little tent with the sail and some poles which I cut
for that purpose; and into this tent I brought everything that
I knew would spoil, either with rain or sun, and I piled all the
empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent, to for-
tify it from any sudden attempt, either from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent
with some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end
without; and spreading one of the beds on the ground, laying
my two pistols just at my head, and my gun at length by me,
I went to bed for the first time, and slept very quietly all
night, for I was very weary and heavy; for the night before
I had slept little, and had labored very hard all day, as well
to fetch all those things from the ship as to get them on
shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever were
laid up, I believe, for one man, but I was not satisfied still;
for while the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I
ought to get everything out of her that I could: so every day
at low water I went on board, and brought away something or
other; but particularly the third time I went, I brought away
as much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small ropes
and rope twine I could get, with a piece of spare canvas,
which was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of
wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought away all the sails first
and last, only that I was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring
as much at a time as I could; for they were no more useful
to be sails, but as mere canvas only.
But that which comforted me more still, was that, last of
all, after I had made five or six such voyages as these, and
thought I had nothing more to expect from the ship that was
worth my meddling with; I say, after all this, I found a great
hogshead of bread, and three large runlets of rum or spirits,
and a box of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour. This was sur-
prising to me, because I had given over expecting any more
provisions, except what was spoiled by the water. I soon
emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up, par-
cel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and, in
a word, I got all this safe on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage; and now, having
plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out,
I began with the cables; and cutting the great cable into
pieces, such as I could move, I got two cables and a hawser
on shore, with all the iron-work I could get; and having cut
down the spritsail-yard, and the mizzen-yard, and everything I
could to make a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy
goods and came away. But my good luck began now to leave
me; for this raft was so unwieldy and so overladen, that after
I had entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of
my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the
other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the
water. As for myself it was no great harm, for I was near
the shore; but as to my cargo, it was great part of it lost,
especially the iron, which I expected would have been of
great use to me. However, when the tide was out, I got
most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron,
though with infinite labor; for I was fain to dip for it into
the water — a work which fatigued me very much. After this,
I went every day on board and brought away what I could
get.
I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship, in which time I had brought
away all that one pair of hands could be well supposed capa-
ble to bring; though I believe verily, had the calm weather
held, I should have brought away the whole ship, piece by
piece. But preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I
found the wind begin to rise; however, at low water I went
on board, and though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so
effectually, as that nothing more could be found, yet I discov-
ered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two
or three razors, and one pair of large scissors, with some ten
or a dozen of good knives and forks; in another I found
about thirty-six pounds value in money, some European coin,
some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. "O Drug!"
said I, aloud, "what art thou good for? thou art not worth to
me, no, not the taking off the ground. One of these knives
is worth all this heap. I have no manner of use for thee,
even remain where thou art and go to the bottom, as a crea-
ture whose life is not worth saving." However, upon second
thoughts, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a piece of
canvas, I began to think of making another raft; but while I
was preparing this, I found the sky overcast, and the wind
began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh
gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me, that it was
in vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind off shore, and
that it was my business to be gone before the tide of flood
began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at
all: accordingly I let myself down into the water, and swam
across the channel, which lay between the ship and the sands,
and even that with difficulty enough, partly with the weight
of things I had about me, and partly the roughness of the
water; for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite
high water it blew a storm.
But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay with
all my wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard
all that night; and in the morning when I looked out, be-
hold no more ship was to be seen. I was a little surprised,
but recovered myself with this satisfactory reflection; namely,
that I had lost no time, nor abated any diligence, to get
everything out of her that could be useful to me ; and that
indeed there was little left in her that I was able to bring
away, if I had had more time.
I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of any-
thing out of her, except what might drive on shore from her
wreck, as indeed divers pieces of her afterwards did; but
those things were of small use to me.
My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing
myself against either savages (if any should appear) or wild
beasts, if any were in the island; and I had many thoughts
of the method how to do this, and what kind of dwelling to
make; whether I should make me a cave in the earth, or a
tent upon the earth; and, in short, I resolved upon both, of
the manner, and description of which it may not be improper
to give an account.
I soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement,
particularly because it was upon a low moorish ground near the
sea, and I believed would not be wholesome, and more par-
ticularly because there was no fresh water near it, so I resolved
to find a more healthy and more convenient spot of ground.
I consulted several things in my situation which I found
would be proper for me. Health, and fresh water, I just now
mentioned; shelter from the heat of the sun; security from
ravenous creatures, whether man or beast; a view to the sea,
that if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any ad-
vantage for my deliverance, of which I was not willing to
banish all my expectation yet.
In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain
on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards this little
plain was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could come
down upon me from .the top; on the side of this rock there
was a hollow place, worn a little way in, like the entrance or
door of a cave: but there was not really any cave or way
into the rock at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I
resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above an hun-
dred yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a
green before my door, and at the end it descended irregularly
every way down into the low grounds by the sea-side. It
was on the N. N. W. side of the hill, so that I was sheltered
from the heat every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun, or
thereabouts, which in those countries is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before the
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diam-
eter, from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its
beginning and ending.
In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driv-
ing them into the ground till they stood very firm, like piles, the
biggest end being out of the ground about five foot and a half,
and sharpened on the top; the two rows did not stand above
six inches from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship,
and laid them in rows one upon another, within the circle
between these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing
other stakes in the inside, leaning against them, about two
foot and a half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence was
so strong, that neither man nor beast could get into it or over
it. This cost me a great deal of time and labor, especially to
cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the place, and drive
them into the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door,
but by a short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when
I was in, I lifted over after me: and so I was completely
fenced in and fortified, as I thought, from all the world, and
consequently slept secure in the night, which otherwise I
could not have done; though, as it appeared afterward, there
was no need of all this caution from the enemies that I appre-
hended danger from.
Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labor, I carried all
my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which
you have the account above; and I made me a large tent,
which, to preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the
year are very violent there, I made double, namely, one
smaller tent within, and one larger tent above it, and covered
the uppermost with a large tarpaulin which I had saved among
the sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had
brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a
very good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.
Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything
that would spoil by the wet; and having thus inclosed all my
goods I made up the entrance, which till now I had left open,
and so passed and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into the
rock ; and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down out
through my tent, I laid them up within my fence in the nature
of a terrace, that so it raised the ground within about a foot
and a half; and thus I made me a cave just behind my tent,
which served me like a cellar to my house.
It cost me much labor, and many days, before all these
things were brought to perfection, and therefore I must go
back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts.
At the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for
the setting up my tent and making the cave, that a storm of
rain falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of light-
ning happened, and after that a great clap of thunder, as is
naturally the effect of it. I was not so much surprised with
the lightning, as I was with a thought which darted into my
mind as swift as the lightning itself: O my powder! my very
heart sunk within me, when I thought that at one blast all
my powder might be destroyed; on which, not my defense
only, but the providing me food, as I thought, entirely de-
pended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own dan-
ger, though, had the powder took fire, I had never known
who had hurt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that after the
storm was over I laid aside all my works, my building, and
fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes to
separate the powder, and to keep it a little and a little in a
parcel, in hope, that whatever might come, it might not all
take fire at once; and to keep it so apart, that it should not
be possible to make one part fire another. I finished this
work in about a fortnight; and I think my powder, which in
all was about 240 pounds weight, was divided in not less than
a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had been wet, I did
not. apprehend any danger from that, so I placed it in my new
cave, which in my fancy I called my kitchen; and the rest I
hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet
might come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out
once at least every day with my gun, as well to divert myself
as to see if I could kill anything fit for food, and, as near as
I could, to acquaint myself with what the island produced.
The first time I went out I presently discovered that there
were goats in the island, which was a great satisfaction to me;
but then it was attended with this misfortune to me, namely,
that they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it
was the most difficult thing in the world to come at them.
But I was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might
now and then shoot one, as it soon happened; for after I had
found their haunts a little, I laid wait in this manner for
them: I observed, if they saw me in the valleys, though they
were upon the rocks, they would run away as in a terrible
fright; but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me: from whence I
concluded, that by the position of their optics, their sight was
so directed downward, that they did not readily see objects
that were above them; so afterwards I took this method: I
always climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and then
I had frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made among
these creatures I killed a she-goat, which had a little kid by
her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily; but
when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her till I
came and took her up; and not only so, but when I carried
the old one with me upon my shoulders, the kid followed me
quite to my inclosure, upon which I laid down the dam, and
took the kid in my arms and carried it over my pale, in hopes
to have bred it up tame, but it would not eat, so I was forced
to kill it and eat it myself. These two supplied me with flesh
a great while, for I eat sparingly, and saved my provisions
(my bread especially) as much as possibly I could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to
burn; and what I did for that, as also how I enlarged my
cave, and what conveniences I made, I shall give a full ac-
count of in its place; but I must first give some little account
of myself, and of my thoughts about living, which it may well
be supposed were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I was not
cast away upon that island without being driven, as is said,
by a violent storm quite out of the course of our intended
voyage, and a great way, some hundreds of leagues, out of
the ordinary course of the trade of mankind, I had great
reason to consider it as a determination of Heaven that in
this desolate place and in this desolate manner, I should end
my life. The tears would run plentifully down my face when
I made these reflections, and sometimes I would expostulate
with myself, why Providence should thus completely ruin his
creatures, and render them so absolutely miserable, so without
help abandoned, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be
rational to be thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to check
these thoughts and reprove me; and particularly one day,
walking with my gun in my hand by the sea-side, I was very
pensive upon the subject of my present condition, when rea-
son as it were expostulated with me the other way, thus:
Well, you are in a desolate condition, it is true; but pray
remember, where are the rest of you? Did not you come
eleven of you into the boat? Where are the ten? Why were
they not saved and you lost? Why were you singled out? Is
it better to be here or there? and then I pointed to the sea.
All evils are to be considered with the good that is in them,
and with what worse attends them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for
my subsistence, and what would have been my case if it had
not happened, which was a hundred thousand to one, that the
ship floated from the place where she first struck, and was
driven so near the shore that I had time to get all these
things out of her? What would have been my case if I had
been to have lived in the condition in which I at first came
on shore, without necessaries of life or necessaries to supply
and procure them? Particularly, said I aloud (though to
myself), what should I have done without a gun, without am-
munition, without any tools to make anything, or to work
with; without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner of cov-
ering? And that now I had all these to a sufficient quantity,
and was in a fair way to provide myself in such a manner, as
to live without my gun when my ammunition was spent, so
that I had a tolerable view of subsisting, without any want,
as long as I lived; for I considered from the beginning how
I should provide for the accidents that might happen and for
the time that was to come, even not only after my ammuni-
tion should be spent, but even after my health or strength
should decay. \• \
I confess I had not entertained any notion of my ammuni-
tion being destroyed at one blast, I mean, my powder being
blown up by lightning; and this made the thoughts of it so
surprising to me when it lightened and thundered, as I ob-
served just now.
And now being about to enter into a melancholy relation
of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of
in the world before, I shall take it from its beginning, and
continue it in its order. It was, by my account, the 3oth of
September, when, in the manner as above said, I first set foot
upon this horrid island, when the sun being, to us, in its au-
tumnal equinox, was almost just over my head; for I reck-
oned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees
and 22 minutes north of the line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came
into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for
want of books, and pen and ink, and should even forget the
Sabbath days from the working days; but to prevent this, I
cut it with my knife upon a large post in capital letters, and
making it into a great cross, I set it up on the shore where I
first landed, namely, I CAME ON SHORE HERE ON THE 30™ OF
SEPT. 1659. Upon the sides of this square post I cut every
day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as
long again as the rest, and every first day of the month as
long again as that long one; and thus I kept my calendar, or
weekly, monthly, and yearly reckoning of time.
In the next place we are to observe, that among the many
things which I brought out of the ship in the several voyages,
which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I got several things of
less value, but not all less useful to me, which I omitted setting
down before; as in particular, pens, ink, and paper; several
parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's
keeping; three or four compasses, some mathematical in-
struments, dials, perspective glasses, charts, and books of
navigation; all which I huddled together, whether I might
want them or no; also, I found three very good Bibles which
came to me in my cargo from England, and which I had
packed up among my things; some Portuguese books also,
and among them two or three Popish prayer-books, and
several other books, all which I carefully secured. And I
must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog and two cats,
of whose eminent history I may have occasion to say some-
thing in its place; for I carried both the cats with me; and
as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, and
swam on shore to me the day after I went on shore with my
first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many years. I
wanted nothing that he could fetch me, or any company that
he could make up to me; I only wanted to have him talk to
me, but that he could not do. As I observed before, I found
pen, ink, and paper, and I husbanded them to the utmost;
and I shall show, that while my ink lasted, I kept things very
exact; but after that was gone I could not, for I could not
make any ink, by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, not-
withstanding all that I had amassed together; and of these
this of ink was one, as also spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to
dig or remove the earth; needles, pins, and thread; as for
linen, I soon learned to want that without much difficulty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily,
and it was near a whole year before I had entirely finished
my little pale or surrounded habitation. The piles or stakes,
which were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in
cutting and preparing in the woods, and more by far in bring-
ing home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting and
bringing home one of those posts, and a third day in driving
it into the ground; for which purpose I got a heavy piece of
wood at first, but at last bethought myself of one of the iron
crows, which, however, though I found it, yet it made driving
those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work.
But what need I have been concerned at the tediousness of
anything I had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in,
nor had I any other employment if that had been over, at
least, that I could foresee, except the ranging the island to
seek for food, which I did more or less every day.
I have already described my habitation, which was a tent
under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of
posts and cables, but I might now rather call it a wall, for I
raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs, about two feet
thick on the outside, and after some time, I think it was a
year and a half, I raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock,
and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, and such
things as I could get to keep out the rain, which I found at
some times of the year very violent.
I have already observed how I brought all my goods into
this pale, and into the cave which I had made behind me;
but I must observe too, that at first this was a confused heap
of goods, which, as they lay in no order, so they took up all my
place, I had no room to turn myself; so I set to work to enlarge
my cave and work farther into the earth; for it was a loose,
sandy rock, which yielded easily to the labor I bestowed on it.
And so when I found I was pretty safe as to beasts of prey, I
worked sideways to the right hand into the rock; and then
turning to the right again, worked quite out, and made me a
door to come out, on the outside of my pale or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were a
back way to my tent and to my store-house, but gave me room
to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary
things as I found I most wanted, as particularly a chair and a
table; for without these I was not able to enjoy the few com-
forts I had in the world. I could not write or eat, or do sev-
eral things with so much pleasure without a table.
So I went to work; and here I must needs observe, that as
reason is the substance and original of the mathematics, so
by stating and squaring everything by reason, and by making
the most rational judgment of things, every man may be in
time master of every mechanic art. I had never handled a
tool in my life, and yet in time by labor, application, and con-
trivance, I found at last that I wanted nothing but I could
have made it, especially if I had had tools; however, I made
abundance of things, even without todls, and some with no
more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which, perhaps, were
never made that way before, and that with infinite labor; for
example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut
down a tree, set it on a hedge before me, and hew it flat on
either side with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as
a plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by
this method I could make but one board out of a whole tree,
but this I had no remedy for but patience, any more than I
had for the prodigious deal of time and labor which it took
me up to make a plank or board; but my time or labor was
little worth, and so it was as well employed one way as an-
other.
However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the first place, and this I did out of the short pieces
of boards which I brought on my raft from the ship; but
when I had wrought out some boards, as above, I made large
shelves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another,
all along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and
iron-work, and in a word, to separate everything at large in
their places, that I might come easily at them. I knocked
pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and all
things that would hang up.
So that had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a gen-
eral magazine of all necessary things; and I had everything
so ready at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to
see all my goods in such order, and especially to find my
stock of all necessaries so great.
And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every
day's employment; for indeed at first I was in top much hurry,
and not only hurry as to labor, but in too much discomposure
of mind, and my journal would have been full of many dull
things.
I shall here give you the copy (though in it will be told
many particulars over again) as long as it lasted; for having
no more ink, I was forced to leave it off.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30, 1659. • I, poor, miserable Robinson Crusoe,
being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in the offing,
came on shore on this dismal, unfortunate island, which I
called the Island of Despair, all the rest of the ship's com-
pany being drowned, and myself almost dead.
•All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself, at the
dismal circumstances I was brought to, namely, I had neither
food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to, and in de-
spair of any relief, saw nothing but death before me, either
that I should be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by sav-
ages, or starved to death for want of food. At the approach
of night I slept in a tree, for fear of wild creatures, but slept
soundly though it rained all night.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the
ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore
again much nearer the island, which as it was some comfort
on one hand, for seeing her sit upright, and not broken to
pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board,
and get some food or necessaries out of her for my relief; so,
on the other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my
comrades, who I imagined if we had all stayed on board
might have saved the ship, or at least that they would not
have been all drowned, as they were; and that, had the men
been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat out of the
ruins of the ship, to have carried us to some other part of the
world. I spent great part of this day in perplexing myself on
these things; but at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I
went upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam on
board: this day also it continued raining, though with no
wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days en-
tirely spent in making several voyages to get all I could out
of the ship, which I brought on shore, every tide of flood,
upon rafts. Much rain also in these days, though with some
intervals of fair weather: but, it seems, this was the rainy
season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got upon
it; but being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly
heavy, I recovered many of them when tire tide was out.
Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with some gusts
of wind, during which time the ship broke in pieces, the
wind blowing a little harder than before, and was no more to
be seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at low water.
I spent this day in covering and securing the goods which I
had saved, that the rain might not spoil them.
Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day, to find
out a place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned to secure
myself from any attack in the night, either from wild beasts or
men. Toward night I flexed upon a proper place under a
rock, and marked out a semicircle for my encampment, which
I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall, or fortification
made of double piles, lined within with cables, and without
with turf.
From the 26th to the 3oth, I worked very hard in carrying
all my goods to my new habitation, though some part of the
time it rained exceeding hard.
The 31st, in the morning, I went out into the island with
my gun, to see for some food, and discover the country, when
I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me home; which I
afterwards killed also, because it would not feed.
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there
for the first night, making it as large as I could with stakes
driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces
of timber which made my rafts, and with them formed a fence
round me, a little within the place I had marked out for my
fortification.
Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like
ducks, which were very good food. In the afternoon went to
work to make me a table.
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of work,
of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion.
Every morning I walked out with my gun for two or three
hours, if it did not rain, then employed myself to work till
about eleven o'clock, then eat what I had to live on, and from
twelve to two I lay down to sleep, the weather being excessive
hot, and then in the evening to work again. The working
part of this day, and of the next, were wholly employed in
making my table, for I was yet but a very sorry workman,
though time and necessity made me a complete natural
mechanic soon after, as I believe it would do any one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and my dog,
and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good
for nothing: every creature I killed I took off the skins and
preserved them. Coming back by the sea-shore I saw many
sorts of sea-fowls, which I did not understand; but was sur-
prised and almost frighted with two or three seals, which,
while I was gazing, not well knowing what they were, got into
the sea, and escaped me for that time.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk I went to work with my
table again, and finished it, though not to my liking; nor was
it long before I learned to mend it.
Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather. The yth,
8th, 9th, loth, and a part of the 12th (for the nth was Sun-
day), I took wholly up to make me a chair, and with much
ado brought it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me;
and even in the making I pulled it in pieces several times.
Note. — I soon neglected my keeping Sundays, for omitting
my mark for them on my post, I forgot which was which.
Nov. 13. This day it rained, which refreshed me exceed-
ingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accompanied with ter-
rible thunder and lightning, which frighted me dreadfully
for fear of my powder. As soon as it was over I resolved to
separate my stock of powder into as many little parcels as
possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making little
square chests or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or
two pounds at most, of powder; and so putting the powder
in, I stowed it in places as secure and remote from one an-
other as possible. On one of these three days I killed a
large bird that was good to eat, but I know not what to
call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent into the
rock, to make room for my farther conveniency. Note. — Three
things I wanted exceeding for this work, namely, a pickaxe,
a shovel, and a wheelbarrow or basket, so I desisted from my
work, and began to consider how to supply that want, and
make me some tools. As for a pickaxe, I made use of the
iron crows, which were proper enough, though heavy; but the
next thing was a shovel or spade. This was so absolutely
necessary, that indeed I could do nothing effectually without
it; but what kind of one to make I knew not.
Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I found
a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the Brazils they call
the Iron Tree, for its exceeding hardness; of this, with great
labor and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a piece and brought
it home too with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no other
way, made me a long while upon this machine; for I worked
it effectually by little and little into the form of a shovel or
spade, the handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only
that the broad part having no iron shod upon it at bottom, it
would not last me so long; however, it served well enough
for the uses which I had occasion to put it to; but never was
a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long a
making.
I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a wheelbar-
row. A basket I could not make by any means, having no
such things as twigs that would bend to make wicker ware, at
least none yet found out; and as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied
I could make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of,
neither did I know how to go about it; besides, I had no
possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or
axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it over; and so for car-
rying away the earth which I dug out of the cave, I made me
a thing like a hod which the laborers carry mortar in, when
they serve the bricklayers.
This was not so difficult to me as the making the shovel;
and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt which I made
in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me up no less than
four days, I mean always excepting my morning walk with my
gun, which I seldom failed ; and very seldom failed also bring-
ing home something to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, because
of my making these tools, when they were finished I went on,
and working every day, as my strength and time allowed, I
spent eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening my
cave, that it might hold my goods commodiously.
Note. — During all this time, I worked to make this room or
cave spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse or
magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar; as for my
lodging, I kept to the tent, except that sometimes in the wet
season of the year, it rained so hard that I could not keep
myself dry, which caused me afterwards to cover all my place
within my pale with long poles in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of
trees like a thatch.
December 10. I began now to think my cave or vault fin-
ished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a
great quantity of earth fell down from the top and one side,
so much, that in short it frighted me, and not without reason
too; for if I had been under it, I had never wanted a grave-
digger. Upon this disaster I had a great deal of work to do
over again; for I had the loose earth to carry out, and, which
was of more importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that
I might be sure no more would come down.
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly, and
got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two
pieces of boards across over each post; this I finished the
next day, and setting more posts up with boards, in about a
week more I had the roof secured; and the posts, standing in
rows, served me for partitions to part off my house.
Dec. 17. From this day to the twentieth I placed shelves,
and knocked up nails on the posts to hang everything up that
could be hung up; and now I began to be in some order
within doors.
Dec. 20. Now I carried everything into the caye, and be-
gan to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards,
like a dresser, to order my victuals upon; but boards began
to be very scarce with me; also, I made me another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day; no stirring out.
Dec. 25. Rain all day.
Dec. 26. No rain; and the earth much cooler than before,
and pleasanter.
Dec. 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed another, so that
I caught it, and led it home in a string; when I had it home,
I bound and splintered up its leg, which was broke. N. B.
I took such care of it, that it lived, and the leg grew well
and as strong as ever; but by nursing it so long it grew tame,
and fed upon the little green at my door, and would not go
away. This was the first time that I entertained a thought
of breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have food
when my powder and shot was all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30. Great heats and no breeze, so that there
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening for food; this
time I spent in putting all my things in order within doors.
January 1. Very hot still, but I went abroad early and
late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This
evening, going farther into the valleys, which lay towards the
centre of the island, I found there was plenty of goats, though
exceeding shy and hard to come at; however, I resolved to
try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down.
Jan. 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out with my
dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was mistaken, for
they all faced about upon the dog • and he knew his danger
too well, for he would not come near them.
Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being still
jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to
make very thick and strong.
N. B. This wall being described before, I purposely omit
what was said in the Journal. It is sufficient to observe, that
I was no less time than from the 3d of January to the I4th
of April, working, finishing, and perfecting this wall, though
it was no more than about twenty-four yards in length, being
a half circle from one place in the rock to another place about
eight yards from it; the door of the cave being in the centre
behind it.
All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me
many days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but I thought I
should never be perfectly secure until this wall was finished;
and it is scarce credible what inexpressible labor everything
was done with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods,
and driving them into the ground, for I made them much
bigger than I need to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the outside double fence
with a turf-wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that
if any people were to come on shore there, they would not
perceive anything like a habitation; and it was very well I
did so, as may be observed hereafter upon a very remarkable
occasion.
During this time I made my rounds in the woods for game
every day, when the rain permitted me, and made frequent
discoveries in these walks of something or other to my advan-
tage; particularly I found a kind of wild pigeons, who built
not as wood pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house pigeons,
in the holes of the rocks; and taking some young ones, I
endeavored to breed them up tame, and did so; but when
they grew older they flew away, which perhaps was at first
for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them;
however, I frequently found their nests, and got their young
ones, which were very good meat.
And now, in the managing my household affairs, I found
myself wanting in many things, which I thought at first it was
impossible for me to make, as indeed, as to some of them, it
was; for instance, I could never make a cask to be hooped.
I had a small runlet or two, as I observed before, but I could
never arrive to the capacity of making one by them, though I
spent many weeks about it; I could neither put in the heads,
or joint the staves so true to one another as to make them
hold water, so I gave that also over.
In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle; so that
as soon as ever it was dark, which was generally by seven
o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump
of bees-wax with which I made candles in my African adven-
ture, but I had none of that now; the only remedy I had was,
that when I had killed a goat I saved the tallow, and with a
little dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which
I added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp; and this
gave me light, though not a clear, steady light like a candle.
In the middle of all my labors it happened, that rummaging my
things, I found a little bag, which, as I hinted before, had been
filled with corn for the feeding of poultry, not for this voyage,
but before, as I suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon;
what little remainder of corn had been in the bag, was all
devoured with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag but
husks and dust; and being willing to have the bag for some
other use, I think it was to put powder in, when I divided it
for fear of the lightning, or some such use, I shook the husks
of corn out of it on one side of my fortification under the
rock.
It was a little before the great rains, just now mentioned,
that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice of anything, and
not so much as remembering that I had thrown anything
there ; when about a month after, or thereabouts, I saw some
few stalks of something green shooting out of the ground,
which I fancied might be some plant I had not seen; but I
was surprised and perfectly astonished, when after a little
longer time I saw about ten or twelve ears come out, which
were perfect green barley of the same kind as our European,
nay, as our English barley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion
of my thoughts on this• occasion. I had hitherto acted upon
no religious foundation at all; indeed, I had very few notions
of religion in my head, or had entertained any sense of any-
thing that had befallen me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as
we lightly say, what pleases GOD; without so much as inquir-
ing into the end of Providence in these things, or his order in
governing events in the world; but after I saw barley grow
there, in a climate which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially that I knew not how it came there, it startled me
strangely; and I began to suggest, that GOD had miraculously
caused this grain to grow without any help of seed sown, and
that it was so directed purely for my sustenance on that wild,
miserable place.
This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my
eyes, and I began to bless myself, that such a prodigy of na-
ture should happen upon my account; and this was the more
strange to me, because I saw near it still, all along by the side
of the rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved to be
stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I had seen it grow
in Africa, when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of Provi-
dence for my support, but not doubting but that there was
more in the place, I went all over that part of the island,
where I had been before, peeping in every corner and under
every rock to see for more of it, but I could not find any; at
last it occurred to my thought, that I had shook a bag of
chicken's meat out in that place, and then the wonder began
. to cease. And I must confess, my religious thankfulness to
God's providence began to abate too, upon discovering that
all this was nothing but what was common; though I ought
to have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a prov-
idence as if it had been miraculous; for it was really the
work of Providence as to me, that should order or appoint
ten or twelve grains of corn to remain unspoiled, when the
rats had destroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropped from
heaven; as also, that I should throw it out in that particular
place, where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang
up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere else at
that time, it had been burnt up and destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in
their season, which was about the end of June, and laying up
every corn, I resolved to sow them all again, hoping in time to
have some quantity sufficient to supply me with bread; but it
was not till the fourth year that I could allow myself the least
grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I
shall say afterwards in its order; for I lost all that I sowed
the first season, by not observing the proper time; for I
sowed it just before the dry season, so that it never came up
at all, at least, not as it would have done: of which in its
place.
Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty
stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care, and
whose use was of the same kind or to the same purpose,
namely, to make me bread, or rather food; for I found ways
to cook it up without baking, though I did that also after
some time. But to return to my Journal.
I worked excessive hard these three or four months to get
my wall done; and the I4th of April I closed it up, contriv-
ing to go into it not by a door, but over the wall by a ladder,
that there might be no sign in the outside of my habitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder, so I went up with the lad-
der to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down
on the inside. This was a complete inclosure to me; for
within I had room enough, and nothing could come at me
from without, unless it could first mount my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost
had all my labor overthrown at once, and myself killed. The
case was thus. As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my
tent, just in the entrance into my cave, I was terribly frighted
with a most dreadful surprising thing indeed; for on a sudden
I found the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my
cave, and from the edge of the hill, over my head, and two of
the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful man-
ner. I was heartily scared, but thought nothing of what was
really the cause, only thinking that the top of my cave was
falling in, as some of it had done before; and, for fear I
should be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder; and not
thinking myself safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear
of the pieces of the hill which I expected might roll down
upon me. I was no sooner stepped down upon the firm
ground, but I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake, for the
ground I stood on shook three times at about eight minutes'
distance, with three such shocks as would have overturned
the strongest building that could be supposed to have stood
on the earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock, which
stood about half a mile from me next the sea, fell down with
such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life. I per-
ceived also the very sea was put into violent motion by it;
and I believe the shocks were stronger under the water than
on the island.
I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt the
like, or discoursed with any one that had, that I was .like one
dead or stupefied; and the motion of the earth made my
stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea. But the noise
of the falling of the rock awaked me, as it were, and rousing
me from the stupefied condition I was in, filled me with hor-
ror, and I thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon
my tent, and all my household goods, and burying all at once;
and this sunk my very soul within me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some
time, I began to take courage, and yet I had not heart enough
to get over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but
sat still upon the ground, greatly cast down and disconsolate,
not knowing what to do. All this while I had not the least
serious religious thought, nothing but the common, "Lord,
have mercy upon me ; " and when it was over, that went away
too.
While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy,
as if it would rain; soon after that the wind rose by little and
little, so that in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful
hurricane. The sea was all on a sudden covered over with
foam and froth, the shore was covered with the breach of the
water, the trees were torn up by the roots, and a terrible
storm it was; and this held about three hours, and then
began to abate, and in two hours more it was stark calm, and
began to rain very hard.
All this while I sat upon the ground, very much terrified
and dejected, when on a sudden it came into my thoughts,
that these winds and rain being the consequences of the earth-
quake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and I might
venture into my cave again. With this thought my spirits
began to revive, and the rain also helping to persuade me, I
went in and sat down in my tent, but the rain was so violent,
that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it; and I was
forced to go into my cave, though very much afraid and un-
easy, for fear it should fall on my head.
This violent rain forced me to a new work, namely, to cut a
hole through my new fortification like a sink to let water go
out, which would else have drowned my cave. After I had
been in my cave some time, and found still no more shocks
of the earthquake follow, I began to be more composed. And
now, to support my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much,
I went to my little store, and took a small sup of rum, which
however I did then, and always, very sparingly, knowing I
could have no more when that was gone.
It continued raining all that night, and a great part of the
next day, so that I could not stir abroad; but my mind being
more composed, I began to think of what I had best do, con-
cluding, that if the island was subject to these earthquakes,
there would be no living for me in a cave, but I must consider
of building me some little hut in an open place, which I
might surround with a wall as I had done here, and so make
myself secure from wild beasts or men: but concluded if I
stayed where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be
buried alive.
With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent from the
place where•it stood, which was just under the hanging preci-
pice of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken again,
would certainly fall upon my tent. And I spent the next two
days, being the 19th and 2oth of April, in contriving where
and how to remove my habitation.
The fear of being swallowed up alive, made me that I never
slept in quiet: and yet the apprehension of lying abroad,
without any fence, was almost equal to it; but still, when I
looked about and saw how everything was put in order, how
pleasantly concealed I was, and how safe from danger, it
made me very loth to remove.
In the mean time, it occurred to me that it would require a
vast deal of time for me to do this, and that I must be con-
tented to run the venture where I was, till I had formed a
camp for myself, and had secured it so as to remove to it;
so with this resolution I composed myself for a time, and re-
solved that I would go to work with all speed to build me a
wall with piles and cables, in a circle as before; and set my
tent up in it when it was finished, but that I would venture to
stay where I was till it was finished and fit to remove to.
This was the a1st
April 22. The next morning I began to consider of means
to put this resolve in execution, but I was at a great loss
about my tools; I had three large axes and abundance of
hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the In-
dians), but with much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood,
they were all full of notches and dull, and though I had a
grindstone, I could not turn it and grind my tools too: this
cost me as much thought as a statesman would have bestowed
upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon the life and
death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel with a string,
to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my hands at
liberty. I had never seen any such thing in England, or at
least not to take notice how it was done, though since I have
observed it is very common there; besides that, my grind-
stone was very large and heavy. This machine cost me a full
week's work to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding
my tools, my machine for turning my grindstone performing
very well.
April 30. Having perceived my bread had been low a great
while, now I took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one
biscuit cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-side, the
tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than
ordinary • and it looked like a cask. When I came to it, I
found a small barrel, and two or three pieces of the wreck of
the ship, which were driven on shore by the late hurricane;
and looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to
lie higher out of the water than it used to do. I examined
the barrel which was driven on shore, and soon found it was a
barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it farther on
shore for the present, and went on upon the sands as near as
I could to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely re-
moved: the forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was
heaved up at least six feet; and the stern, which was broken
to pieces and parted from the rest by the force of the sea,
soon after I had left rummaging her, was tossed, as it were,
up, and cast on one side, and the sand was thrown so high on
that side next her stern, that whereas there was a great place
of water before, so that I could not come within a quarter of
a mile of the wreck without swimming, I could now walk
quite up to her when the tide was out. I was surprised with
this at first, but soon concluded it must be done by the earth-
quake. And as by this violence the ship was more broken
open than formerly, so many things came daily on shore,
which the sea had loosened, and which the winds and water
rolled by degrees to the land.
This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of re-
moving my habitation; and I busied myself mightily, that day
especially, in searching whether I could make any way into
the ship; but I found nothing was to be expected of that
kind, for that all the inside of the ship was choked up with
sand. However, as I had learnt not to despair of anything, I
resolved to pull everything to pieces that I could of the ship,
concluding, that everything I could get from her would be of
some use or other to me.
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam
through, which I thought held some of the upper part or quar-
ter-deck together; and when I had cut it through, I cleared
away the sand as well as I could from the side which lay
highest; but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over
for that time.
May 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I
durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when just going to
leave off, I caught a young dolphin. I had made me a long
line of some rope yarn, but I had no hooks, yet I frequently
caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all which I
dried in the sun, and eat them dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck, cut another beam asunder,
and brought three great fir planks off from the decks, which
I tied together, and made swim on shore when the tide of
flood came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts out of
her, and other pieces of iron-work; worked very hard, and
came home very much tired, and had thoughts of giving it
over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but with an intent not to
work, but found the weight of the wreck had broke itself
down, the beams being cut, that several pieces of the ship
seemed to lie loose: and the inside of the hold lay so open,
that I could see into it, but almost full of water and sand.
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to
wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water
or sand; I wrenched open two planks, and brought them on
shore also with the tide. I left the iron crow in the wreck for
next day.
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way
into the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loos-
ened them with the crow, but could not break them up; I felt
also the roll of English lead, and could stir it, but it was too
heavy to remove.
May 10, n, 12, 13, 14. Went every day to the wreck, and
got a great many pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and
two or three hundred weight of iron.
May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a
piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet,
and driving it with the other; but as it lay about a foot and a
half in the water, I could not make any blow to drive the
hatchet.
May 16. It had blowed hard in the night, and the wreck
appeared more broken by the force of the water; but I staid
so long in the woods to get pigeons for food, that the tide pre-
vented me going to the wreck that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore,
at a great distance, near two miles off me, but resolved to see
what they were, and found it was a piece of the head, but too
heavy for me to bring away.
May 24. Every day to this day I worked on the wreck,
and with hard labor I loosened some things so much with the
crow, that the first blowing tide several casks floated out, and
two of the seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from the
shore, nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber,
and a hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it, but the
salt water and sand had spoiled it.
I continued this work every day to the 15th of June, except
the time necessary to get food, which I always appointed, dur-
ing this part of my employment, to be when the tide was up,
that I might be ready when it was ebbed out; and by this
time I had gotten timber, and plank, and iron•work enough to
have built a good boat, if I had known how; and also, I got
at several times, and in several pieces, near a hundred weight
of the sheet-lead.
June 16. Going down to the sea-side, I found a large tor-
toise or turtle; this was the first I had seen, which it seems
was only my misfortune, not any defect of the place, or scar-
city ; for had I happened to be on the other side of the island,
I might have had hundreds of them every day; as I found
afterwards; but perhaps had paid dear enough for them.
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her
threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me at that time the
most savory and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life, having
had no flesh, but of goats and fowls, since I landed in this
horrid place.
June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thought
at this time the rain felt cold, and I was something chilly,
which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had
been cold.
June 20. No rest all night, violent pains in my head, and
feverish.
June 21. Very ill, frighted almost to death with the ap-
prehensions of my sad condition, to be sick and no help.
Prayed to God for the first time since the storm off Hull, but
scarce knew what I said, or why; my thoughts being all con-
fused.
June 22. A little better, but under dreadful apprehensions.
of sickness.
June 23. Very bad again, cold and shivering, and then a
violent headache.
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me seven
hours, cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took my
gun, but found myself very weak; however, I killed a she-
goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and broiled some
of it, and ate; I would fain have stewed it and made some
broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent, that I lay abed all
day, and neither eat nor drank. I was ready to perish for
thirst, but so weak I had not strength to stand up, or to get
myself any water to drink. Prayed to God again, but was
light-headed•; and when I was not, I was so ignorant that I
knew not what to say; only I lay and cried, Lord, look upon
me; Lord, pity me; Lord, have mercy upon me. I suppose I
did nothing else for two or three hours, till the fit wearing off,
I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night; when I
waked I found myself much refreshed, but weak and exceed-
ing thirsty: however, as I had no water in my whole habita-
tion, I was forced to lie till morning, and went to sleep again.
In this second sleep I had this terrible dream.
I thought that I was sitting on the ground on the outside of
my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the earthquake,
and that I saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in a
bright flame of fire, and alight upon the ground. He was all
over as bright as a flame, so that I could but just bear to look
towards him; his countenance was most inexpressibly dread-
ful, impossible for words to describe; when he stepped upon
the ground with his feet I thought the earth trembled just as it
had done before in the earthquake, and all the air looked to
my apprehension as if it had been filled with flashes of fire.
He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved
forward toward me, with a long spear or weapon in his hand
to kill me; and when he came to a rising ground, at some
distance, he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so terrible, that it
is impossible to express the terror of it; all that I can say
I understood was this, "Seeing all these things have not
brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die ;" at which
words I thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to
kill me.
No one, that shall ever read this account, will expect that I
should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this ter-
rible vision; I mean, that even while it was a dream, I even
dreamed of those horrors; nor is it any more possible to de-
scribe the impression that remained upon my mind, when I
awaked, and found it was but a dream.
Jttne 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep
I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up ; and though
the fright and terror of my dream was very great, yet I con-
sidered, that the fit of the ague would return again next day,
and now was my time to get something to refresh and support
myself when I should be ill. And the first thing I did, I filled
a large square case-bottle with water, and set it upon my table,
in reach of my bed; and to take off the chill or aguish disposi-
tion of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into
it, and mixed them together. Then I got me a piece of the
goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very
little. I walked about, but was very weak, and withal, very
sad and heavy-hearted under a sense of my miserable condi-
tion, dreading the return of my distemper the next day. At
night I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs, which I
roasted in the ashes, and eat, as we call it, in the shell; and
this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing
to, even, as I could remember, in my whole life.
After I had eaten I tried to walk; but found myself so weak
that I could hardly carry the gun (for I never went out without
that); so I went but a little way, and sat down upon the
ground, looking out upon the sea, which was just before me,
and very calm and smooth.
I rose up•pensive and sad, walked back to my retreat, and
went up over my wall, as if I had been going to bed; but my
thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to
sleep; so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for it
began to be dark. Now as the apprehension of the return of
my distemper terrified me very much, it occurred to my
thought, that the Brazilians take no physjc but their tobacco
for almost all distempers; and I had a piece of a roll of to-
bacco in one of the chests, which was quite cured, and some
also that was green, and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt! for in this chest I
found a cure both for soul and body! I opened the chest, and
found what I looked for, namely, the tobacco; and as the few
books I had saved lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles
which I mentioned before, and which, to this time, I had not
found leisure, or so much as inclination, to look into; I say I
took it out, and brought both that and the tobacco with me to
the table.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my dis-
temper, or whether it was good for it or no; but I tried several
experiments with it, as if I resolved it should hit one way or
other: I first took a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my
mouth, which indeed at first almost stupefied my brain, the to-
bacco being green and strong, and that I had not been used
to it; then I took some, and steeped it an hour or two in some
rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when I lay down; and,
lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held my nose
close over the smoke of it, as long as I could bear it, and I
held almost to suffocation.
In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible, and
began to read; but my head was too much disturbed with the
tobacco to bear reading, at least at that time. Only having
opened the book casually, the first words that occurred to me •
were these: "Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will de-
liver thee, and thou shall glorify me."
The words were very apt to my case, and made some im-
pression upon my thoughts at the time of reading them, though
not so much as they did afterwards; for, as for being de-
livered, the word had no sound, as I may say, to me; the thing
was so remote, so impossible in my apprehension of things, that
I began to say as the children of Israel did when they were
promised flesh to eat, " Can God spread a table in the wilder-
ness?" so I began to say, Can God himself deliver me from
this place? And as it was not for many years that any hope
appeared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts; but,
however, the words made a very great impression upon me,
and I mused upon them very often. It grew now late, and
the tobacco had, as I said, dozed my head so much, that I in-
clined to sleep; so I left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I
should want anything in the night, and went to bed: but be-
fore I lay down, I did what I never had done in all my life; I
kneeled down and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me,
that if I called upon him in the day of trouble, he would de-
liver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was over,
I drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco, which
was so strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could
scarce get it down. Immediately upon this I went to bed, and
I found presently it flew up into my head violently; but I fell
into a sound sleep, and waked no more, till noon the next day;
nay, to this hour, I am partly of the opinion that I slept all the
next day and night, and till almost three the day after; for
otherwise I knew not how I should lose a day out of my reck-
oning in the days of the week, as it appeared some years after
I had done; for if I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the
line, I should have lost more than one day: but certainly I
lost a day in my account, and never knew which way.
Be that however one way or other, when I waked I found
myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheer-
ful. When I got up, I was stronger than I was the day be-
fore, and my stomach better, for I was hungry; and, in short,
I had no fit the next day, but continued much altered for the
better. This was the a9th.
The 3oth was my well day, of course; and I went abroad
with my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a
sea-fowl or two, something like a brand goose, and brought
them home, but was not very forward to eat them; so I eat
some more of the turtle's eggs, which were very good. This
evening I renewed the medicine which I had supposed did me
good the day before, namely, the tobacco steeped in rum;
only I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew any of
the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke. However, I was
not so well the next day, which was the first of July, as I
hoped I should have been; for I had a little spice of the cold
fit, but it was not much.
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways, and
dosed myself with it at first, and doubled the quantity which
I drank.
July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not
recover my full strength for some weeks after. While I was
thus gathering strength, my thoughts run exceedingly upon
the scripture, " I will deliver thee ;" and the impossibility of
my deliverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever
expecting it: but as I was discouraging myself with such
thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I pored so much on
my deliverance from the main affliction, that I disregarded the
deliverance I had received; and I was, as it were, made to
ask myself such questions as these ; namely, Have I not been
delivered, and wonderfully, too, from sickness? from the most
distressed .condition that could be, and that was so frightful to
me? and what notice had I taken of it? had I done my part?
"God had delivered me; but I had not glorified him :" that
is to say, I had not owned and been thankful for that as a de-
liverance; and how could I expect greater deliverance?
This touched my heart very much, and immediately I
kneeled down and gave God thanks, aloud, for my recovery
from my sickness.
July 4. In the morning I took the Bible; and, beginning at
the New Testament, I began seriously to read it, and imposed
upon myself to read awhile every morning and every night, not
tying myself to the number of chapters, but as long as my
thoughts should engage me. It was not long'after I set seri-
ously to this work, but I found my heart more deeply and sin-
cerely affected with the wickedness of my past life.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, "Call
on me, and I will deliver thee," in a different sense from what
I had ever done before; for then I had no notion of anything
being called deliverance, but my being delivered from the cap-
tivity I was in: for though I was indeed at large in the place,
yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that in the
worst sense in the world; but now I learned to take it in an-
other sense. Now I looked back upon my past life with sucK
horror, and my sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought
nothing of God but deliverance from the load of guilt that bore
down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing;
I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of
it; it was all of no consideration in comparison of this. And I
add this part here, to hint to whoever1 shall read it, that when-
ever they come to a true sense of things, they will find deliver-
ance from sin a much greater blessing than deliverance from
affliction.
But, leaving this part, I return to my Journal: —
My condition began now to be, though not less miserable
as to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind: and my
thoughts being directed, by a constant reading the Scripture,
and praying to God, to things of a higher nature, I had a great
deal of comfort within, which till now I knew nothing of; also
as my health and strength returned I bestirred myself to fur-
nish myself with everything that I wanted, and make my way
of living as regular as I could.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed in
walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a little at
a time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit
of sickness; for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was,
and to what weakness I was reduced. The application which
I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what had never
cured an ague before; neither can I recommend it to any one
to practice by this experiment; and though it did carry off the
fit, yet it rather contributed to weaken me ; for I had frequent
convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time.
I learnt from it also this, in particular, that being abroad in
the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my health
that could be, especially in those rains which came attended
with storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which
came in the dry season was always most accompanied with
such storms, so I found this rain was much more dangerous
than the rain which fell in September and October.
I had been now in this unhappy island above ten months ,
all possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be
entirely taken from me; and I firmly believed that no human
shape had ever set foot upon that place. Having now secured
my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great
desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to
6
see what other productions I might find, which I yet knew
nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more par-
ticular survey of the island itself; I went up the creek first,
where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found,
after I came about two miles up, that the tide did not flow any
higher, and that it was no more than a little brook of running
water, and very fresh and good; but this being the dry season,
there was hardly any water in some parts of it, at least not
enough to run in any stream, so as it could be perceived.
On the banks of this brook I found many pleasant savannas
or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass; and on
the rising parts of them next to the higher grounds, where the
water, as it might be supposed, never overflowed, I found a
great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a great and very
strong stalk. There were divers other plants which I had no
notion of, or understanding about; and might perhaps have
virtues of their own, which I could not find out.
I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians in all that
climate make their bread of, but I could not find none. I saw
large plants of aloes, but did not then understand them. I saw
several sugar-canes, but wild, and, for want of cultivation, im-
perfect. I contented myself with these discoveries for this
time, and came back musing with myself what course I might
take to know the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or
plants which I should discover, but could bring it to no con-
clusion: for, in short, I had made so little observation while I
was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the plants of the field,
at least very little that might serve me to any purpose now in
my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again; and,
after going something farther than I had done the day before,
I found the brook and the savannas began to cease, and the
country became more woody than before. In this part I found
different fruits, and particularly I found melons upon the
ground in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees; the
vines had spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters of
grapes were just now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This
was a surprising discovery, and I was exceedingly glad of them;
but I was warned by my experience to eat sparingly of them,
remembering that, when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating
of grapes killed several of our Englishmen who were slaves
there, by throwing them into fluxes and fevers; but I found
an excellent use for these grapes, and that was to cure or dry
them in the sun and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are
kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they were, as whole-
some, and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes might be had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation, which, by the way, was the first night, as I might
say, I had lain from home. In the night I took my first con-
trivance, and got up into a tree, where I slept well, and the
next morning proceeded upon my discovery, travelling near
four miles, as I might judge by the length of the valley, keep-
ing still due north, with a ridge of hills on the south and north
side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening, where the
country seemed to descend to the west; and a little spring of
fresh water, which issued out of the side of the hill by me, ran
the other way, that is, due east; and the country appeared so
fresh, so green, so flourishing, everything being in a constant
verdure or flourishing of spring, that it looked like a planted
garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious valley, sur-
veying it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with
other afflicting thoughts), to think that this was all my own,
that I was king and lord of all this country indefeasibly, and
had a right of possession; and if I could convey it, I might
have it in inheritance, as completely as any lord of a manor in
England. I saw here abundance of cocoa-trees, orange and
lemon, and citron-trees, but all wild, and few bearing any
fruit; at least not then. However, the green limes that I
gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome;
and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which made it
very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.
I found now I had business enough to gather and carry
home; and resolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes, as
limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, which
I knew was approaching.
In order to do this I gathered a heap of grapes in one place,
and a lesser heap in another place; and a great parcel of
limes and lemons in another place; and taking a few of each
with me, I travelled homeward, and resolved to come again,
and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to carry the
rest home.
Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey, I came
home (so I must now call my tent and my cave); but before I
got thither the grapes were spoiled; the richness of the fruit
and the weight of the juice having broken them and bruised
them, they were good for little or nothing; as to the limes,
they were good, but I could bring but a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made me
two small bags to bring home my harvest. But I was sur-
prised when, coming to my heap of grapes, which were so rich
and fine when I gathered them, I found them all spread
abroad, trod to pieces, and dragged about, some here, some
there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By this I con-
cluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts which had
done this; but what they were I knew not.
However, as I found there was no laying them up on heaps,
and no carrying them away in a sack, but that one way they
would be destroyed, and the other way they would be crushed
with their own weight, I took another course; for I gathered a
large quantity of the grapes and hung them upon the out
branches of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun;
and as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many back as I
could well stand under.
When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with
great pleasure on the fruitfulness of that valley, and the pleas-
antness of the situation, the security from storms on that side
of the water, and the wood ; and concluded that I had pitched
upon a place to fix my abode, which was by far the worst part
of the country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of re-
moving my habitation, and to look out for a place equally safe
as where I now was situated, if possible, in that pleasant and
fruitful part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head, and I was exceeding
fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempt-
ing me; but when I came to a nearer view of it, and to con-
sider that I was now by the sea-side, where it was at least pos-
sible that something might happen to my advantage, and that
the same ill fate that brought me hither, might bring some
other unhappy wretches to the same place, and though it was
scarce probable that any such thing should ever happen, yet
to inclose myself among the hills and woods, in the centre of
the island, was to anticipate my bondage, and to render such
an affair not only improbable, but impossible; and that there-
fore I ought not by any means to remove.
However, I was so enamored of this place, that I spent
much of my time there for the whole remaining part of the
month of July and though, upon second thoughts, I resolved
as above, not to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a
bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence,
being a double hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked
and filled between with brushwood • and here I lay very se-
cure, sometimes two or three nights together, always going
over it with a ladder, as before ; so that I fancied now I had
my country house, and my sea-coast house: and this work
took me up to the beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my
labor, but the rains came on, and made me stick close to my
first habitation; for though I had made me a tent like the
other, with a piece of a sail, and spread it very well, yet I
had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a
cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were extraor-
dinary.
About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished
my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3d of August I
found the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and in-
deed were excellent good raisins of the sun: so I began to
take them down from the trees, and it was very happy that I
did so ; for the rains which followed would have spoiled them,
and I had lost the best part of my winter food; for I had
above two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had I
taken them all down, and carried most of them home to my
cave, but it began to rain; and from thence, which was the
I4th of August, it rained more or less every day, till the mid-
die of October; and sometimes so violently, that I could not
stir out of my cave for several days.
In this season I was much surprised with the increase of
my family: I had been concerned for the loss of one of my
cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead;
and I heard no more tidings of her, till, to my astonishment,
she came home about the end of August, with three kittens.
This was the more strange to me, because though I had killed
a wild cat, as I called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was a
quite different kind from our European cats; yet the young
cats were the same kind of house breed like the old one; and
both my cats being females, I thought it very strange: but
from these three cats, I afterwards came to be so pestered
with cats, that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild
beasts, and to drive them from my house as much as possible.
From the I4th of August to the 26th, incessant rain, so that
I could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet.
In this confinement I began to be straitened for food: but
venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat: and the last day,
which was the 26th, found a very large tortoise, which was a
treat to me; and my food was regulated thus : — I eat a
bunch of raisins for my breakfast, a piece of the goat's flesh,
or of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled (for to my great mis-
fortune I had no vessel to boil or stew anything), and two or
three of the turtle's eggs for .supper.
During this confinement in my cover, by the rain, I worked
daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave ; and, by de-
grees, worked it on towards one side, till I came to the outside
of the hill, and made a door or way out, which came beyond
my fence or wall; and so I came in and out this way. But
I was not perfectly easy at lying so open; for as I had man-
aged myself before, I was in a perfect inclosure, whereas now
I thought I lay exposed; and yet I could not perceive that
there was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I
had seen upon the island being a goat.
September 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary
of my landing. I cast up the notches on my post, and found
I had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I
kept this day as a solemn fast, setting it apart to a religious
exercise, prostrating myself on the ground with the most se-
rious humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging
his righteous judgments upon me, and praying to him to have
mercy on me, through Jesus Christ; and having not tasted
the least refreshment for twelve hours, even to the going down
of the sun, I then ate a biscuit cake, and a bunch of grapes,
and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it.'
I had all this time observed no Sabbath-day; for as at first
I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had after some
time omitted to distinguish the weeks, by making a longer
notch than ordinary for the Sabbath-day, and so did not really
know what any of the days were; but now, having cast up
the days as above, I found I had been there a year; so I
divided it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a
Sabbath; though I found at the end of my account I had lost
a day or two in my reckoning.
A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I con-
tented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write down
only the most remarkable events of my life, without continu-
ing a daily memorandum of other things.
The rainy season, and the dry season, began now to appear
regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide
for them accordingly. But I bought all my experience before
I had it; and this I am going to relate, was one of the most
discouraging experiments that I made at all. I have men-
tioned, that I had saved the few ears of barley and rice which
I had so surprisingly found spring up, as I thought, of them-
selves, and believe there were about thirty stalks of rice, and
about twenty of barley; and now I thought it a proper time
to sow it after the rains, the sun being in its southern position
going from me.
Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground, as well as I could,
with my wooden spade, and dividing it into two parts, I sowed
my grain; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my
thought, that I would not sow it all at first, because I did not
know when was the proper time for it; so I sowed about two-
thirds of the seeds, leaving about a handful of each. It was
a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not one
grain of that I sowed this time came to anything; for the dry
months following, the earth having had no rain after the seed
was sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth, and never
came up at all, till the wet season had come again, and then
it grew as if it had been newly sown.
Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily imag-
ined was by the drought, I sought for a moister piece of
ground to make another trial in; and I dug up a piece of
ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in
February, a little before the vernal equinox; and this, having
the rainy months of March and April to water it, sprung up
very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but having
part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow all that I had
yet, I had but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not
amounting to above half a peck of each kind.
But by this experience I was made master of my business,
and knew exactly when the proper season was to sow; and
that I might expect two seed-times, and two harvests every
year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery,
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains
were over, and the weather began to settle, which was about
the month of November, I made a visit up the country to my
bower, where, though I had not been some months, yet I found
all things just as I left them. The circle or double hedge that
I had made, was not only firm and entire, but the stakes
which I had cut off of some trees that grew thereabouts, were
all shot out, and grown with long branches, as much as a wil-
low-tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its head.
I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were cut
from. I was surprised, and• yet very well pleased, to see the
young trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them to grow
as much alike as I could, and it is scarce credible, how beau-
tiful a figure they grew into in three years; so that though the
hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diameter,
yet the trees, for such I might now call them, soon covered it;
and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the
dry season.
This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make
me a hedge like this in a semicircle round my wall, I mean
that of my first dwelling, which I did; and placing the trees
or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards' distance from
my first fence, they grew presently, and were at first a fine
cover to my habitation, and afterwards served for a defence
also, as I shall observe in its order.
I found now, that the seasons of the year might generally
be divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe, but
into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were gen-
ally thus:
Half February, March, half April — Rainy, the sun being
then on or near the equinox.
Half April, May, June, July, half August — Dry, the sun
being then to the north of the line.
Half August, September, half October — Rainy, the sun
then being come back.
Half October, November, December, January, half Febru-
ary — Dry, the sun being then to the south of the line.
The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter, as the
winds happened to blow; but this was the general observation
I made. After I had found, by experience, the ill consequences
of being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with
provisions beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out;
and I sat within doors as much as possible during the wet
months.
In this time I found much employment (and very suitable
also to the time), for I found great occasion for many things
which I had no way to furnish myself with, but by hard labor
and constant application. Particularly, I tried many ways to
make myself a basket; but all the twigs I could get for the
purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I was a
boy, I used to take great delight in standing at a basket-
maker's in the town where my father lived, to see them make
their wicker ware; and being, as boys usually are, very offi-
cious to help, and a great observer of the manner how they
worked those things, and sometimes lending a hand, I had by
this means so full knowledge of the methods of it, that I
wanted nothing but the materials; when it came into my mind,
that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes that
grew, might possibly be as tough as the sallows, and willows,
and osiers in England, and I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day I went to my country house, as I
called it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them
to my purpose as much as I could desire; whereupon I came
the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity
which I soon found, for there was a great plenty of them
These I set up to dry within my circle or hedges; and when
they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave; and here,
during the next season, I employed myself in making (as well
as I could) a great many baskets, both to carry earth, or to
carry or lay up anything, as I had occasion; and though I did
not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently
serviceable for my purpose; and thus afterwards I took care
never to be without them; and as my wicker ware decayed, I
made more; especially I made strong, deep baskets to place
my corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any
quantity of it.
Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of
time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how to sup-
ply two wants. I had no vessels to hold anything that was
liquid, except two runlets, which were almost full of rum, and
some glass bottles; some of the common size, and others,
which were case-bottles, square, for the holding of waters,
spirits, &c. I had not so much as a pot to boil anything in,
except a great kettle which I saved out of the ship, and which
was too big for such uses as I desired for it, namely, to make
broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second thing I
would fain have had, was a tobacco-pipe, but it was impossible
for me to make one; however, I found a contrivance for that,
too, at last.
I employed myself in planting my second rows of stakes or
piles, and in this wicker work, all the summer, or dry season;
when another business took me up more time than it could be
imagined I could spare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see the whole
island, and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to
where I built my bower, and where I had an opening quite to
the sea, on the other side of the island. I now resolved to
travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side • so taking my
gun, and hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder
and shot than usual, with two biscuit cakes, and a great bunch
of raisins in my pouch, for my store, I began my journey.
When I had passed the vale where my bower stood, as above,
I came within view of the sea, to the west; and it being a very
clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an island or conti-
nent I could not tell ; but it lay very high, extending from the
west to the W. S. W. at a very great distance; by my guess it
could not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might be, other-
wise than that I knew it must be part of America; and, as I
concluded by all my observations, must be near the Spanish
dominions, and perhaps was all inhabited by.savages, where,
if I should have landed, I had been in a worse condition than
I was now; and therefore I acquiesced in the dispositions of
Providence, which I began now to own, and to believe, ordered
everything for the best; I say I quieted my mind with this,
and left afflicting myself with fruitless wishes of being there.
Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered, that
if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time
or other, see some vessel pass or repass one way or other;
but if not, then it was the savage coast between the Spanish
country and Brazil, which is inhabited by the worst of sav-
ages ; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to
murder and devour all the human bodies that fall into their
hands.
With these considerations I walked very leisurely forward.
I found that side of the island where I now was, much
pleasanter than mine, the open or savanna fields sweet,
adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very fine woods.
I saw abundance of parrots, and fain would I have caught
one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to
speak to me. I did, after some pains taken, catch a young
parrot, for I knocked it down with a stick, and, having re-
covered it, I brought it home, but it was some years before I
could make him speak. However, at last I taught him to call
me by my name, very familiarly; but the accident that fol-
lowed, though it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in
the low grounds, hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes,
but they differed greatly from all other kinds I had met with;
nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed several:
but I had no need to be venturous, for I had no want of food,
and of that which was very good too; especially these three
sorts, goats, pigeons, and turtle or tortoise; which, added to
my grapes, Leadenhall Market could not have furnished a bet-
ter table than I, in proportion to the company: and though
my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great cause for
thankfulness, that I was not driven to any extremities for
food; but rather plenty, even to dainties.
I never travelled in this journey above two miles outright in
a day, or thereabouts; but I took so many turns and returns,
to see what discoveries I could make, that I came weary
enough to the place where I resolved to sit down for all night;
and then either reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded my-
self with a row of stakes set upright in the ground, either from
one tree or another, or so as no wild creature could come at
me without waking me.
As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see
that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island; for
here indeed the shore was covered with innumerable turtles,
whereas on the other side I had found but three in a year and
a half. Here was also an infinite number of fowls of many
kinds, some of which I had not seen before, and many of them
very good meat; but such as I knew not the names of, except
those called penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very spar-
ing of my powder and shot; and therefore had more mind to
kill a she-goat, if I could, which I could better feed on; and
though there were many more goats here than on the other
side of the island, yet it was with much more difficulty that I
could come near them, the country being flat and even, so that
they saw me much sooner than when I was on the hills.
I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than
mine, but yet I had not the least inclination to remove ; for, as
I was fixed in my habitation, it became natural to me; and I
seemed all the while I was here to be, as it were, upon a jour-
ney, and from home. However, I travelled along the shore of
the sea toward the east, I suppose about twelve miles; and
then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a mark, I con-
cluded I would go home again , and the next journey I took
should be on the other side of the island, east from my dwell-
ing, and so round, till I came to my post again, of which in its
place.
I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking
I could easily keep all the island so much in my view, that I
could not miss finding my first dwelling by viewing the coun-
try; but I found myself mistaken; for being come about two
or three miles, I found myself descended into a very large val-
ley, but so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered with
woods, that I could not see which was my way by any direc-
tion but that of the sun; nor even then, unless I knew very
well the position of the sun at that time of the day.
It happened, to my farther misfortune, that the weather
proved hazy for three or four days while I was in this valley;
and not being able to see the sun, I wandered about very un-
comfortably, and at last was obliged to find out the sea-side,
look for my post, and come back the same way I went; and
then by easy journeys I turned homeward, the weather being
exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other
things very heavy.
In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized
upon it; and I, running to take hold of it, caught it, and saved
it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home, if
I could; for I had often been musing whether it might not be
possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame
goats, which might supply me when my powder and shot
should be spent.
I made a collar for this little creature; and with a string
which I made of some rope-yarn, which I always carried
about me, I led him along, though with some difficulty, till I
came to my bower, and there I inclosed him, and left him;
for I was very impatient to be at home, from whence I had
been absent above a month.
I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come
into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-bed: this
little wandering journey, without a settled place of abode, had
been so unpleasant to me, that my own house, as I called it to
myself, was a perfect settlement to me, compared to that;
and it rendered everything about me so comfortable, that I
resolved that I would never go a great way from it again,
while it should be my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself
after my long journey; during which, most of the time was
taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for my Poll,
who began now to be a mere domestic, and to be mighty well
acquainted with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid,
which I had pent in within my little circle, and resolved to .go
and fetch it home, and give it some food: accordingly I went,
and found it where I left it; for indeed it could not get out,
but was almost starved for want of food. I went and cut
boughs of trees and branches of such shrubs as I could find,
and threw over to it • and having fed it, I tied it as I did be-
fore to lead it away; but it was so tame with being hungry,
that I had no need to have tied it; for it followed me like a
dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature became so lov-
ing, so gentle, and so fond, that it became from that time one
of my domestics also, and would never leave me afterwards.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come,
and I kept the 3oth of September in the same solemn man-
ner as before, being the anniversary of my landing on the isl-
and, having now been there two years, and no more prospect
of being delivered than the first day I came there. I spent
the whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of
the many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was
attended with, and without which it might have been infinitely
more miserable. I gave humble and hearty thanks, that God
had been pleased to discover to me, even that it was possible
I might be more happy in this solitary condition, than I should
have been in society, and in all the pleasures of the world:
that he could fully make up to me the deficiencies of my sol-
itary state and the want of human society, by his presence,
and the communications of his grace to my soul, supporting,
comforting, and encouraging me to depend upon his provi-
dence here, and hope for his eternal presence hereafter.
Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for
viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition
would break upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would
die within me, to think of the woods, the mountains, the des-
erts I was in; and how I was a prisoner, locked up with the
eternal bolts and bars of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilder-
ness, without redemption. In the midst of the greatest com-
posures of my mind, this would break out upon me like a
storm, and make me wring my hands, and weep like a child.
Sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work, and I
would immediately sit down and sigh, and look down upon
the ground for an hour or two together; and this was still
worse to me; for if I could burst out into tears, or vent my-
self by words, it would go off, and the grief, having exhausted
itself, would abate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts; I
daily read the word of God, and applied all the comforts of
it to my present state. One morning, being very sad, I
opened the Bible upon these words, "I will never, never leave
thee, nor forsake thee!" Immediately it occurred, that these
words were to me, why else should they be directed in such
a manner, just at the moment when I was mourning over my
condition, as one forsaken of God and man? Well then, said
I, if God does not forsake me, of what ill consequence can it
be, or what matters it, though the world should all forsake
me: seeing on the other hand, if I had all the world, and
should lose the favor and blessing of God,* there would be no
comparison in the loss.
I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul within
me blessed God for directing my friend in England, without
any order of mine, to pack it up among my goods; and for
assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship.
In this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and
though I have not given the reader the trouble of so particu-
lar an account of my works this year as at the first, yet in
general it may be observed, that I was very seldom idle; hav-
ing regularly divided my time, according to the several daily
employments that were before me, such as first, my duty to
God, and reading the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart
some time for, thrice every day. Secondly, the going abroad
with my gun for food, which generally took me up three hours
every morning when it did not rain. Thirdly, the ordering,
curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or caught
for my supply. These took up great part of the day. Also it
is to be considered, that in the middle of the day, the violence
of the heat was too great to stir out; so that about four hours
in the evening was all the time I could be supposed to work
in • with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours
of hunting and working, and went to work in the morning,
and abroad with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labor, I desire may be added
the exceeding laboriousness of my work; the many hours
which, for want of tools, want of help, and want of skill,
everything that I did took up out of my time: for example, I
was full two-and-forty days making me a board for a long
shelf, which I wanted in my cave; whereas two sawyers, with
their tools and saw-pit, would have cut six of them out of the
same tree in half a day.
My case was this: It was to be a large tree which was to
be cut down, because my board was to be a broad one. The
tree I was three days a cutting down, and two more cutting
off the boughs, and reducing it to a log, or piece of timber.
With inexpressible hacking and hewing, I reduced both the
sides of it into chips, till it began to be light enough to move;
then I turned it, and made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board, from end to end: then turning that side downward, cut
the other side till I brought the plank to be about three
inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may judge
the labor of my hands in such a piece of work; but labor and
patience carried me through that and many other things.
I was now in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had
manured or dug up for them was not great; for, as I observed,
my seed of each was not above the quantity of half a peck;
for I had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season;
but now my crop promised very well, when on a sudden I
found I was in danger of losing it all again by enemies of
several sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it; at
first, the goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, which,
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as
soon as it came up, and eat it so close, that it could get no
time to shoot up into stalks.
This I saw no remedy for, but by making an inclosure
about it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil;
and the more, because it required a great deal of speed; the
creatures daily spoiling my corn. However, as my arable land
was but small, suited to my crop, I got it totally well fenced
in about three weeks' time; and shooting some of the
creatures in the day-time, I set my dog to guard it in the
night, tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he would
stand and bark all night long: so in a little time the enemies
forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and well,
and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in
the blade, so the birds were as like to ruin me now, when it
was in the ear; for going along by the place to see how it throve,
I saw my little crop surrounded with fowls of I know not
how many sorts, which stood as it were watching till I should
be gone. I immediately let fly among them, (for I always had
my gun with me.) I had no sooner shot, but there arose up a
little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among
the corn itself.
This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw, that in a few days
they would devour all my hopes: that I should be starved,
and never be able to raise a crop at all; and what to do I
could not tell; however, I resolved not to lose my corn, if
possible, though I should watch it night and day. In the first
place, I went among it to see what damage was already done,
and found they had spoiled a good deal of it; but that, as it
was yet too green for them, the loss was not so great, but the
remainder was like to be a good crop, if it could be saved.
I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I could
easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if
they only waited till I was gone away, and the event proved it
to be so ; for as I walked off, as if I was gone, I was no
sooner out of their sight, but they dropped down one by one
into the corn again. I was so provoked, that I could not have
7
patience to stay till more came on, knowing that every grain
that they eat now was, as it might be said, a peck loaf to me
in the consequence. But coming up to the hedge, I fired
again, and killed three of them. This was what I wished for;
so I took them up, and served them, as we serve notorious
thieves in England, that is, hanged them in chains, for a terror
to others. It is almost impossible to imagine, that this should
have such an effect as it had, for the fowls would not only not
come at the corn, but in short they forsook all that part of the
island, and I could never see a bird near the place as long as
my scarecrows hung there. This I was very glad of, you may
be sure, and about the latter end of December, which was our
second harvest of the year, I reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut it down,
and all I could do was to make one as well as I could, out of
one of the broadswords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the
arms out of the ship. However, as my crop was but small, I
had no great difficulty to cut it down; in short, I reaped it
my way, for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it away
in a great basket which I had made, and so rubbed it out with
my hands. And at the end of all my harvesting I found, that
out of my half peck of seed, I had near two bushels of rice,
and above two bushels and a half of barley, that is to say, by
my guess, for I had no measure at that time.
However, this was a great encouragement to me, and I fore-
saw that in time it would please God to supply me with bread;
and yet here I was perplexed again, for I neither knew how to
grind or make meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and
part it; nor, if made into meal, how to make bread of it; and
if how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. These
things being added to my desire of having a good quantity for
store, and to secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste
any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the
next season, and in the mean time to employ all my study and
hours of working to accomplish this great work of providing
myself with corn and bread.
It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It
is a little wonderful, and what I believe few people have
thought much upon; namely, the strange multitude of little
things necessary in the providing, producing, curing, dressing,
making, and finishing, this one article of bread.
First, I had no plough to turn the earth, no spade or shovel
to dig it. Well, this I conquered by making a wooden spade,
as I observed before, but this did my work in but a wooden
manner; and though it cost me a great many days to make it,
yet, for want of iron, it not only wore out the sooner, but
made my work the harder, and made it be performed much
worse.
However, this I bore with too, and was content to work it
out with patience, and bear with the badness of the perfor-
mance. When the corn was sowed, I had no harrow, but was
forced to go over it myself, and drag a great heavy bough of
a tree over it, to scratch the earth, as it may be called, rather
than rake or harrow it.
When it was growing or grown, I have observed already how
many things I wanted, to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it,
cure or carry it home, thresh, part it from the chaff, and save
it. Then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast
and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it in; and
all these things I did without, as shall be observed; and yet
the corn was an inestimable comfort and advantage to me too.
But all this, as I said, made everything laborious and tedious
to me, but that there was no help for, neither was my time so
much loss to me, because I had divided it. A certain part of
it was every day appointed to these works, and as I resolved
to use none of the corn for bread till I had a greater quantity
by me, I had the next six months to apply myself, wholly by
labor and invention, to furnish myself with utensils proper for
the performing all the operations necessary for the making the
corn, when I had it, fit for my use•
But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed
enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I
had a week's work at least to make me a spade, which, when
it was done, was a very sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and
required double labor to work with it; however, I went through
that, and sowed my seeds in two large flat pieces of ground,
as near my house as I could find them to my mind, and fenced
them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which were all cut
off that wood which I had set before, which I knew would
grow; so that in one year's time I knew I should have a quick
or living hedge, that would want but little repair. This work
was not so little as to take me up less than three months;
because great part of that time was in the wet season, when I
could not go abroad.
Within-door, that is, when it rained, and I could not go out,
I found employment on the following occasion, always observ-
ing, that all the while I was at work, I diverted myself with
talking to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I
quickly learnt him to know his own name; at least, to speak
it out pretty loud, Poll; which was the first word I ever
heard spoken in the island by any mouth but my own. This
therefore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work; for
now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my hands, as
follows: I had long studied, by some means or other, to make
myself some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted sorely,
but knew not where to come at them: however, considering
the heat of the climate, I did not doubt, but if I could find out
any such clay, I might botch up some such pot, as might,
being dried by the sun, be hard enough, and strong enough,
to bear handling, and to hold anything that was dry, and
required to be kept so ; and as this was necessary in preparing
corn, meal, &c., which was the thing I was upon, I resolved to
make some as large as I could, and fit only to stand like jars
to hold what should be put into them.
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to
tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste, what
odd, misshapen, ugly things I made, how many of them fell
in, and how many fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to
bear its own weight; how many cracked by the over violent
heat of the sun, being set out too hastily; and how many fell
to pieces with only removing, as well before as after they were
dried; and, in a word, how, after having labored hard to find
the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work it,
I could not make above two large earthen ugly things, I
cannot call them jars, in about two months' labor.
However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I
lifted them very gently up, and set them down again in two
greater wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for them,
that they might not break, and, as between the pot and the
basket there was a little room to spare, I stuffed it full of the
rice and barley straw; and these two pots being to stand
always dry, I thought it would hold my dry corn, and perhaps
the meal when the corn was bruised.
Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots,
yet I made several smaller things with better success, such as
little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and anything
my hand turned to, and the heat of the sun baked them
strangely hard.
But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an
earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the fire, which
none of these could do. It happened after some time, making
a pretty large fire for cooking my meat, when I went to put it
out after I had done with it, I found a broken piece of one of
my earthen ware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone,
and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it, and
said to myself, that certainly they might be made to burn
whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it
burn me some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the
potters burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I had
some lead to do it with; but I placed three large pipkins, and
two or three pots, in a pile one upon another, and placed my
firewood all round it, with a great heap of embers under them;
I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and upon the
top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-hot quite through, and
observed that they did not crack at all; when I saw them
clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six hours,
till I found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or
run. For the sand which was mixed with the clay, melted by
the violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I
had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually, till the pots
began to abate of the red color, and watching them all night
that I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morning I
had three very good, I will not say handsome pipkins, and two
other earthen pots, as hard burnt as could be desired, and one
of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.
After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort
of earthen ware for my use, but I must needs say, as to the
shapes of them, they were very indifferent, as any one may
suppose, when I had no way of making them, but as the
children make dirt pies, or as a woman would make pies that
never learnt to raise paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to
mine, when I found I had made an earthen pot that would
bear the fire ; and I had hardly patience to stay till they were
cold, before I set one upon the fire again, with some water in
it, to boil me some meat, which it did admirably well; and
with a piece of a kid I made some very good broth, though
I wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requisite to
make it so good as I would have had it.
My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp or
beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no thought of
arriving to that perfection of art with one pair of hands. To
supply this want, I was at a great loss; for of all trades in
the world I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter, as
for any whatever; neither had I any tools to go about it with.
I spent many a day to find out a great stone big enough to cut
hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and could find none at all,
except what was in the solid rock, and which I had no way to
dig or cut out; nor indeed were the rocks in the island of
hardness sufficient, but were all of a sandy crumbling stone,
which would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor
would break the corn without filling it with sand; so, after a
great deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it
over, and resolved to look out for a great block of hard wood,
which I found indeed much easier; and getting one as big as
I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it on the out-
side with my axe and hatchet; and then, with the help of fire
and infinite labor, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in
Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a great heavy
pestle or beater, of the wood called the iron-wood; and this I
prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of corn, when
I proposed to myself to grind," or rather pound, my corn or
meal to make my bread.
My next difficulty was to make a sieve, to dress my meai,
and part it from the bran and the husk, without which I did
not see it possible I could have any bread. This was a most
difficult thing, so much as but to think on; for, to be sure, I
had nothing like the necessary things to make it with ; I mean
fine thin canvas, or stuff, to sift the meal through. And here
I was at a full stop for many months; nor did I really know
what to do: linen I had none left but what was mere rags; I
had goat's hair, but neither knew I how to weave or spin it;
and had I known how, here were no tools to work it with. All
the remedy that I found for this, was, that at last I did remem-
ber I had among the seamen's clothes, which were saved out
of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin; and with
some pieces of these I made three small sieves, but proper
enough for the work: and thus I made shift for some years;
how I did afterwards, I shall show in its place.
The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and
how I should make bread when I came to have corn; for,
first, I had no yeast. As to that part, as there was no supply-
ing the want, so I did not concern myself much about it. But
for an oven, I was indeed in great pain. At length I found
out an experiment for that also, which was this: I made some
earthen vessels very broad, but not deep ; that is to say, about
two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I
burnt in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by;
and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon the
hearth, which I had paved with some square tiles of my own
making and burning also; but I should not call them square.
When the firewood was burnt pretty much into embers, or live
coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to cover it
all over; and there I let them lie, till the hearth was very hot:
then sweeping away all the embers, I set down my loaf, or
loaves; and whelming down the earthen pot upon them, drew
the embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep in, and
add to the heat: and thus, as well as in the best oven in the
world, I baked my barley-loaves, and became in a little time a
pastry-cook into the bargain, for I made myself several cakes
of the rice, and puddings.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things took me up
most part of the third year of my abode here; for it is to be
observed, that in the intervals of these things, I had my new
harvest and husbandry to manage; for I reaped my corn in
its season, and carried it home as well as I could, and laid it
up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out;
for I had no floor to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash it
with.
And now indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really
wanted to build my barns bigger: I wanted a place to lay it
up in; for the increase of the corn now yielded me so much,
that I had of the barley about twenty bushels, and of the rice
as much, or more; insomuch that I now resolved to begin to
use it freely, for my bread had been quite gone a great while:
also I resolved to see what quantity would be sufficient for me
a whole year, and to sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and
rice were much more than I could consume in a year; so I
resolved to sow just the same quantity every year that I sowed
the last, in hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me
with bread.
All the while these things were doing, you may be sure my
thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land which I
had seen from the other side of the island; and I was not
without secret wishes that I was on shore there, fancying that
seeing the main-land, and an inhabited country, I might find
some way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at
last find some means of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of
such a condition, and how I might fall into the hands of
savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to think far
worse than the lions and tigers of Africa. That if I once came
into their power, I should run a hazard more than a thousand
to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten; for I had
heard that the people of the Caribbean coast were cannibals,
or men-eaters; and I knew by the latitude that I could not be
far off from that shore. All these things, I say, which I ought
to have considered well of, and I did cast up in my thoughts
afterwards, yet took none of my apprehensions at first; and my
head ran mightily upon the thoughts of getting over to that
shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long boat with the
shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand
miles on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain. Then I
thought I would go and look on our ship's boat, which, as I
have said, was blown up upon the shore a great way in the
storm, when we were first cast away. She lay almost where
she did at first, but not quite; and was turned, by the force of
the waves, and the winds, almost bottom upwards, against the
high ridge of a beachy rough sand, but no water about her as
before.
Had I had hands to have refitted her, and have launched
her into the water, the boat would have done well enough, and
I might have gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough;
but I might have easily foreseen that I could no more turn
her, and set her upright upon her bottom, than I could remove
the island. However, I went to the wood, and cut levers and
rollers, and brought them to the boat, resolving to try what I
could do; suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her
down, I might easily repair the damage she had received, and
she would be a very good boat, and I might go to sea in her
very easily.
I spared no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless toil, and
spent, I think, three or four weeks about it. At last, finding
it impossible to heave it up with my little strength, I fell to
digging away the sand to undermine it, and so to make it fall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right in
the fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up again,
or to get under it, much less to move it forwards towards the
water; so I was forced to give it over: and yet, though I gave
over hopes of the boat, my desire to venture over for the main
increased, rather than decreased, as the means for it seemed
impossible.
This at length set me upon thinking whether it was not pos-
sible to make myself a canoe or periagua, such as the natives
of those climates make, even without tools, or as I might say,
without hands, namely, of the trunk of a great tree. This I
not only thought possible, but easy; and pleased myself
extremely with my thoughts of making it, and with my having
much more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or In-
dians; but not at all considering the particular inconveniences
which I lay under more than the Indians did, namely, want
of hands to move it into the water, when it was made; a
difficulty much harder for me to surmount than all the conse-
quences of want of tools could be to them. But my thoughts
were so intent upon my voyage over the sea in it, that I never
once considered how I should get it off the land; and it was
really in its own nature more easy for me to guide it over forty-
five miles of sea than above forty-five fathom of land, where it
lay, to set it afloat in the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever
man did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself
with the design, without determining whether I was ever able
to undertake it; not but that the difficulty of launching my
boat came often into my head; but I put a stop to my own
inquiries into it by this foolish answer which I gave myself:
Let me first make it, I will warrant I will find some way or
other to get it along when it is done.
This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of
my fancy prevailed, and to work I went, and felled a cedar-
tree. I question much whether Solomon ever had such a one
for the building the temple of Jerusalem. It was five feet ten
inches diameter at the lower part next the stump, and four feet
eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, after
which it lessened for a while and then parted into branches.
It was not without infinite labor that I felled this tree; I was
twenty days hacking and hewing at it at the bottom; I was
fourteen more getting the branches and limbs and the vast
spreading head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed
through with my axe and hatchet, with inexpressible labor;
after this it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a
proportion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it
might swim upright as it ought. It cost me near three months
more to clear the inside, and work it out so as to make an
exact boat of it; this I did indeed without fire, by mere
mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labor; till I had
brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough to
have carried six and twenty men, and consequently big
enough to have carried me and all my cargo.
When I had gone through this work, I was extremely
delighted with it: the boat was really much bigger than I
ever saw a canoe or periagua, that was made of one tree, in
my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure,
for there remained nothing but to get it into the water; and
had I gotten it into the water, I make no question but I
should have begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely
to be performed, that ever was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me,
though they cost infinite labor too; it lay about one hundred
yards from the water, and not more; but the first incon-
venience was, it was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take
away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface
of the earth, and so make a declivity; this I began, and it
cost me a prodigious deal of pains; but who grudge pains
that have their deliverance in view? But when this was
worked through, and this difficulty managed, it was still much
at one; for I could no more stir the canoe than I could the
other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to
cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe,
seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well,
I began this work, and when I began to enter into it, and
calculated how deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the
stuff to be thrown out, I found that by the number of hands I
had, being none but my own, it must have been ten or twelve
years before I should have gone through with it; for the
shore lay high, so that at the upper end it must have been at
least twenty feet deep; so at length, though with great
reluctancy, I gave this attempt over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late,
the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and
before we judge rightly of our own strength to go through
with it.
In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in this
place, and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and
with as much comfort, as ever before; for by a constant
study, and serious application of the word of God, and by the
assistance of his grace, I gained a different knowledge from
what I had before. I entertained different notions of things;
I looked now upon the world as a thing remote; which I had
nothing to do with, no expectation from, and indeed no desires
about: in a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it, nor was
ever like to have; so I thought it looked, as we may perhaps
look upon it hereafter, namely as a place I had lived in, but
was come out of it. And well might I say, as Father Abra-
ham to Dives, "Between me and thee there is a great gulf
fixed."
In the first place, I was removed from all the wickedness of
the world here: I had neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of
the eye, or the pride of life: I had nothing to covet, for I had
all I was now capable of enjoying. I was lord of the manor;
or, if I pleased, I might call myself king or emperor over the
whole country which I had possession of; there were no
rivals: I had no competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or
command with me. I might have raised ship-loadings of corn,
but I had no use for it; so I let as little grow as I thought
enough for my occasion: I had tortoises, or turtles enough;
but now and then one was as much as I could put to any use:
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships; I had
grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured into
raisins, to have loaded that fleet when they had been built.
I had, as I hinted before, a parcel of money, as well gold
as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling; alas! there the
nasty, sorry, useless stuff lay; I had no manner of business
for it, and I often thought with myself, that I would have
given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for
a hand-mill to grind my corn; nay, I would have given it all
for six-penny worth of turnip and carrot seed out of England,
or for a handful of pease and beans, and a bottle of ink.
I had now been here so long, that many things which I
brought on shore for my help, were either quite gone, or very
much wasted, and near spent. My ink, as I observed, had
been gone for some time, all but a very little, which I eked
out with water a little and a little, till it was so pale it scarce
left any appearance of black upon the paper. As long as it
lasted, I made use of it to minute down the days of the
month on which any remarkable thing happened to me, and
first, by casting up times past, I remembered that there was
a strange concurrence of days, in the various providences
which befell me, and which, if I had been superstitiously
inclined to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might have
had reason to have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke away
from my father and my friends, and ran away to Hull in order
to go to sea, the same day afterwards I was taken by the
Sallee man-of-war, and made a slave.
The same day of the year that I escaped out of the wreck
of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day of the year
afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the boat.
The same day of the year I was born on, namely, the 3oth
of September, the same day I had my life so miraculously
saved 26 years after, when I was cast on shore in this island;
so that my wicked life, and solitary life, both began on a day.
The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of my
bread, I mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship.
This I had husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself but
one cake of bread a day for above a year, and yet I was quite
without bread for near a year before I got any corn of my
own; and great reason I had to be thankful that I had any at
all, the getting it being, as has been already observed, next to
miraculous.
My clothes too began to decay mightily: as to linen, I had
had none a good while, except some checkered shirts which I
found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully
preserved, because many times I could bear no other clothes
on but a shirt; and it was a very great help to me, that I had
among all the men's clothes of the ship almost three dozen of
shirts. There were also several thick watch-coats of the
seamen's, which were left indeed, but they were too hot to
wear; and though it is true, that the weather was so violent
hot that there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite
naked: no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was not;
nor could I abide the thoughts of it, though I was all alone.
One reason why I could not go quite naked, was, I could
not bear the heat of the sun so well when quite naked, as with
some clothes on; nay, the very heat frequently blistered
my skin; whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself made some
motion, and whistling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than
without it. No more could I ever bring myself to go out in
the heat of the sun without a cap or hat; the heat of the sun
beating with such violence as it does in that place, would give
me the headache presently, by darting so directly on my head,
without a cap or hat on, so that I could not bear it; whereas
if I put on my hat, it would presently go away.
Upon these views, I began to consider about putting the
few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order. I
had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and my business was
now to try if I could not make jackets out of the great watch-
coats which I had by me, and with such other materials as I
had; so I set to work a-tailoring, or rather indeed a-botching;
for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made shift
to make two or three waistcoats, which I hoped would serve
me a great while; as for breeches or drawers, I made but a
very sorry shift indeed, till afterwards.
I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures
that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and I had hung them
up stretched out with sticks in the sun, by which means some
of them were so dry and hard, that they were fit for little; but
others, it seems, were very useful. The first thing I made of
these was a great cap for my head, with the hair on the out-
side to shoot off the rain, and this I performed so well, that
after this I made a suit of clothes wholly of those skins; that
is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at the knees, and
both loose; for they were rather wanted to keep me cool .than
to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that they
were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I was a
worse tailor; however, they were such as I made very good
shift with; and when I was abroad, if it happened to rain,
the hair of the waistcoat and cap being outmost, I was kept
very dry.
After this I spent a deal of time and pains to make me an
umbrella. I was indeed in great want of one, and had a
great mind to make one. I had seen them made in the
Brazils, where they are very useful in the great heats which
are there; and I felt the heats every jot as great here, and
greater too, being nearer the equinox; besides, as I was
obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful thing to me,
as well for the rains as the heats. I took a world of pains at
it, and was a great while before I could make anything likely
to hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two
or three before I made one to my mind; but at last I made
one that answered indifferently well; the main difficulty I
found was to make it to let down. I could make it to spread;
but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it would not be
portable for me any way, but just over my head, which would
not do. However, at last, as I said, I made one to answer. I
covered it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the
rain like a penthouse, and kept off the sun so effectually, that
I could walk out in the hottest of the weather, with greater
advantage than I could before in the coolest; and when I had
no need of it, I could close it, and carry it under my arm.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely
composed by resigning to the will of God, and throwing
myself wholly upon the disposal of his Providence.
I cannot say, that after this, for five years, any extraordinary
thing happened to me ; but I lived on in the same course, in
the same posture and place, just as before; the chief thing I
was employed in, besides my yearly labor of planting my
barley and rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I always
kept up just enough to have sufficient stock of the year's pro-
visions beforehand; I say, besides this yearly labor, and my
daily labor of going out with my gun, I had one labor to make
me a canoe, which at last I finished: so that by digging a
canal to it six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it into
the creek, almost half a mile.
However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the
size of it was not at all answerable to the design which I had
in view, when I made the first; I mean of venturing over to
the terra firma, where it was above forty miles broad; accord-
ingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to that
design, and now I thought no more of it. But as I had a boat,
my next design was to make a tour round the island; for as
I had been on the other side, in one place, crossing, as I have
already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I made
in that journey, made me very eager to see other parts of the
coast; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but
sailing round the island.
For this purpose, and that I might do everything with
discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little mast to my
boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the
ship's sails, which lay in store, and of which I had a great
store by me.
Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found
she would sail very well. Then I made little lockers and
boxes at each end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries,
and ammunition, &c., into, to be kept dry, either from rain, or
the spray of the sea; and a little long hollow place I cut in
the inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun, making a
flap to hang down over it to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast,
to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off me,
like an awning; and thus I every now and then took a little
voyage upon the sea, but never went far out, nor far from the
little creek. But at last, being eager to view the circumfer-
ence of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my tour, and
accordingly I victualed my ship for the voyage • putting in
two dozen of my loaves (cakes I should rather call them) of
barley bread; an earthen pot full of parched rice, a food I
ate a great deal of; a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and
powder with shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats,
of those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out of the
seamen's chests; these I took, one to .lie upon, and the other
to cover me in the night.
It was the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign,
or my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this
voyage, and I found it much longer than I expected; for
though the island itself was not very large, yet when I came
to the east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out
about two leagues into the sea, some above water, some under
it; and beyond this a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league
more; so that I was obliged to go a great way out to sea to
double that point.
When I first discovered them, I was going to give over my'
enterprise, and come back again, not knowing how far it might
oblige me to go out to sea, and above all, doubting how I
should get back again ; so I came to an anchor, for I had
made me a kind of an anchor, with a piece of broken grap-
pling which I got out of the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and went on shore,
climbing up a hill, which seemed to overlook that point,
where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I perceived
a strong, and indeed, a most furious current, which ran to the
east, and even came close to the point; and I took the more
notice of it, because I saw there might be some danger, that
when I came into it, I might be carried out to sea by the
strength of it, and not be able to make the island again. And
indeed, had I not gotten first upon this hill, I believe it would
have been so; for there was the same current on the other
side of the island, only that it set it off at a farther distance;
and I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I had
nothing to do but to get out of the first current, and I should
presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days; because the wind blowing
pretty fresh (E. at S. E. and that being just contrary to the
said current) made a great breach of the sea upon the point;
so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore
for the breach, nor to go too far off because of the stream.
The third day in the morning, the wind having abated over-
night, the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am a warning-
piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was
I come to the point, when I was not my boat's length from
the shore, but I found myself in a great depth of water, and a
current like the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along
with it with such violence, that all I could do could not keep
her so much as on the edge of it; but I found it hurried me
farther and farther out from the eddy, which was on the left
hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and all that I
could do with my paddles signified nothing. And now I
began to give myself over for lost: for, as the current was
on both sides the island, I knew in a few leagues' distance
they must join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone; nor
did I see any possibility of avoiding it: so that I had no
prospect before me but of perishing; not by the sea, for that
was calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I had indeed
found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift,
and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of
fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots. But what
was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, where, to be
sure, there was no shore, no main-land or island, for a
thousand leagues at least!
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God
to make the most miserable condition that mankind could be
in worse. Now I looked back upon my desolate, solitary
island, as the most pleasant place in the world, and that all
the happiness my heart could wish for, was to be there again.
I stretched out my hands to it with eager wishes. O happy
desert, said I, I shall never see thee more! O miserable
creature! said I, whither am I going? Then I reproached
myself with my unthankful temper, and how I had repined at
my solitary condition. And now what would I give to be on
shore there again! Thus we never see the true state of our
condition, till it is illustrated to us by its contraries; nor
know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want of it. It
is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was now in,
being driven from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me
now to be) into the wild ocean, almost two leagues, and in the
utmost despair of ever recovering it again. However, I
worked hard, till indeed my strength was almost exhausted;
and kept my boat as much to the northward, that is, towards
the side of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I
could ; when about noon, as the sun passed the meridian, I
thought I felt a little breeze of wind in my face, springing up
from the S. S. E. This cheered my heart a little, and
especially when in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty
small gentle gale. By this time I was gotten at a frightful
distance from the island ; and, had the least cloud or hazy
weather intervened, I had been undone another way too; for
I had no compass on board, and should never have known
how to have steered towards the island, if I had but once lost
sight of it. But the weather continuing clear, I applied
myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, standing
away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to
stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the water, some
alteration of the current was near; for where the current was
so strong, the water was foul. But perceiving the water
clear, I found the current abate, and presently I found to the
east, at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some
rocks. These rocks, I found, caused the current to part
again; and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly,
leaving the rocks to the northeast, so the other returned by
the repulse of the rock, and made a strong eddy, which ran
back again to the northwest with a very sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to
them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just
going to murder them, or who have been in such like extrem-
ities, may guess what my present surprise of joy was, and how
gladly I put my boat into the stream of this eddy. And the
wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it,
running cheerfully before the wind, and with a strong tide or
eddy under foot.
This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again
directly towards the island, but about two leagues more
towards the northward than the current lay, which carried me
away at first; so that when I came near the island, I found
myself open to the northern shore of it, that is to say, the
other end of the island, opposite to that which I went out
from.
When I had made something more than a league of way by
the help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent, and
served me no further. However, I found, that being between
the two great currents, namely, that on the south side which
had hurried me away, and that on the north, which lay about
two leagues on the other side ; I say, between these two, in the
west of the island, I found the water at least still, and
running no way; and having still a breeze of wind fair for
me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not
making such fresh way as I did before.
About four o'clock in the evening, being then within about
a league of the island, I stretched across this eddy, slanting
northwest, and in about an hour came within about a mile
of the shore ; it being smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God
thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts
of my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself with
such things as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore, in
a little cove that I had espied under some trees, and laid me
down to sleep, being quite spent with the labor and fatigue of
the voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my
boat. I had run so much hazard, and knew too much the
case, to think of attempting it by the way I went out; and
what might be at the other side (I mean the west side) I knew
not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures ; so I only
resolved in the morning to make my way westward along the
shore, and to see if there was no creek where I might lay up
my frigate in safety, so as to have her again if I wanted her.
In about three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I
came to a very good inlet, or bay, about a mile over, which
narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet, or brook, where I
found a convenient harbor for my boat, and where she lay as
if she had been in a little dock made on purpose for her.
Here I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went
on shore to look about me and see where I was.
I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where
I had been before when I travelled on foot to that shore; so
taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and my umbrella,
for it was exceeding hot, I began my march. The way was
comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had been upon,
and I reached my old bower in the evening, where I found
everything standing as I left it; for I always kept it in good
order, being, as I said before, my country-house.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest
my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep. But judge
you, if you can, that read my story, what a surprise I must be
in, when I was awaked out of my sleep by a voice calling me
by my name several times, "Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe,
poor Robin Crusoe!" "Where are you, Robin Crusoe?"
"Where are you?" "Where have you been?"
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, or
paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day, and walking
the latter part, that I did not awake thoroughly; and dozing
between sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that some-
body spoke to me; but as the voice continued to repeat
"Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe," at last I began to awake
more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frighted, and
started up in the utmost consternation. But no sooner were
my eyes open, but I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the
hedge, and immediately knew that this was he that spoke to
me; for just in such bemoaning language I had used to talk
to him, and teach him. And he had learned it so perfectly,
that he would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to
my face, and cry, "Poor Robin Crusoe, where are you?"
"Where have you been?" "How came you here ?" — and
such things as I had taught him.
However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that
indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while before I
could compose myself. First, I was amazed how the
creature got thither, and then how he should just keep about
the place, and nowhere else: but as I was well satisfied it
could be nobody but honest Poll, I got it over; and holding
out my hand, and calling him by his name, Poll, the sociable
creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he used to
do, and continued talking to me, Poor Robin Crusoe, and
how did I come here? and where had I been? just as if he
had been overjoyed to see me again; and so I carried him
home along with me.
I had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and enough
to do for many days to sit still, and reflect upon the danger I
had been in. I would have been very glad to have had my
boat again on my side of the island, but I knew not how it
was practicable to get it about. As to the east side of the
island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough there
was no venturing that way; my very heart would shrink, and
my very blood run chill, but to think of.it; and as to the other
side of the island, I did not know how it might be there; but
supposing the current ran with the same force against the
shore at the east, as it passed by it on the other, I might run
the same risk of being driven down the stream, and carried
by the island, as I had been before of being carried away
from it; so with these thoughts I contented myself to be
without any boat, though it had been the product of so
many months' labor to make it, and of so many more to get
it into the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a year,
lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and
my thoughts being very much composed as to my condition,
and fully comforted in resigning myself to the dispensations
of Providence, I thought I lived really very happily in all
things except that of society.
I improved myself, in this time, in all the mechanic ex-
ercises which my necessities put me upon applying myself
to; and I believe could, upon occasion, have made a very
good carpenter, especially considering how few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my
earthen ware, and contrived well enough to make them with a
wheel, which I found infinitely easier and better, because I
made things round and shapeable, which before were filthy
things indeed to look on. But I think I never was more vair
of my own performance, or more joyful for anything I found
out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe; and
though it was a very ugly, clumsy thing when it was done, and
only burnt red like other earthen ware, yet as it was hard
and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly
comforted with it; for I had always been used to smoke, and
there were pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not
knowing there was tobacco in the island; and afterwards
when I searched the ship again I could not come at any pipes
at all.
In my wicker ware I also improved much, and made
abundance of necessary baskets as well as my invention
showed me, though not very handsome, yet convenient for my
laying things up in, or fetching things home in. For example,
if I killed a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a tree, flay it,
and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it home in a
basket; and the like by a turtle; I could cut it up, take out
the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough
for me, and bring them home in a basket, and leave the rest
behind me: also large deep baskets were my receivers for
my corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it was dry
and cured; and kept it in great baskets instead of a granary.
I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably;
and this was a want which it was impossible for me to supply;
then I began seriously to consider what I must do when
I should have no more powder; that is to say, how should I
do to kill any goats. I had, as I observed, in the third year
of my being here, kept a young kid and bred her tame. I
was in hopes of getting a he-kid, but I could not by any
means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and
I could never find in my heart to kill her, till she died at last
of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself
to study some art to trap and snare the goats, to see whether I
could not catch some of them alive; and particularly I
wanted a she-goat great with young. To this purpose I made
snares to hamper them; and believe they were more than
once taken in them; but my tackle was not good, for I had
no wire, and always found them broken, and my bait de-
voured. At length I resolved to try a pit-fall; so I dug sev-
eral large pits in the earth, in places where I had observed the
goats used to feed, and over these pits I placed hurdles of my
own making too, with a great weight upon them; and several
times I put ears of barley, and dry rice, without setting the
trap; and I could easily perceive that the goats had gone in,
and eaten up the corn, for I could see the marks of their feet;
at length, I set three traps in one night, and going the next
morning, I found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten
and gone. This was very discouraging; however, I altered
my trap; and, not to trouble you with particulars, going one
morning to see my traps, I found in one of them a large old
he-goat; and, in one of the others, three kids, a male and two
females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was
so fierce I durst not go into the pit to him; that is to say, to
bring him away alive, which was what I wanted; I could have
killed him, but that was not my business, nor would it an
swer my end; so I e'en let him out, and he ran away as if
he had been frightened out of his wits; but I did not then
know what I afterwards learned, that hunger would tame a
lion: if I had let him stay there three or four days without
food, and then have carried him some water to drink, and then
a little corn, he would have been as tame as one of the kids;
for they are mighty sagacious, tractable creatures, where they
are well used.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at
that time; then I went to the three kids, and taking them one
by one, I tied them with strings together; and with some
difficulty brought them all home.
It was a good while before they would feed; but throwing
them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to
be tame; and now I found that if I expected to supply
myself with goat's flesh, when I had no powder or shot left,
breeding some up tame was my only way, when perhaps I
might have them about my house like a flock of sheep. But
then it presently occurred to me that I must keep the tame
from the wild, or else they would always run wild when they
grew up; and the only way for this was to have some inclosed
piece of ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep
them in so effectually that those within might not break out,
or those without break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands ; yet as
I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing it, my first
piece of work was to find out a proper piece of ground;
namely, where there was likely to be herbage for them to eat,
water for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.
Those who understand such inclosures, will think I had
very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place very
proper for all these, being a plain open piece of meadow-land,
or savanna (as our people call it in the western colonies),
which had two or three little rills of fresh water in it, and at
one end was very woody; I say they will smile at my forecast,
when I shall tell them I began my inclosing of this piece of
ground in such a manner, that my hedge, or pale, must have
been at least two miles about; nor was the madness of it so
great as to the compass; for if it was ten miles about, I was
like to have time enough to do it in; but I did not consider
that my goats would be as wild in so much compass, as if
they had had the whole island; and I should have so much
room to chase them in that I should never catch them.
My hedge was began and carried on, I believe, about fifty
yards, when this thought occurred to me; so I presently
stopped short, and for the first beginning I resolved to inclose
a piece of about 150 yards in length, and 100 yards in
breadth, which, as it would maintain as many as I should have
in any reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I could add
more ground to my inclosure.
This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work
with courage. I was about three months hedging in the first
piece; and till I had done it, I tethered the three kids in the
best part of it, and used them to feed as near me as possible,
to make them familiar; and very often I would go and carry
them some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them
out of my hand; so that after my inclosure was finished, and
I let them loose, they would follow me up and down, bleating
after me for a handful of corn.
This answered my end, and in about a year and a half I
had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two
years more I had three-and-forty, besides several I took and
killed for my food; and after that I inclosed five several
pieces of ground to feed them in, with little pens to drive
them into, to take them as I wanted them; and gates out of
one piece of ground into another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's flesh to
feed on when I pleased, but milk, too, a thing which indeed in
my beginning I did not so much as think of, and which, when
it came into my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise;
for now I sat up my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two
of milk in a day. And as Nature, who gives supplies of food
to every creature, dictates even naturally how to make use of
it, so I, that had never milked a cow, much less a goat, or seen
butter or cheese made, very readily and handily, though after
a great many essays and miscarriages, made me both butter
and cheese at last, and never wanted it afterwards.
How mercifully can our great Creator treat his creatures,
even in those conditions in which they seemed to be over-
whelmed in destruction! How can he sweeten the bitterest
providences, and give us cause to praise him for dungeons
and prisons! What a table was here spread for me in
a wilderness, where I saw nothing at first but to perish for
hunger!
It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen me and my
little family sit down to dinner: there was my majesty, the
prince and lord of the whole island; I had the lives of all my
subjects at absolute command; I could hang, draw, give
liberty, and take it away, and no rebels among all my
subjects!
Then to see how like a king I dined, too, all alone, at-
tended by my servants! Poll, as if he had been my favorite,
was the only person permitted to talk to me; my dog, which
was now grown old and crazy, and found no species to
multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right hand; and
two cats, one on one side the table, and one on the other,
expecting now and then a bit from my hand as a mark of
special favor.
But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore
at first, for they were both of them dead, and had been
interred near my habitation by my own hands; but one of
them having multiplied by I know not what kind of creature,
these were two which I preserved tame, whereas the rest ran
wild into the woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at
last; for they would often come into my house, and plunder
me too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a
great many. At length they left me with this attendance, and
in this plentiful manner I lived; neither could I be said to
vrant anything but society, and of that, in some time after this,
I was like to have too much.
I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the
use of my boat, though very loth to run any more hazard : and
therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her about the
island, and at other times I sat myself down contented enough
without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to
go down to the point of the island, where, as I have said, in
my last ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore lay,
and how the current set, that I might see what I had to do:
this inclination increased upon me every day; and at length
I resolved to travel thither by land, and following the edge
of the shore, I did so: but had any one in England been to
meet such a man as I was, it must either have frighted them
or raised a great deal of laughter; and, as I frequently stood
still to look at myself, I could not but smile at the notion of
my travelling through Yorkshire with such an equipage, and
in such a dress. I had a great high shapeless cap, made of
goat's-skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep
the sun from me, as to shoot the rain off from running into my
neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the rain
upon the flesh under the clothes. I had a short jacket of
goat's-skin, the skirts coming down to about the middle of my
thighs, and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same; the
breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair
hung down such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons,
it i eached to the middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I
had none, but I made me a pair of something, I scarce know
what to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace
on either side like spatterdashes; but of a most barbarous
shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's-skin dried, which I drew
together with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles ; and
in a kind of frog on either side of this, instead of a sword and
dagger, hung a little saw and hatchet; one on one side, one
on the other: I had another belt not so broad, and fastened
in the same manner, which hung over my shoulder; and at
the end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both made
of goat's-skin too; in one of which hung my powder, in the
other my shot: at my back I carried my basket, on my
shoulder my gun, and over my head a great clumsy ugly
goat's-skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most neces-
sary thing I had about me, next to my gun: as for my face,
the color of it was really not so Mulatto-like as one might
expect from a man not at all careful of it, and living within
nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard I had once
suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long;
but as I had both scissors and razors sufficient, I had cut it
pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip, which I had
trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I
had seen worn by some Turks whom I saw at Sallee: for the
Moors did not wear such though the Turks did. Of these
mustachios, or whiskers, I will not say they were long enough
to hang my hat upon them ; but they were of length and shape
monstrous enough, and such as in England would have passed
for frightful.
But all this is by-the-by; for, as to my figure, I had so few
to observe me that it was no manner of consequence, so I say
no more to that part: in this kind of figure I went my new
journey, and was out five or six days. I travelled first along
the sea• shore, directly to the place where I first brought my
boat to an anchor to get up upon the rocks, and having no
boat now to take care of, I went over the land a nearer way
to the same height that I was upon before; when looking for-
ward to the point of the rock I was obliged to double with my
boat, as I said above, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth
and quiet; no rippling, no motion, no current, any more there
than in other places.
I was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved to
spend some time in the observing of it, to see if nothing from
the sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was presently
convinced how it was; namely, that the tide of ebb setting
from the west, and joining with the current of waters from
some great river on the shore, must be the occasion of
this current; and that, accordingly as the wind blew more
forcibly from the west, or from the north, this current came
nearer or went farther from the shore; for, waiting there-
abouts till evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the
tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current again as
before, only that it ran farther off, being near half a league
from the shore: whereas in my case it set close upon the
shore, and hurried me and my canoe along with it, which at
another time it would not have done.
This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do
but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I
might very easily bring my boat about the island again. But
when I began to think about putting it in practice I had such
terror upon my spirits at the remembrance of the danger I
had been in, that I could not think of it again with any
patience; but, on the contrary, I took up another resolution,
which was more safe, though more laborious; and this was,
that I would build, or rather make me another periagua, or
canoe, and so have one for one side of the island, and one for
the other.
You are to understand that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island; one, my little fortification or tent,
with the wall about it under the rock, with the cave behind
me, which by this time I had enlarged into several apartments
or caves, one within another. One of these, which was the
driest and largest, and had a door yet beyond my wall or
fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall joined to
the rock, was all filled up with large earthen pots, of which I
have given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great
baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each, where I
laid up my stores of provision, especially my corn, some in the
ear cut off short from the straw, and the other rubbed out
with my hands.
As for my wall, made as before, with long stakes or piles,
those piles grew all like trees, and were by this time grown so
big, and spread so very much, that there was not the least
appearance, to any one's view, of any habitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine,, but a little farther within the
land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn-
ground, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which
duly yielded me their harvest in its season; and whenever I
had occasion for more corn, I had more land adjoining as fit
as that.
Besides this, I had my country-seat, and I had now a
tolerable plantation there also; for, first, I had my little
bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair; that is to say, I
kept the hedge which circled it in constantly fitted up to its
usual height, the ladder standing always in the inside: I kept
the trees, which at first were no more than my stakes, but
were now grown very firm and tall, — I kept them always so
cut, that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which they did effectually to
my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent always
standing, being a piece •of sail spread over poles set up for
that purpose, and which never wanted any repair or renewing;
and under this I had made me a squab or couch, with the
skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other soft things,
and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-
bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to cover
me ; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent from my
chief seat, I took up my country habitation.
Adjoining to this I had my inclosures for my cattle, that is
to say, my goats: and as I had taken an inconceivable deal
of pains to fence and inclose this ground, I was so uneasy to
see it kept entire, lest the goats should break through, that I
never left off, till with infinite labor I had stuck the outside of
the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one another,
that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce
room to put a hand through between them, which afterwards,
when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy
season, made the inclosure strong like a wall, indeed stronger
than any wall.
This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I
spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary
for my comfortable support; for I considered the keeping up
a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand would be a living
magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me, as long as
I lived in the place, if it were to be forty years; and that
keeping them in my reach depended entirely upon my perfect-
ing my inclosures to such a degree that I might be sure of
keeping them together; which, by this method, indeed, I so
effectually secured that, when these little stakes began to
grow, I had planted them so very thick I was forced to pull
some of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my winter store of raisins, and
which I never failed to preserve very carefully as the best and
most agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and indeed they
were not only agreeable, but physical, wholesome, nourishing,
and refreshing to the last degree.
As this was also about half way between my other habitation
and the place where I had laid up my boat, I generally stayed
and lay here in my way thither; for I used frequently to visit
my boat, and I kept all things about or belonging to her in
very good order. Sometimes I went out in her to divert
myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce
ever above a stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so
apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge again by
the currents, or winds, or any other accident. But now I
come to a new scene of my life.
It happened one day about noon, going towards my boat, I
was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot
on the shore, which was very plain to be seen in the sand. I
stood like one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition.
I listened, I looked round me; I could hear nothing, nor see
anything; I went up to a rising ground to look farther. I
went up the shore, and down the shore, but it was all one, I
could see no other impression but that one. I went to it
again, to see if there were any more, and to observe if it might
not be my fancy, but there was no room for that, for there was
exactly the very print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a
foot: how it came thither I knew not, nor could in the least
imagine. But after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a
man perfectly confused, and out of myself, I came home to my
fortification, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but
terrified to the last degree, looking behind me at every two or
three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying every
stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it possible to
describe how many various shapes an affrighted imagination
represented things to me in; how many wild ideas were
formed every moment in my fancy, and what strange unac-
countable whimsies came into my thoughts by the way.
When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it ever
after this, I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went over
by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole in the
rock, which I called a door, I cannot remember; no, nor could
I remember the next morning; for never frighted hare fled
to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than I to
this retreat.
I had no sleep that night; the farther I was from the
occasion of my fright the greater my apprehensions were;
which is something contrary to the nature of such things, and
especially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear. But I
was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing,
that I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even
though I was now a great way off it.
At last I concluded that it must be some more dangerous
creature; namely, that it must be some of the savages of the
main-land over against me, who had wandered out to sea in
their canoes, and, either driven by the currents or by contrary
winds, had made the island, and had been on shore, but were
going away again to sea, being as loth, perhaps, to have stayed
in this desolate island as I would have been to have had
them.
While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was
very thankful in my thought that I was so happy as not to be
thereabouts at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by
which they would have concluded that some inhabitants had
been in the place, and perhaps have searched farther for me.
Then terrible thoughts racked my imaginations about their
having found my boat, and that there were people here ; and
that, if so, I should certainly have them come again in great
numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen so that
they should not find me, yet they would find my inclospre,
destroy all my corn, carry away all my flock of tame goats,
and I should perish at last for mere want.
Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all that
former confidence in God which was founded upon such won-
derful experience as I had had of his goodness, now vanished;
as if he that had fed me by miracle hitherto, could not preserve
by his power the provision which he had made for me by his
goodness. I reproached myself with my easiness, that would
not sow any more corn one year than would just serve me till
the next season, as if no accident could intervene to prevent
my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground. And this I
thought so just a reproof, that I resolved for the future to have
two or three years' corn beforehand, so that whatever might
come, I might not perish for want of bread.
These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may
say, weeks and months; and one particular effect of my cogi-
tations on this occasion I cannot omit; namely, one morning
early, lying in bed and filled with thoughts about my danger
from the appearance of savages, I found it discomposed me
very much; upon which those words of the Scripture came
into my thoughts, "Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I
will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and
reflections, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this
might be a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot might
be the print of my own foot when I came on shore from my
boat. This cheered me up a little too, and I began to
persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing else
but my own foot; and why might not I come that way from
the boat as well as I was going that way to the boat? Again,
I considered also that I could by no means tell for certain
where I had trod, and .where I had not; and that, if at last
this was only the print of my own foot, I had played the part
of those fools who strive to make stories of spectres and
apparitions, and then are themselves frighted at them more
than anybody else.
Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again;
for I had not stirred out of my castle for three days and
nights, so that I began to starve for provision; for I had little
or nothing within doors but some barley cakes and water.
Then I knew that my goats wanted to be milked too, which
usually was my evening diversion; and the poor creatures
were in great pain and inconvenience for want of it; and
indeed it almost spoiled some of them, and almost dried up
their milk.
Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this was
nothing but the print of one of my own feet (and so I might
be truly said to start at my own shadow), I began to go abroad
again, and went to my country-house to milk my flock; but to
see with what fear I went forward, how often I looked behind
me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down my
9
basket, and run for my life; it would have made any one have
thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had
been lately most terribly frighted; and so indeed I had.
However, as I went down thus two or three days, and
having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to
think there was really nothing in it but my own imagination;
but I could not persuade myself fully of this till I should go
down to the shore again, and see this print of a foot, and
measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitude of
fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot. But when
I came to the place first, it appeared evidently to me, that
when I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore
anywhere thereabouts. Secondly, when I came to measure
the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not so large by
a great deal. Both these things filled my head with new
imaginations, and gave me the vapors again to the highest
degree, so that I shook with cold like one in an ague, and I
went home again, filled with the belief that some man or men
had been on shore there ; or, in short, that the island was
inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware; and
what course to take for my security I knew not.
This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all night;
but in the morning I fell asleep, and having by the amusement
of my mind been, as it were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I
slept very soundly, and awaked much better composed than I
had ever been before. And now I began to think sedately;
and, upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded that this
island, which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no
farther from the main-land than as I had seen, was not so
entirely abandoned as I might imagine. That although there
were no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, yet that
there might sometimes come boats off from the shore, who,
either with design, or perhaps never but when they were
driven by cross winds, might come to this place.
That I had lived here fifteen years now and had not met
with the least shadow or figure of any people before; and
that, if at any time they should be driven here, it was probable
they went away again as soon as ever they could, seeing they
had never thought fit to fix there upon any occasion to this
time.
That the most I could suggest any danger from was from
any such casual accidental landing of straggling people from
the main, who, as it was likely, if they were driven hither,
were here against their wills; so they made no stay here, but
went off again with all possible speed, seldom staying one
night on shore lest they should not have the help of the tides
and daylight back again. And that, therefore, I had nothing
to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in case I should see
any savages land upon the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so
large as to bring a door through again, which door, as I said,
came out beyond where my fortification joined to the rock.
Upon maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw
me a second fortification, in the manner of a semicircle, at a
distance from my wall, just where I planted a double row of
trees about twelve years before, of which I made mention;
these trees having been planted so thick before there wanted
but a few piles to be driven between them, that they should
be thicker and stronger, and my wall would be finished.
So that I had now a double wall, and my outer wall was
thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and everything I
could think of to make it strong; having in it seven holes
about as big as I might put my arm out at. In the inside of
this I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, continually
bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the
wall, and walking upon it; and through the seven holes I
contrived to plant muskets, of which I took notice that I got
seven on shore out of the ship; these, I say, I planted like
my cannon, and fitted them into frames that held them like a
carriage, that so I could fire all the seven guns in two
minutes' time: this wall I was many a weary month in
finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was
done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my
wall, for a great way every way, as full with stakes or sticks of
the osier-like wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they
could well stand; insomuch that I believe I might set in
near twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space
between them and my wall, that I might have room to see an
enemy, and they might have no shelter from the young trees,
if they attempted to approach my outer wall.
Thus in two years' time I had a thick grove, and in five or
six years' time I had a wood before my dwelling, grown so
monstrous thick and strong that it was indeed perfectly
impassable; and no man of what kind soever would ever
imagine that there was anything beyond it, much less a habi-
tation. As for the way I proposed myself to go in and out
(for I left no avenue), it was by setting two ladders, one to a
part of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and left
room to place another ladder upon that; so, when the two
ladders were taken down, no man living could come down to
me without mischiefing himself; and if they had come down,
they were still on the outside of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation ; and it will be seen at length,
that they were not altogether without just reason, though I
foresaw nothing at that time more than my mere fear sug-
gested.
While this was doing I was not altogether careless of my
other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me for my little
herd of goats: they were not only a present supply to me
upon every occasion, and began to be sufficient for me
without the expense of powder and shot, but also abated the
fatigue of my hunting after the wild ones; and I was loath to
lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up
over again.
To this purpose, after long consideration, I could think but
of two ways to preserve them ; one was to find another con-
venient place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive them
into it every night; and the other was to inclose two or three
little bits of land, remote from one another, and as much
concealed as I could, where I might keep about half a dozen
young goats in each place ; so that if any disaster happened to
the flock in general, I might be able to raise them again with
little trouble and time ; and this, though it would require a
great deal of time and labor, I thought was the most rational
design. i
Accordingly I spent some time to find out the most retired
parts of the island, and I pitched upon one, which was as
private, indeed, as my heart could wish ; for it was a little
damp piece of ground in the middle of the hollow and thick
woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost myself once before,
endeavoring to come back that way from the eastern part of
the island. Here I found a clear piece of land, near three
acres, so surrounded with woods that it was almost an
inclosure by nature; at least it did not want near so much
labor to make it so as the other pieces of ground I had
worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and
in less than a month's time I had so fenced it round that my
flock or herd, call it which you please, which were not so wild
now as at first they might be supposed to be, were well
enough secured in it. So, without any farther delay, I
removed ten she-goats and two he-goats to this piece; and
when there, I continued to perfect the fence till I made it as
secure as the other, which, however, I did at more leisure, and
it took me up more time by a great deal.
All this labor I was at the expense of purely from my
apprehensions on the • account of the print of a man's foot
which I had seen; for as yet I never saw any human creature
come near the island, and I had now lived two years under
these uneasinesses, which indeed made my life much less
comfortable than it was before, as may well be imagined by
any who know what it is to live in the constant snare of the
fear of man.
But to go on; after I had thus secured one part of my
little living stock, I went about the whole island searching for
another private place to make such another deposit; when
wandering more to the west point of the island than I had
ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat
upon the sea at a great distance. I had found a perspective
glass or two in one of the seamen's chests, which I saved out
of our ship; but I had it not about me; and this was so
remote that I could not tell what to make of it, though I
looked at it till my eyes were not able to look any longer.
Whether it was a boat or not I do not know; but as I de-
scended from the hill I could see no more of it, so I gave
it over, only I resolved to go no more without a perspective
glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill, to the end of the island,
where indeed I had never been before, I was presently
convinced that the seeing the print of a man's foot was
not such a strange thing in the island as I imagined; and,
but that it was a special Providence that I was cast upon the
side of the island where the savages never came, I should
easily have known that nothing was more frequent than for
the canoes from the main, when they happened to be a little
too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for
harbor; likewise, as they often met and fought in their
canoes, the victors, having taken any prisoners, would bring
them over to this shore, where, according to their dreadful
customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and eat them;
of which hereafter.
When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said
above, being the S. W. point of the island, I was perfectly
confounded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express
the horror of my mind at seeing the shore spread with skulls,
hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies; and par- •
ticularly I observed a place where there had been a fire made,
and a circle dug in the earth, like a cock-pit, where it is
supposed the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman
feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things that
I entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a
long while; all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts
of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and the horror of
the degeneracy of human nature ; which, though I had heard
of often, yet I never had so near a view of before; in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle, my stomach
grew sick, and I was just at the point of fainting, when
nature discharged the disorder from my stomach, and, having
vomited with an uncommon violence, I was a little relieved,
but could not bear to stay in the place a moment; so I got
me up the hill again with all the speed I could, and walked
on towards my own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the island I
stood still awhile as amazed; and then, recovering myself, I
looked up with the utmost affection of my soul, and, with a
flood of tears in my eyes, gave God thanks that had cast my
first lot in a part of the world where I was distinguished from
such dreadful creatures as these; and though I had esteemed
my present condition very miserable, had yet given me so
many comforts in it, that I had still more to give thanks for
than to complain of; and this above all, that I had, even in
this miserable condition, been comforted with the knowledge
of himself, and the hope of his blessing, which was a felicity
more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which I had
suffered or could suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my castle,
and began to be much easier now, as to the safety of my
circumstances, than ever I was before; for I observed that
these wretches never came to this island in search of what
they could get; perhaps not seeking, nor wanting, or not ex-
pecting anything here; and having often, no doubt, been up in
the covered woody part of it without finding anything to their
purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen years,
and never saw the least footsteps of a human creature there
before; and might be here eighteen years more as entirely
concealed as I was now, if I did not discover myself to them,
which I had no manner of occasion to do, it being my only
business to keep myself entirely concealed where I was,
unless I found a better sort of creatures than cannibals to
make myself known to.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the wretched
inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another
up, that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close within
my own circle for almost two years after this: when I say my
own circle, I mean by it my three plantations, namely, my
castle, my country-seat, which I called my bower, and my
inclosure in the woods; nor did I look after this for any
other use than as an inclosure for my goats; for the aversion
which nature gave me to these hellish wretches was such, that
T was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil himself;
nor did I so much as go to look after my boat in all this time,
but began rather to think of never making any more attempts
to bring the other boat round the island to me, lest I should
meet with some of these creatures at sea, in which, if I had
happened to have fallen into their hands, I knew what would
have been my lot. *
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no
danger of being discovered by these people, began to wear off
my uneasiness about them; and I began to live just in the
same composed manner as before, only with this difference,
that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more about me
than I did before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of
them; and particularly, I was more cautious of firing my gun,
lest any of them being on the island should happen to hear it;
and it was therefore a very good providence to me, that I had
furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, that I had no
need to hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at them;
and if I did catch any more of them after this, it was with
traps and snares, as I had done before; so that'for two years
after this, I believe I never fired my gun once off, though
I never went out without it; and, which was more, as I
had saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried them
out with me, or at least two of them, sticking them in
my goat-skin belt. I likewise furbished up one of the great
cutlasses that I had out of the ship, and made me a belt to
put it in also; so that I was now a most formidable fellow to
look at when I went abroad, if you add to the former
description of myself the particular of two pistols, and a
great broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but without a
scabbard.
Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time,
I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my
former calm sedate way of living; all these things tended to
show me more and more how far my condition was from being
miserable, compared to some others; nay, to many other
particulars of life, which it might have pleased God to
have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting, how little
repining there would be among mankind, at any condition of
life, if people would rather compare their condition with those
that are worse, in order to be thankful, than be always com-
paring them with those which are better, to assist their
murmurings and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really many
things which I wanted, so indeed I thought the frights I had
been in about these savage wretches, and the concern I had
been in for my own preservation, had taken off the edge of my
invention for my own conveniences; and I had dropt a
good design, which I had once bent my thoughts upon; and
that was, to try if I could not make some of my barley into
malt, and then try to brew myself some beer: this was really
a whimsical thought, and I reproved myself often for the
simplicity of it; for I presently saw there would be the want
of several things necessary to the making my beer, that
it would be impossible for me to supply; as, first, casks to
preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have observed
already, I could never compass; no, though I spent not many
days, but weeks, nay months, in attempting it, but to no
purpose. In" the next place, I had no hops to make it keep,
no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it boil;
and yet, had not all these things intervened, I mean the
frights and terrors I was in about the savages, I had under-
taken it, and perhaps brought it to pass too; for I seldom
gave anything over without accomplishing it, when I once had
it in my head enough to begin it.
But my invention now ran quite another way; for night and
day I could think of nothing but how I might destroy some
of these monsters in their cruel bloody entertainment, and, if
possible, save the victim they should bring hither to destroy.
It would take up a larger volume than this whole work is
intended to be to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or
rather brooded upon in my thoughts, for the destroying these
creatures, or at least frightening them, so as to prevent their
coming hither any more; but all was abortive; nothing could
be possible to take effect unless I was to be there to do it
myself; and what could one man do among them, when
perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them together, with
their darts, or their bows and arrows, with which they could
shoot as true to a mark as I could with my gun?
Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place where
they made their fire, and put in five or six pounds of gun-
powder, which, when they kindled their fire, would conse-
quently take fire, and blow up all that was near it; but, as in
the first place I should be very loath to waste so much powder
upon them, my store being now within the quantity of a barrel,
so neither could I be sure of its going off at any certain time
when it might surprise them; and, at best, that it would do
but little more than just blow the fire about their ears and
fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake the place;
so I laid it aside, and then proposed that I would place
myself in ambush, in some convenient place, with my three
guns all double-loaded, and in the middle of their bloody
ceremony let fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or
wound perhaps two or three at every shot: and then falling
in upon them with my three pistols and my sword, I made no
doubt but that, if there were twenty, I should kill them all:
this fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so
full of it that I often dreamt of it, and sometimes, that I was
just going to let fly at them in my sleep.
I went so far with it in my indignation, that I employed
myself several days to find out proper places to put myself in
ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them; and I went fre-
quently to the place itself, which was now grown more familiar
to me; and especially while my mind was thus filled with
thoughts of revenge, and of a bloody putting twenty or thirty
of them to the sword, as I may call it; but the horror I had
at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous wretches
devouring one another, abated my malice.
Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill, where
I was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any of the
boats coming, and might then, even before they would be
ready to come on shore, convey myself unseen into thickets of
trees, in one of which there was a hollow large enough to
conceal me entirely, and where I might sit and observe all
their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads, when
they were so close together so that it would be next to
impossible that I should miss my shoot, or that I could fail
wounding three or four of them at the first shoot.
In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design, and accord
ingly I prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece.
The two muskets I loaded with a brace of slugs each, and
four or five smaller bullets, about the size of pistol-bullets, and
the fowling-piece I loaded with near a handful of swan-shot of
the largest size; I also loaded my pistols with about four
bullets each; and in this posture, well provided with ammu-
nition for a second and third charge, I prepared myself for
my expedition.
After I had thus laid the scheme for my design, and in my
imagination put it in practice, I continually made my tour
every morning up to the top of the hill, which was from
my castle, as I called it, about three miles or more, to see if I
could observe any boats upon the sea coming near the
island, or standing over towards it: but I began to tire of this
hard duty, after I had for two or three months constantly kept
my watch; but came always back without any discovery, there
having not in all that time been the least appearance, not only
on or near the shore, but not on the whole ocean, so far as my
eyes or glasses could reach every way.
As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to look out,
so long also I kept up the vigor of my design, and my spirits
seemed to be all the while in a suitable frame for so out-
rageous an execution as the killing twenty or thirty naked
savages, for an offense which I had not at all entered into a
discussion of in my thoughts, any further than my passions
were at first fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural
custom of the people of that country, who, it seems, had been
suffered by Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to
have no other guide than that of their own abominable and
vitiated passions; and, consequently, were left, and perhaps
had been for some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive
such dreadful customs as nothing but nature entirely aban-
doned of Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy,
could have run them into; but now, when, as I have said, I
began to be weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made
so long, and so far, every morning in vain; so my opinion of
the action itself began to alter, and I began, with cooler and
calmer thoughts, to consider what it was I was going to en-
gage in; what authority or call I had to pretend to be judge
and executioner upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven
had thought fit for so many ages to suffer, unpunished, to go
on, and to be, as it were, the executioners of his judgments
upon one another; also, how far these people were offenders
against me, and what right I had to engage in the quarrel of
that blood which they shed promiscuously one upon another.
I debated this very often with myself thus: How do I know
what God himself judges in this particular case? It is certain
these people do not commit this as a crime; it is not against
their own consciences reproving, or their light reproaching
them. They do not know it to be an offense, and then com-
mit it in defiance of divine justice, as we do in almost all the
sins we commit. They think it no more a crime to kill a
captive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox; nor to eat
human flesh, than we do to eat mutton.
When I had considered this a little, it followed necessarily
that I was certainly in the wrong in it; that these people were
hot murderers in the sense that I had before condemned them
in my thoughts, any more than those Christians were mur-
derers, who often put to death the prisoners taken in battle, or
more frequently, upon many occasions, put whole troops of
men to the sword, without giving quarter, though they threw
down their arms and submitted.
In the next place, it occurred to me, that albeit the usage
they gave one another was thus brutish and inhuman, yet it
was really nothing to me: these people had done me no
injury: that if they attempted me, or if I saw it necessary
for my immediate preservation to fall upon them, something
might be said for it; but that I was yet out of their power,
and they had really no knowledge of me, and consequently
no design upon me; and therefore it could not be just for
me to fall upon them: that this would justify the conduct of
the Spaniards, in all their barbarities practiced in America,
where they destroyed millions of these people, who, however
they were idolaters and barbarians, and had several bloody
and barbarous rites in their customs, such as sacrificing
human bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards,
very innocent people; and that the rooting them out of the
country is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detesta-
tion, even by the Spaniards themselves, at this time, and by
all other Christian nations of Europe, as a mere butchery, a
bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to
God or man; and such, as for which the very name of a
Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all people
of humanity, or of Christian compassion; as if the kingdom
of Spain were particularly eminent for the product of a race
of men who were without principles of tenderness, or the
common bowels of pity to the miserable, which is reckoned to
be a mark of a generous temper in the mind.
These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a
kind of full stop; and I began by little and little to be off my
design, and to conclude I had taken a wrong measure in my
resolutions to attack the savages; that it was not my business
to meddle with them, unless they first attacked me, and this it
was my business, if possible, to prevent; but that, if I were
discovered and attacked, then I knew my duty.
On the other hand, I argued with myself, that this really
was the way, not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin and
destroy myself; for unless I was sure to kill every one that
not only should be on shore at that time, but that should ever
come on shore afterwards, if but one of them escaped to tell
their country-people what had happened, they would come
over again by thousands to revenge the death of their fellows;
and I should only bring upon myself a certain destruction,
which at present I had no manner of occasion for.
Upon the whole, I concluded, that neither in principles nor
in policy, I ought one way or other to concern myself in this
affair: that my business was by all possible means to conceal
myself from them, and not to leave the least signal to them
to guess by, that there were any living creatures upon the
island, I mean of human shape.
Religion joined in with this prudential resolution, and I
was convinced now many ways that I was perfectly out of my
duty, when I was laying all my bloody schemes for the
destruction of innocent creatures, I mean innocent as to me;
as to the crimes they were guilty of towards one another, I
had nothing to do with them; they were national, and I ought
to leave them to the justice of God, who is the governor of
nations, and knows how by national punishments to make a
just retribution for national offenses; and to bring public
judgments upon those who offend in a public manner, by such
ways as best please him.
In this disposition I continued for near a year after this:
and so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon
these wretches, that in all that time I never once went up the
hill to see whether there were any of them in sight, or to know
whether any of them had been on shore there or not; that I
might not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances against
them, or be provoked, by any advantage which might present
itself, to fall upon them; only this I did, I went and removed
my boat, which I had on the other side the island, and carried
it down to the east end of the whole island, where I ran it
into a little cove which I found under some high rocks, and
where I knew, by reason of the currents, the savages durst
not, at least would not, come with their boats, upon any
account whatsoever.
With my boat I carried away everything that I had left
there belonging to her, though not necessary for the bare
going thither; namely, a mast and sail, which I had made for
her, and a thing like an anchor, but indeed, which could not
be called either anchor or grappling: however, it was the best
I could make of its kind. All these I removed, that there
might not be the least shadow of any discovery, or any
appearance of any boat, or of any habitation upon the island.
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than
ever, and seldom went from my cell other than upon my con-
stant employment, namely, to milk my she-goats, and manage
my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the other
part of the island, was quite out of danger: for certain it is,
that these savage people, who sometimes haunted this island,
never came with any thoughts of finding anything here, and
consequently never wandered off from the coast, and I doubt
not but they might have been several times on shore after my
apprehensions of them had made me cautious, as well as
before; and indeed I looked back with some horror upon the
thoughts of what my condition would have been if I had
chopped upon them, and been discovered when naked and
unarmed, except with my gun, and that loaded often only with
small shot. I walked everywhere peeping and peeping about
the island, to see what I could get. What a surprise should I
have been in, if, when I discovered the print of a man's foot,
I had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty savages, and found
them pursuing me, and by the swiftness of their running, no
possibility of my escaping them!
The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul within
me, and distressed my mind so much, that I could not soon
recover it. I confess that these anxieties, these constant
dangers I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me,
put an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances that I
had laid for my future accommodations and conveniences. I
had the care of my safety more now upon my hands than that
of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of
wood now, for fear the noise I should make should be heard;
much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason; and above
all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the
smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day, should
betray me: and for this reason I removed that part of my
business which required fire, such as burning of pots and
pipes, &c., into my new apartment in the woods; where, after
I had been some time, I found, to my unspeakable consolation,
a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way,
and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth
of it, would be so hardy as to venture in, nor indeed would
any man else, but one who, like me, wanted nothing so much
as a safe retreat.
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great
rock, where, by mere accident (I would say, if I did not see
an abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to Provi-
dence), I was cutting down some thick branches of trees to
make charcoal; and before I go on, I must observe the reason
of my making this charcoal, which was thus : —
I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I
said before; and yet I could not live there without baking my
bread, cooking my meat, &c., so I contrived to burn some
wood here, as I had seen done in England, under turf, till it
became chark, or dry coal; and then putting the fire out, I
preserved the coal to carry home, and perform the other ser-
vices which fire was wanting for at home, without danger of
smoke.
But this is by-the-by. While I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick branch of low
brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind of hollow place.
I was curious to look into it, and getting with difficulty into
the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large, that is to say, suf-
ficient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another with
me; but I must confess to you, I made more haste out than I
did in; when looking farther into the place, which was per-
fectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature,
whether devil or man I knew not, which twinkled like two
stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth shining directly in,
and making the reflection.
However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and began
to call myself a thousand fools, and tell myself that he that
was afraid to see the devil, was not fit to live twenty years in
an island all alone, and that I durst to believe there was
nothing in this cave that was more frightful than myself; upon
this, plucking up my courage, I took up a great firebrand, and
in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in my hand. I had
not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much frighted as I
was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man
in some pain; and it was followed by a broken noise, as if of
words half-expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped
back, and was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put
me into a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I
will not answer for it that my hair might not have lifted it off.
But still, plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and
encouraging myself a little, with considering that the power
and presence of God was everywhere, and was able to pro-
tect me; upon this I stepped forward again, and by the light
of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my head, I saw
lying on the ground a most monstrous frightful old he-goat,
just making his will, as we say, and gasping for life, and dying
indeed of mere old age.
1 stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he
essayed to get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I
thought with myself, he might even lie there; for he had
frighted me so, he would certainly fright any of the savages,
if any of them should be so hardy as to come in there, while
he had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look
round me, when I found the cave was but very small; that is
to say, it might be about twelve foot over, but in no manner
of shape, either round or square, no hands ever having been
employed in making it, but those of mere nature. I observed
also, that there was a place at the farther side of it that went
in farther, but was so low, that it required me to creep upon
my hands and knees to go into it, and whither I went I know
not; so having no candle, I gave it over for some time, but
resolved to come again the next day, provided with candles
and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wild-fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day, I came provided with six large
candles of my own making (for I made very good candles now
of goat's tallow); and going into this low place, I was
obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have said, almost ten
yards; which, by the way, I thought was a venture bold
enough, considering that I knew not how far it might go, nor
what was beyond it. When I was got through the streight, I
found the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty foot; but
never was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say,
as it was, to look round the side and roof of this vault or cave.
The walls reflected an hundred thousand lights to me from my
two candles: what it was in the rock, whether diamonds, or
any other precious stones, or gold, which I rather suppose it
to be, I knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity, or grotto,
of its kind, as could be expected, though perfectly dark; the
floor was dry and level, and had a sort of small loose gravel
upon it; so that there was no nauseous or venomous creature
to be seen, neither was there any damp or wet on the sides or
roof; the only difficulty in it was the entrance, which, how-
ever, as it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so that I was really
rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to
bring some of those things which I was most anxious about to
this place; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my maga-
zine of powder, and all my spare arms, namely, two fowling-
pieces (for I had three in all) and three muskets (for of them
I had eight in all); so I kept at my castle only five, which
stood ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my outmost
fence, and were ready also to take out upon any expedition.
Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I took
occasion to open the, barrel of powder which I took up out of
the sea, and which had been wet; and I found that the water
had penetrated about three or four inches into the powder on
every side, which, caking and growing hard, had preserved the
inside like a kernel in a shell; so that I had near sixty pound
of very good powder in the centre of the cask; and this was
an agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I carried all
away thither, never keeping above two or three pound of
powder with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any
kind. I also carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which
are said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none
could come at them ; for I persuaded myself while I was here,
if five hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never find
me out; or if they did, they would not venture to attack me
here.
The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in the mouth of
the cave the next day after I made this discovery; and I
found it much easier to dig a great hole there, and throw him
in, and cover him with earth, than to drag him out; so I
interred him there, to prevent offense to my nose.
I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in this
island, and was so naturalized to the place, and to the manner
of living, that could I have but enjoyed the certainty that no
savages would come to the place to disturb me, I could have
been content to have capitulated for spending the rest of my
time there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me down
and died, like the old goat in the cave. I had also arrived to
some little diversions and amusements, which made the time
pass more pleasantly with me a great deal than it did before;
as,, first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to speak;
and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and
plain, that it was very pleasant to me; and he lived with me
no less than six-and-twenty years: how long he might live
afterwards I know not; though I know they have a notion in
the Brazils that they live a hundred years; perhaps poor Poll
may be alive there still, calling after poor Robin Crusoe to
this day; I wish no Englishman the ill luck to come there and
hear him; but if he did, he would certainly believe it was the
devil. My dog was a very pleasant and loving companion to
me for no less than sixteen years of my time, and then died
of mere old age; as for my cats, they multiplied, as I have
observed, to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot several
of them at first to keep them from devouring me and all I
had; but at length, when the two old ones I brought with me
were gone, and after some time continually driving them from
me, and letting them have no provision with me, they all ran
wild into the woods, except two or three favorites, which I
kept tame, and whose young, when they had any, I always
drowned, and these were part of my family. Besides these, I
always kept two or three household kids about me, which I
taught to feed out of my hand; and•I had also more parrots
which talked pretty well, and would all call Robin Crusoe, but
none like my first; nor indeed did I take the pains with any
of them that I had done with him. I had also several tame
sea-fowls, whose names I know not, which I caught upon the
shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes, which I had
planted before my castle wall, being now grown up to a good
thick grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees, and
bred there, which was very agreeable to me, so that, as I said
above, I began to be very well contented with the life I led,
if it might but have been secured from the dread of the
savages.
But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss for
all people who shall meet with my story to make this just
observation from it, namely, How frequently, in the course of
our lives, the evil which in itself we seek most to shun, and
which, when we are fallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is
oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by
which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we are
fallen into. I could give many examples of this in the course
of my unaccountable life; but in nothing was it more particu-
larly remarkable than in the circumstances of my last two
years of solitary residence in this island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my
twenty-third year; and this being the southern solstice, for
winter I cannot call it, was the particular time of my harvest,
and required my being pretty much abroad in the fields ; when
going out pretty early in the morning, even before it was
thorough daylight, I was surprised with seeing a light of some
fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about two miles,
towards the end of the island, where I had observed some
savages had been before; but not on the other side; but to
my great affliction, it was on my side of the island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stepped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be
surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from the
apprehensions I had, that if these savages, in rambling over
the island, should find my corn standing, or cut, or any of my
works and improvements, they would immediately conclude
that there were people in the place, and would then never give
over till they had found me out. In this extremity I went
back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder after me,
having made all things without look as wild and natural as I
could.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture
of defense. I loaded all my cannon, as I called them, that is
to say, my muskets, which were mounted upon my new forti-
fication, and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to
the last gasp; not forgetting seriously to commend myself to
the divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver
me out of the hands of the barbarians; and in this posture I
continued about two hours, but began to be mighty impatient
for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out.
After sitting a while longer, and musing what I should do
in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance longer;
so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill where there was
a flat place, as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder
up after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the top of the
hill; and pulling out my perspective glass, which I had taken
on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly on the'ground,
and began to look foi the place. I presently found there was
no less than nine naked savages sitting round a small fire
they had made; not to warm them, for they had no need of
that, the weather being extreme hot; but, as I supposed, to
dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh, which they
had brought with them, whether alive or dead I could not
know.
They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up
upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to
me lo wait for the return of the flood to go away again. It is not
easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, espe-
cially seeing them come on my side the island, and so near
me too; but when I observed their coming must be always
with the current of the ebb, I began afterwards to be more
sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad with
safety all the time of the tide of flood, if they were not on
shore before; and having made this observation, I went
abroad about my harvest work with the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made
to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle
as we call it) all away. I should have observed, that for an
hour and more before they went off, they went to dancing, and
I could easily discern their postures and gestures by my
glasses: I could not perceive, by my nicest observation, but
that they were stark naked, and had not the least covering
upon them; but whether they were men or women, that I
could not distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns
upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, and my
great sword by my side, without a scabbard; and with all the
speed I was able to make, I went away to the hill, where I
had discovered the first appearance of all. And as soon as I
got thither, which was not less than two hours (for I could not
go apace, being so loaded with arms as I was), I perceived
there had been three canoes more of savages on that place;
and looking out Farther, I saw they were all at sea together,
making over for the main.
This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when going
down to the shore, I could see the marks of horror which the
dismal work they had been about had left behind it, namely,
the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and
sport. I was so filled with indignation at the sight, that I
began now to premeditate the destruction of the next that
I saw there, let them be who or how many soever.
It seemed evident to me that the visits which they thus
made to this island were not very frequent; for it was above
fifteen months before any more of them came on shore there
again, that is to say, I never saw them, or any footsteps or
signals of them in all that time; and I found they did not
come in the rainy season; yet all this while I lived uncomfor-
tably, by reason of the constant apprehensions I was in of their
coming upon me by surprise.
However, I wore out a year and three months more, before
I saw any of the savages; but in the month of May, as near as
I could calculate, and in my four-and-twentieth year, I had a
very strange encounter with them, of which in its place.
The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or sixteen
months' interval was very great. In the day great troubles
overwhelmed my mind; in the night I dreamed often of kill-
ing savages, and the reasons why I might justify the doing of
it. But, to waive all this for a while, it was the middle of
May, on the sixteenth day, I think, that it blew a very great
storm of wind all day, with a great deal of lightning and
thunder, and a very foul night it was. I know not what was
the particular occasion of it, but as I was reading the Bible,
and taken up with serious thoughts about my present con-
dition, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought,
fired at sea.
This was, to be sure, a surprise of quite a different nature
from any I had met with before, for the notions that this put
into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I started up in
the greatest haste imaginable, and, in a trice, clapped up my
ladder in the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me,
and mounting it the second time, got to the top of the hill;
that moment a flash of fire bade me listen for a second gun,
which, accordingly, in about half a minute I heard, and by the
sound, knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was
driven out with the current in my boat.
I immediately considered that this must be some ship in
distress, and that they had some comrade, or some other ship
in company, and fired these guns for signals of distress, and to
obtain help. I had this presence of mind at that minute, as
to think, that though I could not help them, it may be they
might help me; so I brought together all the dry wood I
could get at hand, and making a good sized pile, I set it on
fire upon the hill; the wood was dry, and blazed freely, and
though the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out, so that
I was certain, if there was any such thing as a ship, they must
needs see it, and no doubt they did, for as soon as my fire
blazed up, I heard another gun, and after that several others,
all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night long, till
day broke, and when it was broad day, and the air cleared
up, I saw something at a great distance at sea, full east of
the island, whether a sail, or a hull, I could not distinguish,
no, not with my glasses, the distance was so great, and the
weather still being hazy also: at least it was so out at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived
that it did not move; so I presently concluded that it was
a ship at anchor, and being eager, you may be sure, to be
satisfied, I took my gun in my hand and ran towards the
southeast side of the island, to the rocks, where I had been
formerly carried away with the current, and getting up there,
the weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly
see, to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast away in the
night upon these concealed rocks, which I found when I was
out in my boat, and which rocks, as they checked the violence
of the stream, and made a kind of counter stream, or eddy,
were the occasion of my recovering then from the most des-
perate, hopeless condition, that ever I had been in.
Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's destruc-
tion; for it seems these men, whoever they were, being out of
their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under water, had
been driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing very
hard at E. and E. N. E. Had they seen the island, as I must
necessarily suppose they did not, they must, as I thought, have
endeavored to have saved themselves on shore by the help of
their boat; but the firing of their guns for help, especially
when they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many
thoughts.
In the condition I was in, I could do no more than look
upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them, which had
still this good effect on my side, that it gave me more and
more cause to give thanks to God, who had so happily and
comfortably provided for me in my desolate condition; and
that of two ships' companies, who were now cast away upon
this part of the world, not one life should be spared but mine.
I learnt here again to observe, that it is very rare the provi-
dence of God casts us into any condition of life so low, or any
misery so great, but we may see something to be thankful for,
and may see others worse than ourselves.
Such certainly was the case of these men, of whom I could
not so much as see room to suppose any of them were saved;
nothing could make it rational, so much as to wish or expect
that they did not all perish there, except the possibility only
of their being taken up by another ship in company; and this
was but mere possibility indeed; for I saw not the least sig-
nal or appearance of any such thing.
I cannot explain by words, what a strange longing or han-
kering of desires I felt in my soul upon this sight, breaking out
sometimes thus: "O that there had been But one or two,
nay, but one soul saved out of the ship, to have escaped to
me, that I might have had one companion, one fellow-crea-
ture, to have spoken to me, and to have conversed with!"
In all the time of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so
strong a desire, after the society of my fellow-creatures, or so
deep a regret at the want of it.
But it was not to be; either their fate, or mine, or both, for-
bade it; for, till the last year of my being in this island, I
never knew whether any were saved out of the ship or no;
and had only the affliction, some days after, to see the corpse
of a drowned boy washed on shore, at the end of the island
which was next the shipwreck. He had on a seaman's waist-
coat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt; but nothing to direct me to guess what nation he was
of. He had nothing in his pocket but two pieces of eight,
and a tobacco-pipe. The last was of more value to me than
the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in
my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find some-
thing on board that might be useful to me ; and possibly there
might be yet some living creature on board, whose life I might
not only save, but might, by saving that life, comfoit rny own
to the last degree ; and this thought clung so to my heart, that
I could not be quiet night or day, but I must venture out in
my boat on board this wreck; and committing the rest to
God's providence, I thought the impression was so strong upon
my mind, that it could not be resisted, that it must come from
some invisible direction, and that I should be wanting to
myself if I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my
castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of
bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bot-
tle of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left), a basket
full of raisins, and thus loading myself with everything neces-
sary, I went down to my boat, got the water out of her, and
got her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home
again for more. My second cargo was a great bag full of rice,
the umbrella to set up over my head for a shade, another pot
full of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves, or
barley cakes, more than before, and a bottle of goat's milk,
and a cheese ; all which, with great labor and sweat, I brought
to my boat, and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put
out; and rowing, or paddling the canoe along the shore, I
came at last to the utmost point of the island on that side,
namely, N. E. And now I was to launch out into the ocean,
and either to venture, or not venture. I looked on the rapid
currents which ran constantly on both sides of the island at a
distance, and which were very terrible to me, from the remem-
brance of the hazard I had been in before, and my heart began
to fail me; for I foresaw, that if I was driven into either of
these currents, I should be carried a vast way out to sea, and
perhaps out of reach, or sight, of the island again; and that,
as my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind should rise,
I should be inevitably lost.
These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give
over my enterprise, and having hauled my boat into a little
creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat me down upon a
little spot of rising ground, very pensive and anxious, between
fear and desire, about my voyage; when, as I was musing, I
could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood came
on, upon which my going was for so many hours impracticable.
Upon this it presently occurred to me, that I should go up to
the highest piece of ground I could find, and observe, if I
could, how the sets of the tides or currents lay when the flood
came in, that I might judge whether, if I was driven one way
out, I might not expect to be driven another way home, with
the same rapidness of the currents. This thought was no
sooner in my head, but I cast my eye upon a little hill, which
sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I
had a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and which
way I was to guide myself in my return. Here I found that as
the current of the ebb set out close by the south point of the
island, so the current of the flood set in close by the shore of
the north side; and thnt I had nothing to do but to keep
to the north of the island in my return, and I should do well
enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next morn-
ing to set out with the first of the tide; and reposing myself
for that night in the canoe, under the great watch-coat I men-
tioned, I launched out in the morning. I made first a little
out to sea, full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the
current, which set eastward, and which carried me at a great
rate, and yet did not so hurry me as the southern side current
had done before, and so as to take from me all government of
the boat; but, having a strong steerage with my paddle, I
went directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came
up to it.
It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which by the
building was Spanish, stuck fast jammed in between two
rocks; all the stern and quarter of her was beaten to pieces
with the sea; and as her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks,
had run on with great violence, her mainmast and foremast
were brought by the board, that is to say, broken short off;
but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared
firm! When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her,
who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as I
called him, jumped into the sea to come to me; and I took
him into the boat, and found him almost dead for hunger and
thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he eat it like a
ravenous wolf that had been starving for a fortnight in the
snow. I then gave the poor creature some fresh water, with
which, if I would have let him, he would have burst himself.
After this I went on board. The first sight I met with was
two men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of the ship,
with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as is
indeed probable, that when the ship struck, it being in a storm,
the sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that the
men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with the
constant rushing in of the water, as much as if they had been
under water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left in the
ship that had life, or any goods that I could see, but what
were spoiled by the water. There were some casks of liquor,
whether wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower in the
hold, and which, the water being ebbed out, I could see, but
they were too big to meddle with. I saw several chests,
which I believed belonged to some of the seamen, and I got
two of them into the boat, without examining what was in
them.
Had the stern of the ship• been fixed, and the fore part
broken off, I am persuaded I might have made a good voyage;
for. by what I found in these two chests, I had room to suppose,
the ship had a great deal of wealth on board; and if I may
guess by the course she steered, she must have been bound
from Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south part
of America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havannah, in the Gulf
of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain.
I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of
about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much
difficulty. There were several muskets in the cabin, and a
great powder-horn, with about four pounds of powder in it; as
for the muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them,
but took the powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs,
which I wanted extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a
copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and with this
cargo and the dog I came away, the tide beginning to make
home again; and the same evening, about an hour within
night, I reached the island again, wearied and fatigued to the
last degree.
I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning I
resolved to harbor what I had gotten in my new cave, not to
carry it home to my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all
my cargo on shore, and began to examine it. The cask of
liquor I found to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had at
the Brazils, and, in a word, not at all good. But when I came
to open the chests, I found several things I wanted; for ex-
ample, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an extraor-
dinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, fine, and very
good: the bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped
with silver. I found two pots of very good succades, or
sweetmeats, so fastened on top, that the salt water had not
hurt them; and two more of the same, which the water had
spoiled. I found some very good shirts, which were very
welcome to me, and about a dozen and a half of white linen
handkerchiefs, and colored neckcloths; the former were also
very welcome, being exceedingly refreshing to wipe my face on
in a hot dry day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the
chest, I found there three great bags of pieces of eight, which
held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of them,
wrapt up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some small
bars of gold; I suppose they might all weigh near a pound.
The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but of little
value; but by the circumstances it must have belonged to the
gunner's mate, though there was no powder in it, but about
two pounds of glazed powder in three small flasks, kept, I sup-
pose, for charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the
whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of much use to
me, for, as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for it,
it was to me as the dirt under my feet, and I would have given
it all for three or four pair of English shoes and stockings,
which were things I greatly wanted, for I had not had a pair
on my feet for many years. I had, indeed, gotten two pair of
shoes now, which I took off the feet of the two men whom I
found drowned in the wreck; and I found two pair more in
one of the chests, which were very welcome to me; but they
were not like our English shoes, either for ease or service,
being rather what we call pumps than shoes. I found in this
seaman's chest about fifty pieces of eight in royals, but no
gold; I suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the other,
which seemed to belong to some officer.
Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured
them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her
along the shore to her old harbor, where I laid her up, and
made the best of my way to my old habitation, where I found
everything safe and quiet; so I began to repose myself, live
after my old fashion, and take care of my family affairs; and
for a while I lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant
than I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad
so much: and if any time I did stir with any freedom, it was
always to the east part of the island, where I was pretty well
satisfied the savages never came, and where I could go with-
out so many precautions, and such a load of arms and ammu-
nition as I always carried with me if I went the other way.
One night, in the rainy season, in March, the four-and-
twentieth year of my first setting foot in this land of solitari-
ness, I had the following dream; namely, that as I was going
out in the morning, as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the
shore two canoes, and eleven savages coming to land, and
that they brought with them another savage, whom they were
going to kill, in order to eat him, when on a sudden the
savage that they were going to kill, made his escape, and ran
for his life; and then I thought in my sleep, that he came
running into my little grove, before my fortification, to hide
himself; and that I, seeing him, and not perceiving that the
others sought him that way, showed myself to him, and en-
couraged him; that he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray
to me to assist him; upon which I showed him my ladder,
made him go up, and carried him into my cave, and he be-
came my servant; and that as soon as I had got this man, I
said to myself, "Now I may venture to the main-land, for this
fellow will serve me as a pilot, and tell me what to do, and
whither to go for provisions, and whither not to go for fear of
being devoured; what places to venture into, and what to
escape." I awoke with this thought, and was under such
inexpressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape
in my dream, that the disappointment I felt upon coming to
myself, and finding it was no more than a dream, was really
extravagant the other way, and threw me into a very great
dejection of spirits.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion, that my only
way to go about an attempt for an escape, was to try to get a
savage in my possession; and, if possible, it should be one of
their prisoners, whom they had condemned to be eaten, and
should bring hither to kill.
With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon
the scout, as often as possible, and indeed so often, till I was
heartily tired of it. I was not at first more careful to shun the
sight of these savages, and avoid being seen by them, than I
was now eager to be upon them.
• Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two or
three savages, if I had them, so as to make them entirely
slaves to me, to do what I should direct them, and to prevent
their being able at any time to do me any hurt. It was a
great while that I pleased myself with this affair; but nothing
still presented; all my fancies and schemes came to nothing,
for no savages came near me for a great while.
About a year and a half after I had entertained these
notions, and by long musing had, as it were, resolved to put
them into execution, I was surprised one morning early with
seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together, on my
side of the island, and the people who belonged to them all
landed. The number of them broke all my measures, for
seeing so many, and knowing that they always came four, or
sometimes more in a boat, I could not tell what to think of it,
or how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty men
single-handed, so I lay still in my castle, perplexed and dis-
comforted. However, I put myself into all the same postures
for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just ready
for action, if anything had presented. Having waited a good
•while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at length, being
very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and
clambered up to the top of the hill by my two stages, as usual,
standing so, however, that my head did not appear above the
hill; so that they could not perceive me by any means. I
here observed, by the help of my perspective glass, that they
were no less than thirty in number, that they had a fire kin-
dled, and that they had meat dressed; how they cooked it,
that I knew not, or what it was: but they were all dancing, in
I know not how many barbarous gestures and figures, round
the fire.
While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my per-
spective glass, two miserable wretches dragged from the boats,
where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now brought out
for the slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately fall,
being knocked down, I suppose, with a club, or wooden
sword, for that was their way; and two or three others were
at work, cutting him open for their cookery, while the other
victim was left standing by himself till they should be ready
for him. In that very moment, the poor wretch, seeing him-
self a little at liberty, nature inspired him with hopes of life,
and he started away from them, and ran with incredible
swiftness along the sands, directly towards me, I mean towards
that part of the coast where my habitation was.
I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknowledge) when
I perceived him to run my way, and especially when, as I
thought, I saw him pursued by the whole body; and I ex-
pected that part of my dream was coming to pass, and that he
would take shelter in my grove; but I could not depend, by
any means, upon my dream for the rest of it, namely, that the
savages would not pursue him thither, and find him there.
However, I kept my station, and my spirits began to recover
when I found that there were not above three men that fol-
lowed him; and still more was I encouraged, when I found
that he outstripped them exceedingly in running, and gained
ground of them, so that if he could but hold out for half an
hour, I saw he would fairly get away from them all.
There was between them and my castle, the creek, which I
mentioned often at the first part of my story, when I landed
my cargoes out of the ship: and this I knew he must neces-
sarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken there;
but when the savage who was escaping came thither, he made
nothing of it, though the tide was then up, but plunging in,
he swam through it in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts,
landed, and ran on with exceeding strength and swiftness.
When the three pursuers came to the creek, I found that two
of them could swim, but the third could not, and that he,
standing on the other side, looked at the others, but went no
farther, and soon after went softly back again, which, as it
happened, was very well for him.
I observed that the two who swam were yet twice as long
swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled from
them. It came now very warmly upon my thoughts, and
indeed irresistibly, that now was my time to get me a servant,
and perhaps, a companion or assistant, and that I was called
plainly by Providence to save this poor creature's life. I
immediately got down the ladders, fetched my two guns, for
they were both at the foot of the ladders, and getting up again
with the same haste to the top of the hill, I crossed towards
the sea; and, having a very short cut, and all down hill,
clapped myself in the way between the pursuers and the pur-
sued, hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, looking back, wa?
at first as much frighted at me as at them; but I beckoned
with my hand to him to come back, and, in the mean time, I
slowly advanced towards the two that followed; then rush-
ing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down with the
stock of my piece; I was loath to fire, because I would not
have the rest to hear, though at that distance it would not
have been easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke,
too, they would not have known what to make of it. Hav-
ing knocked this fellow down, the other who followed him,
stopped, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced apace
towards him; but as I came nearer, I perceived presently he
had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot at me, so I
was then necessitated to shoot at him first, which I did, and
killed him at the first shot. The poor savage who fled, but
had stopped, though he saw both his enemies fallen, and
killed (as he thought), yet was so frighted with the noise and
fire of my piece, that he stood stock-still, and neither came
forward nor went backward, though he seemed rather inclined
to fly still, than to come on. I hallooed again to him, and
made signs to him to come forward, which he easily under-
stood, and came a little way, then stopped again, and then a
little farther, and stopped again; and then he stood trembling,
as if he had been taken prisoner, and had just been to be
killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned to him again to
come to me, and gave him all the signs of encouragement that
I could think of; and he came nearer and nearer, kneeling
down every ten or twelve steps, in token of acknowledgment
for saving his life. I smiled at him, and looked pleasantly,
and beckoned to him to come still nearer. At length he
came close to me, and then he kneeled down again, kissed the
ground, and, taking my foot, set it upon his head; this, it
seems, was in token of swearing to be my slave forever. I
took him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him all
I could. But I perceived the savage whom I knocked down
was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come
to himself. So I pointed to him, showing him the savage,
that he was not dead; upon this he spoke some words to me,
and though I could not understand them, yet I thought they
were pleasant to hear, for they were the first sound of a man's
voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above five-and-
twenty years. But there was no time for such reflections now.
The savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far
as to sit upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage
began to be afraid; but when I saw that, I presented my other
piece at the man, as if I would shoot him ; upon this my
savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to me to lend
him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side; so I
did. He no sooner had it than he ran to his enemy, and, at
one blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no executioner in Ger-
many could have done it sooner or better; which I thought
very strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never saw a
sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords.
However, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their
wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard.
that they will cut off heads and arms with them, and at one
blow too. When he had done this, he came laughing to me in
sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and laid it
down, with the head of the savage he had killed, just before me.
He was astonished how I had killed the other Indian so
far off; and going to him, he stood like one amazed, looking
at him, turning him, first on one side, then on the other;
looked at the wound the bullet had made, which was in the
breast, where it had made a hole, and no great quantity of
blood had followed, but he had bled inwardly, for he was
quite dead. Then he took up his bows and arrows, and came
back, and I beckoned for us to go away, making signs that
more might come after them. Upon this, he signed to me,
that he should bury them with sand, that they might not be
seen by the rest, if they followed; so I made signs for him to
do so; he fell to work, and had them both buried in the sand
in about a quarter of an hour. I then called him away, and
took him not to my castle, but my cave, on the farther part
of the island; so I did not let my dream come to pass in that
respect, namely, that he came into my grove for shelter. Here
I gave him bread, and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught
of water, which he was in great distress for, by his running;
and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go to sleep,
pointing to a place where I had laid a great parcel of rice
straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon
myself sometimes; so the poor creature lay down, and went to
sleep.
He was a comely handsome fellow, perfectly well made,
tall, and well-shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not a fierce
and surly aspect, but seemed to have something very manly in
his face, and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of an
European in his countenance too, especially when he smiled.
His hair was long and black, not curled like wool, his fore-
head very high and large, and a great vivacity and sparkling
sharpness in his eyes. The color of his skin was not quite
black, but very tawny, and yet not of an ugly, yellow, nau-
seous tawny, as the Brazilians, and Virginians, and other
natives of America are, but of a bright kind of dun olive color,
that had in it something very agreeable, though not very easy
to describe. His face was round and plump, his nose small,
not flat like the negroes, a very good mouth, thin lips, and his
teeth fine, well set, and white as ivory. After he had slum-
bered about half an hour, he waked, and came out of the cave
to me, for I had been milking the goats in the inclosure just
by. When he espied me, he came running, and laid himself
on the ground again, with all the possible signs of an humble,
thankful disposition, making many antic gestures to show it.
At last he lays his head flat upon the ground, close to my foot,
and sets my other foot upon his head, as he had done before,
and after this, made all the signs to me of subjection, servi-
tude, and submission imaginable, to let me know how much he
would serve me as long as he lived. I understood him in
many things, and let him know I was well pleased with him.
In a little time I began to speak to him, and teach him to
speak to me; and first, made him know his name should be
Friday, which was the day I saved his life. I likewise taught
him to say, "Master," and then let him know that was to be
my name. I also taught him to say, " Yes," and "No," and
to know the meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an
earthen pot, and some bread, and let him see me drink some
before him, and sop my bread in it, which he quickly imitated,
and made signs that it was very good for him.
I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as it was
day, I took him away with me. As we went by the place
where he had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the
spot, and showed me the marks he had made to find them
again, making signs to me that we should dig them up and
eat them: at this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhor-
rence of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and
beckoned with my hand to him to come away, which he imme-
diately did, with great submission. I then led him to the top
of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone, and pulling out my
glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where they had
been, but no appearance of them or their canoes; so they
were quite gone.
I then took my man Friday with me, giving him the sword
in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his back, which I
found he could use very dexterously, making him carry one
gun for me, and I two for myself, and away we marched to the
place where these creatures had been. When I came there,
my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart sank within
me at the horror of the spectacle. Indeed, it was a dreadful
sight; the place was covered with human bones, the ground
dyed with the blood, great pieces of flesh left here and there,
half eaten, mangled, and scorched, and, in short, all the tokens
of the triumphant feast they had been making there, after a
victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five hands,
and the bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance
of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made
me understand that they brought over four prisoners to feast
upon, that three of them were eaten, and that he, pointing to
himself, was the fourth; that there had been a great battle
between them and their next king, whose subjects it seems he
had been one of, and that they had taken a great number of
prisoners, all of which were carried to several places by those
that had taken them in the fight, in order to feast upon them,
as was done here by these wretches.
I caused Friday to gather all the bones and flesh that
remained, and lay them together in a heap, and burn them to
ashes. I found that he had still a hankering stomach after
the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature, but I displayed
such abhorrence at the very thoughts of it, that he durst not
discover it; for I let him know that I would kill him if he
offered it.
When we had done this, we came back to our castle, where
I gave Friday first of all a pair of linen drawers, which I had
out of the poor gunner's chest I found in the wreck, and
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well; then I
made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well as I was able; and I
gave him a cap, which I had made of a hare's skin; and thus
he was dressed, for the present, tolerably well; and mighty
well was he pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as
his master. He went awkwardly in these things at first;
wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and the
sleeves of the jerkin galled his shoulders and the inside of
his arms; but he soon got used to them.
The next day after I came home to my hut with him, I
began to consider where I should lodge him: so I made a
little tent for him in the vacant place between the two fortifi-
cations, in the inside of the last, and in the outside of the
first; and as there was an entrance there into my cave, I made
a formal framed door-case, and a door to it of boards, and set
it up in the passage, a little within the entrance, and causing
the door to open in the inside, I barred it up in the night,
taking in my ladders too; so that Friday could no way come
at me in the inside of my innermost wall, without making so
much noise in getting over, that it must needs awaken me, for
my first wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles,
covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill,
which was again laid across with small sticks instead of laths,
and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice straw,
which was strong like reeds; and at the hole or place which
was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of
trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on the outside,
would not have opened at all, but would have fallen down and
made a great noise. I took care to take all the weapons into
my side every night.
But I needed none of these precautions, for never was a
more faithful, loving, sincere servant than Kriday was to me;
without passions, sullenness, or designs; his very affections
were tied to me, like those of a child to its father, and, I dare
say, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving of my own,
upon any occasion whatever.
I was greatly delighted with him, and made it my business
to teach him everything that was proper and useful, and
especially to make him speak, and understand me when I
spoke: and he was a very apt scholar, and he was so merry,
so diligent, and so pleased when he could understand me, or
make me understand him, that it was very pleasant for me to
talk to him. And now my life began to be very easy and
happy.
Alter I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I
thought, that in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way
of feeding, and from the relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought
to let him taste other flesh. So I took him out with me one
morning to the woods, and I saw a she-goat lying down in the
shade, and two young kids close by her. I catched hold of
Friday; "Hold," said I; "stand still;" and made signs to
him not to stir; immediately I presented my piece, shot, and
killed one of the kids. The poor creature who had, at a dis-
tance indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not
know, nor could imagine how it was done, was sensibly sur-
prised, trembled, and shook, and looked so amazed, that I
thought he would have sunk down. He did not see the kid I
had shot at, nor perceived I had killed it, but ripped up his
waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded; and, as I found,
thought I was resolved to kill him; for he came and kneeled
down to me, and embracing my knees, said a great many
things I did not understand, but I could see that his meaning
was to pray to me not to kill him.
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no
harm; and, taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and,
pointing to the kid I had killed, beckoned to him to run and
fetch it, which he did; and while he was looking to see how
the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again, and by and by
I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree within shot; so,
to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I called him
to me again, pointing at the fowl, which was a parrot, though
I thought it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot
and to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let him
see I would make him fall, I made him understand that I
would shoot and kill that bird; accordingly I fired, and bade
him look, and immediately he saw the parrot fall. He stood
like one frightened again, notwithstanding all I had said to
him; and I found he was the more amazed, because he did
not see me put anything into the gun ; but thought there must
be some wonderful fund of death and destruction in that
thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or any other thing, near or
far off; and I believe, if I would have let him, he would have
worshipped me and my gun; as for the gun itself, he would
not so much as touch it for several days after, but would speak
to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, which, as I
afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him.
Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I
pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he
did, but stayed some time, for the parrot, not being quite dead,
was fluttered a good way off from the place where she fell.
However, he found her, took her up, and brought her to me;
and, as I had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I
took this advantage to charge the gun again, and not let him
see me do it, that I might be ready for any other mark, but
nothing offered at that time. So I brought home the kid, and
the same evening took the skin off, and cut it up as well as I
could; and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I
had begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed
very glad of it, and liked it very well; but that which was
strangest to him, was to see me eat salt with it. He made a
sign to me that the salt was not good to eat, and putting a
little into his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would
spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh water after
it. On the other hand, I took some meat in my mouth with-
out salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt,
as fast as he had done at it, but it would not do.
Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was
resolved to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the
kid; this I did by hanging it before the fire in a string, as I
had seen many people do in England, setting two poles up,
one on each side of the fire, and one across the top, and tying
the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn continually.
This Friday admired much; but when he came to taste the
flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it,
that I could not but understand him; and at last he told me
he would never eat man's flesh any more, which I was very
glad to hear.
The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out,
and sifting it in the manner I used to do; and he soon under-
stood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had seen
what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of;
for after that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it
too; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work
for me as well as I could do it myself.
I began now to consider that having two mouths to feed
instead of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do, so I
marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in the
same manner as before, in which Friday not only worked very
hard, but very cheerfully; and I told him that it was for corn
to make more bread, because he was now with me, and that I
might have enough for him and myself too. He appeared very
sensible of that part, and let me know that he would work the
harder for me, if I would tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this
place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the
names of almost everything I had occasion to call for, and of
every place I had occasion to send him to, and talk a great
deal to me; so that, in short, I began to have some use for my
tongue again. Besides the pleasure of talking to him, I had
a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself: his simple, un-
feigned honesty appeared to be more and more every day, and
I began really to love the creature; and I believe he loved me
as much as possible.
I had a mind once to try if he had any lingering inclination
to his own country; and having learned him English so well
that he could answer me almost any questions, I asked him
whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered in
battle. At which he smiled, and said, "Yes, yes; we always
fight the better:" that is, he meant, always get the better in
fight, and so we began the following discourse: "You always
fight the better!" said I; "how came you to be taken pris-
oner, then, Friday?"
Friday. My nation beat much for all that.
Master. How beat? If your nation beat them, how came
you to be taken?
Friday. They more than my nation in the place where me
was: they take one, two, three, and me. My nation over-beat
them in yonder place, where me no was; there my nation take
one, two, great thousand.
Master. But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe: my nation have no canoe that time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with
the men they take? Do they carry them away, and eat them,
as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.
Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place, where they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither: come other else place.
Master. Have you been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I been here. (Points to the N. W. side of
the island, which it seems was their side.)
By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been
among the savages, who had used to come on shore on the
farther parts of the island, on the said man-eating occasions
that he had been now brought for; and some time after, when
I took courage to carry him to that side, he presently knew the
place, and told me he was there once when they eat up twenty
men, two women, and one child.
After I had had this discourse with him, I asked him how
far it was from our island to the shore; whether the canoes
were not often lost? He told me that there was no danger,
no canoes ever lost; but that, after a little way out to sea,
there was a current, and a wind always one way in the morn-
ing, the other in the afternoon.
This I thought to be no more than the sets of the tide, as
going out or coming in; but I afterwards understood it was
occasioned by the great draught and reflux of the mighty river
Oroonoque; in the mouth of which river, as I thought after-
wards, our island lay; and that this land, which I perceived to
the W. and N. W. was the great island Trinidad, on the north
point of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand
questions about the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the
coast, and what nations were near: he told me all he knew,
with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the
names of the several nations of his sort of people, but could
get no other names than Caribs; from whence I easily under-
stood that these were the Caribbees, which our maps place on
that part of America which reaches from the mouth of the
river Oroonoque to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha. He
told me that up a great way beyond the moon, which must be
west from their country, there dwelt white, bearded men like
me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned
before, and that they had killed "much mans," that was his
word. By all which I understood he meant the Spaniards,
whose cruelties in America had been spread over whole
countries, and were remembered by all the nations from
father to son.
I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this
island, and get among those white men? He told me yes,
yes, I might go in " two canoe." I could not understand what
he meant by "two canoe," till at last, with difficulty, I found
he meant that it must be a large boat, as big as two canoes.
This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me very
well; and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one
time or other, I might find an opportunity to make my escape
from this place, and that this poor savage might be a means
to help me to do it.
I was now wanting to lay a foundation of religious knowl-
edge in Friday's mind; particularly I asked him one time
who made him. The poor creature did not understand me,
but thought I had asked him who was his father. But I took
it another way, and asked him who made the sea, the ground
he walked on, and the hills and woods. He told me it was
one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all. He could
describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old; much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the
moon or the stars. I asked him then, if this person had made
all things, why did not all things worship him? He looked
very grave, and with a perfect look of innocence said, "All
things said O to him." I asked him if the people who die in
his country went away anywhere. He said, yes, they all went
to Benamuckee. Then I asked him whether those they eat
up went thither too. He said, "Yes."
From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge
of the true God. I told him that the great Maker of all
things lived up there, pointing up towards heaven: that he
governs the world by the same power and providence by which
he had made it: that he was omnipotent, could do everything
for us, give everything to us, take everything from us: and
thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great
attention, and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus
Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making
our prayers to God, and his being able to hear us, even into
heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could hear us
up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than their
Benamuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not
hear till they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt,
to speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak
to him. He said, no; they never went that were young men;
none went thither but the old men, whom he called their
Oowokakee, that is, as I made him explain it to me, their
religious, or clergy; and that they went to say O (so he called
saying prayers), and then came back, and told them what
Benamuckee said. By this I observed that there is priestcraft
even amongst the most blinded ignorant pagans in the world.
Sending him for something a great way off, I seriously
prayed to God that he would enable me to instruct this poor
savage, assisting by his Spirit the heart of the poor ignorant
creature to receive the light of the knowledge of God in
Christ, reconciling him to himself, and would guide me to
speak so to him from the word of God, as his conscience
might be convinced, .his eyes opened, and his soul saved.
When he came again to me, I entered into a long discourse
with him upon the subject of the redemption of man, by the
Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of the gospel
preached from heaven, namely, of repentance towards God,
and faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to him,
as well as I could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on him
the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham, and how, for
that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the redemption;
that he came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and
the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge, in all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and must
acknowledge what I believe all that act upon the same prin-
ciple will find, that, in laying things open to him, I really
informed and instructed myself in many things that I either
did not know or had not fully considered before, but which
occurred naturally to my mind, upon my searching into them
for the information of this poor savage: and I had more affec-
tion in my inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever I
felt before; so that whether this poor wild wretch was the
better for me or no, I had great reason to be thankful that
ever he came to me; my grief sat lighter upon me, my habita-
tion grew comfortable to me beyond measure, and when I
reflected, that, in this solitary life which I had been confined
to, I had not only been moved myself to look up to heaven,
and to seek to the hand that brought me thither, but was now
to be made an instrument, under Providence, to save the life,
and, for aught I knew, the soul, of a poy savage, and bring
him to the true knowledge of religion, and of the Christian
doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus, "to know whom is
life eternal."
In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my
time, and the conversation which employed the hours between
Friday and me was such as made the three years, which we
lived there together, perfectly and completely happy, if any
such thing as complete happiness can be found in a sublunary
state. The savage was now a good Christian, a much better
than I, though I have reason to hope, and bless God for it,
that we were equally penitent, and comforted restored peni-
tents. We had here the word of God to read, and no farther
off from his Spirit to instruct, than if we had been in England.
I always applied myself to reading the Scriptures, and to let
him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what I read.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and
that he could understand almost all I said to him, and speak
fluently, though in broken English to me, I acquainted him
with my history. I let him into the mystery of gunpowder and
bullets, and taught him bow to shoot. I gave him a knife,
which he was wonderfully delighted with, and I made him a
belt with a frog hanging to it, such as in England we wear
hangers in, and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a
hatchet.
I described to him the countries of Europe, and particularly
England, which I came from; how we lived, how we wor-
shipped God, how we behaved to one another, and how we
traded in ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an
account of the wreck which I had been on board of, and
showed him, as near as I could, the place where she lay; but
she had all been gone long ago.
I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when I
escaped, and which was now fallen almost to pieces. Upon
seeing this boat, Friday stood musing some time, and said
nothing. I asked him what he studied upon; at last, says he,
"Me see such boat like come to place at my nation."
I did not understand him a good while; but at last, when I
had examined farther into it, I understood by him, that a boat,
such as that had been, came on shore upon the country where
he lived, that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by
stress of weather. I presently imagined, that some European
ship must have been cast away upon their coast, and the boat
might get loose, and drive ashore; but was so dull that I
never once thought of men making their escape from a wreck
thither, much less whence they might come, so I only inquired
after a description of the boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought
me better to understand him when he added, with some
warmth, "We save the white mans from drown." Then I
presently asked him if there were any white mans, as he called
them, in the boat: "Yes," he said, "the boat full of white
mans." Tasked him, "How many?" He told me upon his
fingers seventeen. I asked him "What became of them?"
He told me, "They live, they dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts into my head again, for I presently
imagined that these might be the men belonging to the ship
that was cast away in sight of my island, and who, after the
ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost,
had saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that
wild shore among savages.
Upon this I inquired of him more critically, what was
become of them; he assured me they still lived there, that
they had been there about four years, that the savages let
them alone, and gave them victuals to live. I asked him how
it came to pass that they did not kill them, and eat them. He
said, "No, they make brother with them," that is, as I under-
stood him, a truce; and then he added, "They nq eat mans,
but when make the war fight;" that is to say, they never eat
any men, but such as come to fight with them, and are taken
in battle.
It was after this, some considerable time, that being on the
top of the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence I
had, in a clear day, discovered the main, or continent of
America, Friday, the weather being very serene, looks very
earnestly towards the main-land, and in a kind of surprise,
falls a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me; I asked
him what was the matter. "O joy!" says he, "O glad!
There see my country! there my nation!"
I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appear in his
face, his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a
strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own
country again; and this observation of mine put a great many
thoughts into me, which made me at first not so easy about
my new man Friday as I was before ; and I made no doubt, but
that if Friday could get back to his own nation again, he would
not only forget all his religion, but all his obligations to me.
But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, for
which I was very sorry afterwards; however, as my jealousy
increased, and held me some weeks, I was a little more cir-
cumspect, and not so familiar and kind to him as before, in
which I was certainly in the wrong.
Whilst my jealousy of him lasted, I was every day pumping
him, to see if he would discover any of the new thoughts,
which I suspected were in him; but I found everything he
said was honest, and so innocent, that I could find nothing to
nourish my suspicion, and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he
made me at last entirely his own again; nor did he in the
least perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could not
suspect him of deceit.
One day walking up the same hill, but the weather being
hazy at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called to
him and said, "Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own
country, your own nation?" "Yes," he said; "I be much
glad to be at my own nation." "What would you do there?"
said I; "would you turn wild again, eat man's flesh again,
and be savage as you were before?" He looked full of con-
cern, and shaking his head, said, "No, no; Friday tell them
to live good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-
bread, cattle-flesh, milk; no eat man again." "Why, then,"
said I to him, "they will kill you." He looked grave at that,
and then said, " No, they no kill me ; they willing love learn."
He meant by this they would be willing to learn; he added
they learned much of the bearded mans that came in the boat.
Then I asked if he would go back to them. He smiled at
that, and told me he could not swim so far. I told him I
would make a canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I
would go with him. "I go," said I, "why they will eat me if
I come there." "No, no," said he, "me make them no eat
you; me make they much love you." He meant he would tell
them how I had killed his enemies, and saved his life, and so
he would make them much love me.
From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over, and
see if I could possibly join with these bearded men, who, I
made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubting
but, if I could, we might find some method to escape from
thence, being upon the continent, and a good company
together, better than I could from an island, forty miles off the
shore, and alone without help. So, after some days I took
Friday to work again, by way of discourse, and told him I
would give him a boat to go back to his own nation; and
accordingly carried him to my frigate, which lay on the other
side of the island, and having cleared it of the water, I
brought it out, showed it him, and we both went into it.
I found he was very dexterous at managing it, and would
make it go almost as swift again as I could; so I said to him,
"Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He looked
very dull at my saying so, which, it seems, was because he
thought the boat was too small to go so far. I told him then
I had a bigger; so the very next day I went to the place
where the first boat lay, which I had made, but which I could
not get into the water. He said that was big enough; but as
I had taken no care of it, and it had lain two or three-and-
twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it, that it was
in a manner rotten. Friday told me that such a boat would
do very well, and would carry "much enough vittle, drink,
bread ;" that was his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design
of going over with him to the continent, that I told him we
would go and make one as big as that, and he should go
home in it. He answered not one word, but looked very
grave and sad. I asked him what was the matter with him.
He asked me again thus, — " Why you angry mad with Friday?
What me done ?•" I asked him what he meant: I told him I
was not angry with him at all. "No angry! no angry !" says
he, repeating the words several times, "why send Friday
home away to my nation?" "Why," said I, " Friday, did
you not say you wished you were there?" "Yes, yes," says he,
"wish we both there ; no wish Friday there, no master there."
In a word, he would not think of going there without me.
"You shall go without me; leave me here to live by myself
as I did before." He looked confused at this, and running to
one of the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up
hastily, and gives it me. "What must I do with this?" said
I to him. "You take kill Friday," says he. "What must I
kill you for?" said I again. He returns very quick, "What
you sent Friday away for? Take kill Friday; no send Friday
away." As he spoke, tears stood in his eyes, and I was so
affected, that I said I would never send him away, if he was
willing to stay with me.
I found that all the foundation of his desire to go to his own
country was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and his
hopes of my doing them good: a thing, which as 1 had no
notion of myself, so I had not the least thought, or intention,
or desire of undertaking it. But still I found a strong inclina-
tion to attempting an escape, as above, founded on the suppo-
sition gathered from the former discourse, namely, that there
were seventeen bearded men there; and therefore, without
any more delay, I went to work with Friday, to find out a
great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or canoe,
for the voyage. After searching some time, Friday at last
pitched upon a tree, for I found he knew much better than I
what kind of wood was fittest for it; nor can I tell, to this
day, what wood to call the tree we cut down, except that it
was very like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same color and smell.
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out,
to make it into a boat; but I showed him how rather to cut it
out with tools, which after I showed him how to use he did it
very handily, and in about a month's hard labor we finished it,
and made it very handsome, especially when with our axes,
which I showed him how to handle, we cut and hewed the
outside into the true shape of a boat. After this, however, it
cost us near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were, inch
by inch, upon great rollers, into the water; but when she was
in, she would have carried twenty men with ease.
It amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how swift my
man Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle her
along. So I asked him if he would, and if we might venture
over in her. "Yes," he said, "me venture over in her very
well, though great blow wind." However, I had a farther
design that he knew nothing of, and that was to make a mast
and a sail, and to fit her with an anchor and cable. As to the
mast, that was easy enough to get, so I pitched upon a straight
young cedar-tree, which I found near the place, and which
there was plenty of in the island; and I set Friday to work to
cut it down, and gave him directions how to shape and order
it; but as to the sail, that was my particular care. I knew I
had pieces of old sails, but as I had had them now twenty-six
years by me, and not being very careful to preserve them, they
were nearly all rotten. However, I found two pieces which
appeared pretty good, and with a great deal of pains and
awkward, tedious stitching, for want of needles, I at length
made a three-cornered ugly thing, like what we call in Eng-
land a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom at the
bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as usually our
ships' long boats sail with, and such as I best knew how to
manage, because it was such a one as I used in the boat in
which I made my escape from Barbary.
I was near two months in rigging and fitting out my mast
and sails, for I fitted them very complete, making a small stay,
and a sail, or foresail to it, to assist, if we should turn to wind-
ward; and, which was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the
stern of her to steer with, and though I was but a bungling
shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness and even necessity
of such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains to do it,
that at last I brought it to pass.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to
what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for though he
knew very well how to paddle the canoe, he knew nothing
what belonged to a sail and a rudder, and how the sail
gibbed, and filled this way or that way, as the course we
sailed changed; I say, when he saw this, he stood like one
astonished and amazed. However, with a little use, I made
all these things familiar to him, and he became an expert
sailor, except that as to the compass I could make him under-
stand very little of that; but there was not much occasion for
the compass in these parts.
I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my
captivity in this place; though the three last years that I had
this creature with me ought rather to be left out of the
account, my habitation being quite of another kind than in
all the rest of the time. I kept the anniversary of my landing
here with the same thankfulness to God for his mercies as at
first; and if I had such cause of acknowledgment at first, I
had much more so now, having such additional testimonies of
the care of Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of
being effectually and speedily delivered; for I had an invinci-
ble impression upon my thoughts, that my deliverance was at
hand, and that I should not be another year in this place.
However, I went on with all my work as usual.
The rainy season was in the mean time upon me, when I
kept more within doors than at other times; so I had stowed
our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her up into the
creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts
from the ship; and thus we waited for the months of Novem-
ber and December, in which I designed to make my adven-
ture.
When the settled season began to come in, the first thing I
did was to lay by a certain quantity of provisions, being the
store for our voyage; and I intended in a week or a fortnight's
time to open the dock and launch out our boat. I was busy
one morning upon something of this kind, when I called to
Friday, and bade him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could
find a turtle or tortoise — a thing which we generally got once
a week for the sake of the eggs, as well as the flesh. Friday
had not been long gone, when he came running back, and
flew over my outward wall, or fence, like one that felt not the
ground; and before I had time to speak to him, he cried out
to me, " O master! O master! O sorrow! O bad!" "What's
the matter, Friday?" said I. "O yonder there," says he,
"one, two, three canoe! one, two, three!" By this way of
speaking, I concluded there were six; but, on inquiry, I
found there were but three. "Well, Friday," said I, "do not
be frightened;" so I heartened him up as well as I could.
However, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared, for
nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look for
him, and would cut him in pieces and eat him; and the poor
fellow trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with him.
I comforted him as well as I could, and told him I was in as
much danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as
him. "But," said I, "Friday, we must resolve to fight them.
Can you fight, Friday?" "Me shoot," says he; "but there
come many great number." "No matter for that," said I
again, "our guns will fright them that we do not kill." So I
asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would
defend me, and stand by me, and do just as I bade him. He
said, "Me die when you bid die, master." So I gave him a
good dram of rum; and when he had drunk it, I made him
take the two fowling-pieces, and load them with swan shot, as
big as small pistol-bullets; then I took four muskets, and
loaded them with two slugs and five small bullets each; and
my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each. I hung
my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday
his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself I took my perspective
glass, and went up to the side of the hill to see what I could
discover, and I found quickly by my glass that there were
twenty-one savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and
that their whole business seemed to be the triumphant ban-
quet upon these three human bodies; but nothing more than
as I had observed as usual with them.
They were landed, not where they had done when Friday
made his escape, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was
low, and where a thick wood came close almost down to the
sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these
wretches came about, so filled me with indignation, that I
came down to Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down
to them and kill them all, and asked him if he would stand by
me. He had now gotten over his fright, and his spirits being
a little raised with the dram I had given him, he was very
cheerful, and told me as before, "He would die when I bid
die."
In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms which I
had charged, as before, between us. I gave Friday one pistol
to stick in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and I
took one pistol and the other three myself, and in this posture
we marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket,
and gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets;
and as to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and
not to stir, or shoot, or do anything till I bade him; and, in
the mean time, not to speak a word. In this posture I fetched
a compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over
the creek as to get into the wood, so that I might come within
a shot of them before I should be discovered, which I had
seen by my glass it was easy to do.
I entered the wood with all possible wariness and silence
(Friday following close at my heels), and marched till I came
to the skirt of the wood, on the side which was next to them,
only that one corner of the wood lay between me and them.
Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree,
which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade him go to the
tree, and bring me word if he could see there plainly what
they were doing. He did so, and came immediately back to
me, and told me they might be plainly viewed there; that they
were all about the fire, eating the flesh of one of their prison-
ers, and that another lay bound upon the sand, a little from
them, whom, he said, they would kill next, and which fired the
very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their own
nation, but one of the bearded men whom he had told me of,
that came to their country in the boat. I was filled with
horror at the very naming the white, bearded man, and going
to the tree, I saw plainly by my glass a white man, who lay
upon the beach of the sea, with his hands and feet tied with
flags, or things like rushes, and that he was an European, and
had clothes on.
There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about
fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which,
by going a little way about, I saw I might come at undis-
covered, and that then I should be within half a shot of them.
So I withheld my passion, and, going back about twenty
paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the way till I
came to the other tree, and then I came to a little rising
ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of
about eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dread-
ful wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled together,
and had just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian,
and bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to their fire, and they
were stooped down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned
to Friday: "Now, Friday," said I, "do as I bid thee."
Friday said he would. "Then, Friday," said I, "do exactly
as you see me do; fail in nothing." So I set down one of the
muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday
did the like by his; and with the other musket I took my aim
at the savages, bidding him do the like: then asking him if
he was ready, he said, "Yes." "Then fire at them," said I,
and the same moment I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much the better than I, that on the
side he shot he killed two of them and wounded three more;
. and, on my side, I killed one and wounded two. They were
in a dreadful consternation; and all of them who were not
hurt jumped up upon their feet immediately, but did not know
which way to run or which way to look, for they knew not
from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes
close upon me, that, as I bid him, he might observe what I
did; so, as soon as the first shot was made, I threw down the
piece and took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like:
he sees me cock and present; he did the same again. "Are
you ready, Friday?" said I. "Yes," said he. "Let fly,
then," said I; and with that I fired again among the amazed
wretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now
loaded with what I call swan-shot, or small pistol bullets, we
found only two drop; but so many were wounded, that they
ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody
and wounded most of them, and three more fell quickly after,
but not quite dead.
"Now, Friday," said I, laying down the discharged pieces
and taking up the musket, which was yet loaded, "follow me,"
which he did with a deal of courage ; upon which I rushed out
of the wood and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot.
As soon as .I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I
could, and bade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I
could, which, by the way, was not very fast, I made directly
towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the
beach or shore, between the place where they sat and the sea.
The two butchers, who were just going to work with him, had
left him at the surprise of our first fire and fled, in a terrible
fright, to the sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe, and three
more of the rest made the same way. I turned to Friday, and
bade him step forwards and fire at them. He understood me
immediately, and, running about forty yards to be nearer
them, he shot at them, and I thought he had killed them all,
for I saw them all fall on a heap in the boat, though I saw
two of them up again quickly. However, he killed two of
them, and wounded the third, so that he lay in the bottom of
the boat as if he had been dead.
While Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife and cut
the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing his hands
and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him, in the Portuguese
tongue, what he was. He answered in Latin, " Christianus;"
but was so weak and faint, that he could scarce stand or
speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket and gave it him,
making signs that he should drink, which he did; and I gave
him a piece of bread, which he eat. Then I asked him what
countryman he was, and he said, "Espagniole ;" and, being a
little recovered, let me know, by all the signs he could possibly
make, how much he was in my debt for his deliverance. I
said, in as good Spanish as I could, "We will talk afterwards,
but we must fight now; if you have any strength left, take the
pistol and sword and lay about you." He took them very
thankfully, and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but,
as if they had put new vigor into him, he flew upon his mur-
derers like a fury, and had cut two of them in pieces in an
instant, for they were so surprised and frightened, that they
could make no resistance, nor attempt to escape.
I kept my piece in my hand still, without firing, being wil-
ling to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
Spaniard my pistol and sword; so I called to Friday, and
bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired, and
fetch the arms which lay there that had been discharged,
which he quickly did; and then giving him my musket, I sat
down to load all the rest again, and bade them come to me
when they wanted. While I was loading these pieces, there
happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard and one
of the savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the same weapon that was to have killed him
before, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was
very bold, though weak, had fought this Indian a good while,
and had cut him two great wounds on his head; but the
savage, being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in with him, had
thrown him down, and was wringing my sword out of his hand,
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitted the
sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, and shot him dead on
the spot.
Friday, being now left at his liberty, pursued the flying
wretches with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and
with that he dispatched those three who were wounded at first
and fallen, and all the rest he could come up with; and the
Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the
fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and
wounded them both; but as he was not able to run, they both
got from him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and
killed one of them, but the other was too nimble for him; and
though he was wounded, yet had plunged into the sea, and
swam with all his might off to those who were left in the
canoe; which three in the canoe, with one wounded, we know
not whether he died or no, were all that escaped our hands of
one-and-twenty.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of
gun-shot; and though Friday made two or three shots at
them, I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday would
fain have had me take one of their canoes and pursue them,
and indeed I was very anxious about their escape, lest, carry-
ing the news home to their people, they should come back,
perhaps, with two or three hundred of their canoes, and devour
us by mere multitude; so I consented to pursue them by sea;
and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade
Friday follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was sur-
prised to find another poor creature lie there alive, bound
hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and
almost dead with fear, not knowing what the matter was, for
he had not been able to look up over the side of the boat; he
was tied so hard, neck and heels, and had been tied so long,
that he had little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, that bound
him, and would have helped him up; but he could not stand
or speak, but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems, still,
that he was only unbound in order to be killed. When Friday
came, I bade him speak to him, and tell him of his deliver-
ance; and pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor
wretch a dram, which, with the news of his being delivered,
revived him, and he sat up in the boat. But when Friday
came to hear him speak, and looked in his face, it would have
moved any one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed him,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped
about, danced, sung, then cried again, wrung his hands, beat
his own face and head, and then sung and jumped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could
make him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but
when he came a little to himself, he said that it was his
father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me, to see
what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor
savage, at the sight of his father, and of his being delivered
from death: nor indeed can I describe half the extravagance
of his affection after this, for he went into the boat and out of
the boat a great many times. When he went in to him, he
would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's
head close to his bosom half an hour together, to nourish it;
then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and
stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his
hands; and I perceiving what the case wasi gave him some
rum out of my bottle to rub them with, which did them a deal
of good.
This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the
other savages, who were now gotten almost out of sight; and
it was happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard within
two hours after, and before they could be gotten a quarter of
their way, and continued blowing so hard all night, and that
from the northwest, which was against them, that I could not
suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached to
their own coast.
But to return to Friday, he was so busy about his father,
that I could not find in my heart to take him off for some
time; but after I thought he could leave him a little, I called
him to me, and he came jumping and laughing, and pleased to
the highest extreme. Then I asked him if he had given his
father any bread. He shook his head, and said, "None:
ugly dog eat all up self." So I gave him a cake of bread, out
of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him a
dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but carried it to
his father. I had in my pocket also two or three bunches of
my raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father.
He had no sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him
come out of the boat, and run away, as if he had been
bewitched. He ran at such a rate (for he was the swiftest
fellow of his foot that ever I saw), I say, he ran at such a rate,
that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant; and though
I called and hallooed too after him, it was all one: away he
went, and in a quarter of an hour I saw him come back again,
though not so fast as he went; and as he came near I found
his pace was slacker, because he had something in his hand.
When he came to me, I found he had been quite home for
an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his fathei some fresh water,
and that he had got two more cakes or loaves of bread. The
bread he gave me, but the water he carried to his father;
however, as I was very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it.
The water revived his father more than all the rum or spirits
I had given him, for he was just fainting with thirst.
When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there
was any water left; he said, "Yes," and I bade him give it to
the poor Spaniard, who was as much in want of it as his
father, and I sent one of the cakes that Friday brought to the
Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, and was reposing
himself upon a green place, under the shade of a tree, and
whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled with
the rude bandage he had been tied with. When I saw that,
upon Friday's coming up to him with the water, he sat up and
drank, and took the bread and began to eat, I went up to him
and gave him a handful of raisins. He looked up in my face
with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could
appear in any countenance ; but was so weak, notwithstanding
he had so exerted himself in the fight, that he could not stand
upon his feet. He tried to do it two or three times, but was
really not able, his ankles were so swelled and so painful to
him; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his
ankles, and bathe them with rum, as he had done his father's.
I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes,
or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turned his head
about to see for his father; and at last he missed him, at
which he started up, and without speaking a word, flew with
that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet
to touch the ground as he went; but when he came, he found
he had only laid himself down to ease his limbs. So Friday
came back to me presently, and I then told him to help the
Spaniard to the boat; so he took him upon his back, and
carried him beside his father in the boat, and stepping out
again, launched the boat off, and paddled it along the shore
faster than I could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard
too; so he brought them both safe into our creek, and leaving
them in the boat, runs away to fetch the other canoe. As he
passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went.
He told me, "Go fetch more boat." So away he went, like
the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like him; and he
had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got to it
by land ; so he wafted me over, and then went to help our new
guests out of the boat, which he did; but they were neither
of them able to walk, so that poor Friday knew not what
to do.
At last, we made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and
Friday and I carried them up both together upon it between
us. But when we got them to the outside of our wall, or forti-
fication, we were at a worse loss than before, for it was impos-
sible to get them over; and I was resolved not to break it
down. So I set to work again; and Friday and I, in about
two hours' time, made a very handsome tent, covered with old
sails, and above with boughs of trees, being in the same space
without our outward fence, and between that and the grove
of young wood which I had planted; and here we made them
two beds of such things as I had, namely, of good rice straw,
with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover them
on each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thought myself very rich
in subjects; and it was a merry reflection which I frequently
made, how like a king I looked. First of all, the whole
country was my own mere property, so that I had an un-
doubted right of dominion. Secondly, my people were per-
fectly subjected; I was the absolute lord and lawgiver; they
all owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay down their
lives, if there had been occasion of it, for me. It was
remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they were of
three different religions: my man Friday was a Protestant; his
father was a pagan and a cannibal; and the Spaniard was a
Papist. However, I allowed liberty of conscience to all my
subjects. ,
As soon as I had secured my two weak, rescued prisoners,
and given them shelter, and a place to rest upon, I began to
think of making some provision for them; and the first thing
I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid
and a goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed. Then I
cut off the hinder quarter, and chopping it into small pieces,
I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them
a very good dish of flesh and broth, and we all enjoyed it and
cat heartily.
After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to
take one of the canoes and go and fetch our muskets and
other fire-arms from the place of battle; and the next day I
ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies df the savages,
which lay open to the sun, and would presently be offensive;
and I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous feast: all of which he punctually performed.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two
new subjects; and first I set Friday to inquire of his father
what he thought of the escape of the savages in (hat canoe,
and whether we might expect a return of them with a power
too great for us to resist. His first opinion was, that the
savages in the boat never could live out the storm which ble^w
that night they went off, but must be drowned, or driven south
to those other shores, where they were as sure to be devoured
as they were to be drowned, if they were cast away; but as to
what they would do, if they came on shore, he said, he knew
not; but it was his opinion that they were so dreadfully
frightened with the manner of their being attacked, the noise
and the fire, that he believed they would tell their people they
were all killed by thunder and lightning, and not by the hand
of man; and that the two which appeared (namely Friday and
I) were two heavenly spirits and furies come down to destroy
them, and not with weapons. And this old savage was right;
for though they escaped the sea, they gave such dreadful
accounts in their own country (as I heard afterwards), that
they never ventured from that part to my island again.
But I was under continual apprehensions for some time, and
kept upon my guard, I and all my army; for, as we were now
four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of them in
the open field.
In a li.ttle time, however, no more canoes appearing, the
fear of them coming wore off, and I began to take my former
thoughts of a voyage to the main into consideration, being
likewise assured, by Friday's father, that I might depend upon
good usage from their nation, on his account, if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I had a
serious discourse with the Spaniard, •and when I understood
that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portu-
guese, who having been cast away, and made their escape to
that side, lived there at peace indeed with the savages, but
were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I
asked him all^be particulars of their voyage, and found they
were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata to the
Havannah, being directed to leave their loading there, which
was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back what European
goods they could meet with there; that they had five Portu-
guese seamen on board, whom they took out of another wreck;
that five of their own men were drowned when first their ship
was lost; and that these escaped through infinite dangers and
hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast,
where they expected to be devoured every moment.
He told me they had some arms with them, but they were
perfectly useless, for they had neither powder nor ball, the
washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a
little, which they used at their first landing to provide them-
selves some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them there,
and if they had formed no design of making an escape. He
said they had many consultations about it, but having neither
vessel, nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their
counsels always ended in tears and despair. I asked him
how he thought they would receive a proposal from me, which
might tend towards an escape; and, whether, if they were all
here, it might not be done.
He told me they were all under the greatest distress imagin-
able, and if I would undertake their relief, they would live
and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve
them, if possible, and to send the old savage and the Spaniard
over to them to treat. But when he had gotten all things in
readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started an objection,
which had so much prudence in it on the one hand, and so
much sincerity on the other hand, that I could not but be well
satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of
his comrades for at least half a year. The case was thus : —
He had been with us now about a month, during which time
I had let him see in what manner I had provided, with the
assistance of Providence, for my support; and he saw evi-
dently what stock of corn and rice I had laid up, which, as it
was more than sufficient for myself, so it was not sufficient, at
least without good husbandry, for my family, now it was
increased to the number of four; but much less would it be
sufficient, if his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen,
still alive, should come over; and, least of all, would it be
sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a
voyage to any of the Christian colonies of America. So he
told me he thought it would be more advisable to let him and
the two others dig and cultivate more land, as much as I
could spare seed to sow; and that we should wait another
harvest, then we might have a supply of corn for his country-
men, when they should come; for want might be a temptation
to them to disagree, or not think themselves delivered, other-
wise than out of one difficulty into another.
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that
I could not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well
as I was satisfied with his fidelity. So we fell to digging, all
four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with
permitted; and in about a month's time, by the• end of which
it was seed-time, we had gotten as much land cured, and
trimmed up, as we sowed twenty-two bushels of barley on, and
sixteen jars of rice, which was, in short, all the seed we had
to spare.
Having now society enough, and our number being sufficient
to put us out of fear of savages, if they had come, unless their
number had been very great, we went freely all over the island,
wherever we found occasion; and as we had our escape or
deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least for
me, to have the means of it out of mine. To this purpose, I
marked out several trees, which I thought fit for our work, and
I set Friday and his father to cutting them down; and then I
caused the Spaniard to oversee and direct their work. I
showed them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a
large tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the like,
till they had made about a dozen large planks of good oak,
near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two inches
to four inches thick. What prodigious labor it took up, any
one may imagine.
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of
tame goats as much as I could; and to this purpose I made
Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with
Friday the next day, for we took our turns; and, by this
means, we got about twenty young kids to breed up with the
rest; for, whenever we shot the dam we saved the kids, and
added them to our flock. But, above all, the season for curing
the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious quantity to
be hung up in the sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicant,
where raisins are cured, we should have filled sixty or eighty
barrels; and these with our bread, was a great part of our
food.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order. It was
not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island; but,
however, it was enough to answer our end, for, from our
twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought in and thrashed out
above two hundred and twenty bushels, and the like in propor-
tion of the rice, which was store enough for our food to the
next harvest, though all the fourteen Spaniards had been on
shore with me; or, if we had been ready for a voyage, it would
very plentifully have victualled our ship to have carried us to
any part of the world, that is to say, of America. When we
had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn, we fell to
work to make more wicker work, namely, great baskets in
which we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dex-
terous at this part.
And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests I
expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main,
to see what he could do with those he had left behind him
there. I gave him strict charge not to bring any man with
him, who would not first swear, in the presence of himself and
the old savage, that he would in no way injure, fight with, or
attack the person he should find in the island, who was so
kind as to send for them, in order to their deliverance; but
that they would stand by and defend him against all such
attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely under
and subjected to his command: and that this should be put in
writing, and signed with their hands.
Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old savage
went away in one of the canoes which they came in, when
they were brought as prisoners to be devoured by the savages.
I gave each of them a musket, and about eight charges of
powder and ball, charging them to be very careful of both,
and not to use either of them, but upon very urgent occasions.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by
me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and
some days. I gave them provisions of bread and of dried
grapes, sufficient for themselves for many days, and sufficient
for all their countrymen for about eight days; and wishing
them a good voyage, I let them go, agreeing with them about
a signal they should hang out at their return, by which I
should know them again, when they came back, at a distance
before they came on shore.
They went away, with a fair gale, on the day that the moon
was at the full, by my account, in the month of October, as
near as I could tell.
. It was no less than eight days I waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen occurrence intervened, of which the
like has not, perhaps, been heard of in history. I was fast
asleep in my hut one morning, when my man Friday came
running in to me, and called aloud, "Master, master, they are
come, they are come!" I jumped up, and, regardless of
danger, went out, as soon as I could get my clothes on,
through my little grove; I went without my arms, which it was
not my custom to do; but I was surprised, when, turning my
eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat, at about a league and
a half distance, standing in for the shore, with a shoulder-of-
mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to
bring them in. Also, I observed, that they did not come
from that side which the shore lay on, but from the southern-
most end of the island. Upon this I called Friday in, and
bade him lie close, for these were not the people we looked
for, and that we did not know yet whether they were friends
or enemies. In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspec-
tive glass, to see what I could make of them; and, having
taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I
used to do when I was apprehensive of anything, and to take
my view plainer, without being discovered. I had scarce set
my foot on the hill, when my eye plainly discovered a ship
lying at anchor, at about two leagues and a half distance from
me, S. S. E., but not above- a league and a half from the
shore. It appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the
boat an English long-boat.
I cannot express the confusion I was in, though the joy of
seeing a ship, and one which I had reason to believe was
manned by my own countrymen, and consequently friends, was
such as I cannot describe; but yet I had some secret doubts
hanging about me, I cannot tell from whence they came, bid-
ding me to be on my guard. I began to consider what busi-
ness an English ship could have here ; since it was not the
way to or from any part of the world where the English had
any traffic; and I knew there had been no storm to drive
them in there, as in distress; and that if, they were English
really, it was probable they were here upon no good design,
and that I had better continue as I was than fall into the
hands of thieves and murderers.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, when I saw the
boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to
thrust in at, for the convenience of landing: however, as they
did not come quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet
where I formerly landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore
upon the beach, at about half a mile from me, which was
very happy for me; for, otherwise, they would have landed
just, as T may say, at my door, and would soon have beaten
me out of my castle, and, perhaps, have plundered me of all
I had.
When they were on •shore, I was fully satisfied they were
Englishmen, at least most of them ; one or two I thought were
Dutch, but it did not prove so. There were, in all, eleven
men, whereof three I found were unarmed, and (as I thought)
bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped
on shore, they took these three out of the boat as prisoners.
One of the three I could perceive using the most passionate
13
gestures of entreaty, affliction, and despair; the other two
lifted up their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned
indeed, but not so much as the first.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what
the meaning of it could be. Friday called out to me, in Eng-
lish, as well as he could, "O master, you see English mans
eat prisoners as well as savage mans." "Why," said I, "do
you think they are going to eat them, then?" "Yes," says
Friday, "they will eat them." "No, no," said I, "Friday, I
am afraid they will murder them, indeed, but you may be sure
they will not eat them."
All this while I had no thoughts of what the matter really
was, but expected every moment the three prisoners would be
killed; and once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm, with
a great cutlass or sword, to strike one of the poor men, and I
expected to see him fall every moment. I wished heartily
now for my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with
him; or that I had any way to have come undiscovered
within shot of them, that I might have rescued the three men,
for they had no fire-arms that I saw.
After I had observed the outrageous usage of the three
men by the insolent seamen, I saw that the fellows ran scat-
tering about the land, as if they wanted to see the country. I
observed, also, that the three other men had liberty to go
where they pleased, but that they sat down all three upon the
ground, very pensive, and looked like men in despair.
It was just at the top of high water when these people came
on shore, and while partly they stood parleying with the pris-
oners they brought, and partly while they rambled about to
see what kind of place they were in, they had carelessly
stayed till the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed con-
siderably away, leaving the boat aground. They had left two
men in the boat, who, as I found afterwards, having drank a
little too much brandy, fell asleep. However, one of them
wakening sooner than the other, and finding the boat too fast
aground for him to stir it, hallooed for the rest, who were
straggling about, upon which they all soon came to the boat,
but it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft, oozy sand,
almost like a quicksand. In this condition, like true seamen,
who are, perhaps, the least of all mankind given to fore-
thought, they gave it over, and away they strolled about the
country again; and I heard one of them say aloud to another
(calling them off from the boat), "Why, let her alone, Jack,
can't ye! She'll float next tide." By which I was fully con-
firmed what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself close, not once daring to stir
out of my castle, any farther than to my place of observation
near the top of the hill. I knew it would be no less than ten
hours before the boat could be afloat again, and by that time
it would be dark, and I might be more at liberty to see their
motions, and to hear their discourse, if they had any.
In the mean time, I fitted myself up for a battle, as before,
though with more caution, knowing I had to do with another
kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered Friday also to
load himself with arms. I took myself two fowling-pieces,
and I gave him three muskets. My figure indeed was very
fierce; I had my formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great
cap I have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols
in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.
It was my design, as I said before, not to have made any
attempt until it was dark; but about two o'clock, being the
heat of the day, I found that they were all gone straggling into
the woods, and, as I thought, were all laid down to sleep.
The three poor distressed men, too anxious for their condition
to get any sleep, were, however, sat down under the shelter of
a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I
thought, out of sight of any of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn
something of their condition. Immediately I marched with
my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable
for his arms as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-
like figure as I did. I came as near them undiscovered as I
could, and then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to
them, in Spanish, "What are ye, gentlemen?"
They started up at the noise, but were ten times more con-
founded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure I made.
They made no answer at all, but I thought I perceived them
just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in English:
— " Gentlemen," said I, "do not be surprised at me ; perhaps
you may have a friend near you when you do not expect it."
"He must be sent directly from heaven, then," said one of
them very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same
time, "for our condition is past the help of man." "All help
is from heaven, sir," said I, "but can you put a stranger in
the way how to help you, for you seem to be in some great
distress? I saw you when you landed ; and when you seemed
to make application to the brutes that came with you, I saw
one lift up his sword to kill you."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trem-
bling, looking like one astonished, returned, "Am I talking to
God or man? Is it a real man, or an angel?" "Be in no fear
about that, sir," said I, "if God had sent an angel to relieve
you, he would have come better clothed, and armed after
another manner, than you see me. Pray lay aside your fears;
I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you, you
see. I have one servant only: we have arms and ammunition,
tell us freely, can we serve you? What is your case?"
"Our case, sir," said he, "is too long to tell you, while our
murderers are so near; but, in short, sir, I was commander of
that ship, my men have mutinied against me, they have been
hardly prevailed upon not to murder me, and, at last, have set
me on shore in this desolate place, with these two men with
me, one my mate, the other a passenger, where we expected to
perish, believing the place to be uninhabited, and know not
yet what to think of it."
"Where are those brutes, your enemies?" said I; "do you
know where they are gone?" "There they are, sir," said he,
pointing to a thicket of trees ; " my heart trembles for fear they
have seen us, and heard you speak; if they have, they will
murder us all."
"Have they any fire-arms ?" said I. He answered, "They
had only two pieces, and one which they left in the boat."
"Well, then," said I, "leave the rest to me. I see they are
asleep. It is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we
rather take them prisoners?" He told me there were two
desperate villains among them, that was scarce safe to show
any mercy to, but if they were secured, he believed all the rest
would return to their duty. I asked him which they were. He
told me he could not, at that distance, describe them; but he
would obey my orders in anything I would direct. "Well,"
said I, " let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they
awake, and we will resolve farther." So they willingly went
back with me, till the woods covered us from them. "Look
you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliverance, are you
willing to make two conditions with me?" He anticipated my
proposals, by telling me, that both he and the ship, if recov-
ered, should be wholly directed and commanded by me in
everything; and if the ship was not recovered, he would live
and die with me, in what part of the world soever I would
send him, and the two others said the same. •
"Well," said I, "my conditions are but two; first, that
while you stay on this island with me, you will not pretend to
any authority here; and if I put arms in your hands, you will,
upon all occasions, give them up to me, and do no prejudice
to me or mine, upon this island; and, in the mean time, be
governed by my orders. Secondly, that if the ship is, or may
be, recovered, you will carry me and my man to England
passage free." He gave me all the assurances that the inven-
tion and faith of man could devise, that he would comply with
these most reasonable demands, and, besides, would owe his
life to me, and acknowledge it, upon all occasions, as long as
he lived.
"Well, then," said I, "here are three muskets for you, with
powder and ball. Tell me next what you think is proper to be
done." He showed all the testimony of his gratitude that he
was able; but offered to be wholly guided by me. I told him
I thought it was hard venturing anything, but the best method
I could think of was to fire upon them at once, as they lay;
and if any were not killed at the first volley, and offered to
submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's
providence to direct the shot.
He said, very modestly, that he was loath to kill them, if he
could help it, but that those two were incorrigible villains, and
had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they
escaped we should be undone still, foi they would go on board
and bring the whole ship's company, and destroy us all.
"Well, then," said I, " necessity legitimates my advice; for it
is the only way to save our lives." However, seeing him still
cautious of shedding blood, I told him they should go them-
selves, and manage as they found convenient.
In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them
awake, and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I
asked him if either of them were the men who, he had said,
were the heads of the mutiny. He said, " No." "Well, then,"
said I, "you may let them escape; and Providence seems to
have awakened them on purpose to save themselves. Now,"
said I, "if the rest escape you, it is your fault."
Animated with this, he took the musket I had given him in
his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with
him, each man a piece in his hand. The two men who were
with him, going first, made some noise, at which one of the
seamen, who was awake, turned about, and seeing them com-
ing, cried out to the rest; but it was too late then, for the
moment he cried out, the two men fired, the captain wisely
reserving his own piece. They had so well aimed their shot
at the men they knew, that one of them was killed on the
spot, and the other very much wounded; but, not being dead,
he started up upon his feet, and called eagerly for help to the
other; but the captain, stepping to him, told him it was too
late to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his
villainy, and, with that word, knocked him down with the stock
of his musket, so that he never spoke more. There were
three more in the company, and one of them was also slightly
wounded. By this time I was come; and when they saw their
danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for
mercy. The captain told them he would spare their lives, if
they would give him any assurance of their abhorrence of the
treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear to be
faithful to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carry-
ing her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave
him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be
desired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare their
lives, which I was not against; only I obliged him to keep
them bound, hand and foot, while they were upon the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday, with the captain's mate,
to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away the oars
and sail, which they did; and, by the by, three straggling
men, that were parted from the rest, came back again upon
hearing the guns fired; and seeing their captain, who was
before their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to
be bound also.
It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into
one another's circumstances. I began first, and told him my
whole history, which he heard with an attention even to amaze-
ment, and particularly at the wonderful manner of my being
furnished with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my
story is a whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply;
but when he reflected from thence upon himself, and how I
seemed to have been preserved there on purpose to save his
life, the tears ran down his face, and he could not speak a
word more.
After this communication was at an end, I carried him and
his two men into my apartment, leading them in just where I
came out, namely, at the top of the house, where I refreshed
them with such provisions as I had, and showed them all the
contrivances I had made during my long inhabiting this place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amaz-
ing • but, above all, the captain admired my fortification, and
how perfectly I had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees,
which, having been now planted near twenty years, and the
trees growing much faster than in England, was become a little
wood, and so thick, it was impassable in any part of it but at
that one side where I had reserved my little winding passage
into it. This I told him was my castle and my residence, but
that I had a seat in the country, as most princes have, whither
I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him that too
another time; but at present our business was to consider how
to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; but told
me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that
there were •still six-and-twenty hands on board, who, having
entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all for-
feited their lives to the law, would be hardened in it now by
desperation, and would carry it on, knowing that if they were
reduced they should be brought to the gallows as soon as they
came to England, or to any of the English colonies, and that
therefore there would be no attacking them with so small a
number as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it
was a very rational conclusion; and it occurred to me that, in
a little while, the ship's crew, wondering what had become of
their comrades, and of the boat, would certainly come on shore,
in their other boat, to see for them, and that then, perhaps,
they might come armed, and be too strong for us: this, he
allowed, was rational. •
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to
stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might
not carry her off: and taking everything out of her, leave her
so far useless as not to be fit to swim. Accordingly we went
on board, took the arms which were left on board out of her,
and whatever else we found there, which was a bottle of
brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit cakes, a Horn of
powder, and a great lump of sugar, in a piece of canvas; the
sugar was five or six pounds: all which was very welcome to
me, especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had been
without many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore, we knocked
a great hole in her bottom, that if they had come strong
enough to master us, yet they could not carry off the boat.
Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could be
capable to recover the ship; but my view was, that if they
went away without the boat, I did not much question to make
her fit again to carry us away to the Leeward Islands, and call
upon our friends the Spaniards in my way.
While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by
main strength, heaved the boat up on the beach, so high that
the tide would not float her off at high-water mark; and,
besides, had broken a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly
stopped, and were sat down musing what we should do, we
heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make a waft with her
ancient, as a signal for the boat to come on board; but no
boat stirred, and they fired several times, making other signals
for the boat
At last, when all their signals and firings proved fruitless,
and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them (by the help
of my glasses) hoist another boat off, and row towards the
shore; and we found, as they approached, that there were no
less than ten men in her, and that they had fire-arms with
them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had
a full view of them as they came. The captain knew the
persons and characters of all the men in the boat, of whom he
said that there were three very honest fellows, who, he was
sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpow-
ered and frightened: but that as for the boatswain, who, it
seems, was the chief officer among them, and all the rest, they
were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and were, no
doubt, made desperate in their new enterprise.
We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming
from the ship, considered of separating our prisoners, and had
indeed secured them effectually. Two of them, of whom the
captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and
one of the three delivered men, to my cave, where they were
remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or discov-
ered, or of finding their way out of the woods. They left
them bound, but gave them provisions, and promised them, if
they continued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a
day or two; but that if they attempted their escape, they
should be put to death without mercy. They promised faith-
fully to bear their confinement with patience.
The other prisoners had better usage: two of them were
kept pinioned indeed, because the captain did not like to trust
them, but the other two were taken into my service, upon
their captain's recommendation, and upon their solemnly
engaging to live and die with us.
As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay,
they ran their boat into the beach, and came all on shore,
hauling the boat up after them, which I was glad to see; for I
was afraid they would rather have left the boat, and anchor
some distance from the shore, with some hands in her to
guard her, and so we should not be able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, they ran all to the other boat; and it was
easy to see they were under a great surprise to find her
stripped, and a great hole in the bottom. After this, they set
up a great shout; but it was all to no purpose: then they
came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms,
which indeed we heard, and the echoes made the woods
ring, but it was all one; those in the cave we were sure could
not hear, and those in our keeping, though they heard it well
enough, yet durst give no answer to them.
They were so surprised at this, as they told us afterwards,
that they resolved to go all on board again to their ship, and
let them know there that the men were all murdered, and the
long boat staved; accordingly, they immediately launched
their boat again, and got all of them on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded at
this, believing they would go on board the ship again, and set
sail, giving their comrades up for lost, and so he should still
lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should have recov-
ered, but he was quickly as much frightened the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but we per-
ceived them all coming on shore again; and they left three
men in the boat, and the rest went up into the country to look
for their fellows. This was a great disappointment to us, for
now we were at a loss what to do; for our seizing those seven
men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the boat
escape, because they would then row away to the ship, and
then the rest of them would be sure to weigh, and set sail, and
so our hope of recovering the ship would be lost. However,
we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of things
might present. The seven men came on shore, and the three
who remained in the boat put her off to a good distance from
the shore, and came to an anchor, to wait for them, so that it
was impossible for us to come at them in the boat.
Those that came on shore kept close together, marching
towards the top of the little hill, under which my habitation
lay, and we could see them plainly, though they could not
perceive us. And when they were come to the brow of the
hill, where they could see a great way into the valleys and
woods which lay towards the northeast part, and where the
island lay lowest, they shouted till they were weary, and then
they sat down to consider of it. Had they gone to sleep
there, as the other party did, they had done for us; but they
were too full of apprehension of danger to venture to go to
sleep, though they could not tell what the danger was.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this
consultation of theirs, namely, that perhaps they would all fire
a volley again, to endeavor to make their fellows hear, and
that we should all sally upon them just at the juncture when
their pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly
yield, and we should have them without bloodshed. I liked
the proposal, provided it was done while we were near enough
to come up to them before they could load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long time,
very irresolute what course to take; at length I told them
there would be nothing to be done, in my opinion, till night;
and then, if they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might
use some stratagem with them in the boat to get them on
shore.
We waited a great while, and were very uneasy; when we
saw them all start up, and march towards the sea. It seems
they had such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the dan-
ger of the place, that they resolved to go on board the ship
again, give their companions over for lost, and so go on their
intended voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I imag-
ined they had given over their search, and were for going back
again; and the captain was ready to sink when I •told him my
thoughts, but I presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them
back again, and which answered my end to a tittle.
I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little
creek westward, towards the place where Friday was rescued,
and at about half a mile distance, I bade them halloo as loud
as they could, and as soon as they heard the seamen answer
them, they should return it again, and then, keeping out of
sight, take a round, and then wheel about again to me by
such ways as I directed.
They were just going into the boat, when Friday and the
mate hallooed, and they presently heard them, and answering,
run along the shore westward, towards the voice they heard,
when they were stopped by the creek, — the water being up,
they could not get over, — and called for the boat to come
and set them over, as, indeed, I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that they
took one of the three men out of her, and left only two in the
boat, having fastened her to a stump of a little tree on the
shore.
This was what I wished for ; and immediately leaving Friday
and the captain's mate to their business, I took the rest with
me, and crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the
two men before they were aware, one of them lying on the
shore between sleeping and waking, and, going to start up, the
captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him and knocked him
down, and then called to him in the boat to yield or he was a
dead man.
There needed very few arguments to persuade a single man
to yield, when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade
knocked down: besides, this was, it seems, one of the three
men who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the
crew, and, therefore, was easily persuaded, not only to yield,
but afterwards to join very sincerely with us.
In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so well
managed their business with the rest, that they drew them, by
hallooing and answering, from one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they were
sure they could not reach back before it was dark : and indeed
they were heartily tired themselves also by the time they came
back to us.
It was several hours after Friday came back to me before
they came back to their boat; and we could hear the foremost
of them long before they came quite up, calling to those behind
to come along, and could hear them answer, and complain how
lame and tired they were, and not able to come any faster,
which was very welcome news to us.
At length they came up to the boat, but it is impossible to
express their confusion when they found the boat fast aground
in the creek, and their two men gone; we could hear them
telling one another they were gotten into an enchanted island;
that either there were inhabitants in it, and they should all be
murdered, or else there were devils or spirits in it, and they
should be carried away and devoured.
They hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their
names, but got no answer. , After some time, we could see
them by the little light there was run about like men in de-
spair; and that sometimes they would go and sit down in the
boat to rest themselves, then come on shore again, and walk
about, and so the same thing over again.
My men would have fallen upon them in the dark, but I was
willing to spare them, and kill as few of them as I could, being
unwilling to hazard the killing any of our men, knowing the
others were well armed. I resolved to wait and make sure of
them, and drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday
and the captain to creep upon their hands and knees, and get
as near them as they possibly could before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture when the boatswain,
who was the principal ringleader, and had now shown himself
the most dispirited of all the rest, walked towards them with
two more of their crew. The captain was so eager at having
the principal rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly
have patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him, for
he only heard his tongue before; but when they came nearer,
the captain and Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at
them.
The boatswain was killed on the spot, the next was shot
through the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die
till an hour or two after, and the third ran for it.
At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with my
whole army, which was now eight men, namely, myself, gener-
alissimo; Friday, my lieutenant-general ; the captain and his
two men; and the three prisoners of war, whom we had
trufeted with arms.
We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that they could
not see our number; and I made the man they had left in the
boat, who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try if
he could bring them to parley, which fell out just as we
desired. So he calls out as loud as he could to one of them,
"Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith answered imme-
diately, "Who's that, Robinson?" for it seems he knew his
voice. The other answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom
Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are all dead
men this moment!"
"Who must we yield to ? — where are they?" says Tom
Smith again. "Here they are," says he. "Here is our cap-
tain, and fifty men with him, have been hunting you this two
hours. The boatswain is killed, Will Frye is wounded, and I
am a prisoner; if you do not yield, you are all lost."
"Will they give us quarter, then," says Tom Smith, "and
we will yield." "I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield," says
Robinson. So he asked the captain, and the captain himself
then called out, "You, Smith, you know my voice; if you lay
down your arms immediately, and submit, you shall all have
your lives, all but Will Atkins."
Upon this Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, captain,
give me quarter! What have I done? They have all been as
bad as I!" which was not true, for it seems this Will Atkins
was the first man that laid hold of the captain when they first
mutinied. However, the captain told him he must lay down
his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy; by
which he meant me, for they called me governor.
In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their
lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with them, and
two more, who bound them all; and then my great army of
fifty men, which, particularly with those three, were in all
but eight, came up and seized upon them all, and upon their
boat, only that I kept myself and one more out of sight, for
reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think qf seiz-
ing the ship; and as for the captain, now he had leisure to
parley with them, he expostulated with them upon the villainy
of their practices with him, and how certainly it must bring
them to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to the
gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their
lives. As for that, he told them that the governor was an
Englishman, and that he might hang them all there if he
pleased; but, as he had given them quarter, he supposed he
would send them to England, except Atkins, whom he was
commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for
that he would be hanged in the morning. Though this was all
a fiction of his own, yet it had the desired effect; Atkins
fell upon his knees to beg the captain to intercede with the
governor for his life, and all the rest begged of him, for God's
sake, not to be sent to England.
It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was
come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these
fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship. So I
retired in the dark from them, that they might not see what
kind of a governor they had, and called the captain to me.
When I called, as at a good distance, one of the men was
ordered to speak again, and to say to the captain, " Captain,
the commander calls for you ;" and presently the captain
replied, "Tell his excellency I am just a-coming." So they
all believed the commander was just by with his fifty men.
Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my project for
seizing the ship, which pleased him, and resolved to put it in
execution the next morning.
But in order to execute it with more art, and to be sure of
success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that he
should go and take Atkins, and two more of the worse of
them, and send them bound to the cave where the others lay.
So Friday, and the two men who came on shore with the
captain, conveyed them to the cave as to a prison. The other
I ordered to my bower, where they were pinioned, and left
secure enough.
To these, in the morning, I sent the captain, who was to
enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try them and tell
me whether he thought they might be trusted or no, to go on
board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury
done him, of the condition they were brought to, and that
though the governor had given them quarter for their lives, as
to the present action, yet that if they were sent to England,
they would all be hanged in chains; but that if they would
join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would
have the governor's engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be
accepted by men in their condition; they fell down on their
knees to the captain, and promised, with deep imprecations,
that they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that
they should owe their lives to him, and would go with him all
over the world; that they would own him for a father to them
as long as they lived. "Well," says the captain, "I must go
and tell the governor what you say, and see what I can do to
bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an account of
the temper he found them in, and that he verily believed they
would be faithful. However, that we might be very secure, I
told him he should go back again, and choose out five of them,
and tell them that they should see he did not want men, but
that he would take out those five to be his assistants, and that
the governor would keep the other two, and the three that
were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave), as hostages for the
fidelity of those five; and if they proved unfaithful in the exe-
cution, the five hostages should be hanged in chains alive upon
the shore.
This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor
was in earnest. However, they had no way left them but to
accept it; and it was now the business of the prisoners, as
much as of the captain, to persuade the other five to do their
duty. Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedi-
tion: First, the captain, his mate, and passenger. Second,
then the two prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having their
characters from the captain, I had given their liberty, and
trusted them with arms. Third, the other two, whom I had
kept in my bower, pinioned, these were now released. Fourth,
these five, released at last; so that there were twelve in all,
besides five we kept in the cave, as hostages for the fidelity of
the others.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with those
hands on board the ship; for as for me and my man Friday,
I did not think it proper for us to stir, having seven men left
behind; and it was employment enough for us to keep them
asunder, and supply them with victuals.
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast;
but Friday went twice a day to them, to supply them with
necessaries; and I made the other two carry provisions to a
certain distance, where Friday was to take it.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the
captain, who told them I was the person the governor had
ordered to look after them, and that it was the governor's
pleasure they should not stir anywhere, but by my direction;
that if they did, they should be fetched to the castle and be
laid in irons; so that we never suffered them to see me as
governor, so now I appeared as another person, and spoke of
the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all
occasions.
The captain now had no difficulty before him but to furnish
his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He
made his passenger captain of one, with four other men: he
himself, with his mate and five•more, went in the other. And
they contrived their business very well, for they came up to
the ship about midnight. As soon as they came within call
of the ship, he made Robinson hail them, and tell them he had
brought off the men and the boat, but that it was a long time
before they had found them, and the like; holding them in
chat till they came to the ship's side ; when the captain and
the mate, entering first with their arms, immediately knocked
down the second mate and the carpenter with the butt-end of
their muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men.
They secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter-
decks, and began to fasten the hatches to keep them down
who were below, when the other boat, and their men entering
the forechains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the
scuttle which went down into the cook-room, making three men
they found there prisoners. When this was done, and all safe
upon the deck, the captain ordered the mate with three men
to break into the round-house, where the new rebel captain
lay; and he, having taken the alarm and gotten up, now stood
with two men and a boy, having fire-arms in their hands; and
when the mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new cap-
tain and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded
the mate with a musket-ball, which broke his arm, and
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody.
The mate calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and, with his pistol, shot the new
captain through the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and
14
came out again behind one of his ears, so that he never spoke
a word; upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken
effectually, without any more lives lost. As soon as the ship
was thus secured, the captain ordered seven guns to be fired,
which was the signal agreed upon with me, to give me notice
of his success, which, you may be sure, I was glad to hear,
having sat watching upon the shore for it till two o'clock in the
morning.
Having heard the signal plainly, I laid me down, and being
very much fatigued, I fell sound asleep, when shortly I was
awoke by the noise of a gun; and, starting up, I heard a man
call me by the name of " Governor," and presently I knew the
captain's voice, when climbing up to the top of the hill, there
he stood, and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his
arms. "My dear friend and deliverer," says he, "there's
your ship; for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that
belongs to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she
rode, about half a mile off the shore, for they had weighed her
anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and the weather
being fair, had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth
of a little creek, and the tide being up, they had brought the
pinnace in near the place where I had first landed my rafts,
and so landed just at my door.
I was, at first, ready to sink down with surprise, for I saw
my deliverance indeed visibly put into my hands, all things
easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither I
pleased to go. He perceived my situation, and immediately
pulls a bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial,
which he had brought on purpose for me. After I drank it, I
sat down upon the ground, and it was a good while before I
could speak to him.
After some time, I came to myself, and then I embraced
him in my turn, as my deliverer, and we rejoiced together. I
told him, I looked upon him as a man sent from heaven to
deliver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to be a
chain of wonders; and such things as these were the testi-
monies we had of a secret hand of Providence governing the
world, and an evidence that the eyes of an infinite power could
search into the remotest corner of the world, and send help to
the miserable whenever he pleased; nor did I forget to return
thanks to God for all his mercies.
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had
brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded,
and such as the wretches, who had been so long his masters,
had not plundered him of. Upon this he called aloud to his
men, and told them to bring the things ashore that were for
the governor: and it was a splendid present. First, he had
brought me a case of bottles full of cordial waters, six large
bottles of Madeira wine, two pounds of excellent tobacco,
twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork,
with a bag of pease, and about a hundred weight of biscuit. He
brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full of
lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and abundance of other
things. But, besides these, and what was a thousand times
more useful to me, he brought me six clean new shirts, six very
good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat,
and one pair of stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of
his own, which had been worn very little; but the clothes felt
very awkward and uneasy upon me at first.
After all these things were brought into my little apartment,
we began to consult what was to be done with the prisoners
we had, and whether we might venture to take them away with
us or no, especially two of them, whom we knew to be incor-
rigible and refractory to the last degree, and the captain said
he knew that they were such rogues, that there was no oblig-
ing them; and if he did carry them away, it must be in irons,
as malefactors, to be delivered over to justice, at the first Eng-
lish colony he could come at. Upon this, I told him I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it their
own request that he should leave them upon the island, of
which the captain said he should be very glad. I accordingly
sent for them, and entered seriously into discourse with them
upon their circumstances. One of them answered in the name
of the rest, that they had nothing to say but this, that when
they were taken, the captain promised them their lives, and
they humbly implored my mercy. But I told them I knew not
what mercy to show them; for, as for myself, I had resolved
to quit the island with all my men, and had taken passage
with the captain to go to England; and as for the captain, he
would not carry them to England, but as prisoners in irons, to
be tried for mutiny and running away with the ship; the con-
sequence of which, they must needs know, would be the gal-
lows: so that I could not tell which was best for them, unless
they had a mind to take their fate in the island ; if they desired
that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave it; I had some
inclination to give them their lives, if they could shift on
shore. They seemed very thankful for it; and said they would
rather venture to stay there, than to be carried to England to
be hanged.
I then told them I would let them into the story of my living
there, and put them into the way of making it easy to them.
Accordingly I gave them the whole history of the place, and
of my coming to it; showed them my fortifications, the way I
made my bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes, and in a
word, all that was necessary to make them easy. I told them
the story of the Spaniards that were to be expected, for whom
I left a letter, and•made them promise to treat them in common
with themselves.
I left them five muskets, three fowling-pieces, and three
swords. I had about a barrel and a half of powder, which I
left them. I gave them a description of the way I managed
the goats, and directions to milk and fatten them, to make both
butter and cheese. In a word, I gave them every part of my
own story; and I told them I would prevail with the captain
to leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some gar-
den seeds, which I told them I would have been very glad of;
also I gave them the bag of pease which the captain had
brought me, and bade them to be sure to sow and increase
them.
Having done this, I left them the next day, and went on
board the ship. The next morning two of the five men came
swimming to the ship's side, and making a most lamentable
complaint of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship,
for God's sake, for they should be murdered.
The captain pretended to have no power without me; but,
after some difficulty, and after their solemn promises of amend-
ment, they were taken on board, and were shortly after
soundly whipped, after which they proved very honest and
quiet fellows.
Some time after this, I went with the boat on shore, the tide
being up, with the things promised to the men, with which the
captain, at my intercession, sent their chests and clothes,
which they took, and were very thankful for. I also encour-
aged them, by telling them that if it lay in my way to send any
vessel to take them in, I would not forget them.
When I quitted this island, I carried on board, for relics,
the great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one of
my parrots ; also I forgot not to take the money I had had laid
by me so long useless.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, by the
ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon it
twenty-eight years, two months, and nineteen days; being
delivered from the second captivity the same day of the month
that I made my escape from among the Moors at Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England,
the nth of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five
years absent.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger as if I
had never been known there. My benefactor and faithful
steward, whom I left in trust with my money, was alive, but
had had great misfortunes in the world, was become a widow
the second time, and was in very low circumstances. I made
her easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I would give
her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude to her for-
mer care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as much as my
little stock would afford, which at that time would indeed allow
me to do but little for her; but I assured her I would never
forget her former kindness to me; nor did I forget her
when I had sufficient to help her at a future time.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father was
dead, and my mother, and all the family extinct, except two
sisters, and two of the children of one of my brothers; and, as
I had been long ago given over for dead, there had been no
provision made for me, so that, in a word, I found nothing to
relieve or assist me, and the little money I had would not do
much for me, as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not
expect; and this was, that the master of the ship, whom I had
so happily delivered, having given a very handsome account
to the owners of the manner how I had saved the lives of the
men and the ship, they invited me to meet them and some
other merchants concerned, and all together made me a very
handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present of
almost two hundred pounds sterling.
But, after making several reflections upon the circumstances
of my life, and how little way this would go towards settling me
in the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I could get
any information of the state of my plantation in the Brazils,
and of what was become of my partner, who, I supposed, had
for some years now given me over for dead.
With this view, I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived
in April following; my man Friday accompanying me very
honestly in all these ramblings, and proving a most faith-
ful servant upon all occasions. When I came to Lisbon,
I found out by inquiry, and to my particular satisfaction, my
old friend, the captain of the ship, who first took me up at sea,
off the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left
off the sea, having put his son into the ship, and who still used
the Brazil trade. The old man did not know me, and I
scarcely knew him; but he soon recollected me when I told
him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of our old acquaintance,
I inquired after my plantation and my partner. The old man
told me he had not been in the Brazils for about nine years;
but that he could assure me, that when he came away, my
partner was living, but that the trustees, whom I had joined
with him to take cognizance of my part, were both dead; that,
however, he believed that I should have a very good account
of the improvement of the plantation, for that, in the general
belief of my being cast away and drowned, my trustees had
given in the account of the produce of my plantation to the
procurator fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case I never
came to claim it, one third to the king, and two thirds to the
monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended for the benefit of
the poor, and for the conversion of the Indians to the Catholic
faith; but that if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the
inheritance, it would be restored; only that the improvement,
or annual production, being, as he said, distributed to char-
itable uses, he thought could not be restored.
I was a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and
inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the trus-
tees should thus dispose of my effects, when they knew that I
had made my will, and made him, the Portuguese captain, my
universal heir, &c. He told me that was true, but as there
was no proof of my being dead, he could not act as executor,
until some certain account should come of my death; and
that, besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with a thing
so remote ; that it was true, he had registered my will, and put
in his claim, and, could he have given any account of my being
dead or alive, he would have acted by procuration, and taken
possession of my ingenio (the sugar-house), and given his son,
who was now in the Brazils, orders to do it.
The old man then asked me if he should put me in a
method to make my claim to the plantation. I told him I
thought to go over to it myself. He said I might do so if I
pleased; but that if I did not, there were ways enough to
secure my right, and immediately to appropriate the profits to
my use; and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon just
ready to go to the Brazils, he made me enter my name in a
public register, with his affidavit, affirming, upon oath, that I
was alive, and that I was the same person who took up the
land for planting the said plantation at first. This being
regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration affixed, he
directed me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a mer-
chant of his acquaintance at the place, and then proposed my
staying with him till an account came of the return.
Never anything was more honorable than the proceedings
upon this procuration; for in less than seven months I re-
ceived a large packet from the survivors of my trustees, the
merchants for whose account I went to sea; and as the Brazil
ships come all in fleets, the same ships which brought my
letters brought my goods, and the effects were safe in the
Tagus before the letters came to my hands. By these, it
appeared I was now master, all on a sudden, of above five
thousand pounds sterling in money, and had an estate, as I
might well call it, in the Brazils, of above a thousand pounds
a-year, as safe as any landed estate in England; in a word, I
was in a condition which I could scarcely understand, or how
to compose myself for its enjoyment.
The first thing I did was to recompense my original bene-
factor, my good old captain, who had been first charitable to
me in my distress, kind to me in the beginning, and honest to
me at the end. I showed him all that was sent me. I told
him that, next to the providence of Heaven, which disposes
all things, it was owing to him; and that it now lay on me to
reward him. So I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw
a procuration, empowering him to be my receiver of the
annual profits of my plantation, and appointing my partner to
account to him, and make the returns by the usual fleets to
him, in my name, adding a clause in the end, being a grant of
one hundred moidores a year during his life, out of the
effects; and fifty moidores a year to his son after him, for his
life: and thus I requited my old man.
I was now to consider which way to steer my course next,
and what to do with the estate that Providence had thus put
into my hands; and, indeed, I had more care upon my head
now than I had in my silent state of life on the island, where
I wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing but what I
wanted.
As I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to his satisfac-
tion, who had been my former benefactor, so I began to think
of my poor widow, whose husband had been my first benefac-
tor, and she, while it was in her power, my faithful steward
and instructor. So the first thing I did I got a merchant in
Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London, not only to
pay a bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in money a
hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her and comfort her
in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I lived, have a
farther supply. At the same time, I sent my two sisters in the
country, each of them a hundred pounds, they being, though
not in want, yet not in very good circumstances; one having
been married, and left a widow, and the other having a hus-
band not so kind to her as he should be. But, among all m)
relations or acquaintances, I could not yet pitch upon one to
whom I durst commit the gross of my stock.
I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have set-
tled myself there, for I was. as it were, naturalized to the place,
but that I really did not know with whom to leave my effects
behind me; so I resolved at last to go to England with them,
where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make some acquain-
tance or find some relations that would be faithful to me, and
accordingly I prepared to go for England with all my wealth.
Having settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my
effects into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty was
which way to go to England. I had been accustomed enough
to the sea, and yet I had a strange aversion to go to England
by sea at that time; and though I could give no reason for it,
yet the difficulty increased upon me so much, that though I
had once shipped my baggage in order to go, yet I altered my
mind, and that not once but two or three times.
It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this
might be one of my reasons; but let no man strike the strong
impulses of his own thoughts in cases of such moment. Two
ships, each of which I had engaged to go in, but again with-
drew my agreement, miscarried, namely, one was taken by the
Algerines, and the other was cast away on the Start, near
Torbay, and all the people drowned, except three; so that in
either of those vessels I had been made miserable, and in
which most, it was hard to say.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to
whom I communicated everything, pressed me earnestly not
to go by sea; but either to go by land to the Groyne, and
cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was
but an easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais
and Dover; or go up to Madrid, and so all the way by land
through France. In a word, I was so prepossessed against
my going to sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I
resolved to travel all the way by land, which, as I was not in
haste, and did not value the charge, was by much the pleas-
anter way; and to make it more so, my old captain brought
an English gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who
was willing to travel with me; after which we picked up two
more, who were English, and merchants also, and two young
Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to Paris only, so that we
were in all six of us and five servants ; the two merchants, and
the two Portuguese, contenting themselves with one servant
between two, to save the charge; and as for me, I got an
English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my man
Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable of supply-
ing the place of a servant upon the road.
In this manner we set out from Lisbon; and our company
being all very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop,
whereof they did me the honor to call me captain, as well
because 1 was the oldest man as because I had two servants,
and indeed was the originator of the whole journey.
Four French gentlemen, who had been stopped on the
French side of the passes, as we were now on the Spanish, had
found out a guide, who had brought them over the mountains
by such ways, that they were not much incommoded with
the snow; and, where they met with snow in any quantity,
they said it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their
horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us that he would under-
take to carry us the same way, with no hazard from the snow,
provided we were armed sufficiently to protect us from wild
beasts; for, he said, upon these snow regions it was common
for wolves to show themselves at the foot of the mountains,
being made ravenous for want of food, while the ground was
covered with snow. We told him we were well enough pre-
pared for such creatures as they were, if he would insure us
from a kind of two-legged wolves, from which we were told
most danger was to be apprehended, especially on the French
side of the mountains.
He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind in the way
that we were to go. So we readily agreed to follow him, as
did also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go,
and were obliged to come back again.
Accordingly, we all set out from Pampeluna, with our
guide, on the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was sur-
prised, when, instead of going forward, he came directly back
with us above twenty miles; on the same road by which we
came from Madrid, when, having passed two rivers, and come
into the plain country, we found ourselves in a warm climate
again, where the country was pleasant, and no snow was to be
seen; but, on a sudden, turning to the left, he approached the
mountains by another way; and though, it is true, the hills
and the precipices looked dreadful, yet he made so many
tours, and meanders, and led us by such winding ways, that
we insensibly passed the height of the mountains without
being much encumbered with the snow; and, all on a sudden,
he showed us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and
Gascoigne, all green and flourishing, though indeed they were
at a great distance, and we had some rough way to pass yet.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed
so fast one whole day and night that we could not travel; but
he bade us be easy, we should soon be past it all. We found,
indeed, that we began to descend every day, and to come more
north than before; and so, depending upon our guide, we
went on.
It was about two hours before night, when our guide, being
something before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three
monstrous wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way,
adjoining to a thick wood. Two of the wolves flew upon the
guide, and had he been half a mile before us, he had been
devoured, indeed, before we could have helped him. One of
them fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked the man
with that violence, that he had not time, or not presence of
mind enough to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to
us most lustily. My man Friday being next to me, I bade him
ride up, and see what was the matter. As soon as Friday
came in sight of the man, he hallooed as loud as the other, "O
master! O master!" but, like a bold fellow, rode directly up
to the man, and, with a pistol, shot the wolf that attacked him
through the head.
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday;
for he, having been used to that kind of creature in his coun-
try, had no fear upon him, but went up close to him, and shot
him as above ; whereas, any of us would have fired at a farther
distance, and might, perhaps, have either missed the wolf, or
shot the man.
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than I;
and indeed it alarmed all our company, when, with the noise
of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the most dismal
howling of wolves, and the noise redoubled by the echo of the
mountains.
My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we
came up he was helping him off from his horse, for the man
was both hurt and frightened, and indeed the last more than
the first.
We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our guide
told us, if there were any more wolves in the country, we
should find them there; and this was a small plain, sur-
rounded with woods on every side, and a long, narrow defile,
or lane, which we were to pass, to get through the wood, and
then we should come to a village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered the
first wood; and a little after sunset we came into the plain.
We met with nothing in the first wood, except that, in a little
plain within the wood, which was not above two furlongs over,
we saw five great wolves cross the road, full speed, one after
another, as if they had been in chase of some prey they had in
view. They took no notice of us, and were gone, and out of
our sight in a few moments.
This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and that we
might lose no time, we kept going; but we had little more than
loaded our fusils, and put ourselves into readiness, when we
heard a terrible noise in the wood on our left.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky,
which made it the worse on our side; but the noise increasing,
we could easily perceive that it was the howling of those
ravenous creatures; and, on a sudden, we perceived two or
three troops of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one
in our front, and we knew not what course to take; but the
creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about us, in
hopes of prey; and I verily believe there were three hundred
of them. It happened very much to our advantage, that, at
the entrance into the wood there lay some large timber trees,
cut down, and I drew my little troop in among these trees,
and placing ourselves in a line, behind one long tree, I advised
them all to alight, and keeping that tree before us for a breast-
work, to stand in a triangle or three fronts, inclosing our
horses in the centre. We did so; and it was well we did, for
never was a more furious charge than the creatures made upon
us in this place: they came on us with a growling kind of
noise, and mounted the piece of timber, as if they were only
rushing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was
principally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us,
which was the prey they aimed at. I ordered our men to fire
as before, every other man, and they took their aim so sure,
that they killed several wolves at the first volley; but there
was a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on
like devils, those behind pushing on those before. When we
had fired the second volley of our fusils, we thought they
stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone off, but it
was but a moment, for others came forward again, so we fired
two volleys of our pistols, and, I believe, in these four firings,
we killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as
many; yet they came on again.
I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily; so I called
my servant, not Friday, but my other man, and, giving him a
horn of powder, I bid him lay a train all along the piece of
timber, and let it be a large train. He did so; and had but
just time to get away, when the wolves came up to it, and
some were got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol
close to the powder, set it on fire. Those that were upon the
timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell, or
rather jumped in among us, with the force and fright of the
fire. We dispatched these in an instant, and the rest were so
frightened with the light, that they drew back a little.
Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired off in one
volley; and after that we gave a shout: upon this the wolves
turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame
ones, whose dreadful crying and howling scared the rest, so
that they all fled, andleft us.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage
through France, nothing but what other travellers have given
an account of, with much more advantage than I can. I
travelled from Thoulouse to Paris, and, without any consider-
able stay, came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover, the I4th
of January, after having a severe cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had, in a
little time, all my newly discovered estate safe about me, the
bills of exchange which I had brought with me having been
currently paid. My principal guide and privy counsellor was
my good old widow, who, in gratitude for the money I had
sent her, thought no pains too much, or care too great, to
employ for me.
I began to think of leaving my effects with this woman, and
setting out for Lisbon, and so to the Brazils. But now another
scruple came in my way, and that was religion ; for, as I had
entertained some doubts about the Roman religion, even while
I was abroad, especially in my state of solitude, so I knew
there was no going to the Brazils for me, much less going to
settle there, unless I resolved to embrace the Catholic religion,
without any reserve; except, on the other hand, I resolved to
be a sacrifice to my principles, be a martyr for religion, and
die in the Inquisition; so I resolved to stay at home, and, if I
could find means, to dispose of my plantation.
To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who, in
return, gave me notice that he could easily dispose of it there;
but that, if I thought fit to give him leave to offer it in my
name to the two merchants, the survivors of my trustees, who
lived in the Brazils, and most fully understood the value of it,
who lived just upon the spot, and whom I knew to be very
rich, so that he believed they would be fond of buying it, he
did not doubt but I should make four or five thousand pieces
of eight the more for it.
Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to them,
and he did so; and in about eight months more, the ships
being then returned, he sent me an account that they had
accepted the offer, and had remitted thirty-three thousand
pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay
for it.
In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form which
they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man, who sent
me bills of exchange for thirty-two thousand eight hundred
pieces of eight for the estate, reserving the payment of one
hundred moidores a-year to him, the old man, during his life,
and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which I
had promised them, and which the plantation was to make
good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given the first part
of a life of fortune and adventure, a life of Providence's
checker-work, and of a variety which the world will seldom be
able to show the like of. Beginning foolishly, but closing
much more happily than I had ever any reason even to hope
for.
Any one would think that, in this state of complicated good
fortune, I was past running any more hazards; but I was
inured to a wandering life, had no family, nor many relations,
nor, however rich, had I contracted much acquaintance; and
though I had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not
keep that country out of my head, and had a great mind to be
upon the wing again, especially I could not resist the strong
inclination I had to see my island.
My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me from it,
and so far prevailed with me, that for almost seven years she
prevented my running abroad; during which time I took my
two nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into my care.
The eldest, having something of his own, I bred up as a gen-
tleman, and gave him a settlement of some addition to his
estate after my decease; the other I put out to the captain of
a ship, and, after five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enter-
prising young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him
to sea. And thisf young fellow afterwards drew me in, old as
I was, to farther adventures myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here. For, first
of all, I married, and had three children, two sons and one
daughter. But my wife dying, and my nephew coming home,
with good success, from a voyage to Spain, my inclination to
go abroad, and his importunity, prevailed, and I engaged to
go in his ship as a private trader to the East Indies. In this
voyage I visited my new colony in the island, saw my succes-
sors, the Spaniards; had the whole story of their coming to
and adventures in the island, after my departure. All these
things, with some very surprising incidents, in some new
adventures of my own, for ten years more, I may, perhaps, give
a farther account of hereafter.
THE FARTHER ADVENTURES
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
{HAT homely proverb used on so many occasions in
England, namely, That what is bred in the bone will
not go out of the flesh, was never more verified than
in the story of my life. Any one would think that after thirty-
five years' affliction, and a variety of unhappy circumstances,
which few men, if any, ever went through before, and after
near seven years of peace and enjoyment in the fulness of all
things; growing old, and when, if ever, it might be allowed
to me to have had such experience of every state of middle
life, as to know which was most adapted to make a man
happy; I say, after all this, any one would have thought that
the native propensity to rambling, which first sent me out
into the world, should be worn out, and that I might at sixty-
one have been inclined to stay at home, and have done ven-
turing life and fortune any more. \
Nay, farther, the common motive for foreign adventures was
taken away in me; for I had no fortune to make, I had noth-
ing to seek: for, if I had gained ten thousand pounds, I had
been no richer; for I had already sufficient for my wants, and
for those I had to leave it to; and that I had was visibly
increasing; for having no great family, I could not spend what
I had, unless I would set up for an expensive way of living,
such as a great family, servants, equipage, gayety, and the
like, which were things I had no inclination to; so that I had
nothing indeed to do but to sit still, enjoy what I had got, and
see it increase daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least not
enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad
again, which hung about me like a chronic distemper; partic-
ularly the desire of seeing my new plantation in the island,
and the colony I left there, which run in my head continually.
I dreamed of it all night, and my imagination run upon it all
day. It was uppermost in all my thoughts, and my fancy
worked so steadily and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in
my sleep; in short, nothing could move it from my mind; it
even broke so violently into all my discourses, that it made my
conversation tiresome; for I could talk of nothing else, all my
discourse run into it, even to impertinence, and I saw this
myself. One time in my sleep I had the villainy of three
pirate sailors so vividly related to me by the first Spaniard and
Friday's father, that it was surprising; they told me how they
barbarously attempted to murder all the Spaniards, and that
they set fire to the provisions they had laid up, on purpose to
distress and starve them, things that I had never heard of,
and that indeed were never all of them true in fact: but it was
so warm in my imagination, and so realized to me, that to the
hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but that it was or
would be true; also how I resented it when the Spaniard
complained to me, and how I brought them to justice, tried
them, and ordered them all three to be hanged. What there
was really in this shall be seen in its place ; •for, however I
came to form such things in my dream, and what secret
converse of spirits injected it, yet there was very much of it
true.
In this kind of temper I lived some years; I had no enjoy-
ment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diversion but
what had something or other of this in it, so that my wife, who
saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told me very seriously
one night, that she believed there was some powerful impulse
of Providence upon me, which dragged me thither again; and
that she thought nothing hindered my going but thoughts of
my wife and children. She told me it was true she could not
think of parting with me; but she was assured, that if she
were to die, it would be the first thing I would do; so, as it
seemed to her that the thing was determined above, she would
not be the only obstruction to it: " If I thought fit and resolved
to go " — here she found me very intent upon her words, and
that I looked very earnestly at her; so that it a little disor-
dered her, and she stopped. I asked her why she did not go
on, and say what she was going to say? But I perceived her
heart was too full, tears stood in her eyes. "Speak out, my
dear," said I; "are you willing I should go?" "No," says
she, very affectionately, " I am far from willing ; but if you are
resolved to go," says she, "rather than I will be the only
hindrance, I will go with you; for though I think it a prepos-
terous thing for one of your years, and in your condition, yet
if it must be," said she again, weeping, "I won't leave you;
for if it be of Heaven, you must do it; there is no resisting it;
and if Heaven makes it your duty to go, it is also mine to go
with you ; or otherwise dispose of me, that I may not obstruct
it."
This affectionate behavior of my wife's brought me a little
out of the vapors, and I began to consider what I was doing;
I corrected my wandering fancy, and began to argue sedately
with myself, what business I had, after threescore years, and
after such a life of sufferings and disasters, closed in so happy
and easy a manner, I say, what business had I to rush into
new hazards and adventures, fit only for youth and poverty to
run into?
I considered also my new engagement; that I had a wife,
one child already born, and my wife then great with another;
that I had all the world could give me, and had no need to
seek hazards for gain: that I was declining in years, and
ought to think rather of leaving what I had gained than of
seeking to increase it; that as to what my wife had said, of its
being an impulse from Heaven, and that it should be my duty
to go, I had no notion of that; so after many of these cogita-
tions, I struggled with the power of my imagination, reasoned
myself out of it, as I believe people may always do in like
cases, if they will; and, in a word, I conquered. I composed
myself with such arguments which my present condition fur-
nished me plentifully with: and I resolved to divert myself
with other things, to engage in some business that might
effectually tie me up from any excursions of this kind; for I
found the feeling return upon me chiefly when I was idle, and
had nothing to do, or anything of moment immediately before
me.
To this purpose I bought a little farm in the county of Bed-
ford, and resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little
convenient house upon it, and the land about it I found was
capable of great improvement, and in many ways it suited my
inclination, which delighted in cultivating, managing, plant-
ing, and improving of land; and particularly, being an inland
country, I was removed from among ships, sailors, and things
relating to the remote parts of the world.
In a word, I farmed my own land, I had no rent to pay, was
limited by no articles, I could pull up or cut down as I
pleased: what I planted was for myself, and what I improved
was for my family; and having thus left off all thoughts of
wandering, I had not the least discomfort in any part of my
life, as to this world. Now I thought indeed, that I enjoyed
the middle state of life that my father so early recommended
to me, — a kind of heavenly life, something like what is de-
scribed by the poet upon the subject of a country life.
Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pain, and youth no snare.
But in the middle of all this felicity, one unforeseen blow
from Providence unhinged me at once; and drove me, by its
consequences, into a deep relapse into the wandering disposi-
tion: which, as I may say, being born in my very blood, soon
recovered its hold over me, and, like the returns of a violent
distemper, came on me with an irresistible force; so that noth-
ing could remove it. This blow was the loss of my wife. For
a time I was inconsolable. It is not my purpose here to write
an elegy upon my wife, to paint her particular virtues, and
make my court to the sex by the flattery of a funeral sermon.
She was, in a few words, the stay of my affairs, the centre of
all my enterprises; by her prudence I had been reduced to
that happy compass I was in, from the most extravagant and
ruinous projects that fluttered in my head as above; she did
more to guide my rambling genius, than a mother's tears, a
father's instructions, a friend's counsel, or my own reasoning
powers could do. I was happy in listening to her arguments
and in being moved by her tears and entreaties. I was to the
last degree desolated and dislocated in the world by the loss
of her.
When she was gone, the world looked awkward around me;
I was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the
Brazils when I went first on shore there; and as much alone,
though surrounded with servants, as I was in my island. I
knew neither what to do, or what not to do I saw the world
busy round me, one part laboring for bread, and the other
part squandering in vile excesses or empty pleasures, both
equally miserable, because the end they proposed still fled
from them. The man of pleasure surfeited of his vice, heaped
up work for sorrow and repentance; and the men of labor
spent their strength in daily strugglings for bread to maintain
the vital strength they labored with; so living in a daily circu-
lation of sorrow, living but to work, and working but to live,
as if daily bread were the only end of wearisome life, and a
wearisome life the only occasion of daily bread.
This led me to think of the life I lived in my kingdom, the
island ; where I suffered no more corn to grow than I wanted;
and bred no more goats than I had use for: where the money
lay in the drawer till it grew mouldy.
All these things, had I improved them as I ought to have
done, and as reason and religion dictated, would have taught
me to search farther than human enjoyments for a full felicity.
The reason and end of life was something certainly superior
to all these things, and this was either to be possessed, or at
least hoped for, on this side the grave.
But my sage counsellor was gone ; I was like a ship without
a pilot, that could only run before the wind; my thoughts run
off again into the old affair, my head was quite turned with the
whimsies of foreign adventure; and all the pleasant innocent
amusements of my farm and my garden, my cattle, and my
family, which before entirely possessed me, were now nothing
to me; they had no relish, and were like music to one that has
no ear, or food to one that has no taste. In a word, I resolved
to leave off house-keeping, let my farm, and return to London:
and in a few months after I did so.
When I came to London, I was as uneasy as I was before;
I had no relish to the place, no employment in it, nothing to
do but to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be
said, he is perfectly useless in God's creation, and it matters
not to the rest of his kind, whether he be dead or alive, a state
of existence which of all circumstances was the most my aver-
sion, who had been all my days used to an active life; I would
often say to myself, "A state of idleness is the very dregs
of life ;" and indeed I thought I was much more suitably
employed, when I was twenty-six days in making me a deal
board.
It was now the beginning oT the year 1693; my nephew,
who, as I have observed before, I had brought up to the sea,
and had made him commander of a ship, was come home from
a short voyage to Bilboa, being the first he had made; he
came to me, and told me that some merchants of his acquain-
tance had been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to
the East Indies and to China as private traders; "And now,
uncle," says he, "if you will go to sea with me, I will engage
to land you upon your old habitation at the island, for we are
to touch at the Brazils."
My nephew knew not how far my wandering propensities
had returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in
his thoughts; but that very morning before he came I had,
in much confusion of thought, and after revolving every part
of my circumstances, come to this resolution, namely, That I
would go to Lisbon and consult with my old sea-captain ; and,
if it was rational and practicable, I would go and see the
island again, and see what had become of my people there. I
had been pleasing myself with the thought of peopling the
place, and carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a patent
for the possession, and I know not what besides; when in the
middle of all this, in comes my nephew, as I have said, with
his project of carrying me thither, in his way to the East
Indies.
I paused at his words, and looking steadily at him, "What
devil," said I, "sent you on this unlucky errand?" My
nephew stared, as if he had been frighted at first; but per-
ceiving I was not much displeased with the proposal, he
recovered himself. "I hope it may not be an unlucky propo-
i
sal, sir," says he; "I dare say you would be pleased to see
your new colony there, where you once reigned with more
felicity than most of your brother monarchs."
In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that I
told him, in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I
would go with him: but I told him also, I would not promise
to go any further than my own island. "Why, sir," says he,
"you don't want to be left there again, I hope?" "Can you
not take me up again on your return?" said I. He told me
it might be that the merchants would not allow him to come
that way with a laden ship of such value, it being a month's
sail out of his way, and might be three or four. "Besides,
sir, if I should miscarry," said he, " and not return at all, then
you would be just reduced to the condition you were in
before."
This was very rational; but we soon found out a remedy for
it, which was to carry a framed sloop with us, which, being
taken in pieces and shipped on board the ship, might, by the
help of some carpenters, whom we also agreed to carry with
us, be set up again in the island ; and finished, fit to go to sea,
in a few days.
I was not long in resolving; for indeed the importunities of
my nephew joined in so effectually with my inclination, that
nothing could oppose them: on the other hand, my wife being
dead, nobody concerned themselves so much for me, as to
persuade me one way or other, except my ancient good friend
the widow, who earnestly entreated me to consider my years,
my easy circumstances, and the needless hazard of a long
voyage; and, above all, my young children: but it was all to
no purpose; I had an irresistible desire to the voyage; and
such was the impression I had upon my mind for the voyage,
that I told her I thought it would be a kind of resisting Provi-
dence if I should attempt to stay at home ; after this she ceased
her expostulations, and joined with me, not only in making pro-
vision for my voyage, but also in settling my family affairs in
my absence, and providing for the education of my children.
In order to this, I made my will, and settled the estate I
had in such a manner for my children, and placed it in such
hands, that I was perfectly easy; satisfied that they would
have justice done them, whatever might befall me ; as for their
education, I left it wholly to my widow, with a sufficient main-
tenance to herself for her care: all of which she richly
deserved; for no mother could have taken more care in their
education, or understand it better; and I lived to thank her
for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of Janu-
ary, 1694, and I with my man Friday went on board in the
Downs on the 8th, having, besides the frame of that sloop
which I mentioned above, a very considerable cargo of all
kinds of necessary things for my colony, which, if I did not
find in good condition, I resolved at least to leave it so.
First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to
place there, as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there
upon my own account, while I stayed, and either to leave them
there, or carry them forward, as they should appear willing;
particularly I carried two carpenters, a smith, and a very
handy ingenious fellow who was a cooper by trade, but was
also a general mechanic; for he was dexterous at making
wheels, and handmills to grind corn, was a good turner, a
good pot-maker; he also made anything that was proper to
make of earth, or of wood; in a word, we called him our
"Jack of all trades."
With these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go
passenger to the East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards
consented to stay on our plantation, and proved as handy a
fellow as could be desired, in many other businesses besides;
for, as I observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employ,
ments.
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not kept an
account of the particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity of
linen, and some thin English stuffs, enough for clothing the
Spaniards I expected to find there, comfortably for the next
seven years; these materials, with gloves, hats, shoes, stock-
ings, and all such things as they could want for wearing,
amounted to above 200 pounds, including some beds, bedding,
and household stuff, particularly kitchen utensils, with pots,
kettles, pewter, brass, &c., and near a hundred pound more in
iron-work, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges,
and every necessary thing I could think of.
L...
I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees,
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all
sizes, and two pieces of brass cannon; and, because I knew
not what time, and what extremities I was providing for, I
carried a hundred barrels of powder, besides swords, cutlasses,
and the iron part of some pikes and halberds; so that, in
short, we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores; and I
made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck guns more
than he wanted for his ship, to leave behind, to assist us to
maintain possession of the island.
I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used
to meet with; yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad
weather did happen, which made the voyage longer than I ex-
pected; and I, who had never made but one voyage, namely,
my first voyage to Guinea, in which I might be said to come
back again, as the voyage was at first designed, began to think
the same ill fate still attended me; and that I was born to be
never contented with being on shore, and yet to be always
unfortunate at sea.
Contrary winds first put up to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-
bound two-and-twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with
the disaster, that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in
the utmost plenty; so that while we lay here we never
touched the ship's stores, but rather added to them; here also
I took in several live hogs, and two cows, and calves, which I
resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on shore in my isl-
and; but we found occasion to dispose otherwise of them.
We set out the sth of February, from Ireland, and had a
very fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember, it might
be about the 20th of February in the evening, late, when the
mate having the watch, came into the round-house, and told us
he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired; and while he
was telling us of it, a boy came in and told us the boatswain
heard another. This made us all run out upon the quarter-
deck, where for a while we heard nothing, but in a few min-
utes we saw a very great light, and found that there was some
very terrible fire at a distance; immediately we had recourse
to our reckonings, and all agreed that there could be no land
in the direction of the fire, no, not for 500 leagues, for it
appeared at W. N. W. Upon this we concluded it must be
some ship on fire at sea; from the noise of guns heard just
before, we concluded it could not be far off, and stood directly
towards it. The farther we sailed, the greater the light
appeared, though the weather being hazy we could perceive
nothing but the flames for a while; in about half an hour's
sailing, the wind being fair for us, though not much of it, and
the weather clearing up a little, we could plainly discern a
great ship on fire in the middle of the sea.
I was most sensibly touched with this disaster; I recollected
what condition I was in when taken up by the Portuguese
Captain; but how much more deplorable the circumstances of
the poor creatures belonging to this ship must be if they had
no other ship in company with them: upon this I immediately
ordered that five guns should be fired, one soon after another,
that, if possible, we might give notice to them that there was
help at hand, and that they might endeavor to save themselves
in their boat; for though we could see the flame of the ship,
yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us.
We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning
ship drove, waiting for daylight; when on a sudden, to our
great terror, though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew
up in the air, and immediately, that is to say, in a few minutes,
all the fire was out, and the rest of the ship sunk; this was a
terrible, and indeed afflicting sight; for the sake of the poor
men, who, I concluded, must be either all destroyed in the
ship, or be in the utmost distress in their boat in the middle
of the ocean, which at present, by reason it was dark, I could
not see; however, to direct them as well as I could, I caused
lights to be hung out in all the parts of the ship ; and kept firing
guns all the night long; letting them know by this, that there
was a ship not far off.
About eight o'clock in the morning, we discovered the
ship's boats, by the help of our glasses; there were two of
them, both thronged with people, and deep in the water; we
perceived they rowed, the wind being against them; that they
flaw our ship, and did their utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we
saw them; and hung a waft out, as a signal for them to come
on board ; and then made more sail, standing directly to them.
In a little more than half an hour we came up with them, and,
in a word, took them all in, being no less than sixty-four men,
women, and children ; for there were a great many passengers.
We found it was a French merchant-ship of 300 ton, homeward
bound from Quebec. The master gave us a long account of
the distress of his ship, how the fire began in the steerage by
the negligence of one of the men; it was, as everybody
thought, entirely put out: when they found that some sparks
of the first fire had got into another part of the ship, so diffi-
cult to come at, that they could not quench it, till getting
between the timbers, and within the ceiling of the ship, it
penetrated into the hold, and mastered all the skill and appli-
cation they were able to exert. They got into their boats,
which, to their great comfort, were pretty large: being a long
boat and a great shallop, besides a small skiff, which was of no
great service to them, other than to carry some fresh water
and provisions. They had sails, oars, and a compass; and
were preparing to make the best of their way back to New-
foundland, the wind blowing an easy gale at S. E. by E. They
had as much provisions and water, as, with sparing it so as to
be next door to starving, might support them about twelve
days, in which, if they had no bad weather, and no contrary
winds, the captain hoped he might reach the banks of New-
foundland. But there were many chances against them;
storms to overset and founder them; rains and cold to be-
numb their limbs; contrary winds to keep them out and
starve them; that it must have been next to miraculous if
they had escaped in this way. In the midst of their consulta-
tions, every one being hopeless, and ready to despair, as the
captain told me with tears in his eyes, they heard the guns
which I caused to be fired at first seeing the light: this
revived their hearts, and gave them the notice that there was
a ship at hand for their help. Upon hearing these guns, they
took down their masts and sails; and the sound coming from
the windward, they resolved to lie by till morning. Some
time after, hearing no more guns, they fired three muskets,
one a considerable while after another; but these, the wind
being contrary, we never heard. Some time after that again,
they were still more agreeably surprised with seeing our lights,
and hearing the guns which I caused to be fired during the
night: this set them to work with their oars to keep their
boats a-head, at least that we might the sooner come up with
them; and at last, to their inexpressible joy, they found we
saw them.
It is impossible for me to express the strange ecstasies, the
variety of postures, which these poor people threw themselves
into, to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliv-
erance. Grief and fear are easily described; sighs, tears,
groans, and a very few motions of the head and hands, make
up the sum of its variety; but an excess of joy, a surprise of
joy, has a thousand extravagances in it: they were thrown into
a kind of frenzy; there were some in tears, some raging and
tearing themselves, as if they had been in the greatest agonies
of sorrow; some stark raving and downright lunatic; some
ran about the ship stamping with their feet, others wringing
their hands; some were dancing, some singing, some laughing,
more crying; many quite dumb, not able to speak a word;
others sick and vomiting, several swooning, and ready to faint;
and a few were crossing themselves and giving God thanks.
Perhaps the particular nation they belonged to had something
to do with this. The French are allowed to be more volatile,
more passionate, and more sprightly, and their spirits more
fluid than any other nations. I am not philosopher enough to
determine the cause, but nothing I had ever seen before came
up to it; the ecstasies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in,
when he found his father in the boat, came the nearest to it;
and the surprise of the master, and his two companions, whom
I delivered from the villains that set them on shore in the
island, came a little way towards it; but nothing that I saw
either in Friday, or anywhere else in my life, could compare
to this.
There were two priests amonc; them, one an old man, and
the other a young one. As soon as the old man set his foot
on board our ship, and saw himself safe, he dropped down
stone-dead, to all appearance; not the least sign of life could
be perceived in him; our surgeon immediately applied proper
remedies to recover him; and was the only man in the ship
that believed he was not dead. He opened a vein in his arm,
having first chafed and rubbed the part, so as to warm it as
much as possible: upon this the blood, which only dropped at
first, flowed something freely; in three minutes after, the man
opened his eyes; and about a quarter of an hour after that, he
spoke, grew better, and was quite well; after the blood was
stopped, he walked about, told us he was perfectly well, took
a dram of cordial which the surgeon gave him, and was what
we call come to himself; about a quarter of an hour after,
they came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was
bleeding a Frenchwoman that had fainted; and told him the
priest had gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve
the change of his circumstances, and again this put him into
an ecstasy of joy: his spirits whirled about faster than the
vessels could convey them; the blood grew hot and feverish;
and the man was as fit for Bedlam as any creature that ever
was in it: the surgeon would not bleed him again in that con-
dition, but gave him something to put him to sleep, which,
after some time, operated upon him, and he waked the next
morning perfectly composed and well.
The younger priest behaved with more self-command, and
was really an example of a serious well-governed mind ; at his
first coming on board the ship, he threw himself flat on his
face, prostrating himself in thankfulness for his deliverance;
in which I unhappily and unseasonably disturbed him, really
thinking he was in a swoon; but he spake calmly; thanked
me; told me he was giving God thanks for his deliverance;
begged me to leave him a few moments, and that, next to his
Maker, he would give me thanks also. He continued in that
posture about three minutes, or a little more, after I left him;
then came to me, as he had said he would, and, with a great
deal of seriousness and affection, but with tears in his eyes,
thanked me, that had, under God, given him, and so many
miserable creatures, their lives. After this, he applied himself
to his country folks; labored to compose them; persuaded,
entreated, argued, reasoned with them, and did his utmost to
keep them within the exercise of their reason. With some he
had success, though others were, for a time, out of all govern-
ment of themselves.
We were something disordered by these extravagances
among our new guests for the firsyt day; but when they
retired, lodgings being provided for them as well as our ship
would allow, and had slept heartily, as most of them did, they
were quite another sort of people the next day.
Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the
kindness shown them, was wanting; the French, it is known,
are naturally apt enough to exceed that way. The captain,
and one of the priests, came to me the next day; and desiring
to speak with me and my nephew, the commander, began to
consult with us what should be done with them; and first they
told us, that, as we had saved their lives, so all they had was
little enough as a return to us for that kindness received. The
captain said they had saved some money, and some things of
value in their boats, catched hastily up out of the flames; and
if we would accept it, they were ordered to make an offer of it
all to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere in
our way, whence they might get passage to France.
My nephew was for accepting their money, but began to
consider what to do with them afterwards. I knew what it
was to be set on shore in a strange country; and if the Portu-
guese captain that took me up at sea had taken all I had for
my deliverance, I must have starved, or have been as much a
slave at the Brazils, as I had been in Barbary; perhaps a
Portuguese is not a much better master than a Turk, if not, in
some cases, a much worse.
I therefore told the French captain that it was our duty to
relieve them, as we were fellow-creatures, and as we would
desire to be so delivered, if we were in the like extremity; that
we had done nothing for them, but what we believed they
would have done for us if our cases had been reversed, but
that we took them up to save them, not to plunder them ; or
to set them on shore and leave them: that this would be first
to save them from death, and then kill them ourselves; save
them from drowning, and then abandon them to starving ; and
therefore nothing should be taken from them. As to setting
them on shore, our ship was bound to the East Indies; and
though we were driven out of course to the westward a great
way, directed perhaps by Heaven for their deliverance, yet it
was impossible for us willfully to change our voyage; nor could
my nephew, the captain, answer it to the freighters, with whom
he was under charter-party to pursue his voyage by the way
of the Brazils; all he could do for them was, to put ourselves
in the way of meeting with ships homeward-bound from the
West Indies, and get them passage, if possible, to England or
France.
The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind,
they could not but be very thankful for it: but they were in
great consternation, especially the passengers, at the notion of
being carried away to the East Indies. They entreated me,
seeing that I was driven so far to the westward before I met
with them, I would at least keep on the same course to the
Banks of Newfoundland, where it was probable I might meet
with some ship or sloop that they might hire to carry them
back to Canada, from whence they came.
I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part;
and therefore I inclined to agree to it; for indeed I consid-
ered, that to carry this whole company to the East Indies,
would not only be an intolerable severity upon the poor peo-
ple, but would be ruining our whole voyage by devouring all
our provisions; so I thought it no breach of charter-party, but
what an unforeseen accident, in which no one could say we
were to blame, made absolutely necessary to us; for the laws
of God and man would have forbid that we should refuse to
take up two boats full of people in such a distressed condition;
and the nature of the thing, as well respecting ourselves as the
poor people, obliged us to set them on shore somewhere or
other for their deliverance ; so I consented that we would carry
them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit;
and if not, to Martinico in the West Indies.
The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty
good; and as the winds had continued in the points between
N. E. and S. E. a long time, we missed several opportunities
of sending them to France; for we met several ships bound
for Europe, whereof two were French from St. Christopher's;
but they had been so long beating up against the wind, that
they durst not take in passengers for fear of wanting provi-
sions for the voyage, as well for themselves as for those they
should take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a
week after this, that we made the Banks of Newfoundland,
where, to shorten my story, we put all the French people on
board a bark, which they hired at sea to put them on shore
there, and afterwards to carry them to France: when I say, all
the French went on shore, I should remember, that the young
priest I spoke of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies,
desired to go the voyage with us, and to be set on shore on
the coast of Coromandel, which I readily agreed to: for I
wonderfully liked the man, and had very good reason to do so,
as will appear afterwards; four of the seamen also entered
themselves into our ship, and proved very useful fellows.
From hence we directed our course for the West Indies,
steering away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together,
sometimes with little or no wind at all, when we met with
another subject for our humanity to work upon, almost as
deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes
N. and the 19th day of March, 1694, when we spied a sail, our
course being S. E. and by S. We soon perceived it was a
large vessel, and that she bore up to us; but could make noth-
ing of her, till coming a little nearer, we found she had lost
her maintop-mast, foremast, and bowsprit; she was a ship of
Bristol, but had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes, a
few days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane,
while the captain and chief mate were both gone on shore;
they had been some weeks at sea, and had already met with
another storm; they were almost starved for want of pro-
visions, besides the fatigues they had undergone; their bread
and flesh was quite gone, they had not an ounce left in the
ship, and had had none for eleven days; the only relief they
had, was, that their water was not all spent, and they had
about half a barrel of flour left, also sugar enough, and seven
casks of rum.
There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant, on
board, who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was
ready to sail, unhappily came on board the evening before the
hurricane began; and, having no provisions of their own left,
they were in a more deplorable condition than the rest; for
the seamen being reduced to such an extreme necessity them-
selves, had no compassion, we may be sure, for the poor pas-
sengers ; and they were indeed in a condition that their misery
is very hard to describe.
We immediately supplied them with what we could spare;
and indeed I had so far overruled things with my nephew,
that I would have victualled them, though we had gone away
to the coast of America to have supplied ourselves; but there
was no necessity for that.
But now they were in a new danger • for they were afraid of
eating too much, even of that little we gave them: the second
mate, now commander, brought six men with him in his boat;
but these poor wretches looked like skeletons, and were so
weak, they could hardly sit to their oars: the mate himself
was very ill, and half-starved; for he declared he had reserved
nothing from the men, and went share and share alike with
them in every bit of food. I cautioned them to eat sparingly
while I set meat before them, not forgetting the starving crew
that were left on board, for I ordered my own boat to go on
board the ship, with my mate and twelve men, to carry them a
sack of bread and four or five pieces of beef to boil. Our
surgeon charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while
they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-room to prevent
the crew taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before
it was well boiled, and then to give every man but a very little
at a time; by this caution he saved the men, who would other-
wise have killed themselves with the very food that was given
them to save their lives.
At the same time I ordered the mate to go into the great
cabin, and see what condition the passengers were in, and, if
they were alive, to comfort them, and give them what refresh-
ment was proper; the surgeon giving him a large pitcher with
some of the prepared broth which he had given to the mate,
and which he did not question would restore them gradually.
Not satisfied with this, but having a great mind to see the
scene of misery which I knew the ship itself would present me
with, in a more lively manner than I could have it by report, I
took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me,
and went myself a little after in their boat.
I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult to get the
victuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate
observed his orders, and kept a good guard at the cook-room
door; and the men he placed there, after using all possible
persuasion to them to have patience, kept them off by force;
however, he caused some biscuit cakes to be dipped in the pot,
and thus softened with the liquor of the meat, which they
call brewis, gave one to each of them, to stay their stomachs,
telling them it was for their own safety that he was obliged to
give them but a little at a time. But it was all in vain, and
had I not come on board, with their own commander and offi-
cers, and with good words and some threats also of giving
them no more, I believe they would have broke into the cook-
room by force, and torn the meat out of the furnace ; for words
are indeed of very small force with a hungry belly: however,
we pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously for
the first time, and the next time gave them more, and at last
filled their bellies, and the men did well enough. But the
misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another
nature, and far beyond the rest.
The poor mother, who was a woman of sense and good
breeding, had spared all she could get so affectionately for her
son, that at last she entirely sunk under it: and when the
mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with
her back up against the sides, between two chairs, which were
lashed fast, and her head sunk in between her shoulders, like
a corpse, though not quite dead. The mate said all he could
to revive and encourage her, and with a spoon put some broth
into her mouth: she opened her lips, and lifted up one hand,
but could not speak; yet she understood what he said, and
made signs to him, intimating that it was too late for her, but
pointed to her child, as if she would have said they should
take care of him.
However, the mate, who was much moved with the sight,
endeavored to get some of the broth into her mouth; and, as
he said, got two or three spoonfuls down, though I question
whether he could be sure of it or not; but it was too late,
she died the same night.
The youth who was preserved at the price of this most
affectionate mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a
cabin-bed stretched out, with hardly any life left in him; he
had a piece of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the
rest of it. However, being young, and having more strength
than his mother, the mate got something down his throat, and
he began sensibly to revive, but by giving him some time after
two or three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and
brought it up again.
The next care was the poor maid: she lay all along the deck
hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down
with an apoplexy, and struggled for life; her limbs were dis-
torted, one of her hands was clasped round the frame of a
chair, and she griped it so hard, that we could not easily make
her let go; her other arm lay over her head, and her feet lay
both together, set fast against the frame of the cabin-table; in
short, she lay just like one in the last agonies of death, and
yet she was alive too. The poor creature was not only starved
with hunger, and terrified with the thoughts of death, but was
broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she loved most ten-
derly, and whom she saw dying two or three days before.
With great application our surgeon recovered her as to life,
but he had her upon his hands as to her senses, for she was
little less than distracted for a considerable time after.
Our business, however, was to relieve the distressed ship's
crew, but not to lie by for them; and though they were willing
to steer the same course with us for some days, yet we could
carry no sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts:
however, as their captain begged of us to help him set up a
maintop-mast, and a kind of topmast to his jury foremast,
we did, as it were, lie by him for three or four days; and then,
having given him five barrels of beef, a barrel of pork, two
hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of pease, flour, and what
other things we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar,
some rum, and some pieces of eight of them for satisfaction,
we left them, taking on board with us, at their own earnest
request, the youth, and the maid, and all their goods.
I was now in the latitude of 19 deg. 32 min. and had hith-
erto had a tolerable voyage as to weather, though at first the
winds had been contrary. For brevity's sake I shall now only
observe, that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the
loth of April, 1694. It was with no small difficulty that I
found the place, for as I came to it before on the south and
east side of the island, coming from the Brazils, so now com-
ing in between the main and the island, and having no chart
for the coast, nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw
it. We beat about a great while, therefore, and went on shore
on several islands in the mouth of the great river Oroonoque,
but none for my purpose; only this I learned by my coasting
the shore, that I was under a great mistake before, in suppos-
ing that the land I saw from the island I lived in was a con-
tinent: it was in reality a long island, or rather a group of
islands, stretching from one to the other side of the extended
mouth of that great river; and that the savages who came to
my island were not properly those which we call Caribbees,
but islanders, and other barbarians of the same kind, who
inhabited the islands on our side. In short, I visited several
of these islands to no purpose; some I found were inhabited,
and some were not. On one of them I found some Spaniards,
and thought at first they lived there ; but speaking with them I
found they had a sloop in a small creek hard by, and that they
came hither to make salt, and catch pearl-muscles, but they
belonged to the island of Trinidad, which lay further north, in
latitude 10 and n degrees.
At last, however, coasting from one island to another, some-
times with the ship, sometimes with the Frenchmen's shallop
(which we had found a convenient boat, and therefore kept
with their very good will), at length I came fair on the south
side of my island, and I presently knew the very countenance
of the place; so I brought the ship safe to an anchor, broad-
side to the little creek where was my old habitation.
As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked
him if he knew where he was? He looked about a little, and
presently clapping his hands, cried, "O yes, O there,. O yes,
O there!" pointing to our old habitation, and fell a dancing
and capering like a mad fellow, and I had much ado to keep
him from jumping into the sea, to swim on shore to the place.
"Well, Friday," says I, "do you think we shall find anybody
here, or no? and what do you. think, shall we see your father?"
The fellow stood mute as a stock a good while; but when
I named his father, the poor affectionate creature looked
dejected, and the tears ran down his face very plentifully.
"What is the matter, Friday?" said I. "Are you troubled
because you may see your father?" "No, no," says he, shak-
ing his head, "no see him more, no ever more see again."
"Why so," said I, "Friday, how do you know that?" "O
no, O no," says Friday, "he long die; long ago, he much old
man." "Well, well," says I, "Friday, you don't know; but
shall we see any one else, then?" The fellow, it seems, had
better eyes than I, and he points just to the hill above my old
house; and though we lay half a league off, he cries out, " We
see! we see! yes, we see much man there, and there, and
there." I looked, but I could see nobody, no, not with the
glass; which was, I•suppose, because I could not hit the
place; for the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the
next day, five or six men stood there to look at the ship, not
knowing what to think of it.
As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused the
English ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give
them notice we were friends; about half a quarter of an hour
after, we perceived smoke rising from the side of the creek ; so
I immediately ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me ; and,
. hanging out a white flag, or flag of truce, I went directly on
shore, taking with me the young priest I mentioned, to whom
I had told the whole story of my living there, and the manner
of it, and every particular, both of myself, and those I left
there; which had made him extremely desirous to go with me.
We had besides about sixteen men very well armed, if we had
found any new guest there which we did not know of; but we
had no need of weapons.
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water,
we rowed directly into the creek ; and the first man I fixed my
eye upon was the Spaniard, whose life I had saved, and whom
I knew by his face perfectly well. I intended to go on shore
first myself; but there was no keeping Friday in the boat: for
the affectionate creature had spied his father at a distance, a
good way off from the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing
of him; and if prevented from going on shore, he would have
jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, than he
flew to his father like an arrow out of a bow. It would have
made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to
have seen the first transports of this poor fellow's joys, when
he came to his father; how he embraced him, kissed him,
stroked his face, took him up in his arms, set him down upon
a tree, and lay down by him; then •stood and looked at him as
any one would look at a strange picture, for a quarter of an
hour together; then lie down upon the ground, and stroke his
legs and kiss them, and then get up again, and stare at him;
one would have thought the fellow bewitched; but it would
have made a dog laugh to see how the next day his passion
run out another way. In the morning he walked along the
shore, to and again, with his father, several hours, always
leading him by the hand, as if he had been a lady; and every
now and then he would fetch something or other for him from
the boat, either a lump of sugar or a dram, a biscuit, or some-
thing or other that was good. In the afternoon his frolics ran
another way; for then he would set the old man down upon
the ground, and dance about him, and make a thousand antic
postures and gestures; and all the while he did this, he would
be talking to him, and telling him one story after another of
his travels, and of what had happened to him abroad, to divert
him. In short, if the same filial affection were always found
in Christians to their parents, one would be tempted to say,
there would have been hardly any need of the fifth command-
ment.
It would be endless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first, whom
I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved: he came
towards the boat, attended by another, carrying a flag of truce
also; he did not know me at first, had no notion even of its
being me, till I spoke to him. "Seignor," said I in Portuguese,
"do you not know me?" He spoke not a word ; but giving his
musket to the man that was with him, threw his arms abroad,
and saying something in Spanish that I did not perfectly hear,
came forward and embraced me, telling me, he was inexcus-
able not to know that face again that he had once seen, as of
an angel from heaven sent to save his life: he said abundance
of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard always
knows how; and then beckoning to the person that attended
him, bade him go and call out his comrades. He then asked
me if I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give
me possession of my own house again, and where I should see
there had been but mean improvements. So I walked along
with him; but, alas! I could no more find the place, than if I
had never been there; for they had planted so many trees,
and placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to one
another, that in ten years' time they had grown so big, that
the place was inaccessible, except by such windings, and blind
ways, as those only who made them could find.
I asked them, what put them upon all these fortifications?
He told me, I would say there was need enough of it, when I
learnt how they had passed their time, especially after they
found that I was gone. He could not but have satisfaction in
my good fortune, when he heard that I had gone away in a
good ship; he had oftentimes a strong persuasion that one
time or other he should see me again; but nothing that ever
befell him in his life, he said, was so surprising and afflicting
to him, at first, as the disappointment he was under when he
came back to the island, and found I was not there.
As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom he said he had a long story to tell me;
the Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the
savages, only that their number was so small. "And," says he,
"had they been strong enough, we had been all long ago in
purgatory ;" and with that he crossed himself on the breast.
"But, sir," says he, "I hope you will not be displeased when I
shall tell you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for
our own preservation, to disarm them, and make them our
subjects, who would not be content with being moderately our
masters, but would be our murderers." I answered, I was
heartily afraid of it when I left them there; and nothing
troubled me at my parting from the island, but that they were
not come back, that I might have put them in possession of
everything first, and leave the others in a state of subjection,
as they deserved: but that if they had reduced them to it, I
was very glad, and should be very far from finding any fault
with it; for I knew they were a parcel of refractory, ungovern-
able savages, fit for any manner of mischief.
While I was speaking, came the man whom he had sent
back, and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were
in, it was impossible to guess what nation they were of; but he
made all clear both to them and to me. First, he turned to
me, and pointing to them, he said, "These, sir, are some of the
gentlemen who owe their lives to you;" and then turning to
them, and pointing to me, he let them know who I was; upon
which they all came up one by one, not as if they had been
sailors, and ordinary fellows, and I the like, but really as if
they had been ambassadors or noblemen, and I a monarch, or
a great conqueror: their behavior was to the last degree oblig-
ing and courteous, and yet mixed with a manly majestic grav-
ity, which very well became them; and, in short, they had so
much more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive
their civilities, much less how to return them in kind.
The history of their coming to, and conduct in the island,
after my going away, is so very remarkable, and has so many
incidents, which the former part of my relation will help the
reader to understand, that I cannot but commit them to the
reading of those that come after me. I shall, however, no
longer trouble them with a relation in the first person, which
will put me to the expense of a thousand said I's, and said
he's, and he told me's, and I told him's, and the like; but I
shall collect the facts historically from memory, as they were
related to me.
In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can, I
must go back to the circumstances in which I left the island,
and in which the persons were, of whom I am to speak. And
first, it is necessary to repeat, that I had sent away Friday's
father and the Spaniard, the two whose lives I had rescued
from the savages; I say, I had sent them away in a large
canoe to the main, as I then thought it, to fetch over the
Spaniard's companions, whom he had left behind, in order to
save them from the like calamity that he had been in, and in
order to succor them for the present, and that, if possible, we
might together find some way for our deliverance afterward.
When I sent them away, I had not the least room to hope
for my own deliverance any more than I had twenty years
before; much less had I any foreknowledge of an English
ship coming on shore there to fetch me off; and it could not
but be a very great surprise to them, when they came back,
not only to find that I was gone, but to find three strangers
left on the spot, possessed of all that I had left behind me,
which would otherwise have been their own.
The first thing, which I inquired into, was that he would
give me a particular account of his voyage back to his coun-
trymen with the boat. . He told me there was little variety in
that part; for nothing remarkable happened to them on the
way, they having very calm weather, and a smooth sea: for
his countrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that
they were overjoyed to see him (it seems he was the principal
man among them, the captain of the vessel they had been
shipwrecked in having been dead some time): they were, he
said, the more surprised to see him, because they knew that he
was fallen into the hands of savages, who, they were satisfied,
would devour him as they did all the rest of their prisoners;
that when he told them the story of his deliverance, and in
what manner he was furnished for carrying them away, it was
like a dream to them; their astonishment, they said, was
something like that of Joseph's brethren, when he told them
who he was, and told them the story of his exaltation in Pha-
raoh's court: but when he showed them the arms, the powder,
the ball, and the provisions that he brought them for their
voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a just share of
the joy of their deliverance, and immediately prepared to come
away with him.
Their first business was to get canoes; and in this they
were obliged to trespass upon their friendly savages, so far as
to borrow two large canoes or periaguas, on pretense of going
out a-fishing. In these they came away the next morning;
for they had no baggage, neither clothes, or provisions, or
anything in the world, but what they had on them, and a few
roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread. He was
in all three weeks absent, and in that time I had the occasion
offered for my escape, leaving three of the most impudent,
hardened, ungovernable villains behind me, that a man could
desire to meet with. The only just thing the rogues did, when
the Spaniards came on shore, was to give my letter to them
with provisions and other such relief, as I had ordered them
to do ; they gave them also the long paper of directions, which
I had left with them, containing the particular methods which
I took for managing every part of my life there; how I baked
my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my corn; how I
cured my grapes, made my pots, in a word, everything I did:
all this being written down, they gave to the Spaniards, two oi
whom understand English well enough; nor did they refuse to
accommodate the Spaniards with other things, for they agreed
very well for some time; they gave them an equal admission
into the house or cave, and they began to live very sociably
together; the head Spaniard, who had seen my method, and
Friday's father together, managed all their affairs: for, as for
the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the island,
shooting parrots, and catching tortoises: the Spaniards pro-
vided their suppers for them, when they came home at night.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, but the
others could not find in their heart to let them alone long;
like the dog in the manger, they would not eat themselves,
neither would they let others eat. The differences, neverthe-
less, were at first but trivial, and such as are not worth relat-
ing; but at last it broke out into open war, and it begun with
all the rudeness and insolence that can be imagined, without
reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and indeed to
common sense; and though the first relation of it came from
the Spaniards, whom I may call the accusers, yet when I
came to examine the fellows themselves, they could not deny
a word of it.
But before I came to the particular of this part, I must
supply a defect in my former relation, bearing upon these
events: just as we were weighing anchor to set sail, a quarrel
broke out on board our ship, which was likely to have pro-
duced a second mutiny; nor was it appeased till the captain,
interfering, parted them by force, putting two of the most
refractory fellows, who had been active in the former disorders,
in irons; threatening to carry them to England in that state,
and have them hanged there for mutiny and plotting to run
away with the ship. This frighted some other men in the
ship; and they put it into the heads of the rest, that the cap-
tain only gave them good words for the present, intending
when he reached an English port that they should be all put
into gaol, and tried for their lives. The mate got intelligence
of this, and acquainted us with it; upon which it was desired,
that I should go down and satisfy the men, that if they behaved
well during the rest of the voyage, all they had done for the
time past should be pardoned. So I went, and passing my
honor to them to that effect, caused the two men who were in
irons to be released and forgiven.
But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night,
the wind also falling calm, and next morning we found that
our two men who had been in irons, had stole each of them a
musket, and other weapons, with powder and shot, and had
taken the ship's pinnace, which was not yet hauled up, and
ran away with her to their companions in roguery on the
shore. I ordered the long-boat on shore, with twelve men
and the mate, to seek them, but they could not be found, for
they all fled into the woods when they saw the boat coming on
shore. He returned leaving everything as he found it, bring-
ing the pinnace away.
These two additional men made their number five; but the
other three villains were so much wickeder than these, that
after they had been two or three days together, they turned the
new-comers out of doors to shift for themselves. When the
Spaniards came, they would have persuaded the three English
brutes to take in their two countrymen again, that, as they
said, they might be all one family ; but they would not hear of
it; so the two poor fellows lived by themselves, and finding
that by industry and application they could live very comfort-
ably, they pitched their tents on the north shore of the island,
but a little more to the west, so as to be out of danger from
the savages, who always landed on the east parts.
Here they built themselves two huts, one to lodge in, and
the other to lay up their magazines and stores; and the
Spaniards having given them some corn for seed, and espe-
cially some of the pease which I had left, they dug, planted,
and inclosed after the pattern I had set for them, and began
to live pretty well. Their first crop of cor,n was on the ground,
and though it was but a little bit of land which they had dug
up at first, having had but little time, yet it was enough to
relieve them, and find them in bread or other eatables; and
one of the fellows, being the cook's mate of the ship, was very
ready at making soup, puddings, and such other preparations,
as the rice and the milk, arid such little flesh as they got, fur-
nished him with the means.
They were going on this little thriving way, when the three
rogues, their countrymen, in mere wanton humor, and to insult
them, came and bullied them, told them the island was theirs;
that the governor, meaning me, had given them possession of
it, and nobody else had any right to it; and, damn them, they
should build no houses upon their ground, unless they agreed
to pay them rent for it.
The two men thought them jesting at first; asked them to
come and sit down, and see what fine houses they had built,
asking what rent they demanded; and one of them merrily
added, since they were the ground-landlords, he hoped if they
built tenements upon the land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of all landlords, grant them a
long lease; and find them a scrivener to draw up the writings.
One of the three, in a rage, told them they should see it was
no jest; and going to a little place at a distance, where the
honest men had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a
firebrand and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very
fairly set it on fire; and it would have been all burnt do%vn in
a few minutes, if one of the two had not run to the fellow,
thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his feet, and that
not without some difficulty too.
The fellow turned upon him with a pole he had in his hand:
and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run
into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His comrade
seeing the danger they were both in, ran in after him, and
immediately they both came out with their muskets; and the
man that was first struck at with the pole, knocked the fellow
down, that had begun the quarrel, with the stock of his mus-
ket, and that before the other two could come to help him;
and then seeing the rest come at them, they stood together,
and presenting their pieces, bade them stand off.
The others had fire-arms with them too: but one of the two,
bolder than his comrade, told them if they offered to move
hand or foot, they were dead men; and boldly commanded
them to lay down their arms. They did not indeed lay down
their arms; but, seeing him so resolute, it brought them to a
parley, and they consented to take their wounded man with
them, and begone. Indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded
sufficiently with the blow; but they were much in the wrong
not to disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and
have got immediately to the Spaniards. Henceforth the three
villains studied nothing but revenge, and ever}• day gave them
some indication that they did so. They trod down their corn,
shot their three young kids, and a she-goat which the poor
men had bred up tame for their store; and, in a word, plagued
them night and day, till the two men were driven to desper-
ation, and they resolved to fight them all three the first fair
opportunity. They resolved to go to the castle, as they called
my old dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards all
lived together at that time, intending to have a fair battle, and
that the Spaniards should stand by to see fair play. So they
got up one morning before day, and came to the place, called
out the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that
answered, that they wanted to speak with them.
It had so happened that the day before two of the Spaniards,
having been in the woods, had seen one of the two English-
men, whom, for distinction, I call the honest men; and he
had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards, of the barbarous
usage they met with from their three countrymen, how they
had ruined their plantation, and destroyed their corn, that they
had labored so hard to bring forward, and killed the milch-
goat, and their three kids, which Was all they had provided for
their sustenance; and that if he and his friends, meaning the
Spaniards, did not assist them again, they would be starved.
When the two Spaniards came home at night, they reproved
the three Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly
terms, asking how they could be so cruel, the others being
harmless inoffensive fellows, subsisting by their own labor, and
that it had cost them a great deal of pains to bring things to
the state they had reached.
One of the Englishmen asked very briskly, "What had
they to do there? They came on shore without leave, and
should not plant or build upon the island; it was none of
their ground." "Why," says the Spaniard, very calmly,
"Seignior Inglese, they must not starve." The Englishman
replied, like a true rough-hewn tarpaulin, "they might starve
for him, but they should not plant or build." "But what
must they do then, Seignior?" says the Spaniard. Another
of the brutes returned, "Do! they should be our servants,
and work for us." "But how can you expect that of them?"
says the Spaniard; "they are not bought with your money;
you have no right to make them servants." The Englishmen
answered, the island was theirs, the governor had given it to
them, and no man had anything to do there but themselves;
and with that swore by his Maker, that they would go and
burn all their new huts; they should build none upon their
land.
"Why, Seignior," says the Spaniard, "by the same rule, we
must be your servants too." "Aye," says the bold dog, " and
so you shall too, before we have done with you," mixing two
or three oaths in the proper intervals of his speech. The
Spaniard only smiled at this, and made him no answer. How-
ever, this little discourse had heated them; and starting up,
one says to the other, I think it was he they called Will At-
kins, "Come, Jack, let us go and have another brush with
them; we will demolish their castle, I warrant me; they shall
plant no colony in our dominions."
Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a
gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things
among themselves, of what they could do with the Spaniards,
too, when opportunity offered; but the Spaniards, it seems,
did not so perfectly understand their language as to know all
these particulars; only that, in general, they were threatened
for taking the part of the two Englishmen.
Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that
evening, the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems
they wandered about the country part of the night; and then
lying down in the place which I used to call my bower, they
were weary, and overslept themselves. They seem to have
resolved on waiting till midnight, and then to take the two
poor men when they were asleep; intending, as they acknowl-
edged afterwards, to set fire to their huts while they were in
them, and either bum them in them, or murder them as they
came out: and, as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was
very strange they should not have kept themselves awake.
However, as the two men had also a design upon them,
though a much fairer one than that of burning and murdering,
it happened, and very luckily for them all, that they were up
and gone abroad, before the bloody-minded rogues came to
their huts.
When they came there and found the men gone, Atkins,
who it seems was the forwardest man, called out to his com-
rades, "Ha! Jack, here's the nest; but d• n them, the
birds are flown :" they mused awhile to think what should be
the occasion of their being gone abroad so soon, and presently
suggested that the Spaniards had given them notice of their
intention; with that they shook hands, and swore to one
another that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As
soon as they had made this bloody bargain, they fell to work
with the poor men's habitation; they did not set indeed fire to
anything, but they pulled down both their little houses, and
pulled them so limb from limb, that they left not a stick
standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where they stood;
they tore all their little collected household stuff in pieces, and
threw everything about in such a manner, that the poor men
afterwards found some of their things a mile away from their
habitation. Having pulled up all the young trees the poor
men had planted, destroyed an inclosure they had made to
secure their cattle and their corn; and, in a word, sacked and
plundered everything as completely as a herd of Tartars would
have done; they returned to the old habitation. Had the
parties met at this juncture, there certainly would have been
bloodshed among them; for they were all very stout, resolute
fellows, to give them their due.
When the three came back, like furious creatures, flushed
with the rage which the work they had been about put them
into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what they
had done, by way of scoff and bravado; and one of them step-
ping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple
of boys at play, takes his hat from his head, and giving it a
twirl about, fleering it in his face, says he to him, "And you,
Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do
not mend your manners." The Spaniard, who, though a quiet,
civil man, was as brave as a man •could desire to be, and
withal a strong, well-made man, looked steadily at him for a
good while; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stept
gravely up to him, and with one blow of his fist, knocked him
down, as an ox is felled with a pole-axe. At this one of the
rogues fired his pistol at the Spaniard, missing his body
indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but one of
them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled freely. The
blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he
really was, and that put him into some heat, for before he was
perfectly calm; but now resolving to go through with his
work, he stooped and took the fellow's musket whom he had
knocked down, and was just going to shoot the man who had
fired at him; when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the
cave, came out, calling to him not to shoot; they stept in,
secured the other two, and took their arms from them.
When they were thus disarmed, finding they had made the
Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own countrymen,
they began to cool; and giving the Spaniards better words,
would have had their arms again; but the Spaniards consid-
ering the feud that was between them and the other two Eng-
lishmen, thinking that would be the best method they could
take to keep them from killing one another, told them they
would do them no harm; and if they would live peaceably,
they would be very willing to assist and associate with them,
as before; but that they could not think of giving them their
arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do mischief to
their own countrymen.
The rogues being refused their arms, they went raving away,
and raging like madmen, threatening what they would do,
though they had no fire-arms: but the Spaniards, despising
their threatening, told them they should take care how they
offered any injury to their plantations or cattle; for if they did,
they would shoot them, as they would do wild beasts, wher-
ever they found them; and if they fell into their hands alive,
they should certainly hang them. This was far from cooling
them; but away they went, raging and swearing like furies.
As soon as they were gone, came back the two men in equal
rage and passion enough, though of another kind; for, having
been at their plantation, and finding it all demolished and
destroyed, they had provocation enough; they could scarce
have room to tell their tale, so eager the Spaniards were to
tell them theirs; and it was strange enough to find, that three
men thus bully nineteen, and receive no punishment at all.
The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially after
having thus disarmed them, made light of all their threaten-
ings; but the two Englishmen resolved to have their revenge
against them, what pains soever it might cost to find them out.
But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them, that
as they had disarmed them, they could not consent that they
should pursue them with fire-arms, and perhaps kill them:
"but," said the grave Spaniard, who was their governor, "we
will endeavor to make them do you justice, if you will leave it
to us, for, as there is no doubt but they will come to us again
when their passion is over, being unable to subsist without our
assistance, we promise you to make no peace with them with-
out having a full satisfaction for you; and upon this condition
we hope you will promise to use no violence to them, other
than in self-defense." The two Englishmen yielded to this
proposal with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested,
they did it only to prevent bloodshed, and to make all easy at
last, "for," said they, "we are not so many of us ; here is room
enough for us all, and it is a great pity we should not be all
good friends." At length they did consent, awaiting the issue
for some days with the Spaniards. In five days the three
vagrants, tired with wandering, and almost starved with
hunger, having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs all that while,
came back to the grove; and finding my Spaniard, who, as I
have said, was the governor, and two more with him, walking
by the side of the creek, they came up in a humble, submissive
manner, and begged to be received again into the family. The
Spaniards treated them civilly, but told them they had acted
so unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by
them (the Spaniards), that they could not come to any conclu-
sion without consulting the two Englishmen, and the rest;
but, however, they would go to them, and discourse about it,
and they should know the result in half an hour. It may be
guessed fhat they were very hard put to it; for it seems, as
they were to wait this half-hour for an answer, they begged he
would send them out some bread in the mean time; which he
did, sending them at the same time a large piece of goat's
flesh, and a boiled parrot; which they eat very heartily, for
they were hungry enough.
After half an hour's consultation they were called in, and a
long debate ensued, their two countrymen charging them with
the ruin of all their labor, and a design to murder them; all
which they owned before, and therefore could not deny now;
upon the whole, the Spaniard acted the moderator between
them; and as they had urged the two Englishmen not to hurt
the three, while they were naked and unarmed, so they now
obliged the three to go and build their fellows two huts, one
to be of the same, and the other of larger dimensions than
they were before; to fence their ground again, where they had
pulled up the fences; plant trees in the room of those pulled
up, dig up the land again for planting corn, where they had
spoiled it; and in a word to restore everything to the same
state in which they found it, as near as they could ; for entirely
it could not be, the season for corn, and the growth of the
trees and hedges, being beyond recovery.
Well, they submitted to all this; and as they had plenty of
provisions, they grew more orderly, and the whole society
began to live pleasantly and agreeably together; only that
these three fellows could never be persuaded to work; I
mean, for themselves, except now and then a little, just as
they pleased; however, the Spaniards told them plainly, that
if they would be friendly and live sociably together, and study
the general welfare of the plantation, they would be content to
work for them, and let them walk about and be as idle as they
pleased; having thus lived pretty well together for a month or
two, the Spaniards gave them their arms again, and gave them
liberty to go abroad with them as before.
It was not above a week after they had these arms, and got
17
abroad, before the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent
and troublesome as before: but, an incident happening pres-
ently upon this, which endangered the safety of them all, they
were obliged to lay by all private resentments, and look to the
preservation of their lives.
It happened one night, that the Spaniard whose life I had
saved, who was now the captain, or leader, or governor of the
rest, found himself very uneasy in the night, and could by no
means get any sleep: he was perfectly well in body, as he told
me the story, only he found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind
ran upon men fighting and killing of one another, while he
was broad awake, he could not by any means get to sleep;
in short, he lay awake a great while; but growing more and
more uneasy, he resolved to rise: as they lay upon goat-skins,
laid thick upon such couches and pads as they had made for
themselves, not in hammocks and ship beds as I did, so they
had little to do, when they were willing to rise, but to get up
on their feet, and perhaps put on a dress, such as it was, and
their shoes. Being up, he looked out; but could see little
or nothing; the darkness, and the trees which I had planted,
were now grown tall, and intercepted his sight, so that he
could only look up, and see that it was a clear starlight
night; and, hearing no noise, he returned and laid him down
again; but still he could not sleep, nor could he compose him-
self to any thing like rest; his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and yet he knew not why.
Having made some noise in rising and walking about, going
out and coming in, another of them waked, and calling, asked
who it was that was up? The governor told him, how it had
been with him. "Say you so," says the other Spaniard;
"such things are not to be slighted; there is certainly some
mischief working near us;" and presently he asked "Where
are the Englishmen?" "They are all in their huts, safe
enough," says he. It seems the Spaniards had kept posses-
sion of the main apartment, making a place, where the three
Englishmen, since their last mutiny, always quartered by
themselves, and could not come at the rest. "Well," says
the Spaniard, "there is something in it, I am persuaded from
my own experience; I am satisfied our embodied spirits con-
verse with, and receive intelligence from spirits unembodied
inhabiting the invisible world; and that this friendly notice is
given for our advantage, if we only know how to make use of
it." "Come," says he, "let us go out and look abroad; and
if we find nothing to justify our trouble, I will tell you a story
to the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my
proposing it."
In a word, they went out to go up to the top of the hill,
where I used to go; but being strong, and in good company,
they used none of my precautions of going up by the ladder,
and then pulling it up to ascend a second stage to the top, but
were going round through the grove unconcerned and unwary,
when they were surprised by seeing a light as of fire, a very
little way off from them, and hearing the voices of men, not of
one or two, but in great number.
In all the discoveries I had made of savages landing on the
island, it was my constant care to prevent them discovering
that there were inhabitants on the island; and when they
came to know it, they felt it so effectually, that they who got
away were scarce able to give any account of it, for we disap-
peared quickly, nor did ever any that had seen me escape to
tell any one else, except the three savages who jumped into the
boat, in our last encounter. It presently appeared of those
men, that so great a number as came now together, came
ignorantly, and by accident, on their usual bloody errand;
and it was their business, either to have concealed themselves,
and avoid being seen at all, so as to lead the savages to sup-
pose there were no inhabitants in the place, or to have fallen
upon them so effectually, as that not a man of them should
have escaped, which could only have been done by getting in
between them and their boats; but this presence of mind was
wanting, the consequence was the ruin of their tranquillity for
a great while.
The governor, and the man with him, surprised at what they
, saw, ran back immediately, and raised their fellows, giving
them an account of the imminent danger they were all in ; they
again as readily took the alarm, but could not be persuaded
to stay close where they were; they must run out to see how
things stood.
While it was dark, indeed, this was all well enough, and
they had opportunity enough, for some hours, to view the sav-
ages by the light of three fires they had made at some distance
from one another; what they were doing was a mystery, and
what to do themselves they knew not; for, first, the enemy
were too numerous to he cut off; and, secondly, they did not
keep together, but were divided into several parties along the
shore.
The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight;
and finding that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore,
they made no doubt, but that, first or last, some of them would
chop in upon some place or other, where they would see the
token of inhabitants ; they were also in great perplexity for
their flock of goats, for it would have been little less than
starving them, if they should be destroyed; so the first thing
resolved upon was to dispatch three men before it was light,
namely, two Spaniards and an Englishman, to drive all the
goats away to the great valley where the cave was, and, if
need were, to drive them into the very cave itself.
Could they have seen the savages in one body, and at a
distance from their canoes, they would have attacked them if
they had been a hundred; but that could not now be ; they
were some of them two miles apart. After having mused a
great while on the course they should take, and beaten their
brains in considering their present circumstances, they re-
solved at last, while it was still dark, to send out the old
savage (Friday's father) as a spy, to learn, if possible, some-
thing concerning them, what they came for, and what they
intended to do. The old man readily undertook the task, and,
stripping himself naked, as the savages were, away he went:
after he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word, that
he had been among them undiscovered, that he found they
were two parties, and of two several nations at war with one
another: they had had a great battle in their own country, and
both sides, having taken prisoners in the fight, they had by
mere chance landed in the island to feast upon their prisoners,
and make merry; but coming to the same place had spoiled
their mirth; they were in great rage with one another; and
being so near, he believed they would fight again as soon as
daylight appeared; but he did not perceive that they had any
notion of anybody's being on the island but themselves. He
had hardly made an end of his story, when it appeared by the
unusual noise they made, that the two little armies were
engaged in a bloody fight.
Friday's father used every argument he could to persuade
our people to lie close, and not be seen; he told them, their
safety required it, that they had nothing to do but to lie still,
and the savages would kill one another to their hands, and
then the rest would go away; and it would have happened so.
But it was impossible to prevail, especially upon the English-
men ; their curiosity overcame all such prudentials, they must
run out and see the battle; however, they used some caution
too; they went farther into the woods, and placed .themselves
to advantage, where they might securely see the fight, and, as
they thought, remain unseen; but the savages did see them,
as we shall find hereafter.
The battle was very fierce; one of the Englishmen said he
could perceive among them were men of great bravery, of
invincible spirit, and of great policy in guiding the fight. The
battle, he said, held two hours, before they could guess which
party would be beaten; but then it appeared that the party
which was nearest our habitation was the weakest, and after a
time some of them began to fly; this put our men again into
a great consternation, lest any of those that fled should run
for shelter into the grove before their dwelling, and thereby
discover the place. They resolved that they would stand to
their arms within the wall, and whoever came into the grove,
they should sally out over the wall, and kill them, so that
none should return to give an account of it: they ordered
also, that it should be done with their swords, or by knocking
them down with the stock of the musket, but not by shooting
them, for fear of raising an alarm by the noise.
As was expected, so it fell out; three of the routed army
fled for life, and crossing the creek, ran directly into the place,
not in the least knowing whither they went, but running as
into a thick wood for shelter; the scout ^hey kept abroad gave
notice of this within, with the addition, that the conquerors
had not pursued them, or seen which way they went. Upon
this the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would not
suffer them to kill the three fugitives; but sending three men
out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, and
come in behind them, so as to surprise and take them prison-
ers, which was done; the residue of the conquered people fled
to their canoes and got off to sea; the victors retired, making
little or no pursuit, but drawing themselves into a body, gave
two great screaming shouts by way of triumph, and so the
fight ended; the same day, about three o'clock in the after-
noon, they also marched to their canoes. And thus the
island was again free, and they saw no savages for several
years after.
When they were all gone, our people came out of their den;
and, viewing the field of battle, they found about two-and-
thirty dead bodies upon the spot; some were killed with
great long arrows, some of which were found sticking in their
bodies; but most of them were killed with great wooden
swords, sixteen or seventeen of which they found in the field
of battle, and as many bows, with a great many arrows. These
swords were great strange unwieldy things, and they must be
very strong men that used them: most of those that were
killed with them had their heads smashed to pieces, or, as we
call it in English, their brains knocked out, and several of
their arms and legs broken; so that it is evident they fight
with inexpressible rage and fury. We found not one wounded
man that was not stone dead; for either they stay by their
enemy till they have quite killed them, or they carry all the
wounded away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while:
the sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences
appeared terrible to the last degree, even to them, if ever they
should fall into the hands of those creatures, who would not
only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we kill
our cattle. They professed to me, that the thoughts of being
eaten up like beef or mutton, though it was supposed it was
not to be till they were dead, had something in it so horrible,
that it nauseated their very stomachs, made them sick when
they thought of it, and filled their minds with such unusual
terror, that they were not themselves for some weeks after.
This, as I said, tamed even the three English brutes I have
been speaking of; and, for a great while after, they were very
tractable, and went about the common business of the society;
they planted, sowed, reaped, and all began to be natural-
ized to the country; but some time after this they fell again
into such measures which brought them into a great deal of
trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I have observed; and
these three being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them
servants, and taught them to work for them; and, as slaves,
they did well enough; but they did not take their measures
with them, as I did by my man Friday; they did not insure
their gratitude upon the principle of having saved their lives,
and then instruct them in the rational principles of life, civil-
izing and reducing them by kind usage and affectionate treat-
ment; but, as they gave them their food every day, so they
gave them their work too, and kept them fully employed in
drudgery; therefore, they never had them to assist them and
fight for them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to
me as the very flesh upon my bones.
Being now all good friends, they began to consider whether,
seeing the savages particularly haunted that side of the island,
and that there were more remote and retired parts of it equally
adapted to their way of living, they should not rather remove
their habitation, and plant in some place of greater security
for their cattle and corn. After long debate, it was concluded
that they would not remove their habitation; because some
time or other they thought they might hear from their governor
again, meaning me; and if I should send any one to seek
them, I should be sure to direct them to that side of the isl-
and, where, if they should find the place demolished, it would
be concluded that the savages had killed us all. But as to
their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove a part of them
into the valley where my cave was, where there was land
enough, and to plant part of their corn there too, so that if one
part was destroyed, the other might be saved; they never,
however, trusted the three savages, their prisoners, with a
knowledge of the plantation they had made in that valley, or
of any cattle, much less of the cave there, which they kept as
a safe retreat in case of necessity; they carried thither also
the two barrels of powder which I had left them. They agreed
also, as I had carefully covered it first with a wall or fortifica-
tion, and then with a grove of trees; so they also set to work
to cover and conceal the place yet more effectually than
before: to this purpose, as I had planted trees for some good
distance before the entrance, they went on in the same man-
ner, and filled up the rest of that whole space of ground, from
the trees I had set, quite down to the side of the creek, where,
as I said, I landed my floats, and even into the very ooze
where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any place to
land, or any sign that there had been any landing thereabout.
This they did by planting stakes as I had done, which being
of wood very forward to grow, they took care to have them
generally much larger and taller than those which I had
planted, and as they planted them thick and close together,
when they had been growing three or four years there was no
piercing into the plantation with the eye to any considerable
way; as for that part which I had planted, the trees were
grown as large as a man's thigh ; and among them they placed
so many other short ones, and so thick, that in a word it stood
a growing, impenetrable palisado for a quarter of a mile: a
little dog could hardly get between the trees, they stood so
close. The same was done by all the ground to the right
hand, and to the left, and round even to the top of the hill;
leaving no way, even for themselves to come out, but by the
ladder placed up to the side of the hill, which was lifted up
after them, and placed again from stage to stage up to the top.
They had lived two years after this in perfect retirement,
and had no more visits from the savages: they had indeed an
alarm given early one morning; for some of the Spaniards
being out on the west end of the island, which, by the way,
was that end where I never went for fear of being discovered,
they saw above twenty canoes of Indians just coming on
shore.
They made the best of their way home, in hurry enough,
giving the alarm to their comrades; they kept close all that
day and the next, going out only at night to make observa-
tion; but wherever the savages went, they did not land that
time on the island. Now, however, they had another broil
with the three Englishmen; one of whom, a most turbulent
fellow, being in a rage with one of the three slaves, because
the fellow had not done something which he bid him do,
and seeming a little untractable on his showing him, drew a
hatchet out of a frog-belt, in which he wore it by his side, fell
upon the poor savage, not to correct, but to kill him. One of
the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the poor fellow a
barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head,
but struck into his shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the
poor creature's arm off, ran to him, and entreating him not to
murder the poor man, stepped in between him and the savage,
to prevent mischief.
The fellow, being enraged the more at this, struck at the
Spaniard with his hatchet, and swore he would serve him as
he intended to serve the savage; which the Spaniard perceiv-
ing, avoided the blow, and with a shovel, which he had in his
hand (for they all were working in the field about their corn
land), knocked the brute down: another of the Englishmen,
running at the same time to help his comrade, knocked the
Spaniard down; and then two more Spaniards coming to help
their man, the third Englishman fell in upon them. They had
none of them any fire-arms, or other weapons than hatchets
and tools, except this third Englishman; he had one of my old
rusty cutlasses, with which he made at the two last Spaniards
and wounded them both. This fray set the whole family in an
uproar, and more help coming in, they took the three English-
men prisoners. The next question was, What should be done
with them? They had been so often mutinous, and were so
furious, so desperate, and so idle withal, that it was difficult to
know what course to take with them, for they were mischiev-
ous to the highest degree, and valued not what hurt they did
to any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live with
them.
The governor told them in so many words, that if they had
been his own countrymen, he would have hanged them; for
all laws, and all governors, were appointed to preserve society,
and those who were dangerous to the society ought to be
expelled from it; but as they were Englishmen, and it was to
the generous kindness of an Englishman that they all owed
their preservation and deliverance, he would use them with all
possible lenity, and leave them to the judgment of the other
two Englishmen, their fellow-countrymen.
One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said, they
desired it might not be left to them; "for," says he, "I am
sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows;" and with that
he gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the three, had
proposed to have all the five Englishmen join together and
murder all the Spaniards when they were in their sleep.
When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to William
Atkins. , "How, Seignior Atkins," says he, "would you mur-
der us all? What have you to say to that?" That hardened
villain was so far from denying it, that he said it was true, and
declared with an oath that they would do it still before they
had done with them. "Well, but Seignior Atkins," said the
Spaniard, "what have we done to you that you will kill us?
And what would you get by killing us? And what must we
do to prevent you killing us? Must we kill you? Why will
you put us to the necessity of this, Seignior Atkins?" says
the Spaniard very calmly, and smiling.
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's mak-
ing a jest of it, that, had he not been withheld, and without
weapons, he would have attempted to kill the Spaniard in the
middle of all the company.
This hair-brained carriage obliged them to consider seri-
ously what was to be done. The two Englishmen, and the
Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of opinion they
should hang one of the three for an example to the rest; and
that particularly it should be he that had twice attempted to
commit murder with his hatchet; and indeed there was some
reason to believe he had done it, for the poor savage was in
such a miserable condition from the wound he had received,
that it was thought he could not live.
But the governor Spaniard still said, No, it was an English-
man that had saved all their lives, and he would never consent
:o put an Englishman to death; nay, he said, if he had been
killed himself by an Englishman, and had time left to speak,
it should be a request that they should pardon him.
This was so positively insisted on by the governor Span-
iard, that there was no gainsaying it; and as merciful counsels
are most apt to prevail, where they are so earnestly pressed,
so they all came into it; but then it was to be considered
what should be done to keep them from doing the mischief
they designed; for all agreed, governor and all, that means
were to be used for preserving the society from danger. After
a long debate it was agreed, first, that the three should be
disarmed, and not permitted to have either gun, or powder, or
shot, or sword, or other weapon, and that they should be
turned out of the society, and left to live where they would,
and how they could, by themselves; but that none of he rest,
either Spaniards or English, should converse or have anything
to do with them; that they should be forbid to come within a
certain distance of the place where the rest dwelt; and that if
they offered to commit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill,
or destroy any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or
cattle belonging to the society, that they should be shot down
wherever they could find them.
The governor, a man of great humanity, musing over this
sentence, turned to the two honest Englishmen, and said,
"Hold; you must reflect that it will be long ere they can
raise corn and cattle of their own, and they must not starve;
we must therefore allow them provisions." So he caused to be
added to it, that they should have a proportion of corn given
them to last them eight months, and seed to sow, by which
time they might be supposed to raise some of their own; that
they should have six milch-goats, four he-goats, and six kids,
given them, as well for present subsistence as for a store; and
that they should have tools given them for their work in the
field, such as, six hatchets, an axe, a saw, and the like; but
they should have none of these tools or provisions, unless they
would swear solemnly that they would not use them to the
hurt or injury of the community.
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out
to shift for themselves. They went away sullen and refrac-
tory, neither contented to go away or to stay; but as there
was no remedy, they went, pretending to go and choose a
place where they should plant and live by themselves: provis-
ions being given them, but no weapons.
About four or five days after, they came again for some
victuals, and gave the governor an account where they had
pitched their tents, and marked themselves out a habitation
and plantation. It was a very convenient place indeed, on the
remotest part of the island, N. E., much about the place where
I landed in my first voyage, when I was driven out to sea, the
Lord knows whither, in my attempt to sail round the island.
Here they built themselves two handsome huts, close under
the side of the hill, having some trees growing already to the
three sides of it; so that by planting others, it would be very
easily concealed from the sight, unless narrowly searched for.
They desired some dried goat-skins for beds and covering,
which were given them ; and upon giving their words that they
would not disturb the rest, or injure any of their plantations,
hatchets were given them, and what other tools could be
spared: some pease, barley, and rice, for sowing, and, in a
word, all they wanted except arms and ammunition.
They lived in this separate condition about six months, and
had got in their first harvest, though the quantity was but
small, the quantify of land they had planted being but little;
for, indeed, having all their plantation to form, they had a
great deal of work upon their hands; and when they came to
make boards, and pots, and such things, they were quite out
of their element, and could make nothing of it. When the
rainy season came on, for want of a cave in the earth, they
could not keep their grain dry, and it was in great danger of
spoiling, and this humbled them much; so they came and
begged the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily
did, and in four days worked a great hole in the side of the
hill for them, big enough to secure their corn and other things
from the rain; but it was but a poor place at best, compared
to mine, and especially as mine was then, for the Spaniards
had grea.tly enlarged it, and made several new apartments
in it.
About three quarters of a year after this separation, a new
frolic took these rogues, which, together with their former vil-
lainy, brought mischief enough upon them, and had very near
been the ruin of the whole colony. The three associates
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life they led,
seeing no hope of bettering it; and a whim took them, that
they would make a voyage to the continent from whence the
savages came, and try if they could not seize upon some pris-
oners among the natives there, and bring them home, so as to
make them do the laborious part of the work for them.
The project was not so preposterous, if they had gone no
further; but they did nothing, and proposed nothing, that had
not either mischief in the design, or mischief in the event; so
the three fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning,
and in very humble terms desired to be admitted to speak
with them. The Spaniards very readily heard what they had
to say, which was this: that they were tired of living in the
manner they did; that they were not handy enough to provide
the necessaries they wanted; and that having no help, they
found they should be starved; but if the Spaniards would give
them leave to take one of the canoes which they came over
in, and give them arms and ammunition proportioned for
their defense, they would go over to the main to seek their for-
tune, and so deliver them from the trouble of supplying them
with any other provisions.
The Spaniards were glad enough to be rid of them ; •but yet
very honestly represented to them the certain destruction they
were running into ; told them they had suffered such hardships
upon that very spot, that they could, without any spirit of
prophecy, tell them that they would be starved or murdered,
and bade them consider well of it. They replied audaciously
that they should be starved if they stayed here, for they could
not work and would not work, and they could but be starved
abroad; and if they were murdered, there was an end of them,
they had no wives or children to cry after them; and, in
short, insisted importunately upon their demand, declaring
that they would go, whether they would give them arms or no.
The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they
were resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, in no
condition to defend themselves; and though they could ill
spare their fire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet
they would let them have two muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass,
and each man a hatchet, which they thought sufficient for
them.
In a word, they accepted the offer; and having baked them
bread enough to serve for a month, and given them as much
goat's flesh as they could eat while it was sweet, and a great
basket full of dried grapes, a pot full of fresh water, and a
young kid alive to kill, they boldly set out in a canoe for a
voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty miles broad.
The boat was indeed a large one, and would have very well
carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big
for them to manage; but as they had a fair breeze and the
flood tide with them, they did well enough: they made a mast
of a long pole, and a sail of four large goat-skins dried, which
they had sewed or laced together, and away they went merrily
enough: the Spaniards called after them Bon Veajo, and no
man ever thought of seeing them again. The Spaniards and
the two honest Englishmen would often congratulate each
other on the quiet and comfortable life they led now those
turbulent fellows were gone; as for their ever coming again,
that was the remotest thing from their thoughts; when, be-
hold, after twenty-two days' absence, one of the Englishmen
being abroad upon his planting-work, sees three strange men
coming towards him at a distance, two of them with guns
upon their shoulders.
Away ran the Englishman as if he was bewitched, coming
frighted and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him
they were all undone,.for there were strangers landed upon
the isla•nd; they could not tell who. The Spaniard, pausing
awhile, says to him, "How do you mean, you cannot tell who?
They are the savages to be sure." "No, no," says the Eng-
lishman, "they are men in clothes with arms." "Nay, then,"
says the Spaniard, "why are you concerned? If they are not
savages, they must be friends ; for there is no Christian nation
upon earth but will do us good rather than harm."
While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen,
and standing without the wood which was new planted, hal-
looed to them ; they presently knew their voices, and so all their
wonder ceased. But now the admiration was turned upon
another question, viz., What could be the matter, and what
had brought them back again?
It was not long before the men were brought in; and
inquiring where they had been, and what they had been doing,
they gave them a full account of their voyage — in a few
words, they reached the land in two days, or something less;
but finding the people alarmed at their coming, and preparing
with bows and arrows to fight them, they durst not go on
shore, but sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till
they came to a great opening, by which they perceived that
the land they saw from our island was not the main, but an
island. Entering that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the right hand to the north, and several more to the
west; being resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one
of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on shore; and
found the people very courteous and friendly to them, giving
them roots, and spme dried fish, and appearing very sociable;
the women, as well as the men, being very forward to supply
them with anything they could get for them to eat, bringing it
to them a great way upon their heads.
They continued here four days, and inquired, as well as they
could of them by signs, what nations were this way, and that
way; and were told of several fierce and terrible races that
lived almost every way; who, as they made signs to them,
used to eat men; but as for themselves, they said, they never
eat men or women, except only such as they took in war, and
then they owned that they made a great feast and eat their
prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that
kind ; and they told them about two moons ago, pointing to
the moon, and then to two fingers; and that their great king
had two hundred prisoners now, which he had taken in his
war; and they were feeding them to make them fat for the
next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous to see
those prisoners; but the other mistaking them, thought they
were desirous to have some of them to carry away for their
own eating. So they beckoned to them, pointing to the set-
ting sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify, that the
next morning, at sun-rising, they would bring some for them;
and accordingly, the next morning, they brought down five
women and eleven men, and gave then) to the Englishmen to
carry with them on their voyage, just as we would bring so
many cows and oxen down to a sea-port town to victual a
ship.
Brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to
do: to refuse the prisoners would have been the highest
affront to the savage gentry that offered them; and what to do
with them they knew not. However, after consultation, they
resolved to accept of them; and, in return, they gave the sav-
ages that brought them one of their hatchets, an old key, a
knife, and six or seven of their bullets, which, though they did
not understand, they seemed extremely pleased with: and
then, tying the poor creatures' hands behind them, they (the
people) dragged the poor prisoners into the boat.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they
received them, otherwise they would certainly have been ex-
pected to kill two or three of them the next morning, inviting
the donors at the same time to dinner. Having taken their
leave with all the ceremonies that could pass between people,
neither of whom understood a word said, they put off, and
came back towards Ihe first island, where they set eight of
their prisoners at liberty. In their voyage they endeavored to
communicate with their prisoners, but they could not be made
to understand anything; when unbound the poor creatures
screamed out, especially the women, as if they had just felt the
knife at their throats; for they immediately concluded they
were unbound on purpose to be killed. If they gave them
anything to eat, it was the same thing, it was given for fear
they should sink in flesh; if they looked at one of them more
particularly, it was to see whether he or she was fattest and
fittest to kill; nay, when they began to use them kindly, and
treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner
or a supper for their new masters.
When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable
history of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their
new family was. And being told that they had brought them
on shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come
up to beg some victuals for them, the whole colony resolved to
go down to the place and see them, taking Friday's father
with them.
When they came into the hut there they sat all bound; for
when they had brought them on shore, they bound their hands
that they might not make their escape j there, I say, they sat,
all of them stark naked: first, there were three men, lusty,
comely fellows, well-shaped, straight and fair limbs, about
thirty to thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof two
might be from thirty to forty, two more not above four or five
and twenty, and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen
or seventeen. The women were well-favored, agreeable per-
sons, both in shape and features, only tawny; and two of
them, had they been white, would have passed for very hand-
some women, having very agreeable countenances, and a very
modest behavior, especially when they came afterwards to be
clothed and dressed, though the dress was a very indifferent one.
The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our
Spaniards, who were men of the most calm, sedate tempers,
and perfect good humor, that ever I met with, and, in particu-
lar, of great modesty, as will presently appear. I say the
sight was very uncouth, to see three naked men, and five
naked women, all together bound, and expecting every mo-
ment to be dragged out and have their brains knocked out,
and then to be eaten up like a calf that is killed for a dainty.
The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Fri-
day's father, to go in and see if he knew any of them; and
then, if he understood their speech. As soon as the old man
came in, he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them;
neither could any of them understand a word he said, or a sign
he could make, except one of the women. This was enough,
however; he soon satisfied them that they had fallen into
Christian hands, who abhorred eating men or women, and
assured them they would not be killed ; at this they discovered
such joy, and by such awkward and several ways, as is hard
to describe, for it seems they were of several nations. The
woman who interpreted was now bid to ask them if they were
willing to be servants, and to work for the men who had
brought them away. At which they all fell a dancing; and
presently one fell to taking up this, and another that, anything
that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, as an intimation that
they were willing to work.
The governor, who feared that having the women among
them would presently be attended with some inconveniency,
and that it might occasion strife, and perhaps blood, asked
the three men what they intended to do with these women,
and whether they intended them for servants or wives. One
of the Englishmen answered very boldly and readily that they
would use them as both. To which the governor said, " I am
not going to restrain you from it; you are your own masters
as to that; but to avoid disorders and quarrels among you, I
desire that you will all engage that if any of you take any of
these women as wife, that he shall take but one, and that, hav-
ing taken one, none else should touch her; for it is but rea-
sonable that each should maintain the woman he takes." All
this appeared so just that every one agreed to it without any
difficulty.
Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed
to take any of them? But every one of them answered " No ;"
some of them said they had wives in Spain, and the others did
not like women that were not Christians, and all together
declared that they would not touch one of them; on the other
hand, the five Englishmen took them every one a wife, and so
they set up a new form of living, for the Spaniards and Fri-
day's father lived as before in my old habitation, which they
had enlarged exceedingly within. The three servants which
they had taken in the late battle of the savages, lived with
them; and these carried on the main part of the colony, sup-
plying all the rest with food, and assisting them in anything as
they could, as necessity required.
But the wonder of this story was, how five such refractory,
ill-matched fellows should agree about these women, and that
two of them should not pitch upon the same, especially seeing
two or three of them were, without comparison, more agree-
able than the others; but they took a good way enough to
prevent quarreling among themselves, for they set the five
women by themselves in one of their huts, while they went all
into the other, and drew lots among themselves who should
choose first.
When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus,
and fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition
returned upon them again, and they firmly believed that they
were now going to be devoured; accordingly, when the Eng-
lish sailor came in and fetched out one of them, the rest set
up a most lamentable cry, and hung about her, and took their
leave of her with such agonies and such affection, as would
have grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor was it pos-
sible for the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not to
be immediately murdered, till they fetched the old man, Fri-
day's father, who instantly let them know, that the five men
who had fetched them out one by one, had chosen them for
their wives.
When they had done, and the fright the women were in was
a little over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came
and helped them; and, in a few hours, they had built them
every one a new hut or tent for their lodging apart, for those
they had already were crowded with their tools, household
stuff, and provisions. The three wicked ones had pitched
farthest off, and the two honest ones nearer, but both on the
north shore of the island, so that they continued separated as
before; and thus my island was peopled in three places, and,
as I might say, three towns were planted.
And here it is very well worth observing that, as it often
happens in the world, the two honest fellows had the two
worst wives, and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth
hanging, had three clever, diligent, careful, and ingenious
wives; not that the two first were bad wives as to their tem-
per or humor, for all the five were most willing, quiet, passive
creatures, rather like slaves than wives, but they were not
alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or alike cleanly and
neat. Another observation I must make in honor of a dili-
gent application on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothful,
negligent, idle temper on the other ; when I came to the place,
and viewed the several improvements, the two men had far
outdone the three; they had indeed both of them as much
ground laid out for corn as they wanted, for nature dictated
that it was to no purpose to sow more corn than they wanted;
but the difference of the cultivation, of the planting, of the
fences, and, indeed, of everything else, was easy to be seen at
a glance.
The two men had innumerable young trees planted about
their huts, and though they had twice had their plantation
demolished, once by their own countrymen, and once by the
enemy, yet they had restored it again, and everything was
thriving and flourishing about them; they had grapes planted
in order, and managed like a vineyard. They had also found
out a retreat in the thickest part of the woods, where, though
there was no natural cave, as I had found, yet they had made
one with the incessant labor of their hands, where they secured
their wives and children from the enemy, having, by sticking
innumerable stakes and poles of quick growing wood, made
the wood impassable, except in one place, where they climbed
up to get over the outside part, and then went in by ways of
their own making.
As to the other three, though they were more civilized and
much less quarrelsome, having not the same opportunity, yet
one of the certain companions of a profligate mind never left
them, and that was their idleness. It is true they planted
corn and made fences; but Solomon's words were never better
verified than in them, — "I went by the vineyard of the sloth-
ful, and it was overgrown with thorns ;" for when the Span-
iards came to view their crop, they could not see it in some
places for weeds; the hedge had several gaps in it, where the
wild goats had got in and eaten up the corn; perhaps here
and there a dead bush was crammed in to stop them out for
the present, but it was only shutting the stable door after the
steed was stolen; whilst the two verified Solomon's words in
another place, "That the diligent hand makes rich;" for
everything grew and thrived, and they had plenty within and
without; they had more tame cattle than the other, more
utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more pleasure
and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and
cleanly within doors; and having learned the English ways of
dressing and cooking from one of the Englishmen, who, as I
said, was cook's mate on board the ship, they dressed their
husbands' victuals very nicely indeed, whereas the other could
not be brought to understand it; but then the husband, who,
as I say, had been cook's mate, did it himself; but the men
themselves loitered about, fetched turtle's eggs, and caught
fish and birds: in a word, anything but labor, and they fared
accordingly: the diligent lived well and comfortable, and the
slothful lived hard and beggarly; and so I believe, generally
speaking, it is all over the world.
Early one morning there came on shore five or six canoes
of Indians, or savages, call them which you please; and there
is no room to doubt they came upon the old errand of feeding
upon their prisoners, but that part was now so familiar to the
Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not concern
themselves much about it, their only business was to lie con-
cealed, and if they were not seen by any of the savages, they
would go off again quietly when their business was done, hav-
ing as yet not the least notion of there being any inhabitants
in the island. But an accident spoiled all their measures, and
made it known among the savages that there were inhabitants
there, which in the end led to the desolation of the whole
colony. After the canoes with the savages had gone off, the
Spaniards peeped abroad again, and some of them had the
curiosity to go to the place where they had been to see what
they had been doing. Here, to their great surprise, they
found three savages left behind, lying fast asleep upon the
ground; it was supposed that they had either been so gorged
with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they fell asleep, and
would not stir when the others went, or they had wandered
into the woods, and did not come back in time.
The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and
perfectly at a loss what to do: the Spaniard governor, as it
happened, was with them, and his advice was asked; but he
professed he knew not what to do: as for slaves, they had
enough already; and as to killing them, they were none of
them inclined to that. The Spaniard governor told me they
could not think of shedding innocent blood; for as to them,
the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded none of
their property, and they thought they had no just quarrel
against them to justify them in taking away their lives.
After some consultation, therefore, they resolved that they
would lie still a while longer, till, if possible, these three men
might be gone; but then the governor Spaniard recollected
that the three savages had no boat, and that if they were left
to rove about the island, they would certainly discover that
there were inhabitants in it, and so they should be undone
again in that way.
Upon this they went back again, and found the fellows fast
asleep still; so they resolved to waken them, and take them
prisoners, and they did so: the poor fellows were strangely
frighted when they were seized upon and bound; they were
afraid, like the women, that they should be murdered and
eaten.
It was very fortunate that they did not carry them home to
their castle, I mean to my palace under the hill; but to the
bower, where was the chief country work, such as the keeping
the goats, planting the corn, &c., and afterwards they carried
them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.
Here they were set to work, though it was not much they
had for them to do; and whether it was by negligence in
guarding them, or that they thought the fellows could not
mend themselves, I know not, but one of them run away; and
taking to the woods, they never saw him more. They had
good reason to believe, however, that he got home in some
other boats or canoes of savages, who came on shore three or
four weeks afterwards, on one of their revels, and went off
again in two days' time. This incident terrified them all ex-
ceedingly; for they concluded, and that not without good
cause, that if this fellow got home among his comrades, he
would certainly give report that there were people in the
island, and how weak and few they were; for this savage, as I
observed before, had never been told, and it was very happy
he had not, how many they were in all, or where they lived,
nor had he ever seen or heard the report of their guns: he
knew nothing of the cave in the valley, or of the new retreat
which the two Englishmen had made.
About two months after this, six canoes of savages, with
about seven or eight, or ten men in a canoe, came rowing
along the north side of the island, where they never used to
come before, landing about an hour after sunrise, at a conven-
ient place, a mile or so from the habitation of the two English-
men, where the man had been kept. As the Spaniard governor
said, had they been all there, the damage would not have been
so much, for not a man of them would have escaped; but the
case differed now very much, for two men to fifty was great
odds. The two men had the happiness to discover them
about a league off, so that it was above an hour before they
landed; and as they landed a mile from the huts, it was some
time before they could come at them. Now having great
reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first thing they
did was to bind the two slaves which were left, and cause two
of the three men, brought with the women, who, it seems,
proved very faithful to them, to lead them with their two
wives, and whatever they could carry away with them, to their
retirement in the woods, and there to bind the two fellows
hand and foot till they heard farther.
In the next place, seeing the savages all come on shore, and
that they bent their course directly that way, they opened the
fences where their milch-goats were kept, and drove them all
out to straggle into the woods, whither they pleased, that the
savages might think they were all bred wild. When the two
poor frighted men had secured their wives and goods, they
sent the other slave they had of the three, who came with the
women, and who was at their place by accident, away to the
Spaniards with all speed, to give the alarm, and desire speedy
help; and in the mean time they took their arms, and what
ammunition they had, and retreated towards the place in the
wood where their wives were sent, keeping at a distance; yet
so that they might see, if possible, which way the savages
took.
They had not gone so far, but that from a rising ground,
they could see the little army of their enemies come on di-
rectly to their habitation, and in a moment more could see all
their huts and household stuff flaming up together, to their
great grief and mortification; for they sustained a loss, to
them irretrievable, at least for some time. They kept their
station, however, till they found the savages, like wild beasts,
spread themselves all over the place, rummaging every way,
and every place they could think of, in search of prey; and,
in particular, for the people, of whom it now plainly appeared
they had had intelligence. Seeing this, the two Englishmen,
not thinking themselves secure where they were, thought it
proper to make another retreat about half a mile farther,
believing, as it afterwards happened, that the farther they
strolled, the fewer of the savages would be found together.
The next halt was at the entrance of a very thick-grown
part of the woods, where stood an old trunk of a tree, which
was hollow, and vastly large; in this tree they both took their
stand, resolving to see what might offer.
They had not stood there long, when two of the savages
appeared running directly that way, as if they had already had
notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack them.
A little farther off they spied three more coming after them,
and five more beyond them, all coming the same way; besides
this, they saw seven or eight more at a distance running an-
other way; in a word, they ran in every direction, like sports-
men beating for game.
The poor men were now in great perplexity, whether they
should stand, and keep their posture, or fly; but after a very
short debate with themselves, they considered, that if the sav-
ages ranged the country thus, before help came, they might,
perhaps, find out their retreat in the woods, and then all would
be lost; so they resolved to wait for them there; and if there
were too many to deal with, then they would get to the top of
the tree, from which they doubted not their ability to defend
themselves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition lasted,
even though all the savages who landed, which was near fifty,
were to attack them.
Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether
they should fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and so
take the middle party; by which the two and the five that
followed would be separated; and they resolved to let the
two first pass by, unless they should spy them in the tree, and
come to attack them. The two first savages confirmed them
in this resolution, by turning away towards another part of the
wood; but the three, and the five after them, came forward
directly to the tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were
there. Seeing them come so straight towards them, they
resolved to take them in a line as they came, and fire one at a
time ; perhaps the first shot might hit them all three; to which
purpose, the man who was to fire put three or four small bul-
lets into his piece, and having a fair loophole, as it were, from
a broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being
seen, waiting till they were within about thirty yards of the
tree, so that he could not miss. As the savages came on, they
plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that
had escaped from them ; they both knew him distinctly, and
resolved that he should not escape; so the other stood ready
with his piece, to fire a second, in case he did not drop at the
first shot. But the first was too good a marksman to miss.
As the savages kept near one another, in a line, he fired, and
hit two of them directly: the foremost was killed outright,
being shot in the head; the second, which was the runaway
Indian, was shot through the body, and fell, but was not quite
dead; and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, per-
haps by the same ball that went through the body of the
second; and being dreadfully frighted, though not much hurt,
he sat down upon the ground, screaming and yelling in a hid-
eous manner.
The five that were behind, more frighted by the noise than
sensible*of the danger, stood still at first; for the woods made
the sound a thousand times bigger than it really was; the
echoes rattling from one side to another, and the fowls rising
from all parts, screaming and making every sort of noise,
according to their kind.
All being silent again, however, and not knowing what the
matter was, they came on unconcerned till they came to the
place where their companions lay, in a condition miserable
enough; and here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible
that they were within reach of the same mischief, stood hud-
dled over the wounded man, talking, and, as may be sup-
posed, inquiring of him how he came to be hurt: he told them
that a flash of fire first, and immediately after that, thunder
from their gods, had killed those two, and wounded him. Oui
two men, though, as they confessed to me, it grieved them to
kill so many poor creatures, who at the same time had no
notion of their danger; yet, having them all thus in their
power, and the first having loaded his piece again, resolved to
let fly both together among them; and, singling out by agree-
merit which to aim at, they shot together, and killed, or very
much wounded, four of them; the fifth, frighted even to death,
though not hurt, fell with the rest; so that our men, seeing
them all fall together, thought they had killed them all.
This belief made our two men come boldly out from the
tree before they had charged their guns again, which was a
wrong step; and they were under some surprise, when they
came to the place, and found no less than four of the men
still alive, and of these, two very little hurt, and one not at
all: this obliged them to fall upon them with the stocks of
their muskets, and first they made sure of the runaway savage
that had been the cause of all the mischief; and of another
that was hurt in the knee, they put them out of their pain;
then the man that was not hurt at all came and kneeled before
them, with his two hands held up, and made a piteous appeal
to them, by gestures and signs, for his life; but could not say
one word to them that they understood.
However, they signed to him to sit down at the foot of a
tree there by; and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope-
twine, which he had by great chance in his pocket, tied his
two feet fast together, and his two hands behind him, and
there they left him; and with what speed they could, made
after the other two which were gone before, fearing that they,
or some other of them, should find the way to their covered
place in the woods, where their wives and goods they had left
lay. They came once in sight of the two men, but it was at a
great distance; however, they had the satisfaction to see them
cross over a valley, towards the sea, in a direction quite con-
trary to that which led to their retreat. Satisfied with this,
they went back to the tree where they had left their pris-
oner; but he was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn, with
which they had bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree.
They were now as greatly concerned as before, not knowing
what course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in
what numbers; so they resolved to go towards the place where
their wives were, to see if all was well there, and relieve their
anxiety; for though the savages were their own country folk,
yet they were terribly afraid of them, the more, perhaps, for
the knowledge they had of them.
When they reached it, they found the savages had been in
the wood, and very near the place, but had not found it; for
it was indeed rendered all but inaccessible, the trees standing
so thick before it, that it could only be found by persons seek-
ing it, directed by those that knew it: they found everything
very safe, only the women in a terrible fright. Here they had
the comfort of seeing seven of the Spaniards come to their
assistance; the other ten, with their servants, and Old Friday,
I mean Friday's father, were gone in a body to defend their
bower, and the corn and cattle kept there, in case the savages
should have roved over to that side of the country; but they
did not spread so far. With the seven Spaniards, came one
of the three savages, who, as I said, were their prisoners for-
merly, and with them also came the savage the Englishmen
had left bound hand and foot at the tree; for it seems they
came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and un-
bound the eighth, and brought him along with them, where,
however, they were obliged to bind him again, as they had the
two others, who were left when the third ran away.
The prisoners began now to be a burden to them; and they
were so afraid of their escaping, that they were resolving to
kill them all, believing they were under an absolute necessity
to do so, for their own preservation; but the Spaniard gov-
ernor would not consent to it; he ordered, for the present,
that they should be sent to my old cave in the valley, and
kept there, with two Spaniards to guard them. They were
bound there hand and foot for that night.
The two Englishmen were so encouraged by the presence
of the Spaniards, that they were not inclined to stay any longer
there; but taking five of the Spaniards, with four muskets and
a pistol among them, and two stout quarter-staves, away they
went in quest of the savages; first, they came to the tree
where the men lay that had been killed; but it was easy to
see that some more of the savages had been there; for they
had attempted to carry their dead men away, and had dragged
two of them a good way, but had given it over: from thence
they advanced to the first rising ground, whence they had seen
their camp destroyed, and where they had the mortification
still to see the smoke rising; but neither could they here see
any of the savages: they then resolved, though with all possi-
ble caution, to go forward towards their ruined plantation ; but
before reaching it, coming in sight of the sea-shore, they
plainly saw the savages embarking in their canoes. They
were sorry at first to find there was no way to come at them,
to give them a parting blow; but, upon the whole, they were
very well satisfied to be rid of them.
The poor Englishmen being thus a second time ruined, and
all their property destroyed, the others agreed to help•them to
rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies. Their three
countrymen, not noted for any inclination to do good, never-
theless, when they heard of their misfortunes (for they, living
remote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till all was over),
offered their help and assistance, and did very friendly work
for several days, to restore their habitation, and prepare
necessaries for them; and thus, in a little time, they were set
upon their legs again.
Two days after this, they had the farther satisfaction of
seeing three of the savages' canoes come driving on shore, and
at some distance from them, two drowned men; by which they
had reason to believe, that they had met with a storm at sea,
which had overset some of them; for it had blown very hard
the very night after they went off.
It was five or six months after this, before they heard any
more of the savages: in this time our men were in hopes they
had either forgot their former disasters, or given up all hopes
of better success, when, on a sudden, the island was invaded
by a formidable fleet of no less than eight-and-twenty canoes
full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs,
wooden swords, and such like engines of war; they were in
such numbers that it threw all our people into the utmost con-
sternation.
As they landed in the evening, and at the easternmost side
of the island, our men had that night to consult and consider
what to do; in the first place, knowing that their being en-
tirely concealed was their only safety formerly, so it would be
much more so now, when their enemies were so numerous.
They resolved, therefore, first of all to pull down the huts
which were built for the two Englishmen, and drive away their
goats to the old cave; supposing that the savages would go
directly thither, as soon as it was day, to play the old game
over again, though they did not now land within two leagues
of it.
In the next place, they drove away all the flock of goats
they had at the old bower, as I called it, which belonged to
the Spaniards; in short, they left as little appearance of inhab-
itants anywhere as was possible; and the next morning early
they posted themselves, with all their force, at the plantation
of the two men, to wait for their coming. As they guessed, so
it happened; these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the
east end of the island, came ranging along the shore, directly
towards the place, to the number of two hundred and fifty, as
near as our men could judge. Our force was small indeed;
but what was worse, they had not arms for all their number.
The whole account, it seems, stood thus. First as to men.
Seventeen Spaniards, five Englishmen, one Old Friday, or
Friday's father; three the three slaves, taken with the women,
who proved very faithful; three other slaves who lived with
the Spaniards.
To arm these they had eleven muskets, five pistols, three
fowling-pieces, five muskets, or fowling-pieces, which were
taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom I reduced; two
swords, three old halberds.
To the slaves they did not give either musket or fusil, but
they had every one a halberd, or long staff, like a quarter-staff,
with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by
his side a hatchet: also every one of our men had hatchets.
Two of the women could not be prevailed upon, but they
would come into the fight; and they had bows and arrows,
which the Spaniards had taken from the savages, when the
first action happened, which I have spoken of, where the
Indians fought with one another; the women had hatchets
too.
The Spaniard governor, who I have described so often,
commanded the whole; and Wm. Atkins, who, though a
dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a bold daring fellow, com-
manded under him. The savages came forward like lions,
and our men, which was the worst of their fate, had no advan-
tage in their situation; only that Will Atkins, who now proved
a most useful fellow, with six men, was planted just behind a
small thicket of bushes, as an advanced guard, with orders to
let the first band of them pass by, and then fire into the mid-
dle of them; retreating as nimbly as he could, as soon as he
had fired, round a part of the wood, and so coming in behind
the Spaniards, who.stood with a thicket of trees also before
them.
When the savages came on, they ran straggling about in
every direction without order; Atkins let about fifty of them
pass; then, seeing the rest coming in a very thick throng, he
ordered three of his men to fire, having loaded their muskets
with six or seven bullets a-piece, each about as big as large
pistol bullets. How many they killed or wounded they never
knew; but the consternation and surprise among the savages
was inexpressible ; they were frighted to the last degree to
hear such a dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and
others wounded, but seeing nobody that did it; while in the
middle of their fright, Atkins, and his other three, let fly again
among the thickest of them; and in less than a minute, the
other three being again loaded, gave them a third volley. Had
Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as they had
fired, as they were ordered to do; or had the rest of the body
been at hand to have poured in their shot eontinually, the
savages had now been effectually routed; for their terror prin-
cipally arose from the superstitious dread that they were killed
by the gods with thunder and lightning, not seeing by whom
they were hurt; but Atkins, staying to load again, revealed
the cheat; some of the savages, who were at a distance, spying
them, came upon them behind; and though Atkins and his
men fired at them also, two or three times, and killed above
twenty, retiring as fast as they could, yet they wounded Atkins
himself, and killed one of his fellow Englishmen with their
arrows, as they did afterwards one Spaniard, and one of the
Indian slaves who came with the women. This slave was a
most gallant fellow, and fought most desperately, killing five
of them with his own hand, he having no weapon but one of
the armed staves, and a hatchet.
Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two
other men killed, they retreated to a rising ground in the
wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon them,
retreated also; for their number was so great, that though
above fifty of them were killed, and more wounded, yet they
came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of danger, and shot
their arrows like a cloud; and it was observed, that their
wounded men, when not quite disabled, were made outrageous
by their wounds, and fought like madmen.
When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the
Englishman, that were killed, behind them; and the savages,
when they came up to them, vented their rage on their bodies
in a wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs, and heads,
with their clubs and wooden swords, like true savages. But,
finding our men were gone, they did not seem inclined to pur-
sue them; but drew themselves up in a kind of ring, which is,
it seems, their custom, and shouted twice, in token of their
victory; after which they had the mortification of seeing
several of their wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss
of blood.
The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up
together, upon a rising ground, Atkins, though iie was
wounded, would have had him march, and cha/.ge them
again all together at qnce; but the prudent Spaniard re-
plied, "Seignfor Atkins, you see how their wounded men
fight; let them alone till morning; all these wounded men
will be stiff and sore with their wounds, and faint with the
loss of blood; and so we shall have the fewer to engage."
The advice was good; but Will Atkins replied merrily, "That
is true, Seignior, and so shall I be too; and that is the reason
I would go on while I am warm." "Well, Seignior Atkins,"
says the Spaniard, "you have behaved gallantly, and done
your part; we will fight for you, if you cannot come on; but
I think it best to stay till morning ;" so they waited.
But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the
savages in great disorder about their dead and wounded, and
great apparent confusion and noise among them wnere they
lay, it was resolved to fall upon them in the night, especially
if they could give them but one volley before they were dis-
covered, which they had a fair opportunity of doing, for one
of the two Englishmen, in whose quarter the fight began, led
them round between the woods and the sea-side, westward, and
then turning short south, they came so near where the thickest
of them lay, that before they were seen or heard, eight mus-
kets were fired in among them, and did dreadful execution;
in half a minute more eight others followed, pouring in their
small shot in such a quantity, that abundance were killed and
wounded; and all this while they were not able to see who
hurt them, or which way to fly.
The Spaniards charged again, with the utmost expedition,
and then divided themselves into three bodies, resolved to fall
in among them all together; they in each body eight persons,
that is to say, twenty-four, whereof were twenty-two, men and
two women, who, by the way, fought desperately.
They divided the fire-arms equally in each party, and so of
the halberds and staves. They would have had the women
keep back; but they said they were resolved to die with their
husbands. Having thus formed their little army, they marched
out from among the trees, and came up to the very teeth of
the enemy, shouting and hallooing as loud as they could; the
savages stood all together, but in the utmost confusion, hear-
ing the noise of our men shouting from three quarters to-
gether; they would have fought if they had seen us; and, as
soon as we came near enough to be seen, some arrows were
shot, and poor Old Friday was wounded, though not danger-
ously. But our men gave them no time; running up to them,
they fired among them three ways, and then fell in with the
butt-ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and
hatchets, and laid about them so well, that, in a word, the
savages set up a dismal screaming and howling, and fled in all
directions to save their lives.
Our men were tired with the execution; they killed or mor-
tally 'vounded, in the two fights, about 180 of them ; the rest
being frighted out of their wits, scoured through the woods,
and over the hills, with all the speed fear and nimble feet
could give them; and, as we did not trouble ourselves much
to pursue them, they got all together to the sea-side, where
they had landed, and where their canoes still lay. But their
disaster was not at an end yet; for it blew a terrible storm of
\
wind that evening from the seaward, so that it was impossible
for them to go off; nay, the storm continuing all night, when
the tide came up, their canoes were most of them driven by
the surge of the sea so high upon the shore that it required
infinite toil to get them off again; and some of them were
even dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one
another.
Our men, though cheered by victory, yet got little rest that
night; but having refreshed themselves as well as they could,
they resolved to march to that part of the island where the
savages had fled. This necessarily led them over the place
where the fight took place, where they found several of the
poor creatures not quite dead, and yet past recovery; a sight
disagreeable enough to generous minds. The savages, who
were their servants, dispatched those poor creatures with their
hatchets. At length they came in view of the miserable re-
mains of the army of savages. There appeared to be about
100 still; their posture was generally sitting upon the ground,
with their knees up towards their mouth, and the head put
between the two hands, leaning down upon the knees. When
our men came within two musket shot of them, the Spaniard
governor ordered two muskets to be fired without ball, to
alarm them; this he did, that by their countenance he might
know what to expect, namely, whether they were still in heart
to fight, or were so heartily beaten, as to be dispirited and
discouraged. The stratagem took; for as soon as the savages
heard the first gun, and saw the flash of the second, they
started up to their feet in the greatest consternation imagin-
able; and as our men advanced swiftly towards them, they all
ran away screaming and yawling, with a kind of howling noise
which our men did not understand, never having heard it
before; and thus they ran up the hills into the country. At
first, our men had much rather that the weather had been
calm, and that they all had got away to sea; but they did not
then consider, that this would probably have been the occasion
of their coming again in such multitudes as to be irresistible,
or, at least, in such numbers, and so often, as to desolate the
island, and starve them out. Will Atkins, therefore, who, not-
withstanding his wound, kept always with them, proved the
best counsellor in this case • his advice was, to take the advan-
tage that offered, and clap in between them and their boats,
and so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning any
more to plague the island.
They consulted long about this; some were against it, for
fear of making the wretches fly into the woods, and become
desperate; when they would have to hunt them down like
beasts, having their plantations continually rifled, .and their
tame goats destroyed.
Will Atkins told them, they had better have to do with 100
men, than with 100 nations; that as they must destroy their
boats, so they must destroy the men, or be destroyed them-
selves. In a word, he showed them the necessity of it so
plainly, that they all came into his plan; they went to work
immediately with the boats, and, getting some dry wood
together from a dead tree, they tried to set them on fire; but
they were so wet, that they would not burn. However, the
fire so burned the upper part, that it soon made them unfit
for swimming in the sea as boats. When the Indians saw
what they were about, some of them came running out of the
woods, and coming as near as they could to our men, kneeled
down and cried, "Oa, Oa, Waramakoa," and some other
words of their language, which none of the others understood;
but as they made pitiful gestures and strange noises, it was
easy to see they begged to have their boats spared, and that
they would be gone, and never come there again.
But our men were now satisfied that they had no way to
preserve themselves, or to save their colony, but effectually to
prevent any of these people from ever going home again;
depending upon this, that if ever one of them got back to tell
the story, the colony was undone; so that letting them know
that they should not have any mercy, they fell to work with
their canoes, and destroyed every one that the storm had not
destroyed before; at this sight the savages raised a hideous
cry in the woods; after which they ran about the island like
distracted men; so that, in a word, our men did not know
what to do with them.
While they thus made those people desperate, the Span-
iards did not, as they ought to have done, keep very good
guard upon their plantations; for though they had driven
away the cattle, and the Indians did not find out their main
retreat, namely, my old castle at the hill, nor the cave in the
valley; yet they found out the bower, and pulled it all to
pieces, breaking all the fences and planting about it; trod all
the corn under foot; tore up the vines and grapes, then
almost ripe; and did an inestimable damage, though to them-
selves, not one farthing worth of service. Though our men
were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet they were in
no condition to pursue them; they were too nimble of foot for
our men when they found them singly, and our men durst not
go about singly, for fear of being surrounded by numbers;
fortunately, they had no weapons; for though they had bows,
they had no arrows left, nor any materials to make them.
The distress they were reduced to was indeed deplorable;
but our men were also very much harassed; for though their
retreats were preserved, yet their provision was destroyed, and
their harvest spoiled ; and what to do they knew not; the only
refuge they had was the stock of cattle in the valley by the
cave, and some little corn which grew there, and the planta-
tion of the three Englishmen, now reduced to two, one of them
being killed by an arrow, which struck him on the side of his
head, just under the temples, so that he never spoke more.
The first thing concluded upon was to drive them up to the
farther part of the island, so that if any more savages came on
shore, they might not find one another; then, that they would
daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many of them as they
could come at, till they had reduced their number; and if
they could at last tame them, they would give them corn, and
teach them how to plant, and live upon their daily labor. In
order to this, they followed them, and so terrified them with
their guns, that if any of them fired a gun at an Indian, even
if he did not hit him, he would fall down from fear. So dread-
fully frighted they were, that they kept out of sight, farther
and farther, till at last our men, following them, and every
day killing or wounding some of them, they kept so much up
in the woods and hollow places, that they were reduced to the
utmost misery for want of food; and many were afterwards
found dead in the woods, starved to death.
When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and
pity especially moved the Spaniard governor, who was a gen-
tlemanly, generous-minded man. He proposed, if possible, to
take one of them alive, and bring him to act as interpreter, to
go among his fellows, and see if they might be brought to
some conditions, that might lead to saving their lives. One
of them was at last surprised, weak, and half-starved. He
was sullen at first, and would neither eat nor drink; but find-
ing himself kindly treated, and no violence offered him, he at
last grew tractable. They brought Old Friday to him, who
talked often with him, and told him how kind the others would
be to them all; that they would not only save their lives-, but
would give them a part of the island to live in, provided they
would agree to keep in their own bounds, and not come
beyond it, to injure or prejudice others; that they should
have corn given them to plant and grow for their bread, bread
also for their present subsistence; and Old Friday bade the
fellow go and talk with his countrymen, and see what they said
to it; assuring them, that if they did not agree immediately,
they should be all destroyed.
The poor wretches, humbled, and reduced in number to
about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer,
and begged to have some food given them; upon which
twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed, with three
Indian slaves, and Old Friday, marched to the place where
they were; the three Indian slaves carried them a large quan-
tity of bread, some rice boiled up to cakes, and dried in the
sun, and three live goats; and they were ordered to go to the
side of a hill, where they sat down, eat the provisions very
thankfully, and turned out most faithful fellows to their
words; for, except when they came to beg victuals, they
never came out of their bounds.
They had been taught both to plant corn, make bread, breed
tame goats, and milk them; they wanted nothing but wives,
and they soon would have been a nation: they were confined
to a neck of land, surrounded by high rocks behind them, and
a plain lying towards the sea before them, on the southeast
corner of the island; they had land enough, and it was very
good and fruitful; about a mile and a half broad, and three
or four miles in length. Our men had taught them to make
wooden spades, such as I had made for myself; and gave
them twelve hatchets, and three or four knives; and there
they lived, the most harmless, innocent creatures that ever
were heard of. After this the colony enjoyed a perfect tran-
quillity from attacks of the savages; not but that now and
then some canoes of savages came on shore for their triumphal,
unnatural feasts; but as they were of several nations, and,
perhaps, had never heard of those that came before, or the
reason of it, they did not make any search or inquiry after
their countrymen; and if they had, it would have been very
hard to have found them out.
Thus, I have given a full account of all that had happened
to the time of my return, at least, that was worth notice. The
Indians, or savages, were wonderfully civilized by them; they
frequently went among them, but forbid, on pain of death, any
one of the Indians coming to them, because they would not
have their settlement betrayed again.
One thing was very remarkable, namely, that the}' taught
the savages to make wicker work, or baskets; but they soon
outdid their masters; for they made abundance of most ingen-
ious things in wicker work; particularly all sorts of baskets,
sieves, bird-cages, cupboards, &c., as also chairs to sit on,
stools, beds, couches, and abundance of other things, being
very ingenious at such work, when they were once put in the
way of it.
My coming was a particular relief to these people, because
we furnished them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pick-
axes, and all things of that kind which they could want.
With the help of these tools they were so very handy, that
they came, at last, to build up their huts, or houses, very
handsomely; raddling, or working it up like basket work, all
the way round, which was a very extraordinary piece of ingen-
uity, and looked very odd; but was an exceeding good fence,
as well against heat as against all sorts of vermin; and our
men were so taken with it, that they got the savages to come
and do the like for them; so that when I came to see the two
Englishmen's colonies, they looked, at a distance, as if they
lived like bees in a hive; and as for Atkins, who was now
become a very industrious, necessary, and sober fellow, he
had made himself such a tent of basket work, as I believe was
never seen. It was 120 paces round in the outside, as I meas-
ured by my steps; the walls were as close worked as a
basket, in panels or squares, of thirty-two in number, and very
strong, standing about seven foot high: in the middle was
another not above twenty-two paces round, but built still
stronger, being eight square in its form, and in the eight
corners stood eight very strong posts, round the top of
which he laid strong pieces, pinned together with wooden
pins, from which he raised a pyramid for a roof of eight
rafters, very handsome, I assure you, and very well joined
together, though he had no nails, and only a few iron spikes,
which he made himself, out of the old iron that I had left
there; and indeed, this fellow showed abundance of ingenuity
in several things; he made a forge, with a pair of wooden
bellows to blow the fire: he made himself charcoal for his
work, and he formed out of one of the iron crows a middling
good anvil to hammer upon; in this manner he made many
things, but especially hooks, staples and spikes, bolts and
hinges. But to return to the house; after he had pitched the
roof of his innermost tent, he worked it up between the rafters
with basket work, so firm, and thatched that over again so
ingeniously with rice straw, and over that a large leaf of a
tree, which covered, the top, that his house was as dry as if it
had been tiled or slated. He owned, indeed that the savages
made the basket work for him.
The outer circuit was covered, as a lean-to, all round this
inner apartment, and long rafters lay from the two-an•d-thirty
angles to the top posts of the inner house, being-about-twenty
foot distant; so that there was a space like a walk within the
outer wicker wall, and without the inner, near twenty foot wide.
The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker
work, but much fairer, and divided it into six apartments, so
that he had six rooms on a floor, and out of every one of these
there was a door; first, into the entry, or coming into the
main tent; and another door into the space or walk that was
round it; so that walk was also divided into six equal parts,
which served not only for retreat, but to store up any neces-
saries which the family had occasion for. These six spaces
not taking up the whole circumference, what other apartments
the outer circle had, were thus ordered: as soon as you were
in at the door of the outer circle, you had a short passage
straight before you to the door of the inner house; but on
either side was a wicker partition, and a door in it, by which
you went, first, into a large room, or store-house, twenty foot
wide, and about thirty foot long, and through that into another
not quite so long: so that in the outer circle were ten hand-
some rooms, six of which were only to be come at through the
apartments of the inner tent, and served as closets or retiring
rooms to the respective chambers of the inner circle : and four
large warehouses or barns, or what you please to call them,
which went in through one another, two on either hand of the
passage that led through the outer door to the inner tent.
Such a piece of basket work, I believe, was never seen in
the world before; nor a house or tent so neatly contrived,
much less so built: in this great bee-hive lived the three
families; that is to say, W. Atkins, and his companion; the
third was killed, but his wife remained with three children;
for she was, it seems, big with child when he died; and the
other two were not at all backward to give the widow her full
share of everything, I mean, as to their corn, milk, grapes,
&c.; and when they killed a kid, or found a turtle on the
shore; so that they all lived well enough, though it was true,
they were not so industrious as the other two, as has been
observed already.
Having made myself thoroughly acquainted with the state
of the colony, I entered into a serious discourse with the
Spaniard, whom I called governor, about their stay in the
island; for as I was not come to carry any of them off, so it
would not be just to take some and leave others.
On the other hand, I told him, I came to establish them
there, not to remove them; and then I let them all know, that
I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them. That
I had been at a great charge to supply them with all things
necessary, as well for their convenience as their defence; and
that I had such and such particular persons with me, as well
to increase and recruit their number, as by the particular
necessary employments which they were bred to, being artif-
icers, to assist them in those things, in which, at present, they
were to seek.
They were all together when I talked thus to them; and
before I delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked
them one by one, if they had entirely forgot and buried their
early animosities, and would shake hands with one another,
and engage in a strict friendship, and union of interests, so
that there might be no more misunderstandings or jealousies.
Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good-humor,
said, they had met with afflictions enough to make them all
sober, and enemies enough to make them all friends. That,
for his part, he would live and die with them; and was so far
from designing anything against the Spaniards, that, he owned,
they had done nothing but what his own mad humor made
necessary, and that he would have done, perhaps, much worse
in their case: and that he would ask their pardon, if I desired
it, for the foolish and brutish things he had done to them; he
was willing and desirous of living on terms of entire friendship
and union with them; and would do anything that lay in his
power to convince them of it: as for going to England, he
cared not if he did not go thither this twenty years.
The Spaniards said, they had indeed, at first, disarmed and
excluded Will Atkins, and his two countrymen, for their bad
conduct. And they appealed to me, for the necessity they
were under to do so; but that Will Atkins had behaved him-
self so bravely in the great fight they had with the savages,
and on several occasions since, and had showed himself so
faithful to, and so concerned for the general interest, that
they had forgotten all that was past, and thought he merited
as much to be trusted with arms, and supplied with neces-
saries, as any of them; and that they had testified their satis-
faction in him, by committing the command to him, next to
the governor himself; and as they had an entire confidence in
him, and all his countrymen, so they acknowledged they had
merited that confidence, by all the methods that honest men
could merit to be valued and trusted: and they most heartily
embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance, that they
would never have any interest separate from one another.
Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we
appointed the next day to dine all together; and, indeed, we
made a splendid feast. I caused the ship's cook and his mate
to. come on shore, and dress our dinner; and the old cook's
mate we had on shore assisted. We brought on shore six
pieces of good beef, and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's
provision, with our punch bowl, and materials to fill it; and
in particular, I gave them ten bottles of French claret, and
ten bottles of English beer; things that neither the Spaniards
or the Englishmen had tasted for many years; and which, it
may be supposed, were exceeding acceptable.
The Spaniards added to our feast five whole kids, which the
cooks roasted; and three of them were sent covered up close,
on board the ship to the seamen, that they might feast on
fresh meat from the shore, as we did with their salt meat from
on board.
After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, I
brought out my cargo of goods, wherein, that there might be
no dispute about dividing, I showed them that there was suf-
ficient for them all; desired that they might all take an equal
quantity of the goods that were for wearing; that is to say,
equal when made up.
Then I presented to them the people I had brought with
me; particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters,
all of them most necessary people; but above all, my general
artificer, than whom they could not name anything that was
more useful to them; and the tailor, to show his concern for
them, went to work immediately, and with my leave made
them every one a shirt the first thing he did; and what was
still more, he taught the women not only how to sew and
stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to make the
shirts for their husbands, and for all the rest.
As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful
they were, for they took in pieces all my clumsy, unhandy
things, and made them clever, convenient tables, stools, bed-
steads, cupboards, lockers, shelves, and everything they wanted
of that kind.
Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave
ever}• man a digging spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had
no harrows or ploughs; and to every separate place, a pick-
axe, a crow, a broadaxe, and a saw; always appointing, that
as often as any was broken, or worn out, they should be sup-
plied without grudging, out of the general stores that I left
behind.
Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors,
and all sorts of tools and iron-work, they had without tale, as
they required; for no man would care to take more than they
wanted; and he must be a fool that would waste or spoil
them, on any account whatever. And for the use of the smith,
I left two tons of unwrought iron for a supply.
The magazine of powder and arms I had brought with me
was in such profusion that they could not but rejoice; for
now every man could march as I used to do, with a musket
upon each shoulder, if there was occasion; and were able to
fight 1,000 savages, if they had but some little advantages of
situation.
I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother
was starved to death, and the maid also • she was a sober,
well-educated, religious young woman, and behaved so in-
offensively, that every one gave her a good word. They had
both of them come to me, and desired I would give them leave
to remain on the island, and be entered among my family, as
they called it. I agreed readily; and they had a little plot of
ground allotted to them, where they had three tents or houses
set up, surrounded with a basket work palisado'd like Atkins's,
adjoining to his plantation; their tents were contrived so, that
they had each of them a room apart to lodge in, and a middle
tent, like a great store-house, to lay all their goods in, and to
eat and drink in. And now the other two Englishmen removed
their habitation to the same place; and so the island was
divided into three colonies, and no more; namely, the Span-
iards, with old Friday, and the first servants, at my old habita-
tion under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital city, and
where they had so enlarged and extended their works, as well
under as on the outside of the hill, that they lived, though
perfectly concealed, yet full at large. Never was there such a
little city in a wood, and so hid, I believe, in any part of the
world. For I verily believe 1,000 men might have ranged the
island a month, and, if they had not known there was such a
thing, and looked on purpose for it, they would not have
found it.
The other colony was that of W. Atkins's, where there were
four families of Englishmen, I mean those I had left there,
with their wives and children. Three savages, that were
slaves, the widow and children of the Englishman that was
killed; the young man and the maid; and, by the way, we
made a wife of her• also before we went away. There were
also the two carpenters and the tailor I brought with me for
them; and the smith also, who was a very necessary man to
them, especially as a gunsmith, to take care of their arms;
and my other man, whom I called Jack of all trades; who
was in himself as good almost as twenty men, for he was not
only a very ingenious fellow, but very merry withal; and,
before I went away, we married him to the honest maid that
came with the youth in the ship, I mentioned before.
And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say
something of the French ecclesiastic I had taken out of the
ship burnt at sea. This man was a Roman, perhaps of the
most possible type in the eyes of Protestants ; first he was a
Papist; secondly, a Popish priest; and, thirdly, a French
Popish priest. But justice demands of me to give him a due
character; and I must say, he was a grave, sober, pious, and
most religious person; exact in his life, extensive in his char-
ity, and exemplary in almost everything he did.
The first hour that I began to converse with him, after he
had agreed to go with me to the East Indies, I found reason
to delight exceedingly in his conversation. He first began to
converse with me about religion in the most obliging manner
imaginable. "Sir," says he, "you have not only, under God
(and at that he crossed his breast), saved my life, but you
have admitted me to go this voyage in your ship, and by your
obliging civility, have taken me into your family, giving me an
opportunity of free conversation. Now sir," says he, "you see
by my habit what my profession is; and I guess your's by
your nation. I may think it my duty, and doubtless it is so,
to use my utmost endeavors, on all occasions, to bring all the
souls I can to embrace the Catholic doctrine; but, as I am
under your permission, and in your family, I am bound in
justice to your kindness, as well as in decency and good man-
ners, to be under your government; and therefore I shall not,
without your leave, enter into any debates on religion, in
which we may not agree, farther than you shall give me
leave."
I told him, his carriage was so modest, that I could not but
acknowledge it; that it was true, we were such people as they
call heretics; "but that he was not the first Catholic that I
had conversed with, without carrying the questions to any
height in debate; that he should not find himself the worse
used for being of a different opinion from us."
Having thus arranged the terms of our intercourse, he gave
me a most diverting account of his life, and of the many ex-
traordinary events of it; of many adventures which had
befallen him in the few years that he had been abroad in
the world; he had been five times shipped and unshipped on
his present voyage, and never been able to reach the place
whither the ships he was in were at first designed. His first
intent was, to have gone to Martinico; and went on board a
ship bound thither at St. Maloe; but was forced into Lisbon
by bad weather; the ship received some damage, by running
aground in the mouth of the river Tagus, and was obliged to
unload her cargo there. Finding a Portuguese ship there,
bound to the Madeiras and ready to sail, he went on board,
but the master being an indifferent mariner, had been out in
his reckoning, and they drove to Fial, where he sold his
cargo. He was then as far as the Banks, where he met with
a French ship bound from France to Quebec, and from thence
to Martinico. Bnt when he came to Quebec, the master of
the ship died, and the ship proceeded no farther. So the next
voyage he shipped himself for France, in the ship that was
burnt, when we took them up at sea, and then shipped with
us for the East Indies. He now came to me one morning,
and told me with a very grave countenance, that he had, for
two or three days, desired an opportunity of some discourse
with me, which, he hoped, should not be displeasing to me,
because he thought it might, in some measure, correspond
with my general design, which was the prosperity of my new
colony; and, perhaps, might put it, at least more than he yet
thought it was, in the way of God's blessing.
I looked a little surprised at his discourse; and after a long
conversation, in which I was compelled more than ever to
admire this man's pious and self-sacrificing spirit, I learned
that his conscience was shocked to find the five Englishmen
living on with the five women though unmarried, and he urged
me to put an end to this unholy union.
"Sir," said he, " the essence of the sacrament of matrimony
consists not only in the mutual consent of the parties to take
one another as man and wife, but in the formal and legal
obligation that there is in the contract, to compel the man and
woman, at all times, to own and acknowledge each other;
obliging the man to abstain from all the other women, to
engage in no other contract while these subsist.
"And how shall a blessing succeed your endeavors in this
place, however good in themselves, and however sincere in
your design, while these men, who at present are your subjects,
under your absolute government and dominion, are allowed by
you to live in open adultery?
"Again, sir," said he, " though I do not acknowledge your
religion, or you mine, yet we should be glad to see even the
devil's servants taught to know the general principles of the
Christian religion; that they might at least hear of God, and
of a Redeemer, and of the resurrection, and of a future state^
things which we all believe; they would at least be so much
nearer coming into the bosom of the true church than they
are now, in the public profession of idolatry, and devil-worship.
"O, sir," he added, " this thing is not your fault, nor is it
too late yet. Give me leave to talk with those poor men about
it, and then leave them to the mercy of Christ. It is our busi-
ness to assist them, encourage them, and instruct them; and,
if you will give me leave, and God His blessing, I do not
doubt but the poor ignorant souls shall be brought into the
great circle of Christianity."
And now came his concluding petition. "It is a maxim,
sir, that is, or ought to be, received among all Christians, of
what church, or pretended church soever, namely, the Chris-
tian knowledge ought to be propagated by all possible means,
and on all possible occasions. It is on this principle that our
church sends missionaries into Persia, India, and China; and
that our clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly engage in
the most hazardous voyages, and the most dangerous resi-
dence, among murderers and barbarians, to teach them the
knowledge of the true God, and to bring them over to embrace
the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have such an opportunity,
here are six or seven-and-thirty poor savages to be brought
over from idolatry to the knowledge of God, their Maker and
Redeemer."
I explained to him my engagements in regard to the ship,
and the impossibility of my undertaking the office he would
thrust upon me. "It is a valuable thing," said I, "to be an
instrument in God's hand, to convert seven-and-thirty heathens
to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an ecclesiastic, and
are given over to the work, so that it seems naturally to fall
into the way of your profession, how is it that you do not
rather offer yourself to undertake it than press me to it?"
Upon this he faced about, just before me, as we walked
along, and, putting me to a full stop, made me a very low bow.
"I most heartily thank God, and you, sir," says he, "for giv-
ing me so evident a call to so blessed a work; and if you
think yourself discharged from it, and desire me to undertake
it, I will most readily do it, and think it a happy reward for
all the hazards and difficulties of such a broken, disappointed
voyage as I have met with, that I may be dropped at last into
so glorious a work."
I discovered a kind of rapture in his face, while he spoke
this to me; his eyes sparkled like fire, his face glowed, and
his color came and went, as if he had been falling into fits: in
a word, he was fired with the joy of being embarked in such a
work.
"Yes, sir," says he, "I would give Christ and the Blessed
Virgin thanks all my days, if I could be made the least happy
instrument of saving the souls of these poor men, though I
was never to set my foot off of this island, or see my native
country any more: but since you will honor me," says he,
"with putting me into this work, I have one humble petition
to you besides." "What is that?" said I. "It is, that you
will leave your man Friday with me, to be my interpreter to
them, and to assist me; for, without some help, I cannot
speak to them, or they to me."
I was sensibly troubled at his requesting Friday, because I
could not think of parting with him, and that for many rea-
sons: he had been the companion of my travels; he was
faithful and affectionate to the last degree ; and I had resolved
to do something considerable for him, if he outlived me. Then
I knew, that as I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, he
would never embrace another profession, or believe his old
master to be a heretic. However, a sudden thought relieved
me in this strait, and it was this: I told him I could not say
that I was willing to part with Friday, though a work, that to
him was of more value than his life, ought to be to me of
much more value than the keeping or parting with a servant.
But, on the other hand, I was persuaded that Friday would by
no means consent to leave me. I had promised I would
never put him away; and he had promised and engaged to
me that he would never leave me. He seemed very much con-
cerned at this; for he had no rational access to these poor
people, seeing he did not understand one word of their lan-
guage, or they one word of his. To remove this difficulty, I
told him that Friday's father had learned Spanish, which I
found he also understood, and would serve him for an inter-
preter; but Providence gave another and very happy turn to
all this.
When we came to the Englishmen, to whose quarter I was
going when this conversation took place, I sent for them all
together; and after reminding them what I had done for
them, I talked to them about their wives.
They all gave me the answer that I expected, namely, that
there was nobody to marry them; that they agreed before the
governor to keep them as their wives; and they thought, as
things stood with them, they were as legally married as if they
had been married by a parson, and with all the formalities in
the world.
I told them, that no doubt they were married in the sight
of God; but the laws of man being otherwise, I could not
think it was convenient they should continue together as man
and wife; for that it was both scandalous to men, and offen-
sive to God, who never could bless them if they went on thus.
All this went on as I expected; and they told me, especially
Will Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the rest, that they
loved their wives as well as if they had been born in their own
native country, and would not leave them upon any account
whatever; and they did verily believe their wives were as vir-
tuous and as modest as any women could possibly be; and
they would not part with them on any account.
This was just as I would have it; the priest was not with
me at that moment, but was not far off. So, to try him far-
ther, I told him I had a clergyman with me, and, if he was
sincere, I would have him married the next morning; and bid
him consider of it, and talk with the rest. He said, as for
himself, he need not consider of it at all; for he was very
ready to do it, and was glad I had a minister with me; and
he believed they would be all willing also. I then told him,
that my friend, the minister, was a Frenchman, and could not
speak English; but that I would act as clerk between them.
He never so much as asked me whether he was a Papist or
Protestant; which was indeed what I was afraid of. And so
we parted. I went back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins
went in to talk with his companions.
Before I went from their quarter, they all came to me, and
told me they had been considering what I had said; that they
were very glad to hear I had a clergyman in my company;
and they were very willing to give me the satisfaction I de-
sired, and would be formally married as soon as I pleased;
for they were far from desiring to part with their wives; and
that they meant nothing but what was very honest, when they
chose them. The women were easily made sensible of the
meaning of the thing, and were very well satisfied with it, as,
indeed, they had reason to be; so they failed not to attend all
together, at my apartment, the next morning, where I brought
out my clergyman: and though he had not on a minister's
gown, after the manner of England, or the habit of a priest,
after the manner of France, yet having a black vest, something
like a cassock, with a sash round it, he did not look very un-
like a minister; and as for his language, I was his interpreter.
After a most Christian-like discourse, which I interpreted
to the men, in which they were exhorted to persuade their
wives to embrace Christianity, he married three couple; but
Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. After this, my
clergyman, waiting awhile, was curious to know where Atkins
was gone; and, turning to me, says he, "I entreat you, sir,
let us walk out of your labyrinth here, and look • I dare say
we shall find this poor man somewhere or other, talking seri-
ously to his wife, and teaching her already something of
religion." I began to be of the same mind; so we went out
together; and I carried him by a way which none knew but
myself, and where the trees were so thick set, that it was not
easy to see through the thicket of leaves, and far harder to see
in than to see out; when, coming to the edge of the wood, I
saw Atkins, and his tawny savage wife, sitting under the shade
of a bush, very eager in discourse. I stopped short, till my
clergyman came up to me; and then, having showed him
where they were, we stood and looked very steadily at them a
good while.
We observed him very earnest with her, pointing up to the
sun and to every quarter of the heavens; then down to the
earth, then out to the sea, then to himself, then to her, to the
woods, to the trees. "Now," says my clergyman, "you see
my words are made good; the man preaches to her; mark
him; now he is telling her that God has made him, and her,
and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the woods, the trees." "I
believe he is," said I. Immediately after we perceived Will
Atkins start up upon his feet, fall down on his knees, and lift
up both his hands; we suppose he said something, but we
could not hear him: it was too far for that: he did not con-
tinue kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again
by his wife, and talks to her again. We perceived then the
woman very attentive; but whether she said anything or no,
we could not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees,
I could see the tears run plentifully down my clergyman's
cheeks; and I could hardly forbear myself; but it was a great
affliction to us both, that we were not near enough to hear any-
thing that passed between them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer, for fear of dis•
23
turbing them: so we resolved to see an end of this piece of
still conversation; and it spoke loud enough to us, without
the help of voice. He sat down again, as I have said, close
by her, and talked again earnestly to her; and two or three
times we could see him embrace her most passionately; an-
other time we saw him take out his handkerchief, and wipe
her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a transport very un-
usual; and after several of these things, we saw him on a
sudden jump up again, and lend her his hand to help her up;
when immediately leading her by the hand a step or two, they
both kneeled down together, and continued so about two
minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, " St.
Paul, St. Paul! behold he prayeth!" I was afraid Atkins
would hear him; therefore I entreated him to withhold him-
self awhile, that we might see an end of the scene, which to
me, I must confess, was the most affecting, and yet the most
agreeable, that ever I saw in my life. This continued about
half a quarter of an hour, and then they walked away; so that
we could see no more of them in that situation.
Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business
there was over; so we went back our own way; and when we
came back, we found them waiting to be called in. Observing
this, I asked my clergyman if we should discover to him that
we had seen him under the bush, or no; and it was his opin-
ion we should not; but that we should talk to him first, and
hear what he would say to us: so we called him in alone,
nobody being in the place but ourselves.
The result of our questioning was, that Atkins confessed
that his father had been a clergyman, that his own wicked
behavior had brought his gray hairs with sorrow to the grave,
and that now his conscience was awakened, he was full of
remorse and repentance for his past conduct; in fact, he was
truly penitent, and although it was no easy thing to make the
wife understand the doctrines of Christianity, it at length
appeared that she so far comprehended them as to wish for
baptism before they married.
This was explained to me by my priest, who, turning him-
self to me, said he believed there must be more to do with
this woman than to marry her; that she ought to be baptized
first.
I agreed with him in that part readily, and was for going
about it presently. "No, no! hold, sir," said he, "though I
would have her be baptized by all means, yet I must observe,
that Will Atkins, her husband, has brought her, in a wonder-
ful manner, to embrace a religious life; and has given her
just ideas of the being of a God, of his power, justice, mercy;
yet I desire to know of him, if he has said anything to her of
Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of sinners; of the nature of
faith in Him; and redemption by Him; of the Holy Spirit,
the resurrection, the last judgment, and a future state."
I called Will Atkins again, and asked him: but the poor
fellow fell immediately into tears; he told us he had said
something to her of all those things, but that he was himself
so wicked a creature, and his own conscience so reproached
him with his ungodly life, that he trembled at the apprehen-
sions, that her knowledge of him should lessen the attention
she should give to those things, and make her rather contemn
religion than receive it; but he was assured, he said, that her
mind was so disposed to receive due impressions of all those
things, that if I would but discourse with her, she would make
it appear to my satisfaction, that my labor would not be lost
upon her.
Accordingly I called•her in, and placing myself as inter-
preter, the good man explained them with the sincerity of a
Christian, and without any of the Roman Catholic errors. In
a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace the knowledge
of Christ, and of redemption by Him, not with wonder and
astonishment only, as she did the first notions of a God, but
with joy and faith, with an affection, and a surprising degree
of understanding, scarce to be imagined, much less to be ex-
pressed; and at her own request she was baptized.
When he was preparing to baptize her, I entreated him,
that he would perform that office with some caution, that the
man might not perceive he was of the Roman churcty, because
of other ill consequences which might attend a difference
among us in that very religion which we were instructing the
other in. He told me that as he had no consecrated chapel,
no proper things for the office, I should see he would do it in
a manner that I should not know by it that he was a Roman
Catholic myself, if I had not known it before: and so he did;
for saying only some words over to himself in Latin, which I
could not understand, he poured a whole dish full of water
upon the woman's head, pronouncing in French very loud,
"Marv," — which was the name her husband desired me to
J •
give her, for I was her godfather, — "I baptize thee in the
name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost;"
so that none could know anything by it, what religion he was
of: he gave the benediction afterwards in Latin; but either
Will Atkins did not know but it was in French, or else did not
take notice of it at that time.
As soon as this was over, we married them; and after the
marriage was over, he turned himself to Will Atkins, and in a
very affectionate manner exhorted him not only to persevere
in that good disposition he was in, but to support the convic-
tions that were upon him, by a resolution to reform his life:
told him it was in vain to say he repented, if he did not for-
sake his crimes; represented to him, how God had honored
him with being the instrument of bringing his wife to the
knowledge of the Christian religion; and that he should be
careful he did not dishonor the grace of God; and that if he
did, he would see the heathen a better Christian than himself.
Having thus brought the affair of the island to a narrow
compass, I was preparing to go on board the ship, when the
young man, whom I had taken out of the famished ship's
company, came to me, and told me, he understood I had a
clergyman with me, and that he had a match too, which he
desired might be finished before I went, between two Chris-
tians; which he hoped would not be disagreeable to me.
I knew this must be the young woman who was his mother's
servant, for there was no other Christian woman on the island;
so I began to persuade him not to do anything of that kind
rashly; but he interrupted me, smiling, and told me, with a
great deal of modesty, that I was mistaken in my guesses;
that he had nothing of that kind in his thoughts. In fact he
told me it was my Jack of all trades and his maid Susan, he
wished to see married.
I was most agreeably surprised when he named the match;
for indeed I thought it very suitable. The character of that
man I have given already; and as for the maid, she was a
very honest, modest, sober, and religious young woman; had a
very good share of sense, was agreeable enough in her person;
spoke very handsomely, and to the purpose.
The match being proposed in this manner, we married them
the same day; and, as I was father at the altar, as I may say,
and gave her away, so I gave her a portion; for I appointed
her and her husband a handsome large space of ground for
their plantation.
One thing I must not omit to mention among the arrange-
ments I completed before I left them. And this is, that being
now settled in a kind of commonwealth among themselves,
and having much business in hand, it seemed odd to have
seven-and-thirty Indians live in a nook of the island, indepen-
dent, and unemployed; for, excepting the providing them-
selves food, which they had difficulty enough in too, some-
times, they had no manner of employment; I proposed
therefore to the governor Spaniard, that he should visit
them with Friday's father, and propose to them to remove,
and either plant for themselves, or take them into their several
families as servants, to be maintained for their labor, but with-
out being slaves; for they had their liberty given them by
capitulation, and, as it were, articles of surrender, which ought
not to be broken. They most willingly embraced the proposal,
and came all very cheerfully along with him; so we allotted
them land and plantations, which three or four accepted of,
but all the rest chose to be employed as servants in the sev-
eral families we had settled.
All the east end of the island was still left uninhabited, that
if any of the savages should come on shore there, for their
usual customary barbarities, they might come and go; if they
disturbed nobody, nobody would disturb them; and no doubt
but they were often ashore, and went away again; for I never
heard that the planters were ever attacked or disturbed any
more.
It now came into my thoughts, that I had hinted to my
friend, the clergyman, that the work of converting the savages
might, perhaps, be set on foot in his absence, to his satisfac-
tion. I told him, we would either call them all together, and
leave it in charge with them, or go to them one by one, which
he thought best; so we divided it, he to speak to the Span-
iards, who were all Papists, and I to the English, who were
all Protestants; and we recommended it earnestly to them,
and made them promise that they would never make any
distinction of Papist or Protestant, in their exhorting the
savages to turn Christians.
When I came to W. Atkins's house — I may call it so; for
such a house, or such a piece of basket work, I believe was
not standing in the world again ;— I say when I came there, I
found the young woman I have mentioned above, and W.
Atkins's wife were become intimates; and this prudent,
religious young woman had perfected the work Will Atkins
had begun; and though it was not above four days after what
I have related, yet the new baptized woman was such a Chris-
tian, as I have seldom heard of any like her.
It came next into my mind, in the morning, before I went
to them, that amongst all the needful things I had to leave
with them, I had not left them a Bible; in which I showed
myself less considerate for them, than my good friend the
widow was when she sent me the cargo of an hundred pounds
from Lisbon, where she packed up three Bibles and a Prayer-
book. However the good woman's charity had a greater
extent than ever she imagined; for they were reserved for the
comfort and instruction of those that made much better use of
them than I had done.
I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to
Will Atkins's tent, or house, I found the young woman and
Atkins's baptized wife had been discoursing of religion to-
gether; for Will Atkins told it me, with a great deal of joy. I
asked if they were together now? And he said " Yes; " so I
went into the house, and he with me, and we found them
together, very earnest in discourse. "O, sir," says Will
Atkins, "when God has sinners to reconcile to Himself, and
aliens to bring home, He never wants a messenger. My wife
has got a new instructor; I knew I was unworthy, as I was
incapable of that work; that young woman has been sent
hither from Heaven; she is enough to convert a whole island
of savages." The young woman blushed, and rose up to go
away, but I desired her to sit still; I told her "she had a
good work upon her hands, and I hoped God would bless her
in it."
And now I have done with the island. I left them all in
good circumstances, and in a flourishing condition, and went
on board my ship again, having been five-and-twenty days
among them; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the
island till I came to remove them. After talking a little, I
put my hand in my pocket, and pulled out my Bible. "Here,
Atkins," said I, " I have brought you an assistant you had not
before." The man was confounded, and, turning to his wife
with the book in his hand, "Here, my dear," said he, "did
not I tell you our God, though He lives above, could hear
what we said? Here is the book I prayed for." And tears
of joy ran down his face, for he cried like a child.
The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting,
we set sail, and arrived at the Bay of All Saints, in the Brazils,
in about twenty-two days: meeting nothing remarkable in our
passage but this. That about three days after we sailed, being
becalmed, and the current setting strong to the E. N. E., run-
ning, as it were, into a bay on the land-side, we were driven
something out of our course ; and once or twice our men cried
out, "Land to the eastward;" but whether it was the conti-
nent, or islands, we could not tell by any means. But the
third day, towards evening, the sea smooth and the weather
calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered, towards the land,
with something very black, not being able to discover what it
was; till, after some time, our chief mate going up the main
shrouds a little way, and looking at them with a glass, cried
out, it was an army. I could not imagine what he meant by
an army, and spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a fool, or
some such word. "Nay, sir," says he, "do not be angry, for
it is an army, and a fleet too; for I believe there are a thou-
sand canoes, and you may see them paddle along, and they
are coming towards us too, apace."
I was a little surprised, but I told the sailors they had noth-
ing to fear but fire; and therefore they should get their boats
out, and fasten them, one close by the head, and the other by
the stern, and man them both well, and wait the issue in that
posture: this I did, that the men in the boats might be ready,
with skeets and buckets, to put out any fire these savages
might endeavor to fix to the outside of the ship.
In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little•while
they came up with us, but never was such a horrid sight seen
by Christians. My mate was much mistaken in his calculation
of their number, I mean of a thousand canoes; the most we
could make of them when they came up, being about a hun-
dred and twenty-six; and enough of them too; for some of
them had sixteen or seventeen men in them, and some more,
and the least of them six or seven. When they came nearer
to us, they seemed to be struck with wonder and astonishment.
They came boldly up, however, very near, and seemed about
to row round us; but we called to our men in the boats, not
to let them come too near them.
This very order brought us to an engagement with them,
without our designing it; for five or six of their large canoes
came so near our long-boat, that our men beckoned with their
hands to them to keep them back; which they understood
very well, and went back; but in their retreat about fifty
arrows came on board us from those boats; and one of our
men in the long-boat was very much wounded. I called to
them not to fire by any means; but we handed down some
deal board into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a
kind of a fence, like waste boards, to cover them from the
arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again
About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a body
astern of, and pretty near us, so near that we could easily dis-
cern them, though we could not tell their design. I now
found they were some of my old friends, the same sort of
savages that I had been used to engage with; and in a little
time more they rowed a little farther out to sea, till they came
directly broadside with us, and then rowed down straight upon
us, coming so near that we could hear them speak. I ordered
all my men to keep close, lest they should shoot any more
arrows, and make all our guns ready; but being so near as to
be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon the deck, and
call out aloud to them in his language to know what they
meant, which accordingly he did. Whether they understood
him or not, I know not; but, as soon as he had called to
them, six of them, who were in the foremost boats, exhibited
a gesture of great contempt. Whether this was done as a
defiance, or a challenge, or as a signal to the rest, we knew
not; but immediately Friday cried out, "They are going
to shoot;" and unhappily for him, they let fly about 300 of
their arrows; and, to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Fri-
day, no other man being in their sight. The poor fellow was
shot with no less than three arrows, and about three more
fell very near him; such unlucky marksmen they were.
I was so enraged with the loss of my old servant, the com-
panion of all my sorrows and solitudes, that I immediately
ordered five guns to be loaded with small shot, and four with
great; and gave them such a broadside as they had never
heard in their lives before, to be sure.
They were not above half a cable length off when we fired;
and our gunners took their aim so well, that three or four of
their canoes were overset, as we had reason to believe, by one
shot only.
I can neither tell how many we killed, or how many we
wounded, at this broadside ; but surely such a fright and hurry
was never seen among such a multitude; there were thirteen
or fourteen of their canoes split, and overset in all; and the
men all swimming about; the rest, frightened out of their wits,
scoured away as fast as they could, taking but little care to
save those whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot; so
I suppose they were many of them lost; and our men picked
up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour after
they were all gone.
The small shot from our cannon must needs have killed
and wounded a great many; but, in short, we never knew
anything how it went with them; for they fled so fast, that in
three hours, or thereabouts, we could not see above three or
four straggling canoes ; nor did we ever see more of them ; for
a breeze springing up the same evening, we weighed and set
sail for the Brazils.
We had a prisoner indeed, but the creature was so sullen,
that he would neither eat nor speak; and we all fancied he
would starve himself to death; but I took a way to cure him,
for I made them take him into the long-boat, and make him
believe they would toss him into the sea again, and so leave
him where they found him if he would not speak: they really
did throw him into the sea, and come away from him, and
then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to
them in his tongue, though they knew not one word of what
he said. However, at last, they took him in again, and then
he began to be more tractable.
We were now under sail again, but I was disconsolate for
my man Friday. We had one prisoner, as I have said; but it
was a long while before we could make him understand any-
thing; but, in time, our men taught him some English, and he
began to be a little tractable: afterwards we inquired what
country he came from, but could make nothing of what he
said; for his speech was so odd, all gutterals, and spoke in
the throat in such a hollow, odd manner, that we could never
form a word after him. .
And now I must take my last leave of poor honest Friday 1
We buried him with all the decency and solemnity possible,
by putting him into a coffin, and throwing him into the sea;
and I caused them to fire eleven guo^s over him : and so ended
the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most affec-
tionate servant that ever man had.
We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil, and, in about
twelve days' time, we made land in the latitude of five degrees
south of the line, being the northeastermost land of all that
part of America. We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore
four days, when we made the Cape St. Augustine, and in three
days more came to an anchor off of the bay of All Saints, the
old place of my deliverance, from whence came both my good
ind evil fate.
Here my honest and truly pious clergyman left me; a ship
being ready to go to Lisbon, he asked me leave to go thither
in her; being still, as he observed, bound never to finish any
voyage he began. How happy had it been for me, if I had gone
with him. But it was too late now; all things Heaven appoints
are best; had I gone with him, I had never had so many
things to be thankful for, and you had never heard of the
second part of the Travels and Adventures of Robinson Cru-
soe; so I must leave here the fruitless exclaiming at myself,
and go on with my voyage.
From the Brazils we made directly away over the Atlantic
sea, to the Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerable good
voyage. Our ship was on a trading voyage, and had a super-
cargo on board, who was to direct all her motions, after she
arrived at the Cape. We made therefore no stay, longer than
was needful to take in fresh water, but made the best of our
way for the coast of Coromandel; we were indeed informed
that a French man-of-war of fifty guns, and two large merchant
ships, were gone for the Indies; and, as I knew we were at
war with France, I had some apprehensions of them ; but they
went their own way, and we heard no more of them.
We touched first at the island of Madagascar, where, though
the people are fierce and treacherous, and, in particular, very
well armed with lances and bows, which they use with incon-
ceivable dexterity, yet we fared very well with them awhile;
they treated us very civilly; and for some trifles which we
gave them, such as knives, scissors, &c., they brought us eleven
good fat bullocks, middling in size, but very good in flesh •
which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present
spending, and the rest to salt for the ship's use.
We were obliged to stay here some time, after we had fur-
nished ourselves with provisions; and I, that was always too
curious to look into every nook of the world wherever I came,
was for going on shore as often as I could. It was on the
east side of the island that we went on shore one evening;
and the people, who, by the way, are very numerous, came
thronging about us, and stood gazing at us at a distance; but
as we had traded freely with them, and had been kindly used,
we thought ourselves in no danger; but when we saw the
people, we cut three boughs out of a tree, and stuck them at a
distance from us, which, it seems, is a mark in the country, not
only of truce and friendship, but when it is accepted, the other
side set up three poles, or boughs, also; which is a signal that
they accept the truce too; but then this is a known condition
of the truce, that you are not to pass beyond their three poles
towards them, nor they to come past your three poles or
boughs towards you; so that you are perfectly secure within
the three poles: and all the space between your poles and
theirs, is market for free converse, traffic, and commerce.
When you go there you must not carry your weapons with
you; and if they come into that space, they stick up their
javelins and lances at the first poles, and come on unarmed.
It happened one evening, when we went on shore, that
a greater number than usual of these people came down, but
all was very friendly and civil, and they brought in several
kinds of provisions, for which we satisfied them with such toys
as we had; their women also brought us milk and roots, and
several things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet; and
we made us a little tent, or hut, of some boughs of trees, and
lay on shore all night. I know not why, but I was not so well
satisfied to lie on shore as the rest; and the boat riding at an
anchor, about a stone cast from the land, with two men in her,
I made one of them come on shore, to get some boughs of
trees to cover us, and spreading the sail on the bottom of the
boat, I lay with them all night in the boat under the boughs.
About two o'clock in the morning we heard a terrible noise
on shore, one of our men calling out for God's sake to bring
the boat in, and come and help them, for they were all like to
be murdered; at the same time, five muskets were discharged,
and that three times over; rousing immediately, I caused the
boat to be thrust in, and with the three fusils we had on
board, hastened to assist our men. We got the boat soon to
the shore; and our men plunged into the water, to get to the
boat with all the expedition they could, being pursued by be-
tween three and four hundred natives. Our men were but nine
in all, and only five of them had fusils with them; the rest had
indeed pistols and swords, but they were of small use to them.
We took up seven of them, and with difficulty enough too,
three of them being badly wounded; and what was worse,
while we stood in the boat, we were in as much danger as
they were on shore; for they poured their arrows in upon us
so thick, that we were fain to barricade the side of the boat
with benches, and two or three loose boards, which we had,
by mere accident, or providence, in the boat. Had it been
daylight, they are, it seems, such exact marksmen, that if they
could have seen but the least part of any of us, they would
have been sure of us. We had a little sight of them, by the
light of the moon, as they stood pelting us from the shore
with darts and arrows; and, having got ready our fire-arms,
we gave them a volley. We could hear by their cries, that we
had wounded several ; however, they stood thus in battle ar-
ray on the shore till break of day, while we could not tell how
to weigh our anchor, or set up our sail, because we must
needs stand up in the boat, where we were sure to be hit; we
made signals of distress to the ship, which rode a full league
off, yet my nephew, the captain, hearing our firing, and per-
ceiving by the glasses the posture we lay in, pretty well
understood our positions, and weighing anchor with all speed,
he stood as near the shore as he durst with the ship, and then
sent another boat, with ten hands in her, to our assistance,
and one of the men, taking the end of a tow-line in his hand,
and keeping our boat between him and the enemy, so that
they could not perfectly see him, swam on board us, and made
the line fast to the boat; upon which we slipt our little
cable, leaving our anchor behind; they soon towed us out of
reach of the arrows; we all the while lying close behind the
barricade we had made.
As soon as we could get from between the ship and the
shore, she laid her broadside to it, and run along just by them,
pouring in a broadside loaded with pieces of iron and lead,
small bullets, and such like stuff, besides the great shot, which
made a terrible havoc among them.
When we got on board, and were fairly out of danger, we
had time to examine into the occasion of this fray; it came
out, that an old woman, who had come to sell us some milk,
brought a young woman with her, who also brought some
roots or herbs; and while the old woman was selling us the
milk, one of our men offered some rudeness to the younger
one; at which the old woman made a great noise. The sea-
man would not quit his prize, but carried her out of her sight,
among the trees, it being almost dark; and now the old
woman made an outcry among the people she came from;
who attacked us as we have seen; and it was great odds that
we had not all been destroyed.
One of our men was killed with a lance that was thrown at
him, just at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the
tent they had set up; the rest came off free, all but the fellow
who was the occasion of the mischief, who paid dear enough
for his black mistress, for we didn't hear what became of him
for a great while. We lay upon the shore for two days though
the wind was fair, and made signals for him; our boat sailed
up and down shore, for several leagues, but in vain; so we
were obliged to give him over; and if he alone had suffered,
the loss had been the less.
I could not feel satisfied myself, however, without venturing
on shore once more, to try if I could learn anything of him : it
was the third night after the action before I ventured, and I
was careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be attacked
again; but I ought indeed to have been sure, that the men I
went with had been under my command, before I engaged in
a thing so hazardous and mischievous. We started twenty
stout fellows with us as any in the ship, besides the supercargo
and myself; and we landed two hours before midnight, at the
same place where the natives stood drawn up the evening
before. My design was to surprise one or two of them, per-
haps we might get our man again, by way of exchange.
We landed without noise, and divided the men into two
bodies, whereof the boatswain commanded one, and I the
other. We neither saw nor heard anybody stir when we
landed; and marched up one body at a distance from the
other, to the place, but at first could see nothing, it being very
dark; by and by, however, our boatswain, that led the first
party, stumbled and fell over a dead body. This made them
halt for my coming up here; when the moon began to rise, we
could easily discern the havoc we had made among them. We
told two-and-thirty bodies upon the ground, whereof two were
not quite dead. Some had an arm, and some a leg, shot off;
and one his head. Those that were slightly wounded, we sup-
posed they had carried away.
When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all we
could come at, I was resolved on going on board; but the
boatswain and his party sent me word, that they were resolved
to make a visit to the Indian town, where these dogs, as they
called them, dwelt, and asked me to go along with them; and
if they could find them as still they fancied they should, thej
did not doubt getting a good booty; and it might be, they
might find Tom Jeffry there.
Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough
what answer to have given them; for I should have com-
manded them instantly on board; but as they sent me word
they were resolved to go, and only asked me and my company
to go along with them, I positively refused it, and rose up in
order to go back to the boat. One or two of the men began
to importune me to go; and, when I refused positively, began
to grumble, and say they were not under my command, and
they would go. "Come, Jack," says one of the men, "will
you go with me? I will go for one." Jack said he would;
and another followed; and then another ; and, in a word, they
all left me but one, who was persuaded to stay: so the super-
cargo and I, with the third man, went back to the boat, where,
we told them, we would stay for them, and take in as many of
them as should be left; for I told them, it was a mad thing
they were going about, and supposed most of them would run
the fate of Tom Jeffry.
Well, they all went away, and though the attempt was des-
perate, and such as none but madmen would have gone about,
yet, to give them their due, they went about it as warily as
boldly. They went on a little way, and found a cow tied to a
tree; this they presently concluded would be a good guide to
them. In a word, the cow led them directly to the town,
•which, as they report, consisted of above two hundred houses,
or huts; and in some of these they found several families
living together. Here they found all in Silence, as profound
as sleep, and a country that had never seen an enemy, could
make them. While they were holding counsel what course to
take, three of them, that were a little before the rest, called
out aloud, that they had found Tom Jeffry; they all ran up to
the place, and so it was indeed, for there they found the poor
fellow, hanged up naked by one arm, and his throat cut. The
sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, that
they swore to one another, that not an Indian that came into
their hands should have quarter; and to work they went
immediately. Their first care was to get something that would
soon take fire. As soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor
frighted creatures rushed out to save their lives; but met with
their fate in the attempt, and especially at the door, where they
drove them back, the boatswain himself killing one or two
with his pole-axe. The house being large, and many in it, he
did not care to go in, but called for a hand grenade, and threw
it in among them, which at first frighted them; but when it
burst, made such havoc among them, that they cried out in a
hideous manner.
In short, most of the principal natives who were in the open
part of the house were killed or hurt with the grenade, two or
three more, who pressed to the door, which the boatswain and
two more kept, with the bayonets in the muzzles of their
pieces, were dispatched in that way. But there was another
apartment in the house, where the prince, or king, and several
others, were, and these they kept in, till the house, which was
by this time a mass of flame, fell in upon them, and they were
smothered, or burnt together.
All this while they fired not a gun, because they would not
waken the people faster than they could master them; but
the fire now began to waken them fast enough, so that our
fellows were glad to keep together; for the fire grew so
raging, all the houses being made of light combustible stuff,
that they could hardly bear the street between them; and
their business was to follow the fire for the surer execution.
As fast as the fire forced the people out of the burning houses,
our people were ready at their doors to knock them on the
head, still calling and hallooing to one another to remember
Tom Jeffrys. *
While this was doing, I was very uneasy, and especially
when I saw the flames of the town, which, it being night,
seemed to be close by. My nephew too, who was roused by
his men, seeing such a fire, and not knowing what exigence
we might be in, he takes another boat, and with thirteen more
men, comes himself on shore to me. Finding how matters
stood, he determined to go to the assistance of his men, only
regretting he had left so many men in the ship; for he could
not think of having his men lost for want of help. And away
he went. Nor was I more able to stay behind. The captain
ordered two men to row back in the pinnace, and fetch twelve
men more, leaving the long-boat at anchor; six of the men
now sent for, were to keep the two boats, and six more come
after us; which left only sixteen men in the ship; for the
whole ship's company were now brought into this mischief.
The first object we met with was the ruins of a hut or house,
or rather the ashes of it, for the house was consumed; and
just before it lay four men and three women killed. In short,
there were instances of rage altogether barbarous, and of a
fury something more than human: we thought it impossible
our men could have been guilty of it. My very soul shrunk
within me, and my blood ran chill in my veins, when I saw
this; however, we took means to let the poor creatures know
that we would not hurt them, and they came to us with piteous
lamentation to save them, and crept all together in a huddle,
close behind us, as for protection. I left my men drawn up
together, and charged them to hurt nobody, but, if possible,
to get at some of our people, and see what devil it was
possessed them, and what they intended to do; and, in a
word, to command them off; assuring them, that if they
stayed till daylight, they would have a hundred thousand
men about their ears. While I was issuing my orders to the
men, four of them made their appearance, with the boatswain
at their head, roving over the heaps of bodies they had killed,
all covered with blood and dust, and looking for more people to
massacre; our men hallooed to them, and with much ado, one
of them made them hear. As soon as the boatswain saw us,
he set up a shout of triumph. "Captain," says he, "noble
captain, I am glad you are come; we have not half done yet;
the villainous hell-hound dogs! I will kill as many of them
as poor Tom had hairs upon his head; we have sworn to
spare none of them; we will root out the very nation of them
from the earth:" and thus he ran on, out of breath too with
action, and would not give me leave to speak a word.
At last, raising my voice that I might silence him a little,
"Barbarous dog! what are you doing? I will not have one
\
creature more touched upon pain of death. I charge you,
upon your life, to stop your hands, and stand still there, or
you are a dead man."
"Why, sir," says he, "do you know what they have done?
If you want a reason for what we have done, come hither;"
and with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging upon a
tree, with his throat cut.
I confess I was urged on then myself, and when the men I
carried with me saw the sight, I had much to do to restrain
them; nay, my nephew himself fell in with them, and told me,
in their hearing, that he was only fearful of the men being
overpowered. Upon these words, away ran eight of my men
with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their bloody
work. It was quite out of my power to restrain them, and I
came away pensive and sad; for I could not bear the sight,
much less the horrible noise and cries of the poor wretches
that fell into their hands.
By the time the men got to the shore again with the pin-
nace, our men began to appear; they came dropping in, not
in two bodies, and in form, as they went, but all in small knots,
straggling here and there in such a manner, that a small force
of resolute men might have cut them all off. But the dread of
them was upon the whole country. The next day we set sail;
so we never heard any more of it. One would think this
should have been enough to have warned us against going on
shore again among heathens and barbarians; but it is impos-
sible to make mankind wise, except at their own expense ; and
their experience seems to be always of most use to them when
it is dearest bought, and most valued when it comes too late.
We were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from thence
to the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the
chief of the supercargo's trading lay at the Bay of Bengal,
where if he missed of his market, he was to go on to China,
and return to this coast as he came home.
The first disaster that befell us was in the Gulf of Persia,
where five of our men, venturing on shore on the Arabian side
of the Gulf, were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all
killed, or carried away into slavery; the rest of the boat's
crew not being able to rescue them, and had but just time to
get off themselves. I began to upbraid them with the just
retribution of Heaven in this case, but the boatswain very
warmly told me he thought I went farther in my censures than
I could show any warrant for; that none of those five men,
who were now lost, were of the number of those who went on
shore to the massacre of Madagascar (so I always called it,
though our men could not bear the word massacre with any
patience): and, indeed, this last circumstance, as I have said,
put me to silence for the present. But my frequent preaching
to them on this subject had worse consequences than I
expected; and the boatswain, who had been the head of the
attempt, came up boldly to me one time, and told me, he
found that I continually brought that affair upon the stage;
that I made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the men
very ill on that account, and himself in particular; that as I
was but a passenger, and had no command in the ship, or
concern in the voyage, they were not obliged to bear it; that
they did not know but I might have some ill design in my
head, and, perhaps, to call them to an account for it when
they came to England; and that, therefore, unless I would
resolve to have done with it, and also not to concern myself
any farther with him, or any of his affairs, he would leave the
ship; for he did not think it was safe to sail with me among
them.
I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then
told him, that I did confess that I had all along opposed the
massacre of Madagascar, for such I would always call it; and
that I had on all occasions spoken my mind freely about it,
though not more upon him than any of the rest; that as to my
having no command in the ship, that was true, nor did I
exercise any authority; I only took the liberty of speaking my
mind in things which publicly concerned us all; and what
concern I had in the voyage, that was none of his business;
that I was a considerable owner of the ship, and in that claim
I conceived I had a right to speak, even farther than I had
yet done, and would not be accountable to him, or any one
else; and began to be a little warm with him. He made but
little reply to me at that time, and I thought that affair had
been over, but I was mistaken. We were at this time on the
road to Bengal; and, being arrived there and wishing to
see the place, I went on shore with the supercargo, to divert
myself; and towards evening was preparing to go on board,
when one of the men came to me, and told me he would not
have me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they
had orders not to carry me on board again. Any one may
guess what a surprise I was in at so insolent a message; and
I asked the man who bade him deliver that errand to me? He
told me the coxswain. I said no more to the fellow, but bade
him let them know he had delivered his message, and that I
had given him no answer to it.
I immediately went, and found out the supercargo, and told
him the story, adding, what I presently foresaw, namely, that
there would certainly be a mutiny in the ship; and entreated
him to go immediately on board the ship in an Indian boat,
'and acquaint the captain of it; but I might have spared this
intelligence, for, before I had spoken to him on shore, the
matter was effected on board: the boatswain, the gunner, the
carpenter, and, in a word, all the inferior officers, as soon as I
was gone off in the boat, came up to the quarter-deck, and
desired to speak with the captain; and there the boatswain,
making a long harangue (for the fellow talked very well), and
repeating all he had said to me, told the captain in few
words, that as I was now gone peaceably on shore, they were
loath to use any violence with me ; which, if I had not gone on
shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have
gone. They, therefore, thought fit to tell him, that as they
shipped themselves to serve in the ship under his command,
they would perform it well and faithfully; but if I would not
quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to quit it, they would
all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him; and at that
word ALL, he turned his face about towards the mainmast,
which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them; at
which all the seamen, being got together there, cried out,
"One and ALL, One and ALL!"
My nephew was a man of spirit, and of great presence of
mind, and though he was surprised, you may be sure, at the
thing, yet he told them calmly he would consider of the thing;
but that he could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me
about it: he used some arguments with them, to show them
the unreasonableness and injustice of the thing; but it was all
in vain; they swore, and shook hands round, before his face,
that they would go all on shore, unless he would engage to
them, not to suffer me to come any more on board the ship.
To bring this disagreeable subject to a conclusion, my nephew
came on shore to me, and it was arranged that all my things
and as much money as I wanted should be sent on shore, and
that I should find my way to England as well as I might.
I was now alone in the remotest part of the world, as I
think I may call it; for I was near three thousand leagues, by
sea, farther off from England than I was at my island; only,
it is true, I might travel here by land, over the Great Mogul's
country to Surat; might go from thence to Bassora by sea, up
the Gulf of Persia, and from thence might take the way of the
caravans over the desert of Arabia to Aleppo and Scanderoon;
from thence, by sea, again to Italy, and so overland through
France. And this put together, might be at least a full diam-
eter of the globe; but, if it were to be measured, I suppose it
would appear to be a great deal more.
I had another way before me, which was to wait for an
English ship, coming to Bengal from Achin, in the island of
Sumatra, and get a passage on board them for England; but
as I came hither without any concern with the English East
India Company, so it would be difficult to go from hence
without their license, or by favor of the captains of the ships,
or of the company's factors; and to all I was an utter
stranger.
Here I had the particular pleasure, speaking by contraries,
to see the ship set sail without me; a treatment, I think, a man
in my circumstances scarce ever met with before, except by
pirates running away with the ship, and setting those who
would not agree with their villainy on shore: indeed, this was
the next door to it, both ways. However, my nephew left me
a companion, and a servant; the first was clerk to the purser,
who engaged to go with me; and the other was his own
servant. I took a lodging in the house of an Englishwoman,
where several merchants lodged, some French, two Italians, or
rather Jews, and one Englishman. After a long stay here, and
many proposals made for my return to England, but none
falling out to my mind, the English merchant, with whom I
had now contracted an intimate acquaintance, came to me one
morning: "Countryman," says he, "I have a project to com-
municate to you, which may, for aught I know, suit with your
wishes, when you shall have thoroughly considered it. Here
we are posted, you by accident, and I by my own choice, in a
part of the world very remote from our own country; but it is
in a country where, by us who understand trade and business,
a great deal of money is to be got: if you will put a thousand
pound to my thousand pound, we will hire a ship here, the
first we can get to our minds ; you shall be captain, I will be
merchant, and we will go a trading voyage to China: for what
should we stand still for? The whole world is in motion,
rolling round and round; all the creatures of God, heavenly
bodies and earthly, are busy and diligent: why should we be
idle? There are no drones in the world but men: why should
we be of that number?"
I liked his proposal very well; and the more so, because it
seemed to be expressed with so much good-will, and in so
friendly a manner. I will not say, but that I might, by my
loose and unhinged circumstances, be the fitter to embrace a
proposal for trade, or, indeed, for anything else; whereas,
otherwise, trade was none of my element. However, I might,
perhaps, say, with some truth, that if trade was not my element,
rambling was; and no proposal for seeing any part of the
world which I had never seen before, could possibly come
amiss to me. It was, however, some time before we could get
a ship to our minds; and when we got a vessel, it was not
easy to get English sailors; that is to say, so many as were
necessary to govern the voyage, and manage the sailors which
we should pick up. After some time we got a mate, a boat-
swain, and a gunner, English; a Dutch carpenter, and three
Portuguese foremast men; with these, we found we could do
well enough, having Indian seamen, such as they are, to make
up. We made the voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra,
and from thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our
wares for opium, and some arrack; the first, a commodity
which bears a great price among the Chinese, and which, at
that time, was very much wanted there; in a word, we went up
to Chushan; made a very great voyage; were eight months out;
and returned to Bengal: and I was very well satisfied with my
adventure, and got so much money by it, and such an insight
into the method of getting more, that, had I been twenty years
younger, I should have been tempted to have stayed here, and
sought no farther for making my fortune.
But I had a kind of impatience upon me to be nearer home,
and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable which way to
go. In the interval of these consultations, my friend, who
was always upon the search for business, proposed another
voyage to me, among the Spice Islands; and to bring home a
loading of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts; places
where, indeed, the Dutch do trade, but islands belonging
partly to the Spaniards; though we went not so far, but to
some other, where they have not the whole power as they have
at Batavia.
But to be short with my speculations, I must here refer to
one that brought us into great trouble. A little while after
this, there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a
coaster, not an European trader, and of about two hundred
tons burden: the men, as they pretended, having been so
sickly, that the captain had not men enough to go to sea with,
he lay by at Bengal; and, having got money enough, or being
willing, for other reasons, to go to Europe, he gave public
notice, that he would sell his ship: this came to my ears and
I had a great mind to buy it. So I goes home to my partner,
and told him of it: he considered awhile, for he was no rash
man neither; but musing some time, he replied, "She is a
little too big; but, however, we will have her." Accordingly
we bought the ship; and, agreeing with the master, we paid
for her, and took possession; when we had done so, we
resolved to induce the men, if we could, to join her with those
we had, for the pursuing our business; but on a sudden, they
having received no wages, not one of them was to be found.
We inquired much about them, and at length were told, that
they were all gone together, by land, to Agra, the great city of
the Mogul's residence; and from thence were to travel to
Surat, and so by sea to the Gulf of Persia. The very ground
over which I wanted to go myself, and nothing had so heartily
troubled me a good while, as that I missed the opportunity of
going with them; but I was much better satisfied a few days
after, when I came to know what sort of fellows they were; for,
in short, their history was, that this man they called captain
was the gunner only, not the commander; that they had been a
trading voyage, in which they were attacked on shore by some
of the Malaccans, who had killed the captain and three of his
men; and that after the captain was killed, these men, eleven
in number, had resolved to run away with the ship, which they
did; and had brought her in at the Bay of Bengal, leaving the
mate and five men more on shore; of whom we shall hear
farther.
Well; let them come by the ship how they would, we came
honestly by her, as we thought; though we did not, I confess,
examine into things so exactly as we ought.
But having picked up some more English seamen here after
this and some Dutch, we now resolved for a second voyage to
the southeast, for cloves, &c.; that is to say, among the Phil-
ippine and Molucca isles.
In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up
and down a great while in the Straits of Malacca, and among
the islands, we were no sooner got clear of those difficult seas,
but we found our ship had sprung a leak, and we were not
able, by all our industry, to find out where it was. This forced
us to make for some port; and my partner, who knew the
country better than I did, directed the captain to put into the
river of Cambodia; for I had made the English mate, one Mr.
Thompson, captain, not being willing to take the charge of the
ship upon myself.
While we were here, and going often on shore for refresh-
ment, there comes to me one day an Englishman, and he was,
it seems, a gunner's mate on board an English East India ship,
which rode in the same river, up at or near the city of Cam-
bodia. What brought him hither we knew not at the time;
but he comes up to me, and, speaking English, " Sir," says he,
"you are a stranger to me, and I to you; but I have some-
thing to tell you, that very nearly concerns you."
I looked steadily at him a good while, and thought at first I
had known him, but I had not. "If it very nearly concerns
me," said I, " and not yourself, what moves you to tell it me?"
"I am moved," says he, " by the imminent danger you are in;
and, for aught I see, you have no knowledge of it." "I know
no danger I am in," said I, "but that my ship is leaky, and I
cannot find the leak out; but I purpose to lay her aground
to-morrow, to see if I can find it." "But, sir," says he,
"leaky or not leaky, find it or not find it, you will be wiser
than to lay your ship on shore to-morrow, when you hear what
I have to say to you. Do you know, sir," says he, " the town
of Cambodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river? And
there are two large English ships about five leagues on this
side, and three Dutch." "Well," said I, " and what is that to
me?" "Why, sir," says he, " is it for a man that is upon such
adventures as you are, to come into a port, and not examine
first what ships there are there, and whether he is able to deal
with them? I suppose you do not think you are a match for
them?" I was amused very much at his discourse, but not
amazed at it; for I could not conceive what he meant; and I
turned short upon him, and said, "Sir, I wish you would
explain yourself; I cannot imagine what reason I have to be
afraid of any Company's ship, or Dutch ships; I am no inter-
loper; what can they have to say to me?"
He looked like a man half angry, half pleased; and, paus-
ing awhile, but smiling, "Well sir," says he, "if you think
yourself secure, you must take your chance; I am sorry your
fate should blind you against good advice; but assure yourself,
if you do not put to sea immediately, you will the very next
tide be attacked by five long-boats full of men; and, perhaps,
if you are taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and the par-
ticulars be examined afterwards. I thought, sir," added he,
"I should have met with a better reception than this, for doing
you a piece of service of such importance." "I can never be
ungrateful," said I, " for any service, or to any man that offers
me any kindness; but it is past my comprehension what they
should have such a design upon me for. However, since you
say there is no time to be lost, and that there is some villain-
ous design in hand against me, I will go on board this minute,
and put to sea immediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if
we can swim without stopping it. But, sir," said I, " shall I go
away ignorant of the reason of all this? Can you give me no
further light into it?"
"I can tell you part of the story, sir," says he, "but I have
a Dutch seaman here with me, and, I believe, I could persuade
him to tell you the rest; but there is scarce time for it. But
the short of the story is this, the first part of which, I suppose,
you know well enough, namely, that you was with this ship at
Sumatra; that there your captain was murdered by the Malac-
cans, with three of his men; and that you, or some of those that
were on board with you, ran away with the ship, and are since
turned PIRATES. This is the sum of the story, and you will all
be seized as pirates, I can assure you, and executed with very
little ceremony; for you know merchants' men show but little
law to pirates, if they get them into their power.
"Now you speak plain English," said I, "and I thank you;
and, though I know nothing that we have done to deserve the
character we seem to have, but came honestly and fairly by.
the ship; yet hearing what you say, and that you seem to
mean honestly, I will be upon my guard." "Nay, sir," says
he, " do not talk of being upon your guard; the best defense
is to be out of the danger: if you have any regard to your life,
and the lives of your men, put out to sea without fail at high-
water; and as you have a whole tide before you, you will be
too far out before they can come down; for they only came
away at high-water; and as they have twenty miles to come,
you get near two hours of them by the difference of the tide,
not reckoning the length of the way; besides, as they are only
in boats, they will not venture to follow you far out to sea,
especially if it blows."
"Well," says I, "you have been very kind in this: what
shall I do for you to make you amends?" "Sir," says he,
"you may not be so willing to make me any amends, because
you may not be convinced of the truth of it: I will make an
offer to you; I have nineteen months' pay due to me on board
the ship , in which I came out from England; and the
Dutchman, that is with me, has seven months' pay due to him;
if you will make good our pay to us, we will go along with you.
If you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but if
we convince you, that we have saved your lives, and the ship,
and the lives of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to
you."
I consented readily to this, and went immediately on
board, and the two men with me. As soon as I came to the
ship's side, my partner, who was on board, came on the quar-
ter-deck, and called to me with great joy, singing out, "We
have stopped the leak! we have stopped the leak!" "Say
you so?" said I; "thank God; but weigh the anchor then
immediately." "Weigh !" said he, " what do you mean by that?
What is the matter?" "Ask no questions," says I, "but all
hands up anchor without losing a minute." He was surprised;
but called the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor
to be got up; and a little land-breeze blowing, we stood out to
sea; then I called him into the cabin, and told him the story at
large; and we called in the men, and they told us the rest of
it; but as it took us a great deal of time before we had done,
a seaman comes to the cabin-door, and calls out to us, that the
captain bade him tell us, we were chased. "Chased!" said I,
"by whom, and by what?" "By five sloops, or boats," says
the fellow, "full of men." "Very well," said I; "then there
is something in it." I now ordered all the men to be mustered,
and told them briefly that there was a design to seize the ship,
and to take us for pirates; and asked them, if they would
stand by us, and by one another? The men answered, cheer-
fully, that one and all, they would live and die with us. Then I
asked the captain what way he thought best for us to manage
a fight with them; for resist them I was resolved we would,
and that to the last drop. He said, readily, that the way was
to keep them off with our great shot as long as we could, and
then to fire at them with our small arms, as long as we could;
if they were too strong for us, then we should retire to our
close quarters; perhaps they had not materials to break open
our bulk-heads, or get in upon us.
The gunner had, in the mean time, trained two guns to bear
fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and loaded
them with musket-bullets, and small pieces of old iron, and
•whatever came to hand; and thus we made ready for fight;
but all the while keeping out to sea. We could see, at a dis-
tance, five large long-boats following us, with all the sail they
could make. Two we could see, by our glasses, which were
English, outsailed the rest, and were nearly two leagues ahead
of the others, and gained upon us considerably, and likely to
come up with us. We fired a gun therefore without a shot, to
intimate that they should bring to; and we put out a flag of
truce as a signal for parley; but they kept crowding after us,
till they came within shot. Upon this we took in our white
flag, they having made no answer to it, hung out the red flag,
and fired at them with a shot. Notwithstanding this, they
came on till we could call to them with a speaking-trumpet,
ordering them to keep off at their peril. They still crowded
after us, and endeavored to come under our stern, so as to
board us on our quarter. Seeing them resolute for mischief,
I ordered the ship to bring to, so that they lay upon our broad-
side, when we fired five guns at them; one of them had been
levelled so truly as to carry away the stern of the hindermost
boat, and compel them to take down their sail, all running to
the head of the boat to keep her from sinking; she lay by,
having had enough of it; but the foremost boat still crowding
after us, we made ready to receive her.
While this was going on, another of the three boats made
up to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her; and we
could afterward see her take out the men. We called again to
the foremost boat, and asked her business with us, but had no
answer; only she crowded close under our stern. Upon this
our gunner, a dexterous fellow, run out his two chase guns, and
again fired at her; but the shot missing, the men in the boat
shouted, waved their caps, and came on; getting quickly ready
again, the gunner fired among them the second time; one shot
fell among the men, and as we could easily see, had done a
great deal of mischief; taking no notice of that we weared the
ship again, and brought our quarter to bear upon them; and,
firing three more guns, the boat was split almost to pieces, her
rudder, and a piece of her stern, shot away; so they handled
their sail immediately, and were in great disorder. Our gun-
ner let fly two more guns at them again; where he hit them
we could not see, but seeing the boat was sinking, and some
of the men already in the water, I manned the pinnace, which
was kept close by our side, with orders to pick up as many as
they could before the boats came up. Three men were picked
up, one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good while
before we could recover him. As soon as they were on board
we crowded all the sail, and stood farther out to sea. When
the other three boats came up to the first two, they gave over
their chase.
Being thus delivered from a great danger, we changed our
course, so as to conceal whither we were going; so we stood
out to sea eastward, quite out of the course of all European
ships, whether they were bound to China, or anywhere else,
within the commerce of the European nations.
When at sea we learnt from the two seamen the meaning of
all that had passed; we found also that we had the credit of
being a set of pirates who had already taken an English and
two Dutch ships very richly laden. This was a report which
required immediate refutation; this could only be done by
returning at once to Bengal, from whence we came, without
putting in at any port whatever; there we could give account
of ourselves, could prove where we were when the ship put in,
who we bought her of, and the like; we should be sure to
have some justice, and not be hanged first and judged after-
wards. But then came the consideration that we were on the
wrong side of the Straits of Malacca; and that if the alarm
were given, we should be waylaid by the Dutch of Batavia as
well as the English elsewhere; that if we should be taken, as
it were, running away, we should even condemn ourselves, and
there would want no more evidence to destroy us.
This danger a little startled my partner, and it was resolved
to go away to the coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of
China; and pursuing the first design, as to trade, find some
way or other to dispose of the ship, and come back in some
of the vessels of the country. Accordingly we steered away
N. N. E., keeping above fifty leagues off from the usual course
to the eastward. My partner, who was well acquainted with
the coast, was to put into some port on the coast of Cochin-
china, or the Bay of Tonquin; intending to go afterwards to
Macao, a town once in the possession of the Portuguese, and
where still a great many European families resided, particularly
the missionary priests who usually went thither, in order to
their going forward to China. And accordingly, though after
a tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened for
provisions, we came within sight of the coast very early one
morning. Upon reflection we resolved to put into a small
river, which, however, had depth enough of water for us,
and to see if we could, either overland or by the ship's pin-
nace, come to know what ships were in the port thereabouts.
This happy step was, indeed, our deliverance; for, though we
did not immediately see any European ships in the bay, yet the
next morning there came two Dutch ships, and a third with-
out colors, which we believed to be a Dutchman, also passed
by at about two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of
China; and in the afternoon two English ships passed, steer-
ing the same course. The place we were in was wild and bar-
barous, the people thieves, even by occupation or profession.
Nevertheless, as our ship had never quite recovered her
trim after the leak which we succeeded in stopping so fortu-
nately, we resolved, while we were in this place, to lay her on
shore, take out what heavy things we had on board, which
were not many, and to wash and clean her bottom; and, if
possible, to find out where the leaks were. Accordingly, hav-
ing lightened the ship, and brought all our guns, and other
movable things, to one side, we tried to bring her down, that
we might come at her bottom; but, on second thoughts, we
did not care to lay her dry on ground, neither could we find
out a proper place for it. The inhabitants, seeing the ship down
on one side in such a manner, and heeling towards the shore,
and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom,
with stages, and with their boats on the off side, they presently
concluded that the ship was cast away.
On this supposition they came all about us in two or three
hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats, having some of
them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to
have come on board and plundered the ship; and if they found
us there, to have carried us away for slaves. When they came
to the ship, however, and began to row round her, they dis-
covered us all hard at work on the outside of the ship's bottom
and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as every seafaring
man knows how. They stood for a while gazing at us, and we,
who were a little surprised, could not imagine what their de-
sign was; but being willing to be sure, we sent some of the
hands into the ship, to hand down arms and ammunition to
those that were at work to defend themselves with, if there
should be occasion; and it was no more than need; for they
agreed, it seems, that the ship was really a wreck; that we
were all at work, endeavoring to save her, or to save our lives
by the help of our boats; and when we handed our arms into
the boats, they concluded by that motion, that we were endeav-
oring to save some of our goods. Upon this they came down
upon us, as if it had been in a line of battle. Our men, seeing
so many of them, were frighted at first, for we lay in a bad
posture to fight; but I called to the men who worked upon the
stages, to slip down, and get up the side into the ship; and
those in the boats I ordered to row round and come on board,
while the few of us who were on board worked with all the
strength we had, to bring the ship to rights; but neither the
men upon the stage nor those in the boats could do as they
were ordered before the enemy were upon them. Two of their
boats boarded our long-boat, and attempted to lay hold of the
men.
The first man they laid hold of was an English seaman, a
stout fellow, who, having a musket in his hand, laid it down in
the boat, like a fool, as I thought. But he knew what he was
about; for he grappled his antagonist, and dragged him by
main force out into our boat, where, taking him by the two
ears, he beat his head so against the boat's gunnel that the fel-
low died in his hands. In the mean time, a Dutchman, who
stood next, took up the musket, and with the butt-end of it,
knocked down five of those who attempted to enter the boat.
But this was doing little towards resisting thirty or forty men,
who, fearless, because ignorant of their danger, began to throw
themselves into the long-boat, where we had but five men to
defend it; but an accident gave our men a complete victory,
which deserved our laughter rather than anything else; and
that was this.
The carpenter was preparing to grave the outside of the
ship, and pay the seams where he had caulked her, to stop
the leaks, and had two kettles, one filled with boiling pitch,
and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, just ready to let down
into the boat; and the carpenter's assistant had a great iron
ladle in his hand, with which he supplied the men that were
at work with the stuff. Two of the enemy's men entered the
boat just where this fellow stood, being in the fore-sheets; he
immediately saluted them with a ladleful of the stuff, boiling
hot, which, being half naked, so burnt and scalded them that
they roared out like two bulls, and leaped both into the sea.
The carpenter saw the result with great satisfaction, and cried
out, "Well done, Jack, give them some more of it;" and
stepping forward himself, takes a mop, and dipping it into the
pitch-pot, he threw it among them so plentifully, that they
were scalded and burnt in a most frightful manner, and made
such a howling as never was heard before; for it is worth ob-
serving that though pain naturally makes all people cry out, yet
every nation has a particular mode of exclamation, and makes
noises as different from one another as is their speech. The
noise these creatures made was howling, for I never heard any-
thing more like the noise of the wolves which I heard in the
forest of Languedoc.
I was never better pleased with a victory, for we obtained it
almost without bloodshed; our danger was imminent; but I
was sick of killing these poor wretches, even in my own de-
fense, for they knew no better, and in attacking us followed
their instincts ; and I thought it was a sad life, which could only
be preserved by killing our fellow-creatures. While this was
doing, we had with great dexterity brought the ship almost to
rights; and, having shipped the guns again, the gunner called
to me, to bid our boat get out of the way, for he would let fly
among them. I requested him not to fire, for the carpenter
would do the work with the help of another pitch-kettle, which
the cook was preparing. But the enemy had enough of it in
their first attack, they would not come on again; and seeing
the ship afloat, as it were, and upright, begun to see their mis-
take, and gave over the enterprise. Thus we got clear of this
merry fight; and having got some rice, and some roots and
bread, with about sixteen good big hogs, on board, two days
before, we resolved to stay here no longer, but go forward,
whatever came of it, having no desire to ply our pitch-kettle in
a second attack.
We therefore got all our things on board the same evening,
and the next day, having finished our work on board, and
finding our ship was perfectly cured of her leaks, we set sail,
keeping to the N. E. towards the isle of Formosa, where we
came to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh provisions.
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China,
till we knew we were beyond all the ports where European
ships usually come. Being now in latitude of 30°, we resolved
to stand in for the shore; a boat came off two leagues to us,
with an old Portuguese pilot on board, who came to offer his
service. We took him on board; upon which, without asking
us whither we would go, he dismissed the boat. Thinking
that we might take the old man where we would, I began to
talk with him about carrying us to the Gulf of Nanquin, which
he readily agreed to, and while we were still in discourse, the
ship went forward, and, in about thirteen days' sail, came to
anchor in the southwest point of the great Gulf of Nanquin.
When we came on shore, the old pilot, who was now a firm
friend, got us a lodging, and also a warehouse for our goods;
he also brought us acquainted with three missionary Romish
priests, who were in town, and who had been there some time.
One of these was a Frenchman, father Simon; he was a jolly,
well-conditioned man, very free in his conversation, not seem-
ing so serious and grave as the others, a Portuguese and a
Genoese; but father Simon was courteous, easy in his manner,
and very agreeable company; the other two were more re-
served, seemed rigid and austere, and applied seriously to the
work they came about.
Father Simon was appointed to go up to Pekin, the royal
seat of the Chinese emperor; and waited only for another
priest, who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go
along with him; and we scarce ever met, without an urgent
invitation to accompany him on his journey. He would show
me all the glorious things of that mighty empire; and among
the rest, the greatest city in the world ; "a city," said he, " that
your London, and our Paris, put together, cannot be equal
to." This was the city of Pekin. Dining with him one day,
and being very merry together, I showed some little inclination
to go with him, and he pressed me and my partner very hard,
and with a great many persuasions, to consent. "Why, father
Simon," says my partner, " why should you desire our company
so much? You know we are heretics, and you do not love us,
nor can you keep us company with any pleasure." "O!"
says he, "you may, perhaps be good Catholics in time; my
business here is to convert heathens; and who knows but I
may convert you too?" "Very well, father," said I, "so you
will preach to us all the way." "I will not be troublesome to
you," says he; "our religion does not divest us of good man-
ners; besides," says he, "we are here like countrymen; and
so we are, compared to the place we are in; and if you are
Huguenots, and I a Catholic, we may be all Christians at last;
at least," said he, "we are all gentlemen, and we may converse
so, without being uneasy to one another." In the mean time
we had our ship and merchandise to dispose of; our old Por-
tuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who bought all
our opium, and gave us a very good price for it, paying us in
gold by weight, some in small pieces of their own coin, and
some in small wedges, of about ten or eleven ounces each.
While we were dealing with him for our opium, it came into
my head that he might, perhaps, deal with us for the ship too;
and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him. He shrunk
up his shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to him; but,
in a few days after, he came to me, with one of the missionary
priests for his interpreter, and told me, he had a proposal to
make to me; it was this: he had bought a great quantity of
goods of us when he had no thoughts of buying the ship; and
that, therefore, he had not money enough to pay for the ship;
but if I would let the same men who were in the ship navigate
her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan, and would send
them from thence to the Philippine islands with another load-
ing, which he would pay the freight of, before they went from
Japan; and that, at their return from that voyage, he would
buy the ship. I began to listen to this proposal; and so eager
did my head still run upon rambling, that I began to entertain
a notion of going myself with him, and so to sail from the
Philippine islands away to the South Seas; and accordingly I
asked the Japanese merchant, if he would not hire us to the
Philippine islands, and discharge us there. He said, no, he
could not do that; for then he could not have the return of his
cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan, he said, at the
ship's return. Well, still I was for taking him at that proposal,
and going myself; but my partner, wiser than I, persuaded me
from it, representing the dangers, as well of the seas as of
the Japanese, who are a false, cruel, and treacherous people;
and then of the Spaniards at the Philippines; more false,
more cruel, and more treacherous than they.
We were now on shore in China. In the mean time, we vis-
ited the city of Nanquin, a ten days' journey into the interior,
and at a future period we accompanied father Simon to Pekin,
which occupied us twenty-four days. The people we found
haughty, imperious, and insolent, in the midst of the grossest
simplicity and ignorance; for all their famed ingenuity is no
more. And my friend, father Simon, and I used to be very
merry upon these occasions, to see the beggarly pride of these
people: for example, coming by the house of a country gen-
tleman, as father Simon called him, about ten leagues off of
the city of Nanquin, we had, first of all, the honor to ride with
the master of the house about two miles; the state he rode in,
being a strange mixture of pomp and poverty. The habit of
this greasy Don was very proper for a scaramouch, or merry-
andrew, being a dirty calico, with all the tawdry and trapping
of a fool's coat, such as hanging sleeves, tassels, and cuts and
slashes almost on every side; it covered a taffety vest, as
greasy as a butcher, and which testified, that his honor must
needs be a most exquisite sloven.
His horse was a poor, lean, starved, hobbling creature, such
as in England might sell for about thirty or forty shillings; and
he had two slaves following him on foot, to drive the poor
creature along: he had a whip in his hand, and he belabored
the beast as fast about the head as his slaves did about the
tail; and thus he rode by us with about ten or twelve servants;
and we were told he was going from the city to his country
seat, about half a league before us. We travelled on gently,
but this figure of a gentleman rode away before us; and as
we stopped at a village about an hour to refresh us, when we
came by the country seat of this great man, we saw him in a
little place before his door, eating his repast; it was a kind of
a garden, but he was easy to be seen; and we were given to
understand, that the more we looked on him, the better he
would be pleased.
At length we arrived at Pekin: I had nobody with me but
the youth, whom my nephew the captain had left to attend
upon me as a servant, and who proved very trusty and diligent;
and my partner had nobody with him but one servant, who was
a kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to
see the court, we bore his charges and used him as an inter-
preter, for he understood the language of the country, and
spoke good French and a little English; and, indeed, this old
man was most useful to us everywhere, for we had not been
above a week at Pekin when he came to us laughing: "Ah,
Seignior Inglese," says he, " I have something to tell you, will
make your heart glad." "What can that be ?" says I; "I do
not know anything in this country that can either give me joy
or grief." "Yes, yes," said the old man in broken English,
"make you glad, me sorrow;" sorry he would have said.
This made me more inquisitive. "Why," said I, "will it make
you sorry?" "Because," said he, "you have brought me here
twenty-five days' journey, and will leave me to go back alone;
and which way shall I get to my port afterwards, without a
ship, without a horse, without pecune?" So he called money,
in his broken Latin, of which he had abundance to make us
merry withal.
In short, he told us there was a great caravan of Muscovite
and Polish merchants in the city, and they were preparing to
journey, by land, to Muscovy, and he was sure we would take
the opportunity to go with them. I confess I was surprised
with this news; a secret joy spread itself over my whole soul,
which I cannot describe; at last I turned to him, — " How do
you know this ?" said I. Says he, " I met this morning an
old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, or one you call a
Greek, who is among them ; he ca•me last from Astracan, and
was designing to go to Tonquin, but has altered his mind, and
is now resolved to go with the caravan to Moscow, and so
down the river Wolga to Astracan. "Well, seignior," says I,
"do not be uneasy about being left to go back alone; if I
return to England by this means it shall be your fault if you
go back to Macao at all." We then consulted together; my
partner told me he would do just as I would; for he had set-
tled all his affairs so well at Bengal, and left his effects in such
good hands, and had made so good a voyage here, if he could
vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as might be worth
the carriage, he would be content to go to England, and make
his voyage back to Bengal by one of the company's ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed, that if our Portugal
pilot would go with us, we would not only bear his charges to
Moscow, or to England, but we agreed to give him a quantity
of coined gold for his services, which, as I compute it, came
to about 175 pounds sterling between us.
It was in the beginning of February, our style, when we set
out from Pekin. I had bought ninety pieces of fine damasks,
with about two hundred pieces of other very fine silks, of sev-
eral sorts, some mixed with gold. Besides this we bought
a very large quantity of raw silk, and some other goods, which
loaded in all eighteen camels for our share, besides those we
rode upon; which, with two or three spare horses, and two
horses loaded with provisions, made us, in short, twenty-six
camels and horses in our retinue. The company was very
great, and as near as I can remember, made between three and
four hundred horse, and upward of a hundred and twenty men,
very well armed, and provided for all events. For, as the
eastern caravans are subject to be attacked, by the Arabs, so
are these by the Tartars. There were people of several na-
tions, Muscovites chiefly; for there were above sixty of them
who were merchants or inhabitants of Moscow, though of them
some were Livonians; and, to our particular satisfaction, five
of them were Scots, who appeared also to be men of great ex-
perience, and of very good substance.
When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who
were five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants
to a great council, as they called it. At this great council
every one deposited a certain quantity of money to a common
stock, for the necessary expense of buying forage on the way,
where it was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the
guides, getting horses, and the like. And here they consti-
tuted the journey, as they called it, namely: they named cap-
tains and officers to draw us all up, and give the command in
case of an attack, and gave every one their turn of command.
In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for
protection against the Tartars; and a very great work it is, go-
ing over hills and mountains where the rocks are impassable,
and over precipices such as no enemy could possibly climb.
They tell us its length is near a thousand English miles;
but that the country is five hundred, in a straight measured
line, which the wall bounds, without measuring the windings
and turnings it takes; it is about four fathom high, and as
many thick in some places.
After we had passed this mighty nothing, called a wall, we
began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the people liv-
ing in fortified towns and cities, being subject to the inroads
and depredations of the Tartars, who rove about in troops or
hordes, keeping no order, and understanding no discipline;
their horses are poor, lean, starved creatures, taught nothing,
and fit for nothing. Our leader for the day gave leave for
about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they call it; and what
was this but a hunting of sheep! However, it may be called
hunting, too; for the creatures are the wildest and swiftest of
foot that ever I saw of their kind; only they will not run a
great way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the
chase; for they appear generally thirty or forty in a flock, and,
like true sheep, always keep together when they fly.
In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet
with about forty Tartars. Whether they were hunting mutton
as we were, or whether they looked for another kind of prey, I
know not; but as soon as they saw us one of them blew a
kind of a horn very loud, but with a barbarous sound that I
had never heard before; and, by the way, never care to hear
again. One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to •
be amongst us, and told us that we had nothing to do but to
charge them immediately, without loss of time; and drawing
us up in a line, he asked if we were ready to follow him, and
rode directly up to them. They stood gazing at us, but as
soon as they saw us advance they let fly their arrows, which,
however, missed us very happily.
We halted, and fired, sending them leaden bullets for
wooden arrows, following our shot full gallop, sword in hand;
for so our bold Scot directed. He showed such vigor, bravery,
and cool courage on this occasion, that I never saw any man in
action fitter for command. As soon as we came up to them,
we fired our pistols in their faces, and then drew; but they
fled in the greatest confusion imaginable; the only stand any
of them made was on our right, where three, having a kind of
scimitar in their hands, and their bows hanging at their backs,
by signs, called the rest to come back. Our brave comman-
der gallops up close to them, and with his fusil knocks one
of them off his horse, killed the second with his pistol, and
the third ran away; and thus ended our fight; but all our
mutton got away. We had not a man killed or hurt; but, as
for the Tartars, there were about five of them killed; who
were wounded, we knew not.
We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, but in
about five days we entered a vast great wild desert, which
held us three days and nights' march; and we were obliged to
carry our water with us in great leather bottles, and to encamp
all night. A kind of border that might be called No Man's
Land; being a part of the Great Karakathy,• or Grand Tar-
tary.
We saw two or three times little parties of the Tartars, and
once a party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us,
doubtful, apparently, whether to attack us or not. We trav-
elled near a month after this, the ways being not so good as at
first, though still in the dominions of the Emperor of China;
but lay, for the most part, in villages, some of which were
fortified, because of the incursions of the Tartars.
At one of these towns, wishing to buy a camel, and having
agreed for the price, I was coming away, when, on a sudden,
came up five Tartars on horseback; two of them seized the
fellow leading the camel, while the other three stepped up to
me and my old pilot; seeing us, as it were, unarmed, for I had
no weapon about me but my sword, which could but ill defend
me against three horsemen. The first that came up stopped
short upon my drawing my sword; but a second coming upon
my left, gave me a blow on the head, which I never felt till
afterwards, and wondered, when I came to myself, what was
the matter with me, and where I was, for he laid me flat on
the ground; but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese,
having a pistol in his pocket, and seeing me down, stepped up
to the fellow that had struck me, and pulling him by main
force a little towards him with one hand, with the other, he
shot him in the head, laying him dead on the spot; he then
stepped up to him who had stopped us, made a blow at him
with his scimitar, but missing the man, cut his horse into the
side of his head, cut one of his ears off by the root, and a
great slice down the side of his face. The poor beast, enraged
with the wound, was no more to be governed by his rider ; but
away he flew, and carried him quite out of the pilot's reach;
and at some distance, rising up upon his hind legs, threw
down the Tartar, and fell upon him.
In this interval the poor Chinese seeing the Tartar down,
and his horse fallen upon him, he runs to him, and seizing
upon an ugly ill-favored weapon he had by his side, something
like a pole-axe, he wrenched it from him, and made shift to
knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But my old man had
the third Tartar to deal with still; he did not fly, nor did he
come on to fight, but stands stock still. The old man falls to
work with his tackle to charge his pistol; but as soon as the
Tartar saw the pistol away he scoured, and left my pilot, — my
champion, as I called him afterward, a complete victor.
By this victory we lost a camel and gained a horse. When
we came back to the village the man demanded to be paid for
the camel; I disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing be-
fore the Chinese judge of the place. To give him his due, he
acted with a great deal of prudence and impartiality; and
having heard both sides, he gravely asked the Chinese man
that went with me to buy the camel, whose servant he was?
"I am no servant," says he, "but went with the stranger."
"At whose request? " says the justice. "At the stranger's re-
quest," says he. "Why, then," said the justice, " you were the
stranger's servant for the time, and the camel being delivered
to his servant, it was delivered to him, and he must pay for it."
I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to say;
I paid willingly for the camel, and sent for another.
We were now approaching the city of Naum, a frontier town
of the Chinese empire; they call it fortified, and so it is, as
fortifications go there. We wanted above two days' journey of
this city, when messengers arrived to tell all travellers and
caravans to halt, till they had a guard sent for them; for that
an unusual body of Tartars, ten thousand in all, had appeared
about thirty miles from the city. Accordingly, two days after,
we had two hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison of the
Chinese on our left, and three hundred more from the city of
Naum, and with those we advanced boldly; the three hundred
soldiers from Naum marched in our front, the two hundred in
our rear, and our men on each side of our camels with our
baggage, and the whole caravan in the centre. Early one
morning we marched from a little town called Changu, where
we had to ferry across a river, beyond which we entered upon
a desert of about fifteen or sixteen miles; there, by the cloud
of dust raised, we saw an enemy was at hand, and they were
at hand, indeed, for they came on upon the spur.
The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big
the day before, began to stagger, the soldiers frequently look-
ing behind them; which is a certain sign in a soldier that he
is just ready to run away. My old pilot was also of my mind:
"Seignior Inglese," says he, "those fellows must be encour-
aged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tartars come on, they
will never stand." "I am of your mind," said I, "but what
must be done?" "Done !" said he; "let fifty of our men ad-
vance, and flank them on each wing, and encourage them, and
they will fight like brave fellows in brave company; but with-
out, every man will turn his back." Accordingly fifty of us
marched to the right wing, and fifty to the left, and the rest
made a line of support: and so we marched, leaving the last
two hundred men as a reserve to guard the camels, and, if
need were, to assist the last fifty.
The Tartars came on in an innumerable company. They
viewed our posture, traversing the ground in the front of our
line ; and as we found them within gunshot, our leader ordered
the two wings to advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each
wing with their shot, which was done; but they went off, I
suppose to give an account of the reception thev had met with;
for the party halted, stood awhile, as if to consider, and, wheel-
ing off to the left, they gave over their design.
Two days after this we came to the city of Naun, or Naum.
We thanked the governor for his care for us, and collected to
the value of one hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which we
gave to the soldiers sent to guard us; and here we rested one
day. After this we passed several great rivers, and two dread-
ful deserts, one of which we were sixteen days passing over,
and which, as I said, was to be called No Man's Land; and
on the 13th of April we came to the frontiers of the Musco-
vite dominions. I think the first city, or town, or fortress,
whatever it might be called, that belonged to the Czar of Mus-
covy, was called Argun, being on the west side of the river
Argun.
I could not but feel an infinite satisfaction that I was arrived
in a Christian country, or, at least, in a country governed by
Christians; for though the Muscovites do, in my opinion, but
just deserve the name of Christians, it is a blessing to be
brought into a country where the name of God, and of. a Re-
deemer, is known, worshipped, and adored.
Yet I soon found out that while the garrisons and governor
of these countries were Russians, and professed Christians,
the inhabitants of the country were mere pagans, sacrificing to
idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and stars, or all the host
of heaven; and not only so, but were, of all the heathens and
pagans that ever I met with, the most barbarous, except only
that they did not eat man's flesh, as our savages of America
did. Between Arguna, where we entered the Muscovite do-
minions, and the mixed Russian and Tartar city of Nertzins-
kay, which took us twenty days, I got so disgusted with the
mummeries performed before one of their idols, at a village
near the town, that I rode up to the image or monster, call it
what you will, and with my sword cut the bonnet that was on
its head in two in the middle, so that it hung down by one of
the horns ; and one of our men that was with me, took hold of
the sheep-skin that covered it. and pulled at it, when, behold, a
most hideous outcry and howling run through the village, and
two or three hundred people came about my ears, so that I
was glad to scour for it; for we saw some had bows and
arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visit them again.
Accordingly, when our caravan rested three nights at Nert-
zinskay, which was about four miles off, I communicated my
project to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of1 whose courage I
had had sufficient testimony. I told him what I had seen, and
my indignation, and my resolution. If I could get but four or
five men well armed to go with me to go and destroy that
abominable idol; and let them see that it had no power to
help itself, much less help them that offered sacrifices to it.
He laughed at me, but finding me resolute, he told me he
would go with me; and bring a stout fellow, one of his coun-
trymen, to go also with us; " one," says he, " as famous for his
zeal as you can desire." In a word, he brought me his com-
rade, a Scotsman, whom he called Captain Richardson; and
we agreed to go, only us three, and my only man servant, and
the very next night about midnight, the caravan being to set
forward in the morning, the Scots merchant brought a Tartar's
robe of sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and
had provided the same for himself and his countryman, so
that the people, if they saw us, should not be able to deter-
mine who we were. Having mixed up some combustible mat-
ter with aqua-vitae, gunpowder, and such other materials as we
could get, and having a good quantity of tar in a little pot,
about an hour after night set in, we set out upon our expedi-
tion.
We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and
found that the people had not the least jealousy of danger
attending their idol; the night was cloudy, yet the moon gave
us light enough to see that the idol stood just in the same
posture and place that it did before. The people seemed to
be all at their rest; only that in the great hut, we saw the
three priests, and some five or six with them; we concluded,
therefore, that if we set the wild-fire to the idol, these men
would come out immediately, and run to the place to rescue it
from the destruction we intended for it. It was too bulky to
be carried away, so we were at a loss again. "Well then,"
said the Scots merchant, " I will tell you what we will do; we
will try to take them prisoners, tie their hands behind them,
and make them stand still, and see their idol destroyed."
We knocked gently, and seized them as they came out, and
immediately tied them. The last of them stepping back, and
crying out, my Scots merchant went in after him, and taking
out a composition we had made, that would only smoke and
stink, he set fire to it, and threw it among them: by that time
the other Scotsman and my man taking charge of the two
men who were already bound, and tied together also by the
arm, led them away to the idol, and left them there. The fuse
we had thrown in, soon filled the hut with so much smoke, that
they were almost suffocated; we then threw in a small leather
bag of another kind, which flamed like a candle, and, follow-
ing it in, we found there were but four people left, two men
and two women, engaged, as we supposed, about some of their
diabolical sacrifices. They appeared, in short, frighted to
death, at least so as to sit trembling and stupid, and not able
to speak, neither, for the smoke. We bound them as we had
the other, and all without any noise. When we had done this,
and carried them all together to the idol, we fell to work, and
first daubed it all over with tar, and such other stuff as we had;
then we stopped his eyes, and ears, and mouth with gunpow-
der, and wrapped up a great piece of wild-fire in his bonnet;
and then sticking all the combustibles we had brought with us
upon him, we looked about to see if we could find anything else
to help to burn him; when my man remembered, that by the
tent, or hut, where the men were, there lay a heap of dry for-
age, which he and one of the Scotsmen run and fetched their
arms full of. Now we took all our prisoners, and brought
them, having untied their feet and ungagged their mouths, and
set them just before their monstrous idol, and then set fire to
the whole.
We stayed by it a quarter of an hour, or thereabouts, till
the powder in the eyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol blew
up, and, we could perceive, had split and deformed the shape;
and, in a word, till we saw it burn into a mere block or log of
wood; and then setting the dry forage to it, we found it would
be quite consumed; when we began to think of going away;
but the Scotsman said, " No, we must not go; for these poor
deluded wretches will all throw themselves into the fire, and
burn themselves with the idol." So we resolved to stay till
the forage was burnt down too, and then we came away and
left them.
In the morning we appeared among our fellow-travellers,
exceeding busy in getting ready for our journey; nor could
any man suppose that we had been anywhere but in our beds.
But it did not end so; the next day came a great multitude of
the country people, not only of this village, but of a hundred
more, for aught I know, to the town gates; and, in a most
outrageous manner, demanded satisfaction of the Russian gov-
ernor, for the insulting their priests, and burning their great
Cham-Chi-Thaungu.
The governor told them there was a caravan gone towards
Russia that morning, and the caravan having a hint from the
governor, marched two days and two nights without any con-
siderable stop, fortunately taking the south side of the Lake
Si•hanks Oscer, while the pursuers took the north. After jour-
neying three days, they found their mistake, and came pouring
in upon us, towards the dusk one evening. The enemy did
not come on us like thieves, as we expected, but sent three
messengers to demand the men to be delivered to them, that
had abused their priests. The leader of the caravan sent
word that he was well assured it was not done by any of
our camp; that we were peaceable merchants, and we had
done no harm to them, or to any one else; and that therefore
they must look farther for their enemies. They were far from
being satisfied with this for an answer; but a cunning fellow,
a Cossack, in the pay of the Muscovites, relieved us from this
great danger. Taking his bow and arrows, and getting on
horseback, he rides away from our rear back, taking a great
circuit, and coming to the army of the Tartars, as if he had
been sent express after them, he tells them that the people
who had burnt their Cham-Chi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka,
a town four or five days to the south, with another caravan.
In less than three hours they were entirely out of our sight,
and we never heard any more of them, but passed safely on to
the city of Jarawena. From this city we had a frightful des-
ert, which held us three-and-twenty days' march. After we
had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty well in-
habited. After this we had to pass the nation of the Ton-
gueses. Having passed through this country, and another
desert of at least four hundred miles, we came to Janezay, a
Muscovite city or station, on the great river of that name,
which, they told us. parted Europe from Asia. From this
river to the great river Oby, we crossed a wild, uncultivated
country, whither the Muscovite criminals, that are not put to
death, are banished.
I have nothing material to say of my particular affairs, till
I came to Tobolsk!, the capital city of Siberia, where I thought
it much my better way to let the caravan go on, and to make
provision to winter where I was, in the latitude of sixty de-
grees. This being the country where the state criminals of
Muscovy are all banished, this city was full of noblemen,
princes, gentlemen, colonels, and, in short, all degrees of the
nobility, gentry, soldiery, and courtiers of Muscovy. Here
was the famous Prince Galitzen, the old General Robostisky,
and several other persons of note, and some ladies.
By means of my Scots merchant, who, nevertheless, I parted
with here, I made an acquaintance with several of these gentle-
men, and some of them of the first rank; and from these, in
the long winter nights, in which I stayed here, I received sev-
eral very agreeable visits. Among others the Prince ,
one of the banished ministers of state belonging to the Czar
of Muscovy. My measures being fixed, for Archangel, and
not for Muscovy, or the Baltic, about the latter end of May, I
began to pack up. Before leaving, I sent my servant to the
prince, with a small present of tea, and two pieces of China
damask, and four little wedges of Japan gold, which did not
all weigh above six ounces, or thereabout; but were far short
of the value of his sables, which, indeed, when I came to
England, I found worth near two hundred pounds. He ac-
cepted the tea and one piece of the damask, and one of the
pieces of gold, which had a fine stamp upon it, of the Japan
coinage, which I found he took for the rarity of it, but would
not take any more, and he sent word by my servant that he
desired to speak with me. Thinking how easy it would have
been to have taken any of these exiles with me, I had pro-
posed to the prince to make his escape with me, engaging to
put him on board an English or Dutch ship, which he had de-
clined.
When I came to him, he told me I knew what had passed
between us, and hoped I would not move him any more in
that affair; but that, since I had made such a generous offer
to him, he asked me if I had kindness enough to offer the same
to another person that he would name to me, in whom he took
a great interest. I told him that I could not say I inclined to
do so much for any one but himself, for whom I had a particu-
lar respect, and should have been glad to have been the in-
strument of his deliverance; however, if he would please to
name the person to me, I would give him my answer, and
hoped he would not be displeased with me, if he was with
my answer. He told me it was only his son, who, though I
had not seen, was in the same condition with himself, and
above two hundred miles from him, on the other side the
Oby; but that, if I consented, he would send for him.
I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made
some ceremony in letting him understand that it was wholly
on his account; and that, seeing I could not prevail on him, I
would show my respect to him by my concern for his son; but
these things are too tedious to repeat here. He sent away the
next day for his son, and in about twenty days he came back
with the messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded with
very rich furs, and which, in the whole, amounted to a very
great value. His servants brought the horses into the town,
but left the young lord at a distance till night, when he came
incognito into our apartment, and his father presented him to
me; and, in short, we concerted there the manner of our
travelling, and everything proper for the journey.
It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place,
a city, I believe, little heard of in the world; and, indeed, it
is so far out of the road of commerce, that I know not how it
should be talked of. "We now formed a very small caravan,
being only thirty-two horses and camels in all, and all of them
passed for mine, though my new guest was proprietor of eleven
of them. It was most natural, also, that I should take more
servants with me than I had before, and the young lord passed
for my steward; what great man I passed for myself I forget
now. We had here the worst and the largest desert to pass
over that we met with in all the journey; indeed I call it
the worst, because the way was very deep in some places, and
very uneven in others; the best we had to say for it, was, that
we thought we had no troops of Tartars and robbers to fear,
for they never came on this side the river Oby, or at least
but very seldom ; but we found it otherwise.
My young lord had with him a faithful Muscovite servant,
or rather a Siberian servant, who was perfectly acquainted
with the country; and led us by private roads, so that we
avoided coming into the principal towns and cities upon the
great road, such as Tumen, Soloy Kamaskoy, and several oth-
ers; where the Muscovite garrisons are very curious and strict
in their observations upon travellers, fearing lest any of the
banished persons of note should make their escape that way
into Muscovy; by this means, as we were kept out of the
cities, so our whole journey was through a desert, and we
were obliged to encamp and lie in our tents.
We entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which,
in these parts, is the boundary between Europe and Asia; and
the first city on the European side was called Soloy Kamas-
koy, the great city on the river Kama; beyond this, we had a
vast desert to pass, which, by relation, is near seven hundred
miles long in some places, and covered with forests. In pass-
ing this great forest, after all our danger had in imagination
disappeared, I thought we must have been plundered and
robbed, and even murdered by a troop of thieves; of what
country they were, whether the roving bands of the Ostiachi,
or wild people on the bank of the Oby, who had ranged thus
far; or whether they were the sable-hunters of Siberia, I am
at a loss to know; but they were all on horseback, carried
bows and arrows, and were at first about five-and-forty in
number; they carne within about two musket shot of us, sur-
rounding us with their horse, and looked very earnestly upon
us; upon which we drew up in a little line before our camels,
being sixteen men in. all. I did not feel that we were quite
safe where we were, but at about a quarter of a mile's distance
off on our left, was a little grove or clump of trees, which stood
close together, and very near the road; I immediately resolved
to advance to those trees, and fortify ourselves there as well as
we could. We advanced immediately with what speed we
could, and gained that little wood, the Tartars making no
attempt to hinder us. When we came thither, we found, to our
great satisfaction, that it was a swampy, springy piece of
ground, and, on the one side, a very great spring of water,
which, running out in a little rill or brook, was a little farther
off joined by another of the like bigness; it was, in short, the
head or source of a considerable river, called the Wirtska.
The trees growing about this spring were not above two
hundred, but were very large and stood pretty thick; so that
as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves perfectly safe from the
enemy, unless they alighted and attacked us on foot.
But to make this more difficult, our Portuguese, with inde-
fatigable application, cut down great arms of the trees, and
laid them hanging, not cut quite off, from one tree to another;
so that he made a continued fence almost round us.
We stayed here, waiting the motion of the enemy some hours,
without perceiving they made any motion; when about two
hours before night, they came down directly upon us; and
though we had not perceived it, we now found, that they had
been joined by some more, so that they were near fourscore
horse, whereof, however, we fancied some were women. They
came on till they were within half shot of our little wood, when
we fired one musket without ball, and called to them in the
Russian tongue, to know what they wanted, and bid them
keep off; but they came on with a double fury directly up to
the wood-side, not imagining we were barricaded that they
could not break in ; our old pilot was our captain, as well as he
had been our engineer; and desired us not to fire upon them
till they came within pistol shot, and that we might be sure to
kill: he gave the word to fire when some of them were only
within two pikes' length of us, and we aimed so true, that we
killed fourteen of them, and wounded several others, as also
several of their horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces
with two or three bullets.
They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated
immediately about one hundred rods from us; in which time
we loaded our pieces again, and seeing them keep that dis-
tance, we sallied out, and catched four or five of their horses,
whose riders, we supposed, were killed; and coming up to the
23
dead, we could easily perceive they were Tartars, but knew
not from what country, or how they came to make an excursion
such an unusual length.
About an hour after, they made a motion to attack us again,
and rode round our little wood, to see where else they might
break in; but finding us always ready to face them, they went
off again. We slept little, you may be sure; but spent the
most part of the night in strengthening our •situation, and
barricading the entrances into the wood; keeping a strict
watch, we waited for daylight, and, when it came, it gave us a
very unwelcome discovery indeed: for the enemy, who, we
thought, were discouraged with the reception they had met
with, were now increased to no less than three hundred, and
had set up eleven or twelve huts and tents, as if they were
resolved to besiege us; and this little camp they had pitched
upon the open plain, at about three quarters of a mile from us.
This was a terrible discovery; I gave myself over for lost.
As for my partner he was raging: he declared, that to lose his
goods would be his ruin; and he would rather die than be
starved; and he was for fighting it out. The young lord also,
as gallant as ever flesh showed itself, was for fighting to the
last also; and my old pilot was of opinion that we were able
to resist them all; but towards evening, we found that the
number of our enemies still increased: perhaps, as they were
abroad in several parties for prey, the first had sent out
scouts to call for help, and to acquaint the others of the
booty; and we did not know but by the morning they might
still be a greater number; so I began to inquire of those peo-
ple we had brought from Tobolski, if there was no other or
more private ways, by which we might avoid them in the
night, and perhaps, either retreat to some town, or get help to
guard us over the desert.
The Siberian told us, that if we wished to avoid them, and
not fight, he would engage to carry us off in the night to a
way that went north towards the Petraz, by which he made no
question but we might get away, and the Tartars never be
the wiser; but he said, his lord had told him he would not re-
treat, but would rather fight. Having satisfied him that his
master knew better than to require sixteen men to fight four
hundred, we prepared for departure. As soon as it began to
be dark, we kindled a fire in our little camp, which we kept
burning, and prepared so as to make it burn all night, that
the Tartars might conclude we were still there; but, as soon
as we could see the stars (for our guide would not stir be-
fore), having all our horses and camels ready laden, we fol-
lowed our new guide, who, I soon found, steered himself by
the pole, or north star, all the country being level for a long
way.
When we had travelled very hard for two hours, it began to
be lighter still; not that it was quite dark all night, but the
moon began to rise, so that, in short, it was rather lighter
than we wished it to be; but by six o'clock the next morning
we were forty miles off, though the truth is, we almost spoiled
our horses. Here we found a Russian village, named Kirma-
zinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of the Kalmuck
Tartars that day. About two hours before night we set out
again, and travelled till eight the next morning, though not
quite so hard as before; and about seven o'clock we passed a
little river, called Kirtza, and came to a large town inhabited
by Russians, and very populous, called Ozomys. There we
heard, that several troops, or hordes of Kalmucks had been
abroad upon the desert, but that we were now completely out
of danger from them. Here we were obliged to get some
fresh horses, and having need enough of rest, we stayed five
days; my partner and I agreeing to give the honest Siberian,
who brought us thither, the value of ten pistoles for his con-
duct.
In five days more we came to Veussima, upon the river
Witzogda, and running into the Dwina; we were very happily
near the end of our travels by land, that river being navigable
in seven days' passage to Archangel: from hence we came to
Lawrenskoy, the third of July; and providing ourselves with
two luggage-boats, and a barge, for our own convenience, we
embarked the seventh, and arrived all safe at Archangel the
eighteenth, having been a year and five months and three days
on the journey, including our stay of eight months and odd
days at Tobolski.
We were obliged to stay at this place six weeks for the
arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had not a
Hamburgher come in above a month sooner than any of the
English ships; considering that the city of Hamburgh might
happen to be as good a market for our goods as London,
we all took freight with him; and having put my goods on
board, it was most natural for me to put my steward on board
to take care of them ; by which means my young lord had a
sufficient opportunity to conceal himself, never coming on
shore in all the time we stayed there; and this he did, that
he might not be seen in the city, where some of the Moscow
merchants would certainly have seen and discovered him.
We sailed from Archangel the twentieth of August the same
year; and, after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived in the
Elbe the thirteenth of September. Here my partner and I
found a very good sale for our goods, as well those of China
as the sables, &c. of Siberia; and dividing the produce of our
effects, my share amounted to .£3,475 17•f• 3^. notwithstanding
so many losses we had sustained, and charges we had been
at; only remembering that I had included in this about six
hundred pounds' worth of diamonds, which I had purchased at
Bengal.
Here the young lord took his leave of us, and went up the
Elbe, in order to go to the court of Vienna, where he resolved
to seek protection, and where he could correspond with those
of his father's friends who were left alive. He did not part
without all the testimonies he could give me of gratitude for
the service I had done him, and his sense of my kindness to
the prince his father.
To conclude: having stayed near four months in Ham-
burgh, I came from thence overland to the Hague, where I
embarked in the packet, and arrived in London the loth of
January, 1705, having been gone from England ten years and
nine months.
And here, resolving to harass myself no more, I am pre-
paring for a longer journey than all these, having lived sev-
enty-two years a life of infinite variety, and learned sufficiently
to know the value of retirement, and the blessing of ending
our days in peace.
THE END.
