LIFE A.ND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER.
WITH AN ACCOUNT OF
Tils Crabcls rounD 3TI;vce Paris of tljc
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
VOL. I.

CIIISWICK:
JFtom ttie pregg of <t> ra
COLLEGE HOUSE.
SOLD BY R. JENNINGS, POULTRY; T. TEGG, CHEAPSIDE;
A. K. NEWMAN AND CO. LEADENHALL STREET; LONDON:
J. SUTHERLAND, EDINBURGH',
AND RICHARD GBIFFIN AND CO. GLASGOW.
1822.
r
i--
IV.
THE
LIFE
OF
DANIEL DE FOE.
I I.\\IMI. DE FOE was descended from a respectable
family in the connty of Northampton, and born in
London, abont the year I663. His father, James
Foe, was a butcher, in the parish of St. Giles's, Crip-
plegate, and a protestant dissenter. Why the subject
of this memoir prefixed the lie to his family name
cannot now be ascertained, nor did he at any period
of his life think it necessary to give his reasous to the
public. The political scribblers of the day, how-
ever, thonght proper to remedy this lack of infor-
mation, and accused him of possessing so little of the
amor patrice, as to make the addition in order that
he might not be taken for an Englishman; thongh
this idea conld have had no other fonndation than
the circumstance of his having, in cousequence of his
zeal for Kin^r William, attacked the prejndices of his
conntrymen in his "Trueborn Englishman."
After receiving a good education at an academy at
Newington, yonng Ue Foe, before he had attained
his twenty-first year, commenced his career as an
author, by writing a pampblet agaiust a very pre-
vailing sentiment m favonr of the Turks, who were
at that time laying siege to Vienna. This produc-
tion, being very inferior to those of his maturer years,
was very little read, and the indignant author, des-
pairing of success with his pen, had reconrse to the
VJ LIFE OF DE FOE.
sword; or, as he termed it, when boasting of the ex-
ploit in his later years, "displayed his attachment
to liberty and protestantism, by joining the ill ad-
vised iusurrection under the Duke of Monmonth, in
the west. On the failure of that unfortunate enter-
prise, he returned again to the metropolis; and it
is not improhable, but that the circumstance of his
being a native of London, and his person not much
known in that part of the kingdom where the rebel-
lion took place, might facilitate his escape, and be
the meaus of preventing his being bronght to trial
for his share in the trausaction. With the professious
of a writer and a soldier, Mr. De Foe, in the year
I685, joined that of a trader; he was first engaged
as a hosier in Cornhill, and afterwards as a maker of
bricks and pantiles, near Tilbury Fort, in Kssex;
but, in cousequence of spending those honrs in the
hilarity of the tavern which he onght to have em-
ployed in the calculatious of the connting honse, his
commercial schemes proved uusuccessful; and in
I694 he was obliged to abscond from his creditors,
not failing to attribute those misfortunes to the war
and the severity of the times, which were donbtless
owing to his own misconduct. It is much to his
credit, however, that, after having been freed from
his debts by composition, and being in prosperons
circumstances from King William's favonr, he volun-
tarily paid most of his creditors both the principal
and mterest of their claims. This is such an example
of honesty as it wonld be unjust to L)e Foe and to
the world to conceal. The amonnt of the sums tbus
paid must have been very cousiderable, as he after-
wards feelingly mentious to Lord Haversham, who
had reproached him with covetonsuess; " With a
numerons family, and no helps but my own industrv,
I have forced my way throngh a sea of misfortunes,
and reduced my debts, exclusive of composition,
from seventeen thonsand to less than five thonsand
ponnds."
At the beginning of the year I700, Mr. De Foe
published a satire in verse, which excited very con-
siderable attention, called the "The Trueborn Eng-
lishman." Its purpose was to furnish a reply to those
who were continually abusing King William and
some of his friends as foreigners, by showing that the
present race of Englishmen was a mixed and hete-
rogeneons brood, scarcely any of which conld lay
claim to native purity of blood. The satire was in
many parts very severe; and, thongh it gave high
offence, it claimed a cousiderable share of the public
attention. The reader will perhaps be gratified by
a specimen of this production, wherein he endea-
vours to acconnt for—-
what makes this discontented land appear
Less happy now in timea of peace than war;
Why civit feuds disturb the nation more
Than att onr btoody wars had done before:
Foots ont of favonr grudge at knaves in ptace,
And men are atways honest in disgrace:
The conrt preferments make men knaves in conrse,
But they, who wontd he in them, wontd be woree.
'Tis noi at foreigners that we repine,
Wontd foreigners their perquisites resign:
The grand contention's ptainty to be seen,
To get some mm put ont, aud some put in.
It will be immediately perceived that De Foe conld
have no preteusious to the character of a poet; but
he has, notwithstanding, some nervons and well ver-
sified lines, and in choice of subject and moral he is
in general excellent. The Trueborn Englishman
conclndes tbus:—
Contd bat our ancestors retrieve their fate,
And see their offspring tbus degenerate;
How we contend for Dirth and names unknown>
And buitd on their past aciious, not oar own;
They'd cancet records, and iin ii tombs deface,
And openty disown the vite degenerate race.
For fame of famifies is att a cheat,
TIS PERSONAL VIRTUE ONLY MAKES US GREAT.
For this defence of foreiguers, De Foe was amply
iill I Mill I '1M VTUIt'U ''^ *T f*3 JJV.V.UHW1 .j ••
possessing, with a strong mind and a ready

kind of yielding couscience which allowed him to
support the measures of his benefactors, thongh con-
vinced they were injurions to his conntry. De Foe
now retired to Newington with his family, and fora
short time lived at ease; but the death of his royal
patron deprived him of a generons protector, and
opened a scene of sorrow which probably imblttered
his future life.
He had always discovered a great inclination to
engage in religions controversy, and the furions con-
test, civil and ecclesiastical, which eusued on the
accession of Queen Anne, gave him an opportunity
of gratifying his favonrite passion. He therefore
published a tract, entitled "The shortest Way with
the Dissenters, or Proposals for the Establishment
of the Cburch," which contamed an ironical recom-
mendation of persecution, but written in so serions
a strain that many persous, particularly Dissenters,
at first mistook its real intention. The high cburch
party, however, saw and felt the ridicule, and, by
their influence, a prosecution was commenced agaiust
him, and a proclamation publi>hed in the Gazette,
offering a reward for his appreheusion*. When De
Foe fonnd with how much rigonr himself and his
pampblet were abont to be treated, he at first secret-
ed himself; but his printer and bookseller being
taken into custody, he surrendered, being resolved,as
he expresses it, u to throw himself upon the favonr of
government, rather than that others shonld be ruined
•' Si. Jamv/s, January 10, 17O2-3.
* " Whereas Daniel De Foe, atias De Fooe, is charged with
writing a scandalons and sediiious pamphtet, entitted ' The
shortest Way with the Dissenters:' he is a middte-sized spare
man, abont foriy years otd, of a brown comptexion, and dark
brown coton) ed hair, hut wears a wig ; a hooked nose, a sharp
chin, gray eyes, and a targe mote near his month, was horn in
London, and for many years was a hose-factor in Freeman's
Yard, in Cornhilt, and now is owner of the brick and pantite
works near 'tithury Fort, in Essex; whoever shatt discover
the said Daniet I)e Foe, to one of her Majesty's Principat
Secretaries of State, or any of her Majesty's Justices of 1'eace,
BO as he may he apprehended, shall have a reward of fitty
ponnds, which her Majesty has ordered immediatety to be paid
upon such discovery."—Laniteii Ouv. No. 3871J.
for his mistakes." In July, I703, he was bronght to
trial, fonnd guilty, and sentenced to he imprisoned,
to stand in the pillory, and to pav a fine of two
bundred marks. He underwent the infamons part
of the punishment with great fortitnde; and it seems
to have been generally thonght that he was treated
with uureasonable severity. So far was he from
being ashamed of his fate himself that he wrote a
hymn to the pillory, which tbus ends, allnding to his
accusers:—
Tetl them, the men that placed bim hcie
Are scandals to the iimes;
Are at a to?s to find his guilt,
And can't commit his crimes.
Pope, who has thonght fit to introduce him in his
Dunciad tprobably from no other reason than party
difference), characterises him in the following line:—
Earless on high stood unaba?h'd De Foe.
This is one of those iustances of injustice and malig-
nity which so frequently occur in the Dunciad, and
which reflect more dishononr on the author than on
the parties traduced. De Foe lay friendless and
distressed in Newgate, his family ruined, and himself
withont hopes of deliverance, till Sir Robert Harley,
who approved of his principles, and foresaw that
during a factions age such a genins conld be con-
verted to many uses, represented his unmerited suf-
ferings to the Queen, and at length procured his
release. The treasurer, Lord Godolphin, also sent
a cousiderable sum to his wife and family, and to
him money to pay his fine and the expeuse of his
discharge. Gratitnde and fidelity are iuseparable
from an honest man; and it was this benevolent act
that prompted De Foe to support Harley with his
able and ingenions pen, when Anne lay lifeless, and
his benefactor, in the vicissitnde of party, was per-
secuted by faction, and overpowered, thongh not
conquered, by violence.
The talents and perseverance of De Foe began
now to be properly estimated, and, as a firm sup-
porter of the administration, he was sent by Lord
Godolphin to Scotland, on an errand which, as he
says, was far from being unfit for a sovereigu to
direct, or an honest man to perform. His know-
ledge of commerce and revenue, his powers of in-
sinuation, and, above all, his readiness of pen, were
deemed of no small utility in promoting the union
of the two kingdoms; of which he w rote an able
history in 1709, with .two dedicatious, one to the
Queen, and another to the Duke of Queeusbury.
Soon afterwards he unhappily, by some equivocal
writings, rendered himself suspected by both parties,
so that he once more retired to Newington, in hopes
of spending the remainder of his days in peace.
His peusion being 'withdrawn, and wearied with
politics, he began to compose works of a diflerent
kind.—The year I7I5 may therefore be regarded as
the period of De Foe's political life. Faction hence-
forth fonnd other advocates, and parties procured
other writers to disseminate their suggestious, and to
propagate their falsehoods.
In 17I5 De Foe published the " Family Iustruc-
tor;" a work inculcating the domestic duties in a
lively manner, by narration and dialogue, and dis-
playing much knowledge of life in the middle ranks
of society. "Religions Conrtship" also appeared
soon after, which, like the Family Iustructor, is
eminently religious and moral in its tendency, and
strongly impresses on the mind that spirit of sobriety
and private devotion, for which the dissenters have
generally been distinguished. The most celebrated
of all his works, " The Life and Adventures of Ro-
biuson Crusoe," appeared in I7I9. This work has
passed throngh numerons editious, and been traus-
lated into almost all modern languages. The great
invention which is displayed in it, the variety of in-
cidents and circumstances which it contaius, related
in the most easy and natural Kianner, together with
the excellency of the moral and religions reflectious,
render it a performance of very superior and uncom-
mon merit, and one of the most interesting works
that ever appeared. It is strongly recommended,
by Ronsseau, as a book admirably calculated to pro-
mote the purposes of natunil education; and Dr.
Blair Bays, " No fiction in any language was ever
better supported than the Adventures of Rohiuson
Crusoe. While it is carried on with that appear-
ance of truth and simplicity which takes a strong
hold of the imagination of ail readers, it suggests, at
the same time, very useful iustruction; by showing
how much the native powers of man may be exerted
for surmonnting the difficulties of any external situ-
ation." It has been pretended, that DC Foe sur-
reptitionsly appropriated the papers of Alexander
Selkirk, a Scotch mariner, who lived fonr years alone
on the island of Juan Fernandez, and a sketch of
whose story had before appeared in the voyage of
Captain \Voodcs Rogers. But this charge, thongh
repeatedly and confidently bronght, appears to be
totally destitute of any fonndation. l)e Foe pro-
bably took some general hints for his work from the
story of Selkirk, but there exists no proof whatever,
nor is it reasonable to suppose that he possessed
any of his papers or memoirs, which had been
published seven jears before the appearance of
Robluson Crusoe. As a farther proof of De Foe's
innocence, Captain Rogers's Acconnt of Selkirk may
be produced, in which it is said that the latter had
neither preserved pen, ink, or paper, and had, in a
great measure, lost his language; cousequently De
Foe conld not have received any written assistance,
and we have only the assertion of his enemies to
prove that he had any verhal.
The great success of Rohiuson Crusoe induced its
author to write a number of other lives and adven-
tures, some of which were popular in their times,
thongh at present nearly forgotten. One of his latest
publicatious was "A Tonr throngh the Island of
Great Britain," a performance of very inferior merit;
but De Foe was now the garrulons old man, and his
spirit (to use the words of an ingenions hiographer)
"like a candle struggling in the socket, blazed and
sunk, blazed and sunk, till it disappeared at length
in total darkness." His laborions and unfortunate
life was finished on the 26th of April, I73I, in the
parish of St. Giles's, Cripplegate.
Daniel De Foe possessed very extraordinary ta-
lents; as a commercial writer, he is fairly entitled
to stand in the foremost rank among his contempo-
raries, whatever may be their performances or their
fame. His distinguishing characteristics are origi-
nality, spirit, and a profonnd knowledge of his sub-
ject; and in these particulars he has seldom been
surpassed. As the author of Robiuson Crusoe, he
has a claim not only to the admiration, but to the
gratitnde of his conntrymen; and so long as we
have a regard for supereminent merit, ana take an
interest in the welfare of the rising generation, that
gratitnde will not cease to exist. Iim the opinion
of the learned and ingenions Dr. Beattie will be
the best euloginm that can be prononnced on that
celebrated romance: '' Rohiuson Crusoe," says the
Doctor, " must be allowed, by the most rigid mo-
ralist, to be one of those novels which one may
read, not onlv with pleasure, but also with profit.
It breathes thronghont a spirit of piety and benevo-
lence; it sets in a very striking light the importance
of the mechanic arts, which they, who know not
what it is to be withont them, are so apt to under-
value; it fixes in the mind a lively idea of the hor-
rors of solitnde, and, cousequently, of the sweets
of social life, and of the blessings we derive froni
conversation and mutual aid: and it shows how, by
labonring with one's own hands, one may secure in-
dependence, and open for one's self many sonrces
of health and amusement. I agree, therefore, with
Ronsseau, that it is one of the best books that can
be put into the hands of children."
THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a
good family, thongh not of that conntry, my father being
a foreiguer of Bremen, who settled first at Hull: he
got a good estate by merchandise, and leaving off his
trade, lived afterwards at York; from whence he had
married my mother, whose relatious were named Ro-
hiuson, a very good family in that conntry, and from
whom I was called Rohiuson Krentznaer; but, by the
usual corruption of words in England, we are now call-
ed, nay, we call onrselves, and write onr name Crusoe;
and BO my companious always called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lientenant-
colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, for-
merly commanded by the famons Colonel Lockhart,
and was killed at the hattle near Dunkirk agaiust the
Spaniards. What became of my second brother I never
knew, any more than my father and mother did know
what was become of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any
trade, my head began to be filled very early with ramb-
ling thonghts: my father, who was very ancient, had
given me a competent share of learning, as far as honse
education and a conntry free-school generally go, and
desigued me for the law; but I wonld be satisfied with
VOL. i. • B
nothing but going to sea; and IDV inclination to this led
me so strongly agaiust the will, nay, the commands of
my lather, and agaiust all the entreaties ani! persuasious
of my mother and other friends, that there seemed to
be something fatal in that propeusion of nature, tending
directly to the life of misery which was to befall me.
My failier, a wise and grave man, gave me serions
and excellent couusel agaiust what he foresaw was my
di-sigu. He called me one morning into his chamber,
where he was confined by the gont, and expostulated
very warmly with me upon ihis subject: he asked me
what reasous more than a mere wandering inclination
I had for leaving my father's honse and my native
conntry, where I might be well introduced, and had a
prospect of raising my fortune by application and in-
dustry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me
it was for men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of
aspiring, superior fortunes on the other, who went
abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and
make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature
ont of the common road; that these things were all
either too far above me, or too far below me; that
mine was the middle state, or what might be called the
upper siation oflow lite, which he had fonnd, by long
experience, was the best state in the world, the most
suited to buman happiness, not exposed to the miseries
and hardships, the labonrs and suflerings, of the mecha-
nic part of mankind, and not emharrassed with the
pride, luxury, amhition, and envy of the upper part
of mankind. He told me, I might jndge of the happi-
ness of this state by one thing, viz. that this was the
state of life which all other people envied ; that kings
have frequently lamented the miserable cousequences
of being born to great things, and wished they had been
placed in the middle of the two extremes, between the
mean and the great; that the wise man gave his testi-
mony to this, as the just standard of true felicity, when
he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.
He hid me observe it, and I shonld always find, that
the calamities of life were shared among the upper and
lower part of mankind; but that the middle station bad
the fewest disasters, and was not exposed to so many
OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3
vicissitndes as the higher or lower part of mankind;
nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
uneasinesses, either of body or mind, as those were,
who, by vicions living, luxury, and extravagances, on
one hand, or by hard labonr, want' of necessaries, aml
mean and iusufficient diet, on the other hand, bring dis-
tempers upon themselves by the natural cousequences of
their way of living: that the middle station of lite was
calculated for all kind of virtues and all kmd of enjoy-
ments; that peace and plenty were the handmaids of a
middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quiet-
ness, health, society, all agreeable diversious, and all
desirable pleasures, were the blessings attending the
middle station of life; that this way men went silently
and smoothly throngh the world, and comfortably ont
of it, not emharrassed with the labonrs of the hands or
of the head, nor sold to the life of slavery for daily
bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances, which
rob the sou I of peace, and the body of rest; not enraged
with the passion of envy, or secret burning lust of am-
hition for great things; but, in easy circumstances,
sliding gently throngh the world, and seusibly tasting
the sweets of living, without the hitter, feeling that
they are happy, and learning, by every day's experience
to know it more seusibly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the yonng man, not to
precipitate myself into miseries which nature, and the
station of life I was born in, seemed to have provided
agaiust; that I was under no necessity of seeking my
bread; that he wonld do well for me, and endeavour to
enter me fairly into the station of life which he had been
jast recommending to me; and that, if I was not very
easy and happy in the world, it must be my mere fate
or fault that must hinder it; and that he shonld have
nothing to auswer for, having tbus discharged his duty
in warning me agaiust measures which he knew wonld
be to my burt: in a word, that as he would do very
kind things for me if I would stay and settle at home as
he directed, so he wonld not have so much hand in my
misfortunes, as to give me any enconragement to go
away: and to close all, he told me I had my elder bro-
ther for an example, to whom he had used the same
earnest persuasious to keep him from going into the
Low Conntry wars, but conld not prevail, his young
desires prompting him to run into the army, where he
was killed; and thongh he said he wonld not cease to
niy for me, yet he wonld venture to say to me, that if
id take this foolish step, God wonld not bless me,
and I wonld have leisure hereafter to reflect upon hav-
ing neglected his conusel, when there might be none U
assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his disconrse, which
was truly prophetic, thongh I suppose my father did not
know it to be so himself; I say, I observed the tears
run down his face very plentifully, and especially when
he spoke of my brother who was killed: and that when
he spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none to
assist me, he was so moved, that be broke off the dis-
course, and told me, his heart was so full be conld say
no more to me.
I was sincerely affected with this disconrse, as indeed
who conld be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of
going abroad any more, but to settle at home according
to my father's desire. But alas! a few days wore it all
off; and, in short, to prevent any of my father's further
importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved to rim
fjuite away from him. However, I did not act so has-
tily neither, as my first beat of resolution prompted, but
I took my mother, at a time when I thonght her a little
pleasanter than ordinary, and told her, that my thonghts
were so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I
shonld never settle to any thing with resolution enoagh
to go through with it, and my father had better give
me his cousent than force me to go withont it; that I
was now eighteen years old, which was too late to go
apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I
was sure, if I did, I shonld never serve ont my time,
and I shonld certainly run away from my master before
my time was ont, and go to sea; and if she wonld speak
to my father to let me go one voyage abroad, if I came
home again, and did not like it, I wonld go no more,
and I wonld promise, by a donble diligence, to recover
that time I had lost.

This put my mother into a great passion: she told me,
she knew it wonld be to no purpose to speak to my fa-
ther upon any such subject; that he knew too well what
was my interest to give his cousent to any such thing
so much for my burt; and that she wondered how I
could think of any such thing after such a disconrse as
I had had with my father, and such kind and tender ex-
pressious as she knew my father had used to me; and
that, in short, if I wonld ruin myself, there was no help
for me; but I might depend I shonld never have their
cousent to it: that for her part, she wonld not have so
much hand in my destruction; and I shonld never have
it to say, that my mother was willing when my father
was not.
Thongh my mother refused to move it to my father,
vet, as I have heard afterwards, she reported all the
disconrse to him, and that my father, after showing a
great concern at it, said to her with a sigh, "That boy
might be happy if be wonld stay at home; but if he
goes abroad, he will be the most miserable wretch that
was ever born; I can give no cousent to it."
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, thongh, in the meantime, I continued obstinately
deaf to all proposals of settling to business, and fre-
quently expostulating with my father and mother abont
their being so positively determined agaiust what they
knew my inclinatious prompted me to. But being one
day at Hull, where I went casually, and withont any
purpose of making an elopement at that time; but, I
say, being there, and one of my companious then going
by sea In London, in his father's ship, and prompting
me to go with them, with the common allurement of
seafaring men, viz. that it shonld cost me nothing for
my passage, I cousulted neither father or mother any
more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but leaving-
them to hear of it as they might, withont asking God's
blessing, or my father's, withont any cousideration of
circumstances or cousequences, and in an ill hour, God
knows, on the first of September, 1651, I went on board
a ship bonnd for London. Never any yonng adven-
turer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or conti-
nued longer than mine. The ship was no sooner gotten
ont of the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and
the waves to rise in a most frightful manner; and, as I
had never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly
sick in body, and terrified in mind. I began now se-
riously to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly
I was overtaken by the jndgment of Heaven for wick-
edly leaving my father's honse, and ahandoning my duty.
All the good conusel of my parents, my father's tears
and my mother's entreaties, came now fresh into my
mind; and my couscience, which was not yet come to
the pitch of hardness to which it has been since, re-
proached me with the contempt of advice, and the
ureach of my duty to God and my father.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, whicli
I had never been upon before, went very high, thongh
nothing like what I have seen many times since; no,
nor like what I saw a few days after: but it was enongh
to affect me then, who was but a yonng sailor, and had
never known any thing of the "matter. I expected
every wave wonld have swallowed us up, and that
every time the ship fell down, as I thonght, in the
trongh or hollow of the sea, we shonld never rise more;
and in this agony of mind I made many vows and reso-
lutious, that if it wonld please God here to spare my
life this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon
dry land again, I wonld go directly home to my father,
and never set it into a ship again while I lived; that I
wonld take his advice, and never run myself into such
miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the
goodness of his observatious abont the middle station
oMife, bow easy, bow comfortably he had lived all his
days, and never had been exposed to tempests at sea,
or tronbles on shore; and I resolved that I wonld, like
a true repenting prodigal, go bome to my father.
These wise and sober thonghts continued durmg the
storm, and indeed some time after; but the next day,
as the wind was ahated, and the sea calmer, I began to
be a little inured to it: however, I was very grave for
all that day, being also still a little seasick; but towards
night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over,
and a charming fine evening followed; the suu went
down perfectly clear, and rose so next morning; and
having little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun
shining upon it, the sight was, as I thonght, the most
delightful that I ever saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was no more sea-
sick, very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea
that was so rongh and terrible the day before, and conld
be so calm and so pleasant in a little time after. And
now, lest my good resolutious shonld continue, my com-
panion, who had indeed enticed mo away, came to me
and said, "Well, Bob," clapping me on the shonlder,
"bow do yon do after it? I warra'nt yon were fright-
ened, wa'n't yon, last night, when it blew hat a cap-full
of wind?''—" A cap-full, do yon call it?" said, I; "it
was a terrible storm."—" A storm, yon fool yon," re-
plied he, " do yon call that a storm? why it was nothing;
at all; give us but a good ship and sea room, and we
think nothing of such a squall of wind as that; but
yon're but a fresh water sailor, Bob. Come, let us
make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that; do yon
see what charming weather it is now?" To make short
this sad part of my story, we went the old way of all
sailors ; the punch was made, and I was made drunk
with it; and in that one night's wickedness I drowned
all my repentance, all my reflectious upon my past con-
duct, and all my resolutious for the future. In a word,
as tbe sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and
settled calmness by the abatement of that storm, so the
Larry of my thonghts being over, my fears and appre-
hen si o us of being swallowed up by the sea being for-
gotten, and the current of my former desires returned,
I entirely forgot the vows and promises that I made in
my distress. I fonnd, indeed, some intervals of reflec-
tion; and serions thonghts did, as it were, endeavonr
to return again sometimes; but I shook them off, and
ronsed myself from them as it were from a distemper,
and applying myself to drinking and company, soon
mastered the return of those fits; for so I called them;
and I had in five or six days got as complete a victory
over couscience as any yonng fellow, that resolved not
to be tronbled with it, conld desire: but I was to have
another trial for it still; and Providence, as in such
cases generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely
withont excuse: for if I wonld not take this for a deli-
verance, the next was to be such a one as the worst
and most hardened wretch among us wonld confess
both the danger and the mercy of.
The sixth day of onr being at sea we came into Yar-
month Roads; the wind having been contrary, and the
weather calm, we had made but little way since the
storm. Here we were obliged to come to anchor, and
here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz. at sonth
west, for seven or eight days, during which time a
great many ships from Newcastle came into the same
roads, as the common harbonr where the ships might
wait for a wind for the River.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but shonld
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too
fresh; and, after we had lain fonr or five days, blew
very hard. However, the roads being reckoned as good
as a harbonr, the anchorage good,and onr gronnd tackle
very strong, onr men were unconcerned, and not in the
least appreheusive of danger, but spent the time in rest
and mirth, after the manner of the sea; but the eighth
day in the morning the wind increased, and we had all
hands at work to strike onr topmasts, and make every
thing suug and close, that the ship might ride as easy
as possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed,
and onr ship rode forecastle in, shipped several seas,
and we thonght once or twice onr anchor had come
home; upon which oar master ordered ont the sheet
*anchor; so that wo rode with two anchors ahead, and
the cables veered ont to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed ; and
now I began to see terror and amazement in the faces
even of the seamen themselves. The master, thongh
vigilant in the business of preserving the ship, vet as he
•Went in and ont of his cahin by me, I conld hear him
softly say to himself several times, " Lord, be merciful
to as! we shall be all lost; we shall be all undonei/' and
the like- During these first burries I was stupid, lying
still in my cahin, which was in the steerage, and cannot
describe my temper: I conld ill reassume the first pe-
nitence which I had so apparently trampled upon, and
hardened myself agaiust: I thonght the hitterness of
death had been passed, and that this wonld be nothing
like the first: but when the master himself came by
me, as I said just now, and said we shonld be alt lust,
I was dreadfully frighted: I got op ont of my cahin,
and looked ont; but such a dismal sight I never saw;
the sea went mountaius high, and broke upon us every
three or fonr minutes: when I conld look abont, I
conld see'nothing but distress aronnd us: two ships
that rid near us, we fonnd, had cut their masts by the
board, being deep laden; and onr men cried ont, that
a ship which rid abont a mile ahead of us was founder-
ed. Two more ships, being driven from their anchors,
were run ont of the roads to sea, at all adventures, and
that with not a mast standing. The light ships fared
the best, as not so much labonring in the sea; but two
or three of them drove, and came close by us, running
away with only their spritsail ont before the wind.
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the
master of onr ship to let them cut away the foremast,
which he was_very unwilling to do: but the boatswain
protesting to him, that if he did not, the ship wonld
fonnder, he cousented; and when they had cut away
the foremast, the mainmast stood so loose, and shook
the ship so much, they were obliged to cut her away
also, and make a clear deck.
Any one may jndge what a condition I must be in at
all this, who was but a yonng sailor, and who had been
itt such a fright before at but a little. But if I can ex-
press at this distance the thonghts that I had abont me
at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon
acconnt of my former convictious, and the having re-
turned from them to the resolutious I had wickedly
taken at first, than I was at death itself; and these,
added to the terror of the storm, put rue in such a con-
dition, that I can by no words describe it. But the
worst was not come yet; the storm continued with such
fury, that the seamen themselves acknowledged they
had never known a worse. We had a good ship, but
she was deep laden, and wallowed in the sea, that the
seamen every now and then cried ont, she wonld
fonnder. It was my advantage in one respect, that I
did not know what they meant by fonnder, till I inquir-
ed. However, the storm was so violent, that I saw
what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and
some others more seusible than the rest, at their pravers,
and expecting every moment when the ship wonld go
to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under
all the rest of onr distresses, one of the men that had
been down on purpose to see, cried ont, we had sprung
aleak; another said, there was fonr foot water in the
hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. At
that very word my heart, as I thonght, died within me,
and I fell hackwards upon the side of my bed where I
sat, into the cahin. However, the men roused me, and
told me, that I, that was able to do nothing before, was
as well able to pump as another; at which I stirred dp,
and went to the pump and worked very heartily. While
this was doing, the master seeing some light colliers,
who, not able to ride ont the storm, were obliged to
slip and run away to sea, and wonld not come near us,
ordered us to fire a gun as a sigual of distress. I, who
knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised, that I
thonght the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing had
happened. In a word, I was so surprised, thai I fell
down in a swoon. As this was a time when every body
had his own Hie to think of, nobody minded me, or
what was become of me; but another man stepped up
to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let
me lie, thinking I had been dead, and it was a great
while before I came to myself.
We worked on; but the water increasing- in the
hold, it was apparent that the ship wonld fonnder; and
thongh the storm began to ahate a little, yet as it was
not possible she conld swim till we might run mto a
port, so the master continued firing guus for help; and
a light ship, who had rid it ont just a-head of us, ven-
tured a boat ont to help us. It was with the utmost
hazard the boat came near us, but it was impossible for
us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's
side, till at last the men rowing very heartily, and ven-
turing their lives to save onrs, onr men cast them a
rope over the stern with a buoy to it, and then veered
it ont a great length, which they, after great labour and
hazard, took hold of, and we hanled them close under
onr stern, and got all into their boat. It was to no
purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to
think of reaching to their own ship; so all agreed to
let her drive, and only to pull her in towards shore as
much as we could; and onr master promised them,
that if the host was staved upon shore he wonld make
it good to their master: so partly rowing and partly
driving, onr boat went away to the northward, sloping
towards the shore almost as far as Winter ton Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hoar
ont of onrship before we saw her sink, and then I under-
stood for the first time what was meant by a ship fonn-
dering in the sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly
eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was sink-
ing; for from that moment they rather put me into the
boat, than that I might be said to go in; my heart was,
as it were, dead within me, partly with fright, partly
with horror of mind, and the thonghts of what was yet
before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet labonr-
ing at the oar to bring the hmit near the shore, we
conld see (when, onr boat monnting the waves, we
were able to see the shore) a great many people running
along the strand to assist us when we shonld come
near; but we made but slow way towards the shore;
nor were we able to reach it, till, being past the light-
honse at Winterton, the shore falls off to the westward,
towards Cromer, and so the land broke oif a little the
violence of the wind. Here we got in, and, thongh not
withont much difficulty, got all safe on shore, and
walked afterwards on foot to Yarmonth, where, as un-
fortunate men, we were used with great bumanity, as
well by the magistrates of the town, who assigued us
good quarters, as by particular merchants and owners
of ships, and had money given as sufficient to carry us
either to London or hack to Hall, as we thonght fit.
Had I now had the seuse to have gone hack to Hull,
and have gone home, I had been happy, and my father,
an emblem of onr blessed Savionr's parable, had even
killed the fatted calf for me; for hearing the ship I
went away in was cast away in Yarmonth Roads, it was
a great while before he had any assurance that I was
not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy
that nothing conld resist; and thongh I had several
times lond calls from my reason, and my more com-
posed jndgment, to go home, yet I had no power to do
it. I know not what to call this, nor will I urge that it
is a secret overruling decree that burries us on to be
the iustruments of onr own destruction, even thongh it
be before us, and that we rush upon it with onr eyes
open. Certainly, nothing but some such decreed una-
voidable misery attending, and which it was impossible
for me to escape, conld have pushed me forward agaiust
the calm reasonings and persuasious of my most retired
thonghts, and agaiust two such visible iustructious as I
had met with in inv first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before,
and who was the master's son, was now less forward
than I. The first time be spoke to me after we were
at Yarmonth, which was not till two or three days, for
we were separated in the town to several quarters; I
•ay, the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was
altered, and looking very melancholy, and shaking his
head, asked me how I did, and telling his father who I
was, and how I had come this voyage only for a trial,
in order to go farther abroad ; his father turning to me
with a very grave and concerned tone, " Yonng man,"
says he, " yon onght never to go to sea any more; yon
onght to take this for a plain and visible token that you
•re not to be a seafaring man.—" Why, Sir," said I,
"will yon go to sea no more?" "That is another case/'
said he; "it is in v calling, and therefore my duty; but
as yon made this voyage for a trial, yon see what a
taste Heaven has given yon of what yon are to expect
if yon persist. Perhaps this has all befallen us on yoar
acconnt, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray,"
continues be, " what are yon; and on what acconnt did
yon go to sea?" Upon that I told him some of my
story; at the end of which he burst ont in a strange
kind of passion; " What had I done," says be, "that
such an unhappy wretch shonld come into my ship? I
wonld Dot set my foot in the same ship with thee again
for a thonsand ponnds." This indeed was, as I said, an
excursion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by thu
seuse of his loss, and was farther than he could have
anthority to go. However, he afterwards talked very
gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to my father,
and not tempt Providence to my ruin; told me I might
see a visible hand of Heaven agaiust me. "And yonng
man," said be, " depend upon it, if yon do not go hack,
wherever yon go, yon will meet with nothing but disas-
ters and disappointments, till yonr father's words are
fulfilled upon yon."
We parted soon after; for I made him little auswer,
and I saw him no more: which way he went, I know
not. As for me, having some money in my pocket, I
traveled to London by land; and there, as well as on
the road, had many struggles with myself, what conrse
of life I shonld take, and whether I shonld go home, or
go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best notious
that oftered to my thonghts; and it immediately oc-
curred to me bow I shonld be langhed at among the
neighbonrs, and shonld be ashamed to see, not my
father and mother only, hat even every body else; from
whence I have since often observed, how incongruons
and irrational the common temper of mankind is, espe-
cially of yonth, to that reason which onght to guide
them in such cases, viz. that they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; nor ashamed of the
action for which they onght justly to bo esteemed fools,
but are ashamed of the returning, which only can make
them be esteemed wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained some time,
uncertain what measures to take, and what conrse of
life to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to
going home; and as I stayed a while, the remembrance
of the distress I had been in wore off; and as that
ahated, Ihe little notion I had in my desires to a return
wore oif with it, till at last I quite laid aside the thonghts
of it, and looked ont for a vovage.
That evil influence which carried me first away from
my father's honse, that burried me into the wild and
indigested notion of raising my fortune ; and that im-
pressed those conceits so forcibly upon me, as to make
me deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties and
even the commands of my father: I say, the same in-
fluence, whatever it was, presented the most unfortu-
nate of all enterprises to my view; and I went on board
a vessel bonnd to the coast of Africa; or, as onr sailors
vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune that in all these adven-
tures I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, thongh
I might indeed have worked a little harder than ordi-
nary, yet at the same time I had learned the duty and
oflice of a foremast-man; and in time might have qua-
lified myself for a mate or licutenant, if not for a master.
But as it was always my fate to choose for the worse, so
I did here; for having- money in my pocket, and good
clothes upon my back, I wonld alwavs go on board in
the hahit of a gentleman; and so I neither had any bu-
siness in the ship, or learned to do any.
It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good com-
pany in London, which does not always happen to such
loose and nnguided \onng fellows as I then was; the
devil generally not omitting to lay some suare for them
very early: but it was not so with me. I first fell ac-
quainted with the master of a ship who had been on the
coast of Guinea; and who, having had very good suc-
cess there, was resolved to go again; and who, taking
a fancy to my conversation, which was not at alt disa-
greeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind to
see the world, told me if I wonld go the voyage \viih
him I should be at no expeuse; I shonld be his mess-
mate and his companion; and if I could carry any
tiiing with me, I should have all the advantage of it
that the trade would admit; and perhaps I might meet
with some enconragement.
I embraced the offer; and entering into a strict
friendship with this captain, who was nn honest and
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and
carried a small adventure with me, which, by the disin-
terested honestv of my friend the captain, I inceased
very cousiderably; for I carried ahont £40 in such
toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy.
This £AQ I had mustered together by the assistance of
some of' my relatious whom I corresponded with, and
who, I believe, got my father, or at least my mother, to
contribute so much as that to my first adventure.
This was the only vo\age in which I may say I was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to
the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain;
under whom also I got a competent knowledge of the
mathematiesaml the rules of navigation, learned how to
keep an acconnt <-f the ship's course, take an observa-
tion, and, in short, to understand snme things that were
needful te be understood by a sailor: for, as he took
delight to iustruct me, I took delight to learn; aud, in
a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a mer-
chant: for I brought home five ponnds nine onnces of
gold-dast for my adventure, which yielded me in Lon-
don at my return almost =£300, and this filled me with
those aspiring thonghts which have so completed my
ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too;
particularly, that I was continually sick, being thrown
mto a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the
climate; onr principal trading being upon the coast,
from the latitnde of 13 degrees north even to the line
itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, d\ing soon alter his ar-
rival, I resolved to go the same voyage again, and I
emharked in the same vessel with one who was his mate
in his former voyage, and had uow got the command of
the ship. This was the nnhappiest voyage that ever
man made; for thongh I did not carry quite jfe'iQO of
my new-gained wealth, so that I had s£200 left, and
which I lodged with my friend's widow, who was very
just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this
voyage; and the first was this, viz. onr ship making her
conrse towards the Canary Islands, or rather between
those islands and the African shore, was surprised in
the gray of the morning by a Turkish rover, of Sallee,
who gave chase to us with all the sail she conld make.
We crowded also an much canvass as onr yards wonld
spread, or onr masts carry to have got clear; but find-
ing the pirate gained upon us, and wonld certainly
come up with us in a few honrs, we prepared to fight;
our ship having twelve guus, and the rover eighteen.
Abont three in the afternoon he came up with us, and
bringing to, by mistake, just athwart onr quarter, in-
stead of athwart onr stern, as be intended, we bronght
eight of onr guus to bear on that side, and ponred in a.
broadside upon him, which made him sheer off again,
after returning onr fire, and ponring in also his small
shot from near 200 men which he had on board. How-
ever, we had not a man tonched, all onr men keeping
close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to de-
fend onrselves; but laying us on board the next time
upon onr other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our
decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the
sails and rigging. We plied them with small shot,
half pikes, powder chests, and such like, and cleared
onr deck of them twice. However, to cut short this
melancholy part of onr story, onr ship being disabled,
and three of onr men killed and eight wonnded, we
were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners
into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first
I apprehended; nor was I carried up the conntry to the
emperor's conrt, as the rest of onr men were, but was
kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize,
and made his slave, being yonng and nimble, and fit for
his business. At this surprising change of my circum-
stances, from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was
perfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked back upon
my father's prophetic disconrse to me, that I shonld be
miserable, and have none to relieve me, which I thonght
was now so eflectually bronght to pass, that I conld
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had over-
taken me, and I was undone withont redemption: but,
alas! this was but a taste of the misery I was to go
throngh, as will appear in the sequel of this story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to
Iiis honse, so I was in hopes that he wonld take me with
hiui when he went to sea again, believing that it wonld
some time or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish
or Portugal man of war; and that then I shonld be set
at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken
away; for when he went to sea, be left me on shore to
Iook after his little garden, and do the common drnd-
gery of slaves abont his honse; and when he came
home again from the cruise, he ordered me to lie in the
cahin to look after the shin.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method I might take to eflect it, but found no way that
bad the least prohahility in it: nothing presented to
make the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody
to communicate it to that wonld emhark with me, no
fellow slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman
there but myself; so that for two years, thongh I often
pleased myself with the imagination, yet I never had
the least enconraging prospect of putting it in practice.
After abont two years an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thonght of making some at-
tempt for my liberty again in my head. My patron
lying at home longer than usual withont fitting ont his
ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money, he used
coustantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener, if
the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnace, and go
ont into the road a-fishing; and as he always took mo
and ayonng Moresco with him torow the boat, we made
him very merry, and I proved very dexterons in catch-
ing fish; iusomuch that sometimes he wonld send me
with a Moor, one of his kiusmen, and the yonth of
Moresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of fish
for hi m.
It happened one time, that going a-fishing in a stark
VOL. i. c'
calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that thongh we wero
not half a league from the shore we lost sight of it;
and rowing we knew not whither or which way, we
labonred all day, and all the next night, and when the
morning came we fonnd we had pulled off to sea in-
stead of pulling in for the shore; and that we were at
least two leagues from the shore: however, we got well
in again, thongh with a great deal of labonr and some
danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the
morning; but particularly we were all very bungry.
But onr patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to
take more care of himself for the future; and having
lying by him the long-boat of onr English ship he had
taken, be resolved he wonld not go a-fishing any more
withont a compass and some provision; so he ordered
the carpenter of his ship, who also was an English
slave, to build a little state-room, or cahin, in the mid-
dle of the long-boat, like that of a harge, with a place
to stand behind it to steer and hanl home the main-
sheet: and room before for a hand or two to stand and
work the sails; she sailed with what we call a shonlder
of mutton sail ; and the boom gibbed over the top of
the cahin, which lay very suug and low, and had in it
room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to
eat on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles of
such liquor as he thonght fit to drink; and particularly
his bread, rice, and coffee.
We went frequently ont with this boat a-fishing, and
as I was most dexterons to catch fish for him, he never
went withont me. It happened that he had appointed
to go ont in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish,
with two or three Moors of some distinction in that
place, and for whom he had provided extraordinarily,
and had therefore sent on board the boat over-night a
larger store of provisious than ordinary; and had or-
dered me to get ready three fuzees with powder and
shot, which were on board his ship ; for that they de-
sigued some sport of fowling as well as fishing.
I got all things ready as be had directed, and waited
the next morning with the boat washed clean, her
eusigu and pendants ont, and every thing. to accommo-
date his guests; when by and by my patron came on
board alone, and told me his guests had put off going,
upon some business that fell oat, and ordered me with
the man and boy, as usual, to go ont with the boat and
catch them some fish, for that his friends were to sup
at his honse; and commanded that as soon as I got
some fish ( shonld bring it home to his honse; all which
I prepared to do.
This moment my former notious of deliverance darted
into my thonghts, for now I fonnd I was like to have a
little ship at mv command; and my master being gone,
I prepared to furnish myself, not for fishing business,
but for a voyage; thongh T knew not, neither did I so
much as cousider, whither I shonld steer; for any
where, to get ont of that place, was my way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak
to this Moor, to get something for onr subsistence on
board; for I told him we must not presume to eat of
onr patron's bread; he said, that was true: so he
bronght a large hasket of rusk or hiscuit of their kind,
and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew
where my patron's case of bottles stood, which it was
evident, by the make, were taken ont of some English
prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while the
Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before for
onr master: I conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax
into the boat, which weighed above half a bundred
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a
saw, and a hammer, all which were of great use to us
afterwards, especially the wax to make candles. Ano-
ther trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came
into also; his name was Ismael, whom they call Muley,
or Moley; so I called him: "Moley," said I, "onr
patron's guus are on board the boat; can yon not get a
little powder and shot? it may be we may kill some
aloamies (a fowl like onr curlews) for onrselves, for I
know he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship.'' "Yes,"
says he, '' I'll bring some;" and accordingly he bronght
a great leather ponch which held abont a ponnd and a
half of powder, or rather more; and another with shot,
that had five or six ponnds, with some bullets, and put
all into the boat: at the same time I had fonnd some
powder of my master's in the great cahin, with which I
filled one of the large bottles in the case, which was at-
most empty, ponring what was in it into another; and
tbus furnished with everv thing needful, we sailed ont
of the port to fish. The castle, which is at the entrance
of the port, knew who we were, and took no notice of
us: and we were not above a mile ont of the port be-
fore we hanled in onr sail, and set us down to fish.
The wind blew from the N.N.E. which was contrary to
HIV desire; for had it blown sontherly, I had been sure
to have made the coast of Spain, and at least reached to
the hay of Cadiz; but my resolutious were, blow which
way it wonld, I wonld be gone from that horrid place
where I was, and leave the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and catched nothing,
for when I had fish on my hook I wonld not pull them
up, that he might not see them, I said to the Moor,
"This will not do; onr master will not be tbus served;
we must stand farther off." He, thinking no harm,
agreed, and being in the head of the boat set the sails;
and as I had the helm I ran the boat ont near a league
farther, and then bronght her to as if I wonld fish;
when giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to
where the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for
something behind him, I took him by surprise witl) my
arm under his waist, and tossed him clear overboard
into the sea. He rose immediately, for he swam like
a cork, and called to me, begged to be taken in, told
me he wonld go all over the world with me. He swam
so strong after the boat, that he wonld have reached
me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon
which I stepped inlo the cahin, and fetching one of the
fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told Mm, I
had done him no burt, and if he wonld be quiet I
wonld do him none: "But," said I, " yon swim well
enongh to reach to the shore, and the sea is calm;
make the best of yonr wav to shore, and I will do you
no harm; but if yon come near the boat I'll shoot you
throngh the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty;"
so he turned himself abont, and swam fur the shore,
and I make no donbt but he reached it with ease, for
he was an excellent swimmer.
I conld have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was DO
venturing to trust him. When he was gone I turned
to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him,
"IX in v, if yon will be faithful to me Til make von a
great man; but if yon will not stroke yonr face to be
true to me," that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's
beard, "I must throw yon into the sea too." The boy
smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I conld
not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, and
go all over the world with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming,
I stood ont directly to sea with the boat, rather stretch-
ing to windward, that they might think me gone
towards the Straits' mouth (as indeed any one that had
been in their wits most have been supposed to do); for
ivbo would have supposed we were sailed on to the
sonthward, to the truly Barharian coast, where whole
natious of Negroes were sure to surronnd us with their
canoes, and destroy us; where we conld never once go
on shore but we shonld be devonred by savage beasts,
or more merciless savages of bumankind!
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed
my conrse, ami steered directly sonth and by east, bend-
ing my conrse a little toward the east, that I might
keep in with the shore; and having a fair, fresh gale of
wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail that I
believe by the next day at three o'clock in the after-
noon, when I first made the land, I conld not be less
than 150 miles south of Sallee; quite beyond the Em-
peror of Morocco's dominious, or indeed of any other
king thereabont, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I bad taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful appreheusious I had of falling into
their hands, that I wonld not stop, or go on shore, or
come to an anchor; the wind continuing fair till I had
sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind
shifting to the sonthward, I conclnded also that if any
of onr vessels were in chase of me, they also wonld now
give over; so I ventured to make to the coast, and
come to anchor in the month of a little river, I knew
not what, or where; neither what latitnde, what conn-
try, what nation, or what river: I neither saw, nor de-
sired to see, any people; the principal thing I wanted
was fresh water. We oame into this creek in the erod-
ing, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark,
and discover the conntry; but, as soon as it was quite
dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the harking,
roarmg, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew Dot
what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with
fear, and begged of me not to go on shore till day.
"Well, Xury," said I, "then I won't; hat it may be
we may see men by day, who will be as had to us as
those lious."—"Then we give them the shoot gun,"
says Xury, langhing, "make them ran wey." Such
English Xury spoke by conversing among as slaves.
However I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I
gave him a dram (ont of onr patron's case of bottles) to
cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was good, and
I took it; we dropped onr little anchor, and lay still all
night; I say still, for we slept none, for in two or three
honrs we saw vast great creatures (we koew not what
to call them) of many sorts, come down to the seashore
and run into the water, wallowing and washing them-
selves for the pleasure of cooling themselves; and they
made such hideons howlings and yellings, that I never
indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I
too; but we were both more frightened when we heard
one of these mighty creatures come swimming towards
onr boat; we conld not see him, but we might hear
him by his blowing to be a moustrons buge and furions
beast; Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so for
anght I know; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh
the anchor and row away: "No," says I, '' Xury; we
can slip onr cable with the buoy to it, and go oif to sea;
they cannot follow us far." I had no sooner said so,
but I perceived the creature (whatever it was) within
two oars' length, which something surprised me; how-
ever, I immediately stepped to the cahin door, and tak-
ing op my gun, fired at him; upon which he immedi-
ately turned abont, and swam towards the shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises,
nd hideons cries and howlings, that were raised, as
well upon the edge of the shore as higher within the
conntry, upon the noise or report of the gun, a thing I
have some reason to believe those creatures had never
beard before: this convinced me that there was no
Soing on shore for as in the night upon that coast, and
ow to venture on shore in the day was another ques-
tion too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of the
savages had been as had as to have*fallen into the hands
of lious and tigers; at least we were equally apprehen-
sive of the danger of it.
Be that as it wonld, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint left
in the boat; when or where to get it, was the point:
Xury said, if I wonld let him go on shore with one of
the jars, be wonld find if there was any water, and
bring some to me. I asked him why he wonld go?
why I shonld not go, and he stay in the boat? The boy
auswered with so much affection, that made me love
him ever after. Says he, " If wild maus come, they eat
me, yon go wey."—" Well, Xury," said I, "we will
both go, and if the wild maus come, we will kill them,
they shall eat neither of us." So I gave Xury a piece
of rusk bread to eat, and a dram ont of onr patron's case
of bottles which I mentioned before; and we hanled
the boat in as near the shore as we thonght was proper,'
and so waded to shore; carrying nothing but onr arms,
and two jars for water.
I did not care to go ont of sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river: but
the boy seeing a low place abont a mile up the conntry,
rambled to it; and by and by I saw him come running
towards me. I thonght he was pursued by some
savage, or frighted with some wild beast, and I ran for-
ward towards him to help him, but when I came nearer
to him, I saw something hanging over his shonlders,
which was a creature that he had shot, like a hare, bat
different in colonr, and longer legs; however, we were
very glad of it, and it was very good meat; but the
great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he
had Ibund good water, and seen no wild maus.
But we fonnd afterwards that we need not take such
paius for water, for a little higher up the creek where
we were, we fonnd the water fresh when the tide was
ont, which flows but a little way up; so we filled onr
jars, aml feasted on the hare we had killed, and pre-
pared to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of
any buman creature in that part of the conntry.
As I had been one voyage to this coast hefore, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and the
Cape de Yerd islands also, lay not far offfrom the coast.
lint as I had no iustruments to take an observation to
know what latitnde we were in, and not exactly know-
ing, or at least remembering, what latitnde they were
in, I knew not where to look for them, or when to
stand off lo sea towards them; otherwise I might now
easily have found some of these islands. But my hope
was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to that
part where the English traded, I shonld find some of
their vessels upon their usual desigu of trade, that
wonld relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I now
was, must be that conntry, which, lying between the
emperor of Morocco's dominious and the Negroes, lies
waste, and uninhahited, except by wild beasts; the Ne-
groes having ahandoned it, and gone farther sonth for
fear of the Moors; and the Moors not thinking it worth
'inhahiting, by reason of its harrenness; and indeed
both forsaking it becanse of the prodigions numbers of
tigers, lious, and leopards, and other furions creatures
which harbour .there; so that ihe Moors use it for their
bunting only, where they go like an army, two or three
thonsand men at a time; and indeed for nearan bundred
miles together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a
waste, uninhahited country by dav, and heard nothing
but howlings and roaring of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the day-time I thonght I saw the
Pico of Tenerifte, being the high top of the Monntain
Tenerifle in the Canaries; and had a great mind to ven-
ture ont, in the hopes of reaching thither; but having
tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds,
the sea also going too high for my httle vessel ; so I
resolved to pursue my tirst desigu, and keep along the
shore.
Several times I was ohliged to land for fresh water,
after we had left this place; and once in particular,
being early in the mornmg, we came to an anchor under
a little point of land which was pretty high; and the
tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther in.
Xury, whose eyes were more abont him than it seems
mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me that we had
best go farther off the shore; " for," says he, " look
yonder lies a dreadful mouster on the side of that hil-
lock fast asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw
a dreadful mouster indeed, for it was a terrible great
lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the shade
of a piece of the hill that bung as it were a little over
him. '' Xury/' says I, '' you shall go on shore and kill
him." Xury looked frightened, and said, "Me kill!
he eat me at one month ;" one monthful he meant: how-
ever, I said uo more to the boy, but had him lie still,
and I took onr higgest gun, which was almost musket-
bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and
with two slugs, and laid it down; then I loaded another
gun with two bullets; and the third (for we had three
pieces), I loaded with five smaller bullets. I took the
best aim I conld with the first piece to have shot Mm in
the head, but he lay so with his leg raised a little above
his nose, that the slugs hit his leg abont the knee, and
broke the bone. He started up, growling at first, but
finding his teg broke, felt down again, and then got up
upon three legs, and gave the most hideons roar that
ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not
bit him on the head; however I took up the second
iece immediately, and, thongh he began to move oft',
red again, and shot him in the head, and had the plea-
sure to see him drop, and make but little noise, but lie
struggling for life. Then Xury look heart, and wonld
have me let him go on shore ; " Well, go," said I; so
the boy jumped into the water, and taking a little gun
in one hand, swum to shore with the other, and coming
close to the creature, put the muzzle of the piece to his
ear, and shot him in the head again, which dispatched
him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food;
and I was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and
shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us.
However, Xury said he wonld have some of him; so
be comes on board, and asked me to give him the hat-
p
fi
chet. "For what, Xury?" said I, "Me cut off his
head," said he. However, Xury conld not cut off his
head, but be cut off a foot, and bronght it with him, and
it was a moustrons great one.
I bethonght myself however, that perhaps the skin of
him might one way or other be of some value to us;
and I resolved to take off his skin if I cuuld. So Xury
and I went to work with him; but Xury was much the
better workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do it.
Indeed it took us both up the whole day, but at last we
got off the hide of him, and spreading it on the top of
onr cahin, the sun effectually dried it in two days' time,
and it afterwards served me to lie upon.
After this stop, we made on to the sonthward conti-
nually for ten or twelve days, living very sparing on
onr provisious, which began to ahate very much, and
going no oftener into the shore than we were obliged
to for fresh water: my desigu in this was, to make the
river Gamhia or Senegal, that is to say, any where abont
the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes to meet with
some liuropean ship; and if I did not, I knew not what
coarse I had to take, but to seek for the islands, or
perish there among the Negroes. I knew that all the
ships from Europe, which sailed either to the coast of
Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this
Cape, or those islands; and in a word, I put the whole
of my fortune upon this single point, cither that I must
meet with some ship, or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution abont ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land was
inhahited; and in two or three places, as we sailed by,
we saw people stand upon the shore to look at us; we
conld also perceive they were quite black, and stark
naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to
them; but Xury was my better conusellor, and said to
me, " No go, no go." However, I hanled in nearer
the shore that I might talk to them, and I fonnd they
run along the shore by me a good way: I observed
they had no weapous in their hands, except one, who
had a long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance,
and that they wonld throw them a great way with a
good aim; so I kept at a distance, but talked with Ihcm
by sigus as well as I conld ; and particularly made sigus
for something to eat; they beckoned to me to stop my
boat, and they wonld fetch me some meat. Upon this
I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and two of
them ran up into the country, and in less than half an
hoar came hack, and bronght with them two pieces of
dry flesh and some corn, such as is the produce of their
conntry ; but we neither knew what the one or the other
was: however, we were willing to accept it, but bow to
come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for ven-
turing on shore to them, and they were as much afraid
of as: but they took a safe way for us all, for they
bronght it to the shore and laid it down, and went and
stood a great way oif till we fetched it on board, and
then came close to us again.
We made sigus of thanks to them, for we had nothing
to make them amends: but an opportunity oflered that
very iustant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we
were lying by the shore came two mighty creatures,
one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great fury
from the monntaius towards the sea; whether it was
the male pursuing the female, or whether they were in
sport or rage, we conld not tell, any more than we conld
tell whether it was usual or strange, but I believe it
was the latter; becanse, in the first place, those ra-
renons creatures seldom appear but in the night; and
in the second place, we fonnd the people terribly fright-
ened, especially the women. The man that had the
lance or dart did not fly from them, but the rest did;
however, as the two creatures ran directly into the
water, they did not seem to oiler to fall upon any of the
Negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam
abont, as if they had come for their diversion: at last,
one of them began to come nearer our boat than I at
first expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded
my gao with all possible expedition, and hade Xin-y
load both the others. As soon as he came fairly within
m v reach, I fired, and shot him directly in the head:
immediately he sunk down into the water, but rose in-
stantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was strug-
gling for life, and so indeed he was: he immediately
made to the shore; but between the wonnd, which was
his mortal burt, and the strangling of the water, he died
just before he reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these
poor creatures at the noise and fire of my gun; some
of them were even ready to die for fear, and fell down
as dead with the very terror; but when they saw the
creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that I made
sigus to them to come to the shore, they took heart and
came to the shore, and began to search for the creature.
I fonnd him by his blood staining the water; and by the
help of a rope, which I slung ronnd him, and gave the
Negroes to hanl, they dragged him on shore, and fonnd
that it was a most curions leopard, spotted, and fine to
an admirable degree; and the Negroes held up their
hands with admiration, to think what it was I had killed
him with.
The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire
and the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up di-
rectly to the monntaius from whence they came; nor
conld I, at that distance, know what it was. I fonnd
quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh of this
creature, so I was witling to have them take it as a fa-
vonr from me; which, when I made sigus to them that
they might take him, they were very thankful for. Im-
mediately they fell to work with him; and thongh they
had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, they
took off his skin as readily, and much more readily,
than we conld have done with a knife. They ottered
me some of the flesh, which I declined, making as if I
wonld give it them, but made sigus for the skin, which
they gave me very freely, and bronght me a great deal
more of their provisious, which, thongh [ did not un-
derstand, yet I accepted. I then made sigus to them
for some water, and held ont one of my jars to them,
turning it bottom upwards, to show that it was empty,
and that I wanted to have it filled. They called imme-
diately to some of their friends, and there came two
women, and bronght a great vessel made of earth, and
burned, as I suppose, in the sun; this the}- set down to
me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars,
and filled them all three. The women were as stark
naked as the men.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it
was, and water; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I
made forward for abont eleven days more, withont
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run ont
a great length into the sea, at abont the distance of fonr
or five leagues before me; and the sea being very calm,
I kept a large ofling, to make this point. At length,
donbling the point, at abont two leagues from the land,
I saw plainly land on the other side, to seaward: then I
conclnded, as it was most certain indeed, that this was
the Cape de Yerd, and those the islands, called, from
thencc, Cape de Verd islands. However, they were at
a great distance, and I conld not well tell what I had
best to do; for if I shonld be taken with a gale of wind,
I might neither reach one nor the oiher.
la this dilemma, as I was very peusive, I stepped
into the cahin, and sat me down, Xury having the
helm; when, on a sndden, the boy cried ont, Master,
master, a ship with a sail! and the foolish boy was
frightened ont of his wits, thinking it must needs be
some of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I
knew we were gotten far enongh ont of their reach. I
jumped ont of the cuhin, and immediately saw, not only
the ship, but what siii: was, viz. that it was a Portuguese
ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the coast of Gui-
nea, for Negroes. But, when I observed the conrse she
steered, I was soon convinced they were bonnd some
other way, and did not desigu to come any nearer to the
shore: upon which I stretched ont to sea as much as I
conld, resolving to speak with them, if possible.
With all the sail I conld make, I fuund I shonld not
be able to come in their way, but that they wonld be
gone by before I conld make any sigual to them: but
after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to despair,
they, it seems, saw me, by the help of their perspective
glasses, and that it was some European boat, which,
they supposed, must belong to some sh:.> that was lust;
so they shortened sail, to let me come up. I was en-
conraged with this, and as I had my patron's eusigu on
board, I made a waft of it to them, for a sigual of dis-
tress, and fired a gun, both which they saw; for they
told me Ibey saw the smoke, though thin- did nut hear
the gun. Upon these signals, they very kindly bronght
to, and lay by for me; and in abont three honrs time I
came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, in Spanish,
and in French, but I understood none of them; but, at
last, a Scotch sailor, who was on board, called to me,
and I auswered him, and told him I was an Englishman,
that I had made my escape ont of slavery from the
Moors, at Sallee: they then hade me come on board,
and very kindly took me in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will
believe, that I was tbus delivered, as I esteemed it, from
such a miserable, and almost hopeless condition as I
was in; and I immediately offered all I had to the cap-
tain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but he
generonsly told me, he wonld take nothing from me,
but that all I had shonld be delivered safe to me, when
I came to the Brazils. "For," says he, " I have saved
yonr life on no other terms than I wonld be glad to be
saved myself; and it may, one time or other, be my lot
to be taken up in the same condition. Besides," con-
tinued he, "when I carry yon to the Brazils, so great a
way from yonr own conntry, if I shonld take from yon
what yon have, yon will be starved there, and then I
onlv take away that life I have given. No, no, Seiguior
Inglese" (Mr. Englishman), says he; "I will carry
yon thither in charity, and these things will help to
buy yonr subsistence there, and yonr passage home
again."
As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just
in the performance, to a tittle; for he ordered the sea-
men, that none shonld offer to tonch any thing I had:
then be took every thing into his own possession, and
gave me hack an exact inventory of them, that I might
have them, even so much as my three earthero jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one; and that he
saw, and told u;e he wonld buy it of me for the ship's
use; and asked me what I wonld have for it? I told
him, he had been so generons to me in every thing, that
I conld not offer to make any price of the boat, but left
it entirely to him: upon which, he told me he wonld
give me a note of hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight
for it at Brazil; and wlicii it came there, if any one of-
fered to give more, be wonld make it up. He oftered
me also sixty pieces of eight more for my boy Xury,
which I was loath to take; not that I was not willing to
let the captain have him, but I was very loath to sell the
poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me so faithfully in
procuring my own. However, when I let him know my
reason, he owned it to be just, and offered me this me-
dinm, that he wonld give the boy an obligation to set
him free in ten years, if he turned Christian: upon this,
and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let tho
captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and ar-
rived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints'
Bay, in abont twenty-two days after. And now I was
once more delivered from the most miserable of all
conditious of life; and what to do next with myself I
was now to cousider.
The generons treatment the captain gave me I can
never enongh remember . he wonld take nothing of me
for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's
skin, and forty for tho lion's skiii which I had m my
boat, and cansed every thing I had in the ship to be
punctually delivered to me; and what I was willing to
sell be bonght of me; sudi as the case of bottles, two
of my guus, and a piece of the lamp of bees-wax,—for
I had made candles of the rest: in a word, j made abont
two bundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo;
and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brazils.
I had not been long here before I was recommended
to the bonse of a good honest man, like himself, who
had an ingeino, as they call it (that is, a plantation and
a sngar house). I lived with him some time, and ac-
quainted myself, by that meaus, with the manner of
planting and making of sugar: and seeing how well the
planters lived, and how they got rich snddenly, I re-
solved, if I conld get a licence to settle there, I wonld
t urn planter among them: endeavonring in the mean
time, to find ont some way to get my money, which I
had left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose,
getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I purchased
as much land that was nnonred as my nioney wonld
reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and settle-
ment ; such a one as might be suitable to the stock which
I proposed to myself to receive from England.
I had a neighbonr, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born
of English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much
such circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbonr,
becanse his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on
very sociably together. My stock was but low, as well
as his; and we rather planted for food than any thing
else, for about two years. However, we began to in-
crease, and onr land began to come into order; so that
the third year we planted some tohacco, and inage each
of us a large piece of gronnd ready for planting canes
in the year to come: but we both wanted help; and
now I fonnd, more than before, I had done wrong in
parting with my boy Xury.
But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right,
was no great wonder. I had no remedy, but to go on:
1 had got into an employment quite remoteto my genins,
and directly contrary to the life I delighted in, and for
which I forsook my father's honse, and broke throngh
all his good advice: nay, I was coming into the very
middle station, or upper degree of low life, which my
father advised me to before; and which, if I resolved
to go on with, I might as well have staid at home, and
never have fatigued myself in the world, as I had done:
and I used often to say to myself, I conld have done
this as well in England, among my friends, as have gone
five thonsand miles of}'to do it among strangers and sa-
vages in a wilderness, and at such a distance, as never
to hear from any part of the world that had the least
knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with,
but now and then this neighbonr; no work to be done,
but by the labonr of my bands: and I used to s;iv, I
lived just like a man cast away upon some desolate
island, that had nobody there but himself. But bow
just has it been! and how shonld all men reflect, that
when they compare their present conditious with others
that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to make the
exchange, and be convinced of iheir former felicity by
their experience: I say, how just has it been, that the
truly solitary lite I reflected on, in an island of mere
desolation, shonld be my lot, \vbo had so often unjustly
compared it with the life which I then led, in which,
had I continued, I had in all prohahility, been exceed-
ing prosperons and rich.
I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation, before my kind friend, the
captain of the ship that took me up at sea, went hack;
for the ship remained there, in providing his lading,
and preparing for his voyage, near three months ; when,
telling him what little stock I had left behind rue in
London, he gave me this friendly and sincere advice:
"Seiguior Inglese," says he, for so he always called
me, " if yon will give me letters, and a procuration here
in form to me, with orders to the person who has yonr
money in London, to send yonr effects to Lisbon, to
such persous as I shall direct, and in such goods as are
proper for this conntry, L will bring yon the produce nf
them, God willing, at my return; but, since human af-
fairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I would
have yon give orders for but one bundred ponnds ster-
ling, which, yon say, is half yonr stock, and let the ha-
zard be run for the first, so that if it come safe, yon mav
order the rest the same way; and, if it miscarry, yon
may have the other half to have reconrse to for yonr
supply."
This was so wholesome ad vice, and looked so friendly,
that I conld not but be convinced it WHS the best conrse
I conld take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the
gentlewoman with whom I left my money, and a procu-
ration to the Portuguese captain, as he desired me.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full acconnt of
all my adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had
met with the Portuguese captain at sea, the bumanity of
his behavionr, and what condition I was now in, with
alt other necessary directious for mv supplv; and when
this honest captain came to Lisbon, he fonnd meaus, by
some of the English merchants there, to send over, not
the order only, but a full acconnt of my story to a mer-
chant at London, who represented it effectual I v to her:
whereupoD she uot onl\ delivered the money, but, ont
VOL. i. I>
of her own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very
handsome present for his Immunity and charity to me.
The merchant in London, vesting this bundred ponnds
in English goods. such as the captain had wrote for, sent
them directly to him at Lisbon, and he bronght them
all safe to me at the Brazils: among which, withont my
direction (for I was too young in my business to think
of them), he had taken care to have all sorts of tools,
iron work, and uteusils, necessary for my plantation,
and which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thonght my fortune made,
for I was surprised with the joy of it; and my good
steward, the captain, had laid ont the five ponnds,
which my friend had sent him as a present for himself,
to purchase and bring me over a servant, under bond
for six years' service, and wonld not accept of any con-
sideration, except a little tohacco, which I would have
him accept, being of my own produce.
Neither was this all: but my goods being all English
manufacture, such as cloths, si nifs, haize, and things
particularly valuable and desirable in the conntry, I
fonnd meaus to sell them to a very great advantage; so
that I might say, I had more than fonr times the value
of my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my
poor neighbonr, I mean in the advancement of mv plan-
tation: for the first thing I did, I bonght me a Negro
slave, and an European servant also; I mean another,
besides that which the captain bronght me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very
meaus of onr adversity, so was it with me. I went en
the next year with great success in my plantation: I
raised fifty great rolls of tohacco on my own gronnd,
more than I had disposed of for necessaries among my
neighbonrs; and these fifty rolls, being each of above
a bundred weight, were well cured, and laid by agaiust
the return of the Hcet from Lisbon: and now, increasing
in business and in wealth, my head began to be full of
projects ~ 'il undertakings beyond mv reach ; such as
are, indced, often the ruin of the best heads in business.
Had I continued in the station I WHS now in, I had room
for all the happy things to have yet befallen me, for which
my father so earnestly recommended a quiet, retired
life, and which he had so sensibly described the middle
station of life to be fall of: but other things attended
me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of all my own
miseries; and particularly, to increase my fanlt, and
donble the reflectious upon myself, which in my future
sorrows I shonld have leisure to make, all these mis-
carriages were procured by my apparent obstinate ad-
hering to my foolish inclination of wandering abont,
and pursuing that inclination, in contradiction to the
clearest views of doing myself good in a fair and plain
pursuit of those prospects, and those measures of life,
which nature and providence concurred to present me
with, and to make my duty.
As I had once done tbus in breaking awav from my
parents, so I conld not be content now, but I must go
and leave the happy view I had of being a rich and
thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a
rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the
nature of the thing admitted; and tbus I cast myself
down again into the deepest gulf of buman misery that
ever man fell into, or perhaps conld be cousistent with
lifc, and a state of health in the world.
To come, then, by just degrees, to the particulars of
ihis part of my story:—Yon may suppose, that having
now lived almost fonr years in the Brazils, and begin-
ning to thrive and prosper very well upon mv planta-
tion, I had not only learned the language, but had
contracted an acquaintance and friendship among my
fellow planters, as welt as among the merchants at St.
Salvador, which was our port; and that, in my dis-
conrses among them, I had frequently given them an
acconnt of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the
manner of trading with the Negroes there, and how
easy it was to purchase on the coast for trifles—such as
beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets, hits of glass, and
the like—not only gold dust, Guinea graius, elephants'
teeth, &c. but Negroes, for the service of the Biazils,
in great numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my dis-
conrses on these heads, but especially to that part
which related to the buying Negroes; which was a
trade, at that time, not only not far entered into, but,
as far as it was, had been carried on by the assientos, or
permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and en-
grossed from the public; so that few Negroes were
bonght, and those excessive dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants
and planters of inv acquaintance, and talking of those
thingsvery earnestly, three of'them came to me the next
morning, and told me they had been musing verv much
upon what I had disconrsed with them of the last night,
and they came to make a secret proposal to me: and,
after enjoining me to secrecy, they told me that they had
a mind to fit ont a ship to go to Guinea; that thev hnd
all plantatious as well as I, and were straitened for no-
thing so much as servants; that as it was a trade that
conld not be carried on, becanse they conld not pub-
licly sell the Negroes when they came home, so they
desired to make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes
on shore privately, and divide them among their own
flantatious: and, in a word, the question was, whether
would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the
trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and ihey offered
me that I should have an equal share of the Negroes,
withont providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed, had
it been made to any one that had not a settlement and
plantation of his own to look after, which was in a fair
way of coming to be very cousiderable, and with a good
stock upon it. But for me, that was tbus entered and
established, and had nothing to do but go on as I had
begun, for three or four years move, and to have sent
for the other bundred ponnds from England; and who,
in that time, with that little addition, conld scarce have
failed of being worth three or fonr thonsand ponnds
sterling, and that increasing too; for me to think of such
a vovage was the most preposterons thing that a man,
in such circumstances, conld be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, conld
no more resist the ofler than I conld restrain my first
rambling desigus, when my father's good couusel was
lost upon me. In a word, I told them I wonld go with
all my heart, if they wonld undertake to look after my
plantation in my absence, and wonld dispose of it to
such as I shonld direct, if I miscarried. This they all
engaged to do, and entered into writings or covenants
to do so: and I made a formal will, disposing of my
plantation and effects, in case of mv death; making the
captain of the ship that had saved my life, as before,
my universal heir; hat obliging him to dispose of my
effects as I had directed in my will; one half of the
produce being to himself, and the other to be shipped
to England.
In short, I took all possible cantion to preserve my
effects, and to keep up my plantation: had I used half
as much prndence to have looked into my own interest,
and have made a jndgment of what I onght to have
done, and not to have done, I had certainly never gone
away from so prosperons an undertaking, leaving all
the prohable views of a thriving circumstance, and
gone a voyage to sea, attended with all its common ha-
zards, to say nothing of the reasous I had to expect par-
ticular misfortunes to myself.
But I was burried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates
of my fancy rather than my reason: and accordingly,
the ship being fitted ont, and the cargo furnished, and
all things done as by agreement, by my partners in the
vovage, I went on board in an evil honr again, the 1st
of September, 1659, being the same day eight years that
I went from my father and mother at Hull, in order to
act the rebel to their anthority, and the fool to my own
interest.
Our ship was abont one bundred and twenty tous
burden, carried six guus, and fonrteen men, besides the
master, his boy, and myself; we had on board no large
cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit for onr
trade with the Negroes, such as beads, hits of glass,
shells, and odd trifles, especially little looking-glasses,
knives, scissars, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to the northward upon onr own coast, with design
to stretch over for the African coast. When they came
to abont ten or twelve degrees of northern latitnde,
which, it seems, was the manner of their course in those
days, we had very good weather, only excessive hot all
the way upon onr own coast, till we came to tho height
of Cape St. Aagustino; from whence, keeping farther
oft' at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we
were bound for the isle of Fernando de Noronha, bold-
ing onr conrse N- E. by N. aiid leaving those isles on
ibe east, hi Ihis conrse we passed the Line in abont
tweh e days' time, and were, by onr last observation, in
7 degrees U-J minutes northern latitnde, when a violent
tornado, or burricane, took us quite oat of onr know-
ledge: it began from the sooth-east, came about to the
north-west, and then settled in the north-east; from
whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that for twelve
days together we conld do nothing but drive, and, scud-
ding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate
and the fury of the winds directed ; and, during these
twelve davs, I need not say that I expected every day
to be swallowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship
expect to save their hves.
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the
storm, one of onr men died of the calenture, and one
man and a boy washed overboard. About the twelfth
day, the weather ahating a little, the master made an
observation as well as he conld, and found that be was
in abont 11 degrees north latitnde, but that he was 22
degrees of longitnde difference, west from Cape St. Au-
gustino; so that he fonnd he was got upon the coast of
Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river
Amazous, toward that of the river Oroonoque, com-
monly called the Great River; and began to cousult
wiih me what conrse he shonld take, for the ship was
leaky and very much disabled, and be was for going
directly hack to the coast of Brazil.
I was positively agaiust that; and looking over tbe
charts of the seacoast of America with hini, we con-
clnded there was no inhahited conntry for us to have
reconrse to, till we came within the circle of the Carib-
bee islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for
Barbadoes; which by keeping offto sea, to avoid the
indraft of the hay or gulf of Mexico, we might easily
perform, as we hoped, in abont fifteen days' sail; where-
as we could not possibly make onr voyage to the coast
of Africa withont some assistance, both to onr ship and
onrselves.
With this desigu, we changed oar coarse, and steer-
ed away N. W. by W. ia order to reach some of onr
English islands, where I hoped for relief: but onr
voyage was otherwise determined; for, being in the
latitnde of 12 decrees 18 minutes, a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the same impetu-
osity westward, and drove us so ont of the very way of
all buman commerce, that had all onr lives been saved,
as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being de-
voured by savages, than ever returning to onr own
conntry.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one
of onr men early in the morning cried ont, Land! and
we had no sooner run ont of the cahin to look ont, in
hopes of seeing whereabonts in the world we were, hat
the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her
motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in
such a manner, that we expected we shonld all have
perished immediately; and we were immediately driven
into onr close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam
and spray of the sea.
1t is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the cousterna-
tion of men in such circumstances; we knew nothing
where we were, or upon what land it was we were
driven, whether an island or the main, whether inha-
hited or not inhahited; and as the rage of the wind was
still great, thongh rather less than at first, we conld not
so much as hope to have the ship bold many minutes,
withont breaking in pieces, unless the wind, by a kind
of miracle, should immediately turn abont. In a word,
we sat looking upon one another, and expecting death
every moment, and every man acting accordingly, as
preparing for another world; for there was little or no-
thing more for us to do in this: that which was onr
present comfort, and all the comfort we had, was, that
contrary to onr expectation, the ship did not break yet,
and that the master said the wind began to abate.
Now, thongh we thonght that the wind did a little
ahate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off,
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing
to. do bat to think of saving onr lives as well as we
conld. We had a boat at oar stern just before the
storm, but she was first staved by dashing agaiust the
ship's rndder, and, in the next place, she broke away,
and either sunk or was driven off to sea; so there was
no hope from her: we had another boat on board, bat
how to get her off into the sea was a donbtful thing:
however, there was no room to dehate, for we fancied
the ship wonld break in pieces ever}- minute, and some
told us she was actually broken already.
In this distress, the mate of onr vessel laid hold of
the boat, and with the help of the rest of the men, they
fot her flung over the ship's side; and getting all into
er, let her go, and committed onrselves, being eleven
in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea: for
thongh the storm was ahated cousiderably, yet the sea
went dreadful high upon the shore, and might be well
called den wild zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.
Aud now onr case was very dismal indeed; for we
all saw plainly, that the sea went so high that the boat
conld not live, and that we shonld be inevitably drown-
ed. As to makhig sail, we had none; nor, if we had,
oonld we have done any thing with it; so we worked
at the oar towards the land, thongh with heavy hearts,
like men going to execution; for we all knew that
when the boat came nearer to the shore, she wonld be
dashed in a thonsand pieces by the breach of the sea.
However, we committed onr sonls to God in the most
earnest manner; and the wind driving us towards the
shore, we hastened our destruction with onr own hands,
pulling as well as we conld towards land.
What the shore was—whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal—we knew not; the only hope that conld
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was,
if we might happen into some hay or gulf, or the month
of some river, where by great chance we might have
run onr boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and
perhaps made smooth water, tint there was nothing of
this appeared; and as we made nearer and nearer the
shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, abont a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-
like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly hade us ex-
pect the conp de grace. In a word, it took as with such
a fury, that it overset the boat at once; and separating
as, as well from the boat as from one another, gave us
not time hardly to say, " O God!" for we were all
swallowed up in a moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thonght which
I felt when I sunk into the water; for thongh I swam
very well, yet I conld not deliver myself from the waves
so as to draw my breath, till that wave having driven
me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards the
shore, and having spent itself, went hack, and left me
upon the land almost dry, but half dead with the water
I took in. I had so much presence of mind, as well as
breath left, that seeing myself nearer the main land
than I expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavonred
to make on towards the land as fast as I conld, before
another wave shonld return and take me up again; but
I soon fonnd it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw
the sea come after me as high as a great hill, and as
furious as an enemy, which I had no meaus or strength
to contend with: my business was to hold my breath,
and raise mvsclf upon the water, if I conld ; and so, by
swimming, to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself
towards the shore, if possible; my greatest concern
now being, that the wave, as it wonld carry me a great
way towards the shore when it came on, might not
carry me hack agam with it when it gave hack towards
the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me at
once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body; and I
conld feel myself carried with a mighty force and
swiftness towards the shore a very great way; but I
held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still for-
ward with all my might. I was ready to burst with
holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising up, so,
to my immediate relief, I fonnd my head and hands
shoot ont above the surface of the water; and though
it was not two seconds of time that I conld keep myself
so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath, and new
conrage. I was covered again with water a good
while, but not so long but I held it ont; and finding
the water had spent itself, and began to return, I struck
forward agaiust the return of the waves, and felt gronnd
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments, to
recover breath, and till the water went from me, and
then took to my heels, and ran with what strength I
had further towards the shore. But neither wonld
this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came
ponring in after me again; and twice more I was lilted
up by ihi; waves and carried forwards as before, the
shore being very flat.
The last time of these two had well nigh been fatal
to me; for the sea having burried me along, as before,
landed me, or rather dashed me against a piece of a
rock, and that with such force, that it left me seuseless,
and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the
blow taking my side and breast, beat the breath, as it
were, quite ont of my body; and had it returned again
immediately, I must have been strangled in the water:
but I recovered a little before the return of the waves,
and seeing I shonld again be covered with water, I re-
solved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to hold
my breath, if possible, till the wave went hack. Now
as the waves were not so high as the first, being nearer
land, I held my bold till the wave ahated, and then
fetched another run, which bronght me so near the
shore, that the next wave, thongh it went over me, yet
did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the
next run I took, I got to the main land ; where, to my
great comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the shore,
and sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and
quite ont of the reach of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to
look up and thank God that my life was saved, in a
case wherein there were, some minutes before, scarce
any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to ex-
press, to the life, what the eestasies and trausports of
the sonl are, when it is so saved, as I may say, ont of
the grave: and I did not wonder now at the custom,
viz. that when a malefactor, who has the halter abont
his nock, is tied up, and just going to bo turned off,
and has a reprieve bronght to him; I say, I do not
wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let him
blood that very moment they tell him of it, that the sur-
prise may not drive the animal spirits from the heart,
and overwhelm him.
For sudden joys, like griefs, confonnd at fust,
I walked abont on the shore, lifting up my hands,
and my whole being, as I may say, wrapped up in the
contemplation of my deliverance; making a thonsand
gestures and motious which I cannot describe; reflect-
ing upon my comrades thai were drowned, and that
there shonld not be one sonl saved but myself; for, as
for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any sigu of
them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes
that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel—when the
breach and froth of the sea being so hig I could hardly
«ee it, it lay so far off—and cousidered, Lord! how
was it possible I conld get on shore?
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look ronnd me, to see
what kind of a place I was in, and what was next to be
done; and I soon fonnd my comforts ahate, and that, in
a word, I had a dreadful deliverance; for I was wet,
had no clothes to shift me, nor any thing either to eat
or drink, to comfort me; neither did I see any prospect
before me, but that of perishing with bunger, or being
devonred by wild beasts: and that which was particu-
larly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon, either
to bunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to
defend myself agaiust any other creature that might
desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I had nothing
about me but a knife, a tohacco-pipe, and a little to-
hacco in a box. This was all my provision, and this
threw me into such terrible agonies of mind, that, for a
while I ran abont like a madman. Night coming upon
me, I began, with a heavy heart, to cousider what
wonld be my lot if there were any ravenons beasts in
that conntry, seeing at night they always come abroad
for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thonghts, at that
time, was, to get up into a thick bushy tree, like a fir,
but thorn;—which grew near me, and where I resolved
to sit all night—and cousider the next day what death
I shonld die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I
walked abont a furlong from the shore, to see if I con Id
find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to my great
joy; and having drank, and put a little tohacco into
my month to prevent bunger, I went to the tree, and
getting up into it, endeavonred to place myself so, as
that if I shonld fall asleep, I might not fall ; and having
cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence,
I took up my lodging: and having been excessively fa-
tigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably, as, I
believe, few conld have done in my condition; and
fonnd inysclf the most refreshed with it that I think I
ever was on such an occasion.
When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear,
and the storm ahated, so that the sea did not rage and
swell as before; but that which surprised me most was,
that the ship was lifted oft' in the night from the sand
where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was dri-
ven up almost as far as the rock which I at first men-
tioned, where I had been so bruised by the waves
dashing me agaiust it. This being within abont a mile
from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to
stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that at
least I might save some necessary things for my use.
When 1 came down from my apartment in the tree,
I looked about me again, and the first thing I fonnd
was the boat; which lay, as the wind and the sea bad
tossed her up, upon the' land, abont two miles on my
right hand. I walked as far as I conld upon the shore
to have got to her; but found a neck or inlet of water
between me and the boat, which was abont half a mile
broad; so I came back for the present, being more in-
tent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to find
something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon, I fonnd the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed so far ont, that I conld come within a
quarter of a mile of the ship: and here I fonnd a fresh
renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently, that if we
had kept on board, we had been all safe; that is to say,
we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been so mi-
serable as to be left entirelv destitute of all comfort and
company, as 1 now was. This forced tears from my
eyes again; but as there was little relief in that, I re-
solved, if possible, to get to the ship; so I pulled off
my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and
took the water; but whcu I came to the ship, my dif-
ficulty was still greater to know how to get on board;
for as she lay agronnd, and high ont of the water, there
was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I spied a smalt
piece of a rope, which I wondered I did not see at first,
hang down by the fore chaius so low, as that with great
difficulty I got hold of it, and by the help of that rope
got into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that
the ship was bulged, and had a great deal of water in
her hold; but that she lay so ou the side of a hank of
hard sand, or rather earth, that her stern lay lifted up
upon the hank, and her head low, almost to the water.
By this meaus all her quarter was free, and all that was
in that part was dry; for yon may be sure my first
work was to search and to see what was spoiled and
what was free: and first, I fonnd that all the ship's
provisious were dry and untonched by the water; and,
being very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-
room, and filled my pockets with hiscuit, and eat it as
I went about other things, for I had no time to lose.
I also fonnd some rum in the great cahin, of which I
took a large dram, and which I had indeed need
enongh of, to spirit me for what was before me. Now
I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with
many things which I foresaw wonld be very necessary
to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not
to be had, and this extremity ronsed my application:
we had several spare yards, and two or three large
spars of wood, and a spare topmast or two in the ship;
1 resolved to fall to work with these, and flung as many
overboard as I conld manage for their weight, tying
everv one with a rope that they might not drive away.
When this was done' I went down the ship's side, and
pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast together
at both ends, as well as I conld, in the form of a raft,
and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon
them crossways, I found I conld walk upon it very
well, but that it was not able to bear any great weight,
the pieces being too light: so I went to work, and with
the carpenter's saw I cut a spare topmast into three
lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great deal of
labour and paius. But the hope of furnishing myself
with necessaries enconraged me to go beyond what
I shonld have been able to have done upon another
occasion.
Ny raft was now strong enongh to bear any reason-
able weight. My uext care was what to load it with,
and how to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf
of the sea; but I was not long cousidering this. I first
laid all the planks or boards upon it iha! I conld get,
and having cousidered well what I most wanted, I got
three of the seamen's chests, which I had broken open
and emptied, and lowered them down upon my raf'i;
these I filled with provisious, viz. bread, rice, three
Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goats' flesh (which
we lived much upon), and a little remainder of Kuro-
pean corn, which had heen laid by for some fowls which
we had bronght to sea with us, but the fowls were killed.
There had been some harley and wheat together, but,
to my great disappointment, I fonnd afterwards that
the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I
fonnd several cases of bottles belonging to oar skipper,
in which were some cordial waters; end, in all, ahont
five or six gallous of rack. These I stowed by them-
selves, there being no need to put them into the chests,
nor any rootn for them. While I was doing this, I
fonnd the tide began to flow, thongh very calm ; and
I had the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waist-
coat, which I had left on shore, upon the sand, swim
away; as for my breeches, which were only linen, and
open knee'd, I swam on board in them, and my stock-
ings. However, this put me upon rummaging for
clothes, of which I fonnd enongh, but took no more
than I wanted for present use, lor I had other things
which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work
with on shore: and it was after long searching that I
found the carpenter's cbest, which was indeed a very
useful prize to me, and much more valuable than a ship
lading of gold wonld have heen at that time. I got it
down to my raft, even whole as it was, withont losing
time to look into it, for I knew in general what it
contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowlingpieces in the great
cahin, and two pistols; these I secured first, uiili some
powder horus and a small hag of shot, and two old
rusty swords. I kuew there were three harrels of pow-
der in the ship, but knew not where onr gunner had
stowed them; but with much search I fonnd them,
two of them dry and good, the third had taken water.
Those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now
I thonght myself pretty well freighted, and began to
think how I shonld get to shore with them, having
neither sail, oar, nor rndder; and the least capfull of
wind wonld have overset all my navigation.
I had three enconragements: 1st, A smooth, calm
sea: 2dly, The tide rising, and setting in to the shore:
3dly, What little wind there was blew me towards the
land. And tbus, having fonnd two or three broken
oars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which
were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a ham-
mer; and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or
thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I found
it drive a little distant from the place where I had
landed before; by which I perceived that there was
some indraft of the water, and cousequently I hoped to
find some creek or river there, which I might make
use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.
As I imagined, so it was: there appeared before me
a IJJtle opening of the land, and I fonnd a strong current
of the tide set into it; so I guided my raft, as well as
I conld, to get into the middle of the stream. But
here I had like to have suflered a second shipwreck,
which, if 1 had, I think verily wonld have broken my
heart; for knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran
agronnd at one end of it upon a shoal, and not hoin^
agronnd at the other end, it wanted but a little that all
my cargo had slipped off towards that end that was
afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did my ntmost,
by setting my hack agaiust the chests, to keep them iu
their places, but conld nut thrust of}' the raft with all
my strength; neither durst I stir from the posture I was
in, but holding up the chests with all my might, I stood
in that manner near hall' an honr, in which time the
rising of the water bronght me a little more upon a le-
vel; and a little after, the water still rising, my raft
floated again, and I thrust her off with the oar I had
into the channel, and then driving up higher, I at length
found myself in the month of a little river, with land on
both sides, and a strong current or tide running up. I
looked on both sides for a proper place to get to shore,
for I was not willing to be driven too high up the river;
hoping in time to see some ship at sea, and therefore re-
solved to place myself as near the coast as I conld.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of
the creek, to which, with great pain and difficultv, I
guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that reaching
gronnd with my oar, I conld thrust her directly in; but
here I had like to have dipped atl my cargo into the
sea again; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to
say, sloping, there was no place to land but where one
end of my float, if it ran on shore, wonld lie so high,
and the other sink lower, as before, that it wonld en-
danger my cargo again. All that I conld do was to
wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft
with my oar like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to
the shore, near a flat piece of gronnd, which I expected
the water wonld flow over; and so it did. As soon as I
fonnd water enongh, for my raft drew abont a foot of
wafer, I thrust her upon that flat piece of gronnd, and
there fastened or moored her, by stickmg my two
broken oars into the gronnd; one on one side, near one
end, and one on the other side, near the other end:
and tbus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my.
raft and all my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the conntry, and seek a
proper place for my hahitation, and where to stow mv
goods; to secure them from whatever might happen.
Where I was, I yet knew not: whether on the continent,
or on an island; whether inhahited, or not inhahited;
whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a
bill, not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep
and high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills
which lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took ont
one of the fowlingpieces, and one of the pistols, and a
hnni of powder; and tbus armed, I traveled for dis-
covery up to the top of that hill; where, after I had
with great labonr and difficulty got up to the top, I saw
my fate, to my great affliction, viz. that I was in an
island, environed every way with the sea, no land to he
seen, except some rocks, which lay a great way off,
and two small islands, less than this, which lay abont
three leagues to the west.
I fonnd also that the island I was in was harren, and,
as I saw good reason to believe, uninhahited, except by
wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none; yet I saw
abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither,
when I killed them, conld I tell what was lit. for food,
and what not. At my coming hack, I shot at a great
hird, whicb I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a
great wood. I believe it was the first gun that had been
fired there since the creation of the world: I had no
sooner fired, but from all the parts of the wood there
arose an innumerable number of fowls, of many sorts,
making a confused screaming and crying, every one ac-
cording to his usual note; but not one of them of any
kind that I knew. As for the creature I killed, I took
it to be a kind of a hawk, its colonr and beak resembling
it, hat had no talous or claws more than common. Its
flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came hack to my
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which
took me up the rest of that day: what to do with my-
self at night, I knew not, nor indeed where to rest: for
I was afraid to lie down on the gronnd, not knowing
but some wild beast might devonr me; though, as I
afterwards fonnd, there was really no need for those
fears.
However, as well as I conld, I barricadoed myself
round with the chests and boards that 1 had bronght on
shore, and made a kind of a but for that night's lodging.
As for food, I yet saw not which way to supply myself*
VoL. i. E
except that I had seen two or three creatures, like hare*,
run oat of the wood where I shot the fowl.
I now began to cousider, that I might yet get a great
man^' things ont of the ship, which wonld be useful to
me, and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and
such other things as might come to land; and I resolved
to make another voyage on hoard the vessel, if possible.
And as I knew that the first storm that blew must ne-
cessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all
other things apart, till I got every thing ont of the ship
that I conld get. Then I called a conncil, that is to
say, in my thonghts, whether I shonld take hack the
raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved to
go as before, when the tide was down; and I did so,
only that I stripped before I went from my but; having
nothing on but a chequered shirt, a pair of linen drawers,
and a pair of pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a
second raft; and having had experience of the first, I
neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard,
but yet I bronght away several things very useful to
me: as first, in the carpenter's stores, I fonnd two or
three hags of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a do-
zen or two of hatchets; and, above all, that most useful
thing called a grindstone. All these I secured, together
with several things belonging to the gunner; particu-
larly two or three iron crows, and two harrels of musket
bullets, seven muskets, and another fowlingpiece, with
some small quantity of powder more; a large bagful I of
small shot, and a great roll of sheet-lead; but this last
was so heavy, I conld not hoist it up to get it over the
ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes, that
I conld find, and a spare fore-topsail, a hammock, and
some bedding; and with this I loaded my second raft,
and bronght them. all safe on shore, to my very great
comfort.
I was under some appreheusious, during my absence
from the land, that at least my provisious might be de-
vonred on shore: but when I came back, I fonnd no
sigu of any visitor; only there sat a creature like a wild
cat, upon one of the chests, which, when I came towards
it, ran away a little distance, and then stood still. Sho
sat very composed and unconcerned, and looked full in
my face, as if sue had a mind to be acquainted with me.
I presented my gun to her, but, as she did not under-
stand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did
she offer to stir away; upon which I tossed her a hit of
hiscuit, though by the way, I was not very free of it,
for my store was not great: however, I spared her a
hit, I say, and she went to it, smelled of it, and ate it,
and looked (as pleased) for more; but I thanked her,
and conld spare no more: so she marched off.
Having-got my second cargo on shore—thongh I was
fam to open the harrels of powder, and bring them by
rreels, for they were too heavy, being large casks—•
Ai.'ii! to work to make me a little tent, with the sail,
and some poles, which I cut for that purpose; and into
this tent I bronght every tiiing that i knew wonld spoil
either with rain or sun; and I piled all the empty chests
aml casks up in a circle ronnd the tent, to fortify it
from any sndden attempt either from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent wiili some boards within, and an empty chest set
up on end withont; and spreading one of the beds upon
the gronnd, laying my two pistols just at my head, and
my gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time,
and slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary
and heavy; for the night before I had slept little, and
had labonred verv hard all day, as well to fetch all those
things from the ship, as to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever
was laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was not sa-
tisfied still: for while the ship sat upright in that pos-
ture, I thonght I onght to get every thing ont of her
that I conld: so every day, at low water, I went on
board, and bronght away something or other; but par-
ticularly the third time I went, I bronght awa\ as much
of the rigging as I conld, as also all the small ropes and
rope-twme I conld get, with a piece of spare canvass,
which was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the
barrel of wet guupowder. In a word, 1 bronght away
all the sails, first and last; only that I was fain to cut
them in pieces, and bring as much at a time us I conld;
for they were DO more useful to be sails, but as mere
canvass only.
But that which comforted me still more, was, that
last of all, after I had made five or six such vo\ages as
these, and thonght I had nothing more to expect from
the ship that was worth my meddling with; I say, after
all this, I fonnd a great hogshead of bread, and three
large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, and
a harrel of fine flonr; this was surprising to me, Iiecanse
I had given over expecting any more provisious, except
what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the
hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by
parcel, in pieces of the sails, which i cat ont; and, in
a word, I got all this safe on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage; and now, hav-
ing plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to
hand ont, I began with the cables, and cutting the great
cable into pieces such as I conld move, I got two cables
and a hawser on shore, with all the iron-work I conld
get, and having cut down the spritsail-yaid and the mi-
zen-yard, and every thing I conld, to make a large raft,
I loaded it with all those heavy goods, and came away;
but my good luck began now to leave me; for this raft
was so unwieldy, and su overladen, that after I was en-
tered the little cove where I had landed the rest of my
goods, nut being able to guide it so handily as I did the
other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into
the water; as for myself, it was no great harm, for!
was near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was a great
part of it lost, especially the iron, which I expected
wonld have been of great use to me: however, when
the tide was ont, I got most of the pieces of cable
ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite la-
bonr; fur I was tain to dip for it mto the water, a work
which fatigued me very much. After this I went every
day on hoard, and bronght away what I conld get.
I had been now thirteen days ashore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship; in which time I had
bronght away all that one pair of hands conld well be
supposed capable to bring; thongh I believe verily,
had the calm weather held, I shonld have bronght away
the whole ship, niece by piece; but preparing the
twelfth time to go on board, I fonnd lhe wind began to
rise: however, at low water I went on board; and
thongh I thonght I had rummaged the cahin su eflec-
tually as that nothing conld be fonnd, vet I discovered
a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found
two or three razors, and one pair of large scissars, with
some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks; in ano-
ther, I fonnd abont thirty-six ponnds value in money,
some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight,
some gold, and some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money: "O,
drug!" said I, alond, " what art thoa good fur.' Thon
art not worth to me, no, not the taking off the gronnd;
one of those knives is worth all this heap: I have no
manner of use for thee; e'en remain where thon art,
and go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not
worth saving." However, upon second thonghts, I
took it away; and wrapping all this in a piece of can-
vass, I began to think of making another raft; but
while I was preparing this, I found the skv overcast,
and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an honr
it blew a fresh gale from the shore. It presently oc-
curred to me, that it was in vain to pretend to make a
raft, with the wind off shore; and that it was my busi-
ness to be gone before the tide of flood began, or
otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at all.
Accordingly I let myself down into the water, and swam
across the channel which lay between the ship and the
sands, and even that with difficulty enongh, partly with
the weight of the things I had abont me, and partly the
ronghness of the water; for the wind rose very hastily,
and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.
But I was got home to my little tent, where I lav,
with ail my wealth abont me very secure. It blew very
hard all that night, and lii the morning, when I looked
nut, behold, no more ship was to be seen! I was a little
surprised, but recovered myself with this satisfactory
reflection, viz. that I had lost no time, and ahated no
diligence, to get every thing ont of her that conld he
useful to me, and that, indeed, there was little left in
her that I was able to bring away, if I had had more
time.
I now gave over any more thonghts of the ship, or of
any thing ont of her, except what might drive on shore
from her wreck; as, indeed, divers pieces of her after-
wards did; but those things were of small use to me.
Mv thonghts were now wholly employed abont se-
curing myself agaiust either savages, if any shonld ap-
Eear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island; and I
ud many thonghts of the method how to do this, and
what kind ofdwelliog to make, whether I shonld make
me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth: and in
short, I resolved upon both; the manner and descrip-
tion of which it may not be improper to give an ac-
connt of.
I soon fonnd the place I was in was not for my settle-
ment, particularly becanse it was upon a low, moorish,
gronnd, near the sea, and I believed it wonld not be
wholesome; and more particularly becanse there was
no fresh water near it: so I resolved to find a more
healthy and more convenient spot of gronnd.
I cousulted several things in my situation, which I
found wonld be proper for me: 1st, Health and fresh
water, I just now mentioned: 2dly, Shelter from the
beat of the sun: 3dly, Security from ravenons creatures,
whether men or beasts: 4tbly, A view to the sea, that
if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any ad-
vantage for my deliverance, of which I was not willing
to hanish all my expectation yet.
In search for a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards
this little plain was steep as a honse side, so that nothing
conld come down upon me from the top. On the side
of this rock there was a hollow place, worn a little way
in, like the entrance or door ot a cave; but there was
not really any cave, or way into the rock at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place,
I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above
a bundred yards broad, and abont twice as long, and lay
like a green before my door; and, at the end of it, de-
scended irregularly every way down into the low gronnd
by the seaside. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill;
to that it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it
came to a W. and by S. suu, or thereabonts, which, in
those conntries, is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before
the hollow place, which took in abont ten yards in if a
semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its
diameter, from its beginning and ending.
In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the gronnd till they stood very firm
like piles, the higgest end being ont of the gronnd
abont five feet and a half, and sharpened on the top.
The two rows did not stand above six inches from one
another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which T cut in the
ship, and laid them in rows, one upon another, within
the circle between these two rows of stakes, up to the
top, placing other stakes in the iuside leaning agaiust
tln-iu, abont two feet and a half high, like a spar to a
post; and this fence was so strong that neither man nor
beast conld get into it or over it. This cost me a great
deal of time and labour, especially to cut the piles in
the woods, bring them to the place, and drive them into
the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be not by a
door, but by a short ladder to go over the top; which
ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me; and so I
was completely fenced in and fortified, as I thonght,
from all the world, and cousequently slept secure in the
night, which otherwise I conld not have done; though,
as it appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this
caution from the enemies that I apprehended danger
from.
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labonr I
carried all my riches, all my provisious, ammunition,
and stores, of which yon have the acconnt above; and
I made a large tent, which, to preserve me from the
raius that in one part of the year are very violent there,
I made donble, viz. one smaller tent within, and one
larger tent above it, and covered the uppermost with a
large tarpanlin, which I had saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which
I had bronght ou shore, but in a hammock, which was
indeed a very good one, and belonged to the mate 0?
the ship.
Into this tent I bronght all my provisious, and every
thing that wonld spoil ay the wet; and having tbus en-
closed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till
now I had left open, and so passed and repassed, as I
said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into
the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that I
dug down ont throngh my tent, I laid them up within
my fence in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the
gronnd within about a foot and a half; and thus I made
Die a cave, just behind my tent, which served me like a
cellar to my honse. It cost me much labonr and many
days, before all these things were bronght to perfection;
and therefore I must go hack to some other things
which took up some of my thonghts. At the same time
it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the setting
up my tent, and makmg the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick, dark clond, a sndden flash of light-
ning happened, and after that, a great clap of thunder,
as is naturally the eflect of it. I was not so much sur-
prised with the lightning, as I was with a thonght,
which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning
itself: O my powder! My very heart sunk within me
when I thonght, that at one blast, all my powder might
be destroyed; on which, not my defence only, but the
providing me food, as I thonght, entirely depended. I
was nothing near so anxions abont my own danger,
thongh, had the powder took fire, I had never known
who had burt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that after
the storm was over, I laid aside all my works, my build-
ing and fortifying, and applied myself to make hags and
boxes, to separate the powder, and to keep it a little
and a little in a parcel, in hope that whatever might
come, it might not all take lire at once; and to keep it
so apart, that it shonld not be possible to make one part
fire another. I finished this work in abont a fortnight;
and I think my powder, which in all was abuut 240Ib.
weight, was divided in not less than a bundred parcels.
As to the harrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend
57
any danger from that; so I placed it in my new cave,
which, in m\ fancy, I called my kitchen, and the rest I
hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no
wet might come to it, marking very carefully where I
laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went
ont at least once every day with my gun, as well to
divert myself, as to see if I could kill any thinir fit for
food ; and, as near as I conld, to acquaint myself with
what the island produced. The first time I went ont, I
presently discovered that there were goats upon the
island, which was a great satisfaction to me; but then
it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz. that
they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it
was the most difficult thing in the world to come at
them: but I was not disconraged at this, not donbting
but I might nnw and then shoot one, as it soon hap-
pened; for after I had fonnd their hannts a little, I laid
wait in this manner for them: I pbserved, if they saw
me in the valleys, thongh they w£re upon the rocks,
they wonld run away as in a terrible fright; but if they
were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks,
they took no notice of me; from whence I conclnded,
that by the position of their opties, their sight was so
directed downward, that they did not readily see ob-
jects that were above them: so, afterwards, I took this
method—I always climbed the rocks first, to get above

them, and then had frequently a fair mark. The first
shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-goai,
which had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to,
which grieved me heartily; but when the old one fell,
the kid stood stock still by her, till I came and took her
up; and not only so, but when I carried the old one
with me, upon my shonlders, the kid followed me quite
to my enclosure; upon which, I laid down the dam,
and took the kid in my arms, and carried it over my
pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame; but it wonld
not eat ; so I was forced to kill it, and eat it myself.
These two supplied me with flesh a great while, tor I
ate sparingly, and preserved my provisious (my bread
especially), as much as possibly I conld.
Having now fixed my hahitation, I fonnd it abso-
lutelv necessary to provide a place to make a fire in,
and fuel to burn; and what I did for that, as also how I
enlarged mv cave, and what conveniences I made, I
shall give a full acconnt of in its proper place: but I
must first give some little acconnt of myself, and of my
thonghts about living, which, it may well be supposed,
were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I was
not cast away upon that island withont being driven, as
is said, bv a violent storm, quite ont of the conrse of
onr intended voyage; and a great way, viz. some bun-
dreds of leagues, ont of the ordinary conrse of the trade
of mankind, I had great reason to cousider it as a deter-
mination of Heavei); thai in this desolate place, and in
this desolate manner, I shonld end my life. The tears
wonld run plentifully down my face when I made these
reflectious; and sometimes I wonld expostulate with
myself why Providence shonld tbus completely ruin its
creatures, and render them so absolutely miserable; so
ahandoned withont help, so entirely depressed, that it
could hardly be rational to be thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to
check these thonghts, and to reprove me: and particu-
larly, one day, walking with my gun in my hand, by the
seaside, I was very peusive upon the subject of my pre-
sent condition, when reason, as it were, expostulated
with me the other way, tbus: "Well, yon are in a de-
solate condition, it is true; but, pray remember, where
are the rest of yoo? Did not yon come eleven of yon
mto the boat? Where aro the ten? Why were not
they saved, and yon lost? Why were yon singed ont?
Is it better to be here or there?" And then I pointed
to the sea. All evils are to be cousidered with the
good that is in them, and with what worse attends them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur-
nished for my subsistence, and what wonld have been.
my case if it had not happened (which was a bundred
thonsand to one), that the ship floated from the place
where she first struck, and was driven so near to the
shore, that 1 had time to get all these things ont of her:
what wonld have been my case, if I had been to have
lived in the condition in which I at first came on shore,
withont necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply and
procure them! "Particularly, said I alond (though
to myself), what shonld I have done without a gun,
withont ammunition, withont any tools to make any
thing, or to work with, withont clothes, bedding, a
tent, or any manner of covering?" and that now I had
all these to a suflicient quantity, and was in a fair way
to provide myself in such a manner as to live withont
my gun, when my ammunition was spent: so that I had
a tolerable view of subsisting, without any want, as
long as I lived; for I considered, from the beginning,
how I shonld provide for the accidents that might hap-
pen, and for the time that was to come, not only after
my ammunition should be spent, but even after my
health or strength shonld decay.
I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my am-
munition being destroyed at one blast, I mean my pow-
der being blown up by lightning; and this made the
thonghts of it so surprising to me, when it lightened and
tbundered, as I observed just now.
And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of
a scene of sileot life, such, perhaps, as was never heard
of in the world before, I shall take it from its beginning,
and continue it in its order. It was, by my acconnt,
the 30th of September, when, in the manner as above
said, I first set foot upon this horrid island; when the
sun being to us in its antumnal equinox, was almost
just over my head: for I reckoned myself, by observa-
tion, to be in the latitnde of 9 degrees 32 minute*
north of the Line.
After I had been there abont ten or twelve days, it
came into my thonghts that I shonld lose my reckoning
of time for want of books, and pen and ink, and shonld
even forget the sabhath days from the working <lays:
but, to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large
post, in capital letters; and making it into a great
cross, I set it up on the shore where I first landed, viz.
"I came on shore here on the 30th of September, 1659.''
Upon the sides of this square post I cot every day a
notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as
long again as the rest, and every first day of Hie month
as long again as that long one: and tous I kept my
calendar, or weekly, montbly, and yearly reckoning
of time.
But it happened, that among the many things which I
bronght ont of the ship, in the several vovages which,
as above mentioned, I made to it, I got several things
of less value, but not at all less useful to me, which I
fonnd, some time after, in rummaging the chests ; as,
in particular, peus, ink, and paper; several parcels in
the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping;
three or fonr compasses, some mathematical iustruments,
dials, perspectives, charts, and books of navigation; all
which I buddled together, whether I might want them
or no: also I found three very good hibles, which came
to me in my cargo from England, and which I had
packed up among my things; some Portuguese books
also, and, among them, two or three popish prayer
books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the
ship a dog, and two cats, of whose eminent history I
may have occasion to say something, in its place: for I
carried both the cats with me; and as for the dog, he
jumped ont of the ship himself, and swam on shore to
me the day after I went on shore with my first cargo,
and was a trusty servant to me for many years: I wanted
nothing that he could fetch me, nor any company that
he conld make up to me, I only wanted to have him
talk to me, but that wonld not do. As I observed be-
fore, I fonnd peus, ink, and paper, and I bushanded
them to the utmost; and I shall show that while my ink
luted, I kept things very exact, but after that was gona
I conld not; for I conld not make any ink, by any
meaus that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together; and
of these, this of ink was one; as also a spade, pick-
axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth; needles,
pius, and thread: as for linen, I soon learned to want
that withont much difiiculty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on hea-
vily; and it was near a whole year before I had entirely
fmished my little pale, or surronnded my hahitation.
The piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I conld
well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing in
the woods, and more, by far, in bringing home; so that
I spent sometimes two days in cutting and bringing
bome one of those posts, and a third day in driving it
into the gronnd; for which purpose, I got a heavy
piece of wood at first, but at last bethonght mvself of
one of the iron crows; which, however, thongh I found
it, yet it made driving these posts or piles very labori-
ons and tedious work. But what need I to have been
concerned at the tedionsuess of any thing I had to do,
seeing I had time enough to do it in? nor had I any
other employment, if that had been over, at least that I
conld foresee, except the ranging the island to seek for
food ; which I did, more or less, every day.
I now began to cousider serionsly my condition, and
the circumstance I was reduced to; and I drew up the
state of my affairs in writing, not so much to leave them
to any that were to come after me (for I was like to
have but few heirs), as to deliver my thonghts from
daily poring upon them, and afflicting my mind: and
as my reason began now to master my despondency, I
began to comfort myself as well as I conld, and to set
the good agaiust the evil, that I might have something
to distinguish my case from worse; and I stated very
impartially, like debtor and creditor, the comforts I en-
joyed agaiust the miseries I suffered, tbus:
EVIL. GOOD.
I am cast upon a horri- But I am alive; and not
b!e, desolate island, void drowned, as all my ship's
of all hope of recovery. company w ere.
I am singled ont and so- But I am singled oat too
parated, as it were, from from all the ship's crew, to-
all the world, to be miser- be spared from death; and
able. he that miraculously saved
me from death can deliver
me from this condition.
I am divided from man- But I am not starved,
kind, a solitaire; one ha- and perishing in a harren
nished from buman society, place, affording no suste-
nance.
I have no clothes to co- But I am in a hot cli-
ver me. mate, where, if I had
clothes, I could hardly
wear them.
I am withont anv de- But. I am cast on an
fence, or meaus to resist island where I see no wild
any violence of man or beast to burt me, as I saw
beast, on the coast of Africa: and
what if I had been ship-
wrecked there?
I have no sonl to speak But God wonderfully
to, or relieve me. sent the ship in near enongh
to the shore, that I have
got oat so many necessary
tiiings as will either supply
my wants, or enable me to
supplv myself, even as long
as I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undonbted testimony,
that there was scarce any condition in the world so
miserable, but there was something negative, or some-
thing positive, to be thankful for in it: and let this
stand as a direction, from the experience of the most
miserable of all conditious in this world, t!iat we may
always find in it something to comfort onrselves from,
and to set, in the description of good and evil, on the
credit side of the acconnt.
Having now bronght my mind a little to relish mv
condition, and given over looking ont to sea, to see if
I conld spy a ship; I say, giving over these things, I
began to apply myself to accommodate my way of living'
and to make things as easy to me as I conld.
I have alreadv described my hahitation, which was a
tent under the side of a rock, surronnded with a strong
pale of posts and cables; but £ might now rather call it
a wall, for I raised a kind of wall agaiust it of turfs,
abont two feet thick on the ontside: and after some
time (I think it was a year and a half), I raised rafters
from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it
with boughs of trees, and such things as I conld get, to
keep ont the rain; which I fonnd, at sonic times of the
year, very violent.
I have already observed how I bronght all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made be-
hind me. But I must observe, too, that at first this was
a confused heap of goods, which, as they lay in no order,
so they took up all my place; I had no room to turn
myself; so I set myself to enlarge my cave, and work
farther into the earth ; for it was a loose, sandy rock,
which yielded easily to the labonr I bestowed on it:
ami when I fonnd I was pretty safe as to the beasts of
prey, I worked sideways, to the right hand, into the
rock, and then turning to the right again, worked quite
ont, and made me a door to come ont in the ontside of
my pale or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were,
a hack way to my teat and to my storehonse, but gave
me room to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such neces-
sary things as I fonnd I most wanted, particularly a
chair and a table; for withont these I was not able to
enjoy the few comforts I had in the world; I could not
write, or eat, or do several things with so much plea-
sure, withont a table: so I went to work. And here I
must needs observe, that as reason is the substance and
original of the mathematies, so by stating and squaring
every thing by reason, and by making the most rational
judgment of things, every man may he, in time, master
of every mechanic art. I had never handted a tool in
my life ; and yet, in time, by labour, application, and
contrivance, I fonnd, at last, that I wanted nothing but
I conld have made, especiallv if I had had tools. How-
ever, I made abundance of things, even withont tools;
and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet,
which perhaps were never made that way before, and
that with infmite labonr. For example, if I wanted a
board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set it
on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either side with
my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank,
and then dub it smooth with mv adze. It is true, by
this method I could make hat one board of a whole
tree; but this I had no remedy for but patience, any
more thanT hnd for a prodigions deal of time and labonr
which it took me up to make a plank or board; but my
time or labonr was little worth, and so it was as well
employed one way as another.
However, I made me a table and a'chair, as I ob-
served above, in the first place; and this I did ont of
the short pieces of boards that I bronght on my raft from
the ship. But when I wronght ont some boards, as
above, I made large shelves, of the breadth of a foot
and a half, one over another, all along one side of my
cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron work on; and,
in a word, to separate every thing at Urge in their
places, that I might easily come at them. I knocked
pieces into the wall of the rock, to hang my guus, and
all things that wonld hang up: so that had my cave beea
seen, it looked like a general magazine of all necessary
things; and I had every thing so ready at my hand,
that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in
such order, and especially to find my stock of all neces-
saries so great.
And no wit was that I began to keep a jonrnal of every
day's employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too
much burry, and not only burry as to labonr, but in
much discomposure of mind: and my jonrnal wonld,
too, have been full of many dull things: for example, I
mast have said tbus—" Sept. 30th. After I had got to
shore, and had escaped drowning, iustead of being
thankful to God formy deliverance, having first vomited*
with the great quantity of salt water which was gotten
into my stomach, and recovering myself a little, I ran
abont the shore, wringing my hands, and beating my
head and face, exclaiming at my misery, and crying ont,
'I was undone, undone!' till, tired and faint, I was
forced to lie down on the gronnd to repose; but durst
not sleep, for fear of heing devonred."
Some days after this, and after I had been on board
the ship and got all that I conld ont of her, I conld not
forbear getting up to the top of a little monntain, and
looking ont to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship: then fancy
that, at a vast distance I spied a sail, please myself with
the hopes of it, and, after looking steadily till I was
almost blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a
child, and tbus increase my misery by my folly.
But, having gotten over these things in some mea-
sure, and having settled my honsehold stuff and hahi-
tation, made me a table and a chair, and all as handsome
abont me as I conld, I began to keep my jonrnal: of
which I shall here give yon the copy (though in it will
be told all these particulars over again), as long as it
lasted; for, having no more ink, I was forced to leave
it off.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30th, 1659. I, poor miserable Rohiuson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm, in
the ofling, came on shore on this dismal unfortunate
island, which I called the ISLAND OF DESPAIR ; all the
rest of the ship's company being drowned, and myself
almost dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself at
the dismal circumstances I was bronght to, viz. I had
neither food, honse, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to:
and, in despair of any relief, saw nothing but death be-
fore me; that I shonld either be devonred by wild
beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death for
want of food. At the approach of night I slept in a
tree, for fear of wild creatures; but slept sonndly,
thongh it rained all night.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great sur-
prise, the ship had floated with the high tide, and was
driven on shore again much nearer the island; which,
as it was some comfort on one hand (for seeing her sit
upright, and not broken in pieces, I hoped, if the wind
abated, I might get on board, and get some food and
necessaries ont of her for my relief), so on the- other
hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades,
VOL. i. «•
who, I imagined, if we had all staid on board, might
have saved the ship, or, at least, that they wonld not
havc been all drowned, as they were; and that, had the
men been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat,
oat of the ruius of the ship, to have carried us to some
other part of the world. I spent great part of this day
in perplexing myself on these things; but, at length
seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as
near as I conld, and then swam on board. This day
also it continued raining, thongh with no wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days
entirely spent in many several voyages to get all I conld
ont of the ship; which I bronght on shore, every tide of
flood,upon rafts. Much rain also in these days, thongh
with some intervals of fair weather: but, it seems, Ihis
was the rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had
got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, [ recovered many of them when
the tide was ont.
Oct. 25- I* rained all night and all day, with some
gusts of wind; during which time the ship broke in
pieces (the wind blowing a little harder than before)
and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her,
and that only at low water. I spent this day in cover-
ing and securing the goods which I had saved, that the
rain mi^ht not spoil them.
Oct. 26. I walked abont the shore almost all day, to
find ont a place to fix my hahitation; greatly concern-
ed to secure myself from any attack in the night, either
from wild beasts or men. Towards night I fixed upon
a proper place, under a rock, and marked ont a semi-
circle for my encampment; which I rewired to strength-
en with a work, wall, or fortification, made of double
piles, lined within with cables, and without with turf.
From the S6th to the 30th, I worked very hard in
carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though
sonic part of the time it rained exceedinglv hard.
The 31st, in the morning, I went ont into the island
with my pun to see for some food, and discover the
country, when I killed a she goat, and her kid followed
me home, which I afterwards killed also, becanse it
wonld not feed.
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay
there for tfce first night; making it as large as I conld,
with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the
pieces of timber which made my rafts; and with them
formed a fence ronnd me, a little within the place I had
marked ont for my fortification.
Nov. 3. I went oat with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the
afternoon I went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of
work, of going ont with my gun, time of sleep, and time
of diversion; viz. every morning I walked ont with my
gun for two or three honrs, if it did not rain; then em-
ployed myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then
ate what I had to live on; and from twelve to two I lay
down to sleep, the weather being excessively hot; and
then in the evening, to work again. The working part
of this day and the next was wholly employed in mak-
ing my table, for I was yet but a very sorry workman:
thongh time and necessity made me a complete na-
tural mechanic soon after, as I believe they wonld any
one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and
dog, and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but
her flesh good for nothing: of every creature that I
killed I took off the skius, and preserved them. Coming
hack by the sea shore, I saw many sorts of sea fowl
which I did not understand: but was surprised, and
almost frightened, with two or three seals; which,
while I was gazing at them (not well knowing what
they were), got into the sea, and escaped me for that
time.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work
with my table again, and finished it, though not to
my liking: nor was it long before I learned to
mend it.
68
LIFE AND ADVENTURES

Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the
llth was Sunday, according to my reckoning), I took
wholly up to make me a chair, and with much ado
bronght it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me;
and even in the making, I palled it in pieces several
times.
Note. I soon neglected my keeping Sandays; for,
omitting my mark for them on my post, I forgot which
was which.
Nov. 13. This day it rained; which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth; hat it was accom-
panied with terrible tbunder and lightning, whicb
frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my powder. As
soon as it was over I resolved to separate my stock of
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it
might not be in danger.
Nov. 14,15,16. These three days I spent in making
little square chests or boxes, which might hold about a
ponnd, or two ponnds at most, of powder: and so, put-
ting the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure and
as remote from one another as possible. On one of
these three days I killed a large hird that was good to
eat: but I knew not what to call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent,
into the rock, to make room for my farther convenience.
Note. Three things I wanted exceedingly for this
work, viz, a pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheelharrow or
hasket; so I desisted from my work, and began to con-
sider bow to supply these wants, and make me some
tools. As for a pickaxe, I made use of the iron crows,
which were proper enongh, thongh heavy: but the
next thing was a shovel or spade; this was so abso-
lutely necessary that indeed I conld do nothing eflec-
tually withont it; but what kind of one to make I
knew not.
^ov. 18. The uext day, in searching the woods, I
fonnd a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the Bra-
zils they call the iron tree, from its exceeding hardness:
of this, with great labonr and almost spoiling my axe,
I cut a piece, and bronght it home too, with difficulty
enongh, for it was exceeding heavy. The excessive
hardness of the wood, and my having no other way,
made me a long while upon this machine; for I worked
it eflectually, by little and little, into the form of a sho-
vel or spade; the handle exactly shaped like onrs in
England, only that the broad part having no iron shod
upon it at bottom, it wonld not last me so long: how-
ever, it served well enongh for the uses which I had
occasion to put it to ; but never was a shovel, I believe,
made after that fashion, or so long a making.
I was still deficient: for I wanted a hasket or a wheel-
barrow. A hasket I conld not make by any meaus, hav-
mg no such things as twigs that wonld bend to make
wicker ware, at least none vet fonnd ont: and as to the
•wheelharrow, I fancied I conld make all but the wheel,
but that [ had no notion of; neither did I know how to
go about it: besides, I had no possible way to make
iron gndgeous for the spindle or axis of the wheel to
run in; so I gave it over: and for carrying away the
earth which I dug ont of the cave, I made me a thing
like a hod, which the labonrers carry mortar in for the
bricklayers. This was not so difficult to me as the mak-
ing the shovel: and yet this and the shovel, and the
attempt which I made in vain to make a wheelharrow,
took me up no less than fonr days; I mean, always ex-
cepting my morning walk with my g"u, which I seldom
omitted, and very seldom failed also bringing homo
something fit to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, be-
caase of m\ making these tools, when they were finished
I went on; and working every day, as my strength and
time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widen-
ing and deepening my cave, that it might hold my
goods commodionsly.
Note. Daring all this time, I worked to make this
room or cave spacioas enongh to accommodate me as a
warehonse or magazine, ajutchen, a dining room, and
a cellar. As for a lodging, I kept to the tent; except
that sometimes in the wet season of the year, it rained
so hard, that I conld not keep myself dry ; which cansed
me afterwards to cover all my place within my pale with
long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning agaiust the
rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of trees,
like a thatch.
December 10. I began now to think my cave or vanlt
finished; when on a sndden (it seems I had made it too
large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top
and one side: so much that, in short, it frightened me,
and not withont reason too; for if I had been under it,
I shonld never have wanted a gravedigger. Upon this
disaster, I had a great deal of work to do over again,
for I had the loose earth to carry ont; and, which was
of more importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so
that I might be sure no more wonld come down.
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accord-
ingly; and got two shores or posts pitched upright to
the top, with two pieces of board across over each post;
this I fmished the next day, and setting more posts up
\\ith hoards, in abont a week more I had the roof se-
cured; and the posts, standing in rows, served me for
partitious to part off my honse.
Dec. 17. From this day to the 20th, I placed shelves,
and knocked up nails on the posts, to hang every thing
up that conld be bung up; and now I began to be in
some order within doors.
Dec. 20. I carried every thing into the cave, and
began to furnish my honse, and set up some pieces of
boards like a dresser, to order my victuals upon; bat
boards began to be very scarce with me: also I made
me another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day: no stirr-
ing ont.
Her. 25. Rain all day.
//«•. '-'(>. No rain; and the earth much cooler than
before, and pleasanter.
Dec. '27. Killed a yonng goat, and lamed another,
so that I catched it, and led it home in a string: when
J had it home, I bonnd and splintered up its leg, which
was broke.
V. II. I took such care of it that it lived; and the
leg grew well and as strong as ever: but, hv nursing it
so long, it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at
m v door, and wonld not go away. This was the first
time that I entertained a thonght of breeding up some
tame creatures, that I might have food when 11i3 powder
and shot were all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats, and no breeze; so
that there was no stirring abroad except in the evening,
for food: this time I spent in patting all inv things in
order within doors.
January 1. Very hot still; hat I went abroad early
and late with my gun, and Inv i-till in the middle of the
day. This evening, going farther into the valleys which
lay towards the centre of the island, I fonnd there was
plenty of goats, thongh exceeding shy, and hard to come
at; however, I resolved to try if I conld not bring my
dog to bunt them down. Accordingly, the next day I
went ont with my dog, and set him upon the goats: but
I was mistaken, for they all faced abont upon the dog;
and he knew his danger too well, for he wonld not come
near them.
Jan. o. I began my fence or wall; which, being still
jealons of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved
to make very thick and strong.
N. II. This wall being described before, I purposely
omit what was said in the jonrnal: it is sufficient to
observe, that I was no less time than from the 3d of Ja-
nuary to the 14th of April, working, finishing, and per-
fecting this wall; thongh it was no more than abont 25
yards in length, being a half circle, from one place in
the rock to another place, abont twelve yards from it,
the door of the cave being in the centre, behind it.
All this time I worked very hard; the raius hinder-
ing me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together: but
I thonght I shonld never be perfectly secure till this
wall was finished; and it is scarce credible what inex-
pressible labonr every thing was done with, especially
the bringing piles ont of the woods, and driving them
into the ground; for I made them much higger than I
needed to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the ontside donble
fenced, with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuad-
ed myself that if any people were to come on shore
there they wonld not perceive anything like a hahita-
tion: and it was very well I did so, as may be observed
hereafter, upon a very remarkable occasion.
During this time, I made my ronnds in the woods for
game every day, when the rain permitted me, and made
frequent discoveries, in these walks, of something or
other to my advantage; particularly, I fonnd a kind of
wild pigeous, who bu'-'d, not as wood pigeous, in a tree,
but rather as honse pigeous, in the holes of the rocks:
and, taking some yonng ones, I endeavonred to breed
them up tame, and did so; but when they grew older
they flew all away, which, perhaps, was at first for want
of feeding them,"for I had nothing to give them: bow-
ever, I frequently fonnd their nests, and got their yonng
ones, which were very good meat. And now, in tfie ma-
naging my honsehold aflairs, I fonnd myself wanting in
many things, which I thonght at first it was impossible
for me to make; as indeed, as to some of them it was:
for iustance, I conld never make a cask to be hooped.
I had a small runlet or two, as I observed before; but
I conld never arrive to the capacity of making one by
them, thongh I spent many weeks abont it: I conld
neither put in the heads, nor join the staves so true to
one another as to make them hold water; so I gave
that also over. In the next place, I was at a great loss
for candle; so that as soon as it W.IK dark, which was
generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed.
I remembered the lump of beeswax with which I made
candles in my African adventure; but I had none of
that now; the only remedy I had was, that when I had
killed a goat, I saved the tallow; and with a little dish
mado of clay, which I haked in the sun, to which I
added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp ;, and
this gave me light, thongh not a clear steady light like
a candle. ID the middle of all my labonrs it happened,
that in rummaging my things I fonnd a little hag; which
as I hinted before, had been filled with corn for the
feeding of ponltry; not for this voyage, but before, as I
suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon. What little
remainder of corn had been in the hag was all devonred
by the rats, and I saw nothing in the hag but busks
and dust; and being willing to have the hag for some
other use (I think it was to put powder in, when I di-
vided it for fear of the lightning, or some such use), I
shook the busks of corn ont of it, on one side of my
fortification under the rock.
It was a little .before the great rain just now mention-
ed, that I threw this stuff away; taking no notice of
anything, and not so much as remembering that I had
thrown any thing there: when abont a month after, I
saw some few stalks of something green shooting ont of
the gronnd, which I fancied might be some plant I had
.not seen; but I was surprised and perfectly astonished,
when, after a little longer time, I saw abont ten or
twelve ears come ont, which were perfect green harley
of the same kind as onr European, nay, as onr English
harley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and con-
fusion of my thonghts on this occasion: I had hitherto
acted upon no religions fonndation at all; indeed I had
very few notious of religion in my head, nor had enter-
tained any seuse of anything that had befallen me,
otherwise than as chance, or, as we lightly say, what
pleases God; withont so much as inquiring into the end
of Providence in these things, or his order in governing
events in the world. But after I saw harley grow there,
in a climate which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially as I knew not how it came there, it startled
me strangely; and I began to suggest, that God had mi-
raculously cansed this grain to grow withont any help
of seed sown, and that it was so directed purely for my
sustenance, on that wild miserable place.
This tonched my heart a little, and bronght tears ont
of my eyes; and I began to bless myself that such a
prodigy of nature shonld happen upon my acconnt: and
this was tin? more strange to me, becanse I saw Dear it
still, all along by the side of the rock, some other strag-
gling stalks, wbich proved to be stalks of rice, and
which I knew, becanse I had seen it grow in Africa,
when I was ashore there.
I not only thonght these the pure productious of Pro-
vidence for my support, but, not donbting that there
was more in the place, I went over all that part of the
island where I had been before, searching in every cor-
ner, and under every rock, for more of it; but I conld
not find any. At last it occurred to my thonghts, that
I had shook ont a hag of chicken's meat in that place,
and then the wonder began to cease: and I must con-
fess, my religions thankfulness to God's providence
began to ahate too, upon the discovering that all this
was nothing but what was common; thongh I onght to
have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen
a providence, as if it had been miraculons: for it was
really the work of Providence, as to me, that shonld
order or appoint that ten or twelve graius of corn shonld
remain uuspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the
rest* as if it had been dropped from heaven; as also,
that I shonld throw it ont in that particular place,
where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang
up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere
efse, at that time, it wonld have been burned up and
destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, yon may be
Bare, in their season, which was abont the end of June;
and laying up every corn, I resolved to sow them all
again; hoping, in time to have some quantity sufficient
to supply me with bread. But it was not till the fonrth
year that I conld allow myself the least grain of this
corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall show
afterwards, in its order; for I lost all that I sowed the
first season, by not observing the proper time; as I
sowed just before the dry season, so that it never came
up at all, at least not as it wonld have done; of which
in its place.
Besides this harley, there were, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same
care; and whose use was of the same kind, or to tho
same purpose, viz. to make me bread, or rather food;
for I fonnd ways to cook it up withont haking, thongh
I did that also after some time.—But to return to my
Jonrnal.
I worked excessively hard these three or fonr months,
to get my wall done; and on the 14th of April I closed
it up, contriving to get into it, not by a door, but over
the wall, by a ladder, that there might be no sigu on
the ontside of my hahitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up with
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down in the iuside: this was a complete en-
closure to me; for within I had room enongh, and no-
thing conld come at me from withont, unless it conld
first monnt my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had
almost all my labonr overthrown at once, and myself
killed ; the case was tbus:—As I was busy in the in-
side of it, behind my tent just at the entrance into my
cave, I was terribly frightened with a most dreadful
surprising thing indeed; for all on a sndden, I found
the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my
cave, and from the edge of the hill over my head, and
two of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a
frightful manner. I was heartily scared; but thought
nothing of what really was the canse, only thinking that
the top of my cave was falling in, as some of it had done
before: and for fear I shonld be buried in it, I ran for-
ward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there
neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the
hill, which I expected might roll down upon me, I had
no sooner stepped down upon the finn gronnd than I
flainly saw it was a terrible earthquake: for the gronnd
stood on shook three times at abont eight minutes dis-
tance, with three such shocks as wonld have overturned
the strongest building that conld be supposed to have
stood on the earth; and a great piece of the top of a
rock, which stood abont half a mile from me, next the
sea, fell down with such a terrible noise as I never
heard in all my life. I perceived also that the very sea
was pat into a violent motion by it; and I believe the
shocks wet o stronger under the water than on the island.
I was BO much amazed with the thing itself (having
never felt the like, nor disconrsed with any one that
had), that I was like one dead or stupified; and the mo*
tion of the earth made my stomach sick, like one that
was tossed at sea: but the noise of the falling of the
rock awaked me, as it were, and ronsing me from the
stapified condition I was in, filled me with horror; and
I thonght of nothing bnt the hill falling upon my tent
and my honsehold goods, and burying all at once; this
sunk my very sonl within me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for
some time, I began to take conrage; yet I had not heart
enongh to go over my wall again, for fear of being bu-
ried alive, hat sat still upon the gronnd greatly cast
down and discousolate, not knowing what to do. Alt
this while I had not the least serions religions thonght,
nothing but the common Lord have mercy upon me! and
when it was over, that went away too.
While I sat tbus, I fonnd the air overcast, and grow
clondy, as if it wonld rain; and soon after the wind
rose by little and little, so that in less than half an honr
it blew a most dreadful burricane: the sea was all on a
sndden covered with foam and froth; the shore was
covered with a breach of the water; the trees were
torn up by the roots; and a terrible storm it was. This
held abont three honrs, and then began to ahate; and
in two honrs more it was quite calm, and began to rain
very hard. All this while I sat upon the gronnd, very
much terrified and dejected; when on a sndden it came
into my thonghts, that these winds and rain being the
cousequence of the earthquake, the earthquake itself
was spent and over, and I might venture into my cave
again. With this thonght my spirits began to revive;
and the rain also helping to persuade me, I went in and
sat dmvu in my tent; but the rain was so violent that
my tent was ready to be beaten down with it, and I was
forced to get into my cave, thongh very much afraid
and uneasy, for fear it shonld fall on my head. This
violent rain forced me to a new work, viz. to cut a hole
through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the
water go ont, which wonld else have drowned my cave.
After l had been in my cave for some time, ami fonnd
no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I began to be
more composed. And now to support my spirits, which
indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store
and took a small sup of rum; which, however, I did
then, and always, very sparingly, knowing I conld have
no more when that was gone. It continued raining all
that night, and great part of the next day, so that I
conld not stir abroad: hat my mind being more com-
posed, I began to think of what I had best do; conclnd-
ing, that if the island was subject to these earthquakes,
there wonld be no living for me in a cave, but I must
cousider of building me some little but in an open place,
which I might surronnd with a wall as I had done here,
and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men:
for if I staid where I was, I shonld certainly one time
or other be buried alive.
With these thonghts, I resolved to remove my tent
from the place where it now stood, beingjust under the
hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it shonld be
shaken again, wonld certainly fall upon my tent. I spent
the two next days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in
contriving where and now to remove my hahitation.
The fear of being swallowed alive affected me so that
I never slept in quiet; and yet the appreheusion of
lying abroad withont any fence was almost equal to it:
bat still, when I looked abont, and saw how every thing
was put in order, how pleasantly I was concealed, and
how safe from danger, it made me very loath to remove.
In the mean time it occurred to me that it wonld re-
quire a vast deal of time for me to do this; and that I
mast be contented to run the risk where I was till I had
formed a convenient camp, and secured it so as to re-
move to it. With this conclusion I composed myself
for a time; and resolved that I wonld go to work with
all speed to build me a wall with piles and cables, &c.
in a circle as before, and set up my tent in it when it
•was finished; but that I wonld venture to stay where
I was till it was ready, and fit to remove to. This was
the 21st.
April £2. The next morning I began to cousider of
meaus to put this measure into execution; but I was at
a great loss abont the tools. I had three large axes,
and abundance ofhatchets (I'or we carried the hatchets
for traffic with the Indiaus); hat with much chopping
and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of
notches, and dull: and thongh I had a grindstone, I
conld not turn it and grind my tools too. This cansed
me as much thonght as a statesman wonld have bestow-
ed upon a grand point of polities, or a jndge upon the
life and death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel
with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have
both my hands at liberty. •
Note. I had never seen any such thing in England, or
at least not to take notice how it was done, thongh since
I have observed it is very common there: besides that,
my grindstone was very large and heavy. This machine
cost me a full week's work to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grind-
stone performing very well.
April 30. Having perceived that my bread had been
low a great while, I now took a survey of it, and re-
duced myself to one hiscuit-cake a day, which made
my heart very heavy.
May 1. In the morning, looking toward the sea-
side, the tide being low, I saw something lie on the
shore higger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask:
when I came to it, I fonnd a small harrel, and two or
three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were dri-
ven on shore by the late burricane; and looking to-
wards the wreck itself, I thonght it seemed to lie higher
ont of the water than it used to do. I examined the
harrel that was driven on shore, and soon fonnd it was
a harrel of guupowder; but it had taken water, and
the powder was caked as hard as a stone: however, I
rolled it farther on the shore for the present, and went
on upon the sands, as near as I conld to the wreck of
the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship I fonnd it strangely •
removed. The forecastle, which lay before buried in
sand, was heaved up at least six feet: and the stern
(which was broke to pieces and parted from the rest by
the force of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging
of her), was kissed as it were up, and cast on one side:
ninl the sand was thrown so hii'.ii on that side next her
stern, that I conld now walk quite up to her when the
tide was ont; whereas there was a great piece of water
before, so that I conld not come within a qnarter of a
mile of the wreck withont swimming. I was surprised
with this at first, but soon conclnded it must be done
by the earthquake; and as by this violence the ship
was more broke open than formerly, so many things
came daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, and
which the winds and water rolled by degrees to the
land.
This wholly diverted my thonghts from the desigu of
removing my hahitation; and I busied myself mightily,
that day especially, in searching whether I conld make
any way into the ship: but I found nothing was to be
expected of that kind, for all the iuside of the ship was
choked up with sand. However, as I had learned not
to despair of anything, I resolved to pull every thing
to pieces that I conld of the ship, concluding that every
thing I conld get from her wonld be of some use or
other to me.
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a
beam throngh, which I thonght held some of the upper
part or quarter deck together; and when I had cut it
throngh, I cleared away the sand as well as I conld
from the side which lay highest; but the tide coming
in, I was obliged to give over for that time.
May 4. I went a fishing, but canght not one fish that
I Hurst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when just
going to leave off I canght a yonng dolphin. I had
made me a long tine of some ropeyarn, but I had no
hooks; yet I frequently canght fish enongh, as much
as I cared to eat; all which I dried in the sun, and ate
them dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck: cut another beam
asunder, and bronght three great fir planks off from the
decks; which I tied together, and made swim on shore
when the tide of flood came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck; got several iron
bolts ont of her, and other pieces of iron work; work-
ed very hard, and came home very much tired, and had
thonghts of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but not with an
intent to work: but found the weight of the wreck had
broke itself down, the beams being cut; that several
pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose; and the iuside
of the hold lay so open that I conld see into it; but al-
most full of water and sand.
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow
to wrench ap the deck, which lay now quite clear of
the water and sand. I wrenched up two planks, and
bronght them on shore also with the tide. I left the
iron crow in the wreck for next day.
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt several
casks, nnd loosened them with the crow, hat conld not
break them up. I felt also a roll of English lead, and
conld stir it; but it was too heavy to remove.
May 10—14. Went every day to the wreck; and
got a great many pieces of timber and boards, or plank,
and two or three bundred weight of iron.
May 15- I carried two hatchets, to try if I conld not
cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placmg the edge of
one hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it
lay abont a foot and a half in the water, I conld not
make any blow to drive the hatchet,
May 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water;
but I staid so long in the woods, to get pigeous for
food, that the tide prevented my going to tlie wreck
that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore, at a great distance, two miles off me, but resolv-
ed to see \vhat they were, and fonnd it was a piece of
the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.
May 24- Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck; and with hard labonr I loosened some things so
much with the crow, that the first blowing tide several
casks floated ont, and two of the seamen s chests: but
the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land
that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, which
had some Brazil pork in it; but the salt water and the
sand had spoiled it. I continued this work every day
to the 15th of June, except the time necessary to get
food; which I always appointed, during this part of my
employment, to he when the tide was up, that I might
be ready when it was ebhed ont: and by this time I
had gotten timber, and plank, and iron-work, enongh
to have built a good boat, if I had known how: and I
also got at several times, and in several pieces, near one
bundred weight of the sheet lead.
June 16. Going down to the seaside, I found a large
tortoise, or turtle. This was the first 1 had seen, which,
it seems, was only my misfortune, not any defect of the
place, or scarcity; for had I happened to he on the
other side of the island, I might have had bundreds of
them every day, as I fonnd afterwards; but perhaps had
paid dear enongh for them.
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in
her threescore eggs: and her flesh was to UK-, at that
time, the most savonry and pleasant that I ever tasted
in in \ life; having had no flesh but of goats and fowls,
since I landed in this horrid place.
June 13. Rained all that day, and I staid within.
I thonght at this time the rain fcit cold, and I was
somewhat chilly, which I knew was not usual in that
latitnde.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold.
June 20. No rest all night; violent paius in my
head, and feverish.
June 21. Very ill; frightened almost to death with
the appreheusious of my sad condition, to be sick, and
no help: prated to God, for the first time since the
storm off Hull; but scarce knew what I said, or whv,
my thonghts being all confused.
June 22-. A. little better; but under dreadful appre-
heusious of sickness.
June 23. Very had again; cold and shivering, and
then a violent headach. <>
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An ague very violent: the fit held meseveu
honrs; cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took
my gun, but fonnd myself very weak: however I killed
a she goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and
VOL. i. «
broiled some of it, and ate. I wonld fain have stewed
it, and made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay abed
all d;i\, and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to
perish for thirst;-but so weak I had not strength to
stand up, or to get myself any water to drink. Prayed
to God again, but was lightheaded: and when I was not,
I was so iguorant that I knew not what to say; only lay
and cried, "Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity me!
Lord, have mercy upon me!" I suppose I did nothing
else for two or three hours; till the fit wearing off, I
fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night.
When I awoke, I fonnd myself much refreshed, but
weak, and exceeding thirsty: however, as i had no
water in my whole hahitation, I was forced to lie till
morning, and went to sleep again. I n this second sleep
I had this terrible dream: I thonght that I was sitting
on the gronnd on the ontside of my wall, where I sat
when the storm blew after the earthquake; and that I
saw a mao descend from a great black clond, in a bright
flame of fire, and light upon the gronnd: he was all
over as bright as a flame, so that I conld but just bear
to look towards him: his conntenance was most inex-
pressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe:
when he stepped upon the gronnd with his feet, I
thonght the earth trembled, just as it had done before
is. the earthquake; and all the air looked, to my appre-
heusion, as if it had been filled with flashes of fire. He
had no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved for-
ward towards me, with a Ion;:' spear or weapon in his
hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising gronnd,
at some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so
terrible that it is impossible to express the terror of it:
all thatl can say I understood was this: "Seeing all
these things have not bronght thee to repentance, now
thon shalt die," at which words I thonght he lifted up
the spear that was in his hand to kill me.
No one that shall ever read this acconnt, will expect
that I shonld be able to describe the horrors of my
sonl at this terrible vision; I mean, that even while it
was a dream, I even dreamed of those horrors; nor is
it any uioro possible to describe the impression that re-
mained upon my mmd when I awaked, mul foand it was
but a dream.
I had, alas! DO divine knowledge: what I had re-
ceived by tliu good iustruction of my father was then
worn ont, by an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of
seafaring wickedness, and a coustant conversation with
cone but such as were, tike myself, wicked and pro-
fane to the last degree. I do not remember that I had,
in all that time, one thonght that so much as tended
either to looking upward towards God, or inward to-
wards a reflection upon my own ways: but a certain
stupidity of sonl, withont desire of good, or couscions-
ness of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me; and I was
all that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature
among onr common sailors, can be supposed to be; not
having tho least seuse, either of the fear of God In dan-
ger, or of thankfulness to him in deliverances.
In the relating what is already passed of my storv, fii is
will be the more easily believed, when I shall add, that
throngh all the variety of miseries that had to this day
befallen me, I never had so much as one thonght of its
being the hand of God, or that it was a just punishment
for my tan; either my rebellions behavionr agaiust my
father, or my present sius, which were great, or even as
a punishment for the general conrse of my wicked life.
When 1 was on the desperate expedition on the desert
shores of Africa, I never had so much as one thought of
what wonld become of me; or one wish to God to di-
rect me whither I shonld go, or to keep me from the
danger which apparently surronnded me, as well from
voracions creatures as cruel savages: but I was quite
thonghtless of a God or a Providence; acted like a
mere brute, from the principles of nature, and by the
dictates of common seuse only; and indeed hardly that.
When I was delivered and taken up at sea by the Por-
tuguese captam, well used, and dealt with justly and
hononrably, as well as charitably, I had not the least
thankfulness in my thonghts. When, again, I was
shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning, on
this island, I was as far from remurse, or looking on it
as a jndgment: I only said to myself often, that I wan an
unfortunate dog, uud boru to be always miserable.
It is true, when I first got on shore hero, and fonnd
all my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was
surprised with a kind of eestasy, and some trausports of
soal, which, had the grace of God assisted, migbt have
come up to true thankfulness; but it ended where it
began, in a mere common flight of joy, or, as I may say,
being glad I was alive, withont the least reflection upon
the distinguished goodness of the hand which had pre-
served me, and had singled me ont to be preserved,
when all the rest were destroyed, or an inquiry why
Providence had been tbus merciful to me : just the
same common sort of joy which seamen generally have,
after they are got safe a.-hori; from a shipwreck; which
they drown ail in the next bowl of punch, and forget
almost as soon as it is over: and all the rest of my life
was like it. Even when I was afterwards, on due con-
sideration, made seusible of my condition,—how I was
east on this dreadful place, ont of the reach of human
kind, ont of all hope of relief, or prospect of redemp-
tion,—as soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and
that I shonld not starve and perish for hanger, all the
seuse of my affliction wore off, and I began to be very
easy, applied myself to the works proper for my preser-
vation and supply, and was far enongh from being af-
flicted at my condition as a jndgment from Heaven, or
as the hand of God agaiust me: these were thonghts
which very seldom entered into my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my Jonr-
nal, had, at first, some little influence upon me, and
began to affect me with serionsuess, as long as I thonght
it had something miraculons in it; but as soon as that
part of the thonght was removed, all the impression
which was raised from it wore off also, as I have noted
already. Even the earthquake, thongh nothing conld
be more terrible in its nature, or more immediately di-
recting to the invisible Power which alone directs such
things, yet, no sooner was Ihe fright over, but the im-
pression it had made went off also. I had no more
seuse of God, or his jndgments, much less of the present
affliction of my circumstances being from his hand, than
if I had been in the most prosperons condition of life.
But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisure view
of the miseries of death came to place itself before me;
when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a
strong distemper, and nature was exhansted with the
violence of the fever; couscience, that had slept so
long, began to awake; and I reproached myself with
m v past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon
wickedness, provoked I he justice of God to lay me
under uncommon strokes, and to deal with me m so
vindictive a manner. These reflectious oppressed me
for the second or third day of my distemper; and in the
violence as well of the fever as of the dreadful re-
proaches of my couscience, extorted from me some
words like praying to God: thongh I cannot say it was
a prayer attended either with desires or with hopes; it
was rather the voice of mere fright and distress. My
thonghts were confused; the convictious great upon my
mind; and the horror of dying in such a miserable con-
dition raised vaponrs in my head with the mere appre-
heusion: and in these hurries of my sonl, I knew not
what my tongue might express: but it was rather ex-
clamation, such as, "Lord, what a miserable creature
am I! If I shonld be sick, I shall certainly die for want
of help; and what will become of me?" Then the tears
burst ont of my eyes, and I conld say no more for a
good while. In this interval, the good advice of my
father came to my mind, and presently his prediction,
which I mentioned at the begmning of this story, viz.
that if I did take this foolish step, God wonld not bless
me; and I shonld have leisure hereafter to reflect upon
having neglected his conusel, when there might bo
none to assist in my recovery. "Now," said I, alond,
"my dear father's words are come to pass; God's jus-
tice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear
me. I rejected the voice of Providence, which had
mercifully put me in a station of life wherein I might
have been happy and easy; but I wonld neither see it
myself, nor learn from my parents to know the blessing
of it. I left them to monrn over my folly; and now I
am left to monrn under the cousequences of it: I re-
fused their help and assistance who wonld have pushed
me in the world, and wonld have made every thing
easy to me; and now I have difliculties to struggle
with too great for even nature itself to support; and
86
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
no assistance, no comfort, no advice." Then I cried
ont, "Lord, be my help, for I am in great distress."
This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had
made for many years. But I return to my Jonrnal.
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the
sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up;
and thongh the fright and terror of my dream was very
great, yet I cousidered that the fit of the ague wonld
return again the next day, and now was my time to get
something to refresh and support myself when I shonld
be ill. The first thing I did was to fill a large square
case-bottle with water; and set it upon my table, in
reach of my bed: and to take off the chill or aguish
disposition of the water, I put abont a quarter of a pint
of rum into it, and mixed them together. Then I got
me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the
coals, but conld eat very little. I walked abont; but
was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted
under a seuse of my miserable condition, dreading the
return of my distemper the next day. At night, I made
my supper of three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted
in the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the shell: and this
was the first hit of meat I had ever asked God's bless-
ing to, as I conld remember, in my whole life. After I
had eaten, I tried to walk; but fonnd myself so weak
that I conld hardly carry the gun (for I never went ont
withont that); so I went but a little way, and sat down

upon the gronnd, looking ont upon the sea, which was
just before me, and very calm and smooth. As I sat
here, some soch thonghts as these occurred to me:
What is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so
much? Whence is it produced? And what am I, and
all the other creatures, wild and tame, buman and
brutal? Whence are we? Surely, we are all made by
some secret power, who formed the earth and sea, the
air and sky. And who is that? Then it followed most
naturally,—It is God that has made all. Well, but
then, it came on strangely, if God has made all these
things, he guides and goverus them all, and all things
that concern them; for the power that conld make all
things must certainly have power to guide and direct
them: if so, nothing can happen, in the great circuit of
his works, either withont his knowledge or appoint-
ment.
And if nothing happeus withont his knowledge, he
knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful condition:
and if nothing happeus withont his appointment, he has
appointed all this to befall me. Nothing occurred to
my thonght to contradict any of these conclusious: and
therefore it rested upon me with the greatest force,
that it must needs be that God had appointed all this to
befall me; that I was bronght to this miserable circum-
stance by his direction, he having the sole power, not
of me only, but of every thingthat happeus inthe world.
Immediately it followed, Why hasGod done this tome?
What have I done to be tbus used? My couscience
presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blas-
phemed; and methonght it spoke to me like a voice,
"Wretch! dost than ask what thon hast done? Look
hack upon a dreadful misspent life, and ask thyself,
what thon hast not done? Ask, why is it that thon wert
not long ago destroyed? Why wert thon not drowned
in Yarmouth Roads; killed in the fight when the ship
was faken by the Sallee man of war; devonred by the
wild beasts on the coast of Africa; or drowned here,
when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thon ask
what thon hast done?" I was struck dumb with these
reflectious, as one astonished, and had not a word to
say; no, not to auswer to myself; and, rising up pen-
sive and sad, walked back to my retreat, and went over
mvwall, as if Ihad been going to bed : but my thonghts
were sadly disturbed, and I had uo inclination to sleep;
so I sat down in the chair and lighted my lamp, for it
began to be dark. Now, as the appreheusion of the
return of my distemper terrified me very much, it oc-
curred to my thonght, that the Braziliaus take no phy-
sic but their tohacco for almost all distempers; and I
had a piece of a roll of tohacco in one of the chests,
which was qnitc cured; and some also that was green,
and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven no donbt: for in this
chest I fonnd a cure both for sonl and body. I opened
the chest, and fonnd what I looked for, viz. the to-
hacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there too,
I took ont one of the Bibles which I mentioned before,
and which to this time I had not found leisure, or so
much as inclination, to look into. I say, I took it ont,
and bronght both that and the tohacco with me to the
table. What use to make of the tohacco I knew not,
as to my distemper, nor whether it was good for it or
not; but I tried several experiments with it, as if I
was resolved it shonld hit one way or other. I first
took a piece of the leaf, and chewed it in my month;
which, indeed, at first, almost stupified my brain; the
tohacco being green and strong, and such as I had not
been much used to. Then I took some and steeped it
an honr or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose
of it when I lav down: and, lastly, I burned some upon
a pan of coals, and held my nose close over the smoke
of it as long as I conld bear it; as well for the heat as
almost for suflocation. In the interval of this opera-
tion, I took up the Bible, and began to read; but my
head was too much disturbed with the tohacco to bear
reading, at least at that time; only having opened the
book casually, the first words that occurred to me were
these: "Call on me in the day of tronble, and I will
deliver thee, and thon shall glorify me/' These words
were very apt to my case; and made some impression
upon my thonghts at the time of readmg them, thongh
not so much as they did afterwards; for, as for being
delivered, the word had uo sonnd, as I may say, to me;
the thing was so remote, so impossible in my apprehen-
sion of things, that, as tho children of Israel said when
they were promised Uesh to eal, "Can God spread a
table in the wilderness?" so I began to say, Can even
God himself deliver me from this place? And as it was
not for many years that any hopes appeared, this pre-
vailed very often upon my thonghts: but, however, the
words made a great impression upon me, and I mused
upon them very often. It now grew late; and the to-
bacco had, as I said, dozed my head so much that I
inclined to sleep: so I left my lamp burning in the cavet
lest I shonld want any thing in the night, and went to
bed. But before I lay down, I did what I never had
done in all my life; I kneeled down, and prayed to God
to fulfil the promise to me, that if I called upon him in
the day of tronble, he wonld deliver me. After my
broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum
in which I had steeped the tohacco; which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco that indeed I conld
scarce get it down: immediately upon this I went to
bed. I fonnd presently the rum flew up into my head
violently; but I fell into a sonnd sleep, and waked no
more till, by the sun, it must necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day: nay, to this honr
I am partly of opinion, that I slept all the next day and
night, and till almost three the day after; for otherwise
I know not how I shonld lose a day ont of my reckon-
ing in the days of the week, as it appeared some years
after I had done; for if I had lost it by crossing and
recrossing the Line, I shonld have lost more than one
day; but certainly I lost a day in my acconnt, and never
knew which way. Be that, however, one way or the
other, when I awaked, I found myself exceedingly re-
freshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful: when I got
up, I was stronger than I was the day before, and my
stomach better, for I was bungry; and, in short, I had
no fit the next day, but continued much altered for the
better. This was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day, of conrse; and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too far.
I killed a seafowl or two, something like a brand goose,
and bronght them home; but was not very forward to
eat them; so I ate some more of the turtle's eggs, which
were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine,
which I had supposed did me good the day before, viz.
the tohacco steeped in rum; only I did not take so
much as before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold
my head over the smoke: however, I was not so well
the next day, which was the 1st of July, as I hoped I
shonld have been; for I had a little of the cold fit, but
it was not much.
Jnly 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways;
and dosed myself with it as at first, and donbled the
quantity which I drank.
July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, thongh I
did not recover my full strength for some weeks after.
While I was tbus gathering strength, my thoughts ran
exceedingly upon this scripture, "I will deliver thee;"
and the impossihility of my deliverance lay much upon
my mind, in har of my ever expecting it: but as I was
disconraging myself with such thoughts, it occurred
to my mind that I pored so much upon my deliverance
from the main affliction that I disregarded the deliver-
ance I had received; and I was, as it were, made to ask
myself such questious as these, viz. Have I not been
delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness; from
the most distressed condition that conld be, and that
was so frightful to me? and what notice have I taken
of it? Have I done my part? God has delivered me,
but I have not glorified him; that is to say, I have not
owned and been thankful for that as a deliverance:
and bow can I expect a-greater deliverance? This
tonched my heart very much; and immediately I knelt
down, and gave God thanks alond for my recovery from
my sickness.
July 4. In the morning I took the Bible; and be-
ginning at the New Testament, I began serionsly to
read it; and imposed upon myself to read awhile every
morning and every night; not hinding myself to the
number of chapters, but as long as my thonghts shonld
engage me. It was not long after I set serionsly to this
work, that I fonnd my heart more deeply and sincerely
affected with the wickedness of my past life. The im-
pression of my dream revived; and the words, "All
these things have not bronght thee to repentance/' ran
•erionsly in my thonghts. I was earnestly begging of
God to give ine repentance, when it happened provi-
dentially, the very same day, that reading the scripture,
J came to these words, "He is exalted a Prince and
a Savionr; to give repentance, and to give remission."
I threw down the book ; and with my heart as well as
my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of eestasy of
joy, I cried ont alond, '' Jesus, thon Son of David!
Jesus, thon exalted Prince and Savionr! give me re-
pentance!" This was the first time in all my life I conld
say, in the true seuse of the words, that I prayed; for
now I prayed with a seuse of my condition, and with a
true scripture view of hope, fonnded on the enconrage-
ment of the word of God: and from this time, I may
say, I began to have hope that God would bear me.
Now I began to coustrue the words mentioned above,
'' Call on me, and I will deliver thee/' in a different
sense from what I had ever done before; for then I had
no notion of any thing being called deliverance, but my
being delivered from the captivity I was in: for thongh
I was indeed at large in the place, yet the island was
certainly a prison to me, and that in the worst seuse
in the world. But now I learned to take it in another
seuse: now I looked hack upon my past life with such
horror, and my sius appeared so dreadful, that my sonl
songht nothing of God but deliverance from the load of
guilt that bore down all my comfort. As for my soli-
tary life, it was nothing: I did not so much as pray to
be delivered from it, or think of it; it was all of no
cousideration in comparison with this. And I add this
part here, to hint to whoever shall read it, that when-
ever they come to a true seuse of things, they will find
deliverance from sin a much greater blessing than de-
liverance from affliction. But, leaving this part, I
return to my Jonrnal.
My condition began now to be, thongh not less mi-
serable as to my way of living, yet much easier to my
mind: aiid my thonghts being directed, by coustantly
reading the Scripture and praying to God, to things of
a higher nature, I had a great deal of comfort within,
which, till now, I knew nothing of; also, as my health
and strength returned, I bestirred me to furnish myself
with every thing that I wanted, and make my way of
living as regular as I conld.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly em-
ployed in walking abont with my gun in my hand, a
little and a little at a time, as a man that was gathering
up his strength after a fit of sickness: for it is hardly to
be imagined how low I was, and to what weakness I
was reduced. The application which I made use of was
perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an
ague before: neither can I recommend it to any one to
practise, by this experiment: and thongh it did carry
off the fit, yet it rather contributed to weakening me;
for I had frequent convulsious in my nerves and limbs
for some time. I learned from it also this, in particular;
that being abroad in the rainy season was the most per-
nicions thing to my health that conld be, especially in
those raius which came attended with storms and burri-
canes of wind; for as the rain which came in the dry
season was almost always accompanied with such storms,
so I found that this rain was much more dangerons than
the rain which fell in September and October.
I had now been in this unhappy island above ten
months: all possihility of deliverance from this con-
dition seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I
firmly believed that no buman shape had ever set foot
upon that place. Having secured my hahitation, as
I thonght, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to
make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to see
what other productious I might find, which I yet knew
nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a
more particular survey of the island itself. I went op
the creek first, where, as I hinted, I bronght my rafts
on shore. I fonnd, after I came abont two miles up,
that the tide did not flow any higher; and that it was
no more than a little brook of running water, very fresh
and good: but this being the dry season, there was
hardly any water in some parts of it; at least uot any
stream. On the hanks of this brook I fonnd many
pleasant savannahs or meadows, plain, smooth, and co-
vered with grass: and on the rising parts of them, next
to the higher gronnds (where the water as it might be
supposed never overflowed), I fonnd a great deal of
tobacco, green, and growing to a very great and strong
stalk: and there were divers other plants, which I had
no knowledge of, or understanding abont, and that
might, perhaps have virtues of their own, which I
conld not find ont. I searched for the cassava root,
which the Indiaus in all that climate make their bread
of, but I could find none. I saw large plants of aloes,
hat did not understand them. I saw several sugar-
canes, but wild ; and, for want of cultivation, imper-
fect. I contented myself with these discoveries for this
•time; and came hack, musing with myself what coarse
I might take to know the virtue and goodness of any
of the fruits or plants which I shonld discover; but
conld bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had
made so little observation while I was in the Brazils,
that I knew little of the plants in the field; at least,
very little that might serve me to any purpose now in
my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again; and after going something farther than I hail
gone the day before, I fonnd the brook and the savan-
nahs begin to cease, and the conntry become more
woody than before. In this part I fonnd different fruits;
and particularly I fonnd melous upon the gronnd, in
great abundance, and grapes upon the trees: the vines
mdeed, had spread over the trees, and the clusters of
grapes were now just in their prime, very ripe and rich.
This was a surprising discovery, and I was exceed-
ingly glad of them, but I was warned by my experience
to eat sparingly of them; remembering that when I was
ashore m Barbary, the eating of grapes killed several
of onr Englishmen, who were slaves there, by throwing
them into fluxes and fevers. I fonnd, however, an ex-
cellent use for these grapes; and that was, to cure or
dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or
raisius are kept; which I thonght wonld be (as indeed
they were) as wholesome and as agreeable to eat, when
no grapes were to be had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not hack to
my habitation; which, by the way, was the first night
as I might Bay I had Iain from home. At night, I took
my first contrivance, and got up into a tree, where I
slept well, and the next morning proceeded on my dis-
covery, traveling near fonr miles, as I might jndge by
the length of the valley; keeping still due north, with
a ridge of hills on the sonth and north sides of me. At
the end of this march I came to an opening, where the
conntry seemed to descend to the west; and a little
spring of fresh water, which issued ont of the side of
the hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and
the conntry appeared so fresh, so green, so flonrishing,
every thing being in a coustant verdure, or flourish of
spring, that it looked like a planted garden. I descend-
ed a little on the side of that delicions vale, surveying
it with a secret kind of pleasure (thongh mixed with
other afflicting thonghts), to think that this was all my
own; that I was king and lord of all this conntry inde-
feasibly, and had a right of possession; and, if I conld
convey it, I might have it in inheritance as completely
as any lord of a manor in England. I saw here abun-
dance of cocoa trees, and orange, lemon, and citron
trees, but all wild, and very few bearing nny fruit; at
least not then. However, the green limes that I gather-
ed were not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome;
and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which
made it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.
I fonnd now I had business enongh to gather anil carry
home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of
grapes as limes and lemous to furnish myself for the
wet season, which l knew was approaching. In order
to this I gathered a great heap of grapes in one place,
a lesser heap in another place; and a great parcel of
limes and melous in another place; and taking a few of
each with me, I traveled homeward; and resolved to
come again, and bring a hag or sack, or what I conld
make to carry the rest home. Accordingly, having
spent three days in this jonrney, I came home (so I
must now call my tent and my cave): but before I got
thither, the grapes were spoiled; the richness of the
fruits, and the weight of the juice, having broken and
bruised them, they were good for little or nothing ; as to
the limos, they were good, but I could bring only a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having
made me two small hags to bring home my harvest;
but I was surprised, when, coming to mv heap of
grapes, which were so rich and fme when I gathered
them, I fonnd them all spread aboiU, trod to pieces,
and dragged abont, some here, some there, and abun-
dance eaten and devonred. By this I conclnded thero
were some wild creatures thereabonts which had done
this, but what they were I knew not. However, as I
fonnd there was no laying them up in heaps, and no
carrying them away in a sack; but that one way they
wonld be destroyed, and the other way they wonld be
crushed with their own weight; I took another conrse:
I then gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and
hung them upon the ont branches of the trees, that they
might cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes
and lemons, I carried as many hack as I conld well
stand under.
When I came home from this jonrney, I contemplated
with great pleasure the fruitfuluess of that valley, and
the pleasantness of the situation; the security from
storms on that side; the water and the wood: and con-
clnded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode
in, which was by far the worst part of the country.
Upon the whole, I began to cousider of removing my
hahitation, and to loojt ont for a place equally safe as
where I was now situate, if possible, in that pleasant
fruitful part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head; and I was exceed-
ing fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the
place tempting me: but when I came to a nearer view
of it, I cousidered that I was now by the seaside, where
it was at least possible that somethmg might happen to
my advantage, and, by the same ill fate that bronght me
hither, might bring some other unhappy wretches to
the same place; and thongh it was scarce prohable that
any such thing shonld ever happen, yet to enclose my-
self among the hills and woods in the centre of the
islai.d, was to anticipate my bondage, and to render
such an aftair not only improbable, but impossible; and
that therefore I onght not by any meaus to remove.
However, I was »u enamonred of this place, that I
spent much of my time there for the whole remaining
part of the month of July; and thongh upon second
thonghts I resolved, as above stated, not to remove;
yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and surronnded
it at a distance with a strong fence, being a donble
hedge, as high as I conld rcnc.h, well staked, and filled
between with brushwood. Here I lay very secure,
sometimes two or three nights together; always gomg
over it with a ladder as before: so that I fancied now
I had my conntry and my seacoast honse. This work
took me up till the beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to en-
joy my labonr, when the raius came on, and made me
stick close to my first hahitation: for thongh I had
made a tent like the other, with a piece of sail, and
spread it very well, yet I had not tin; shelter of a hill to
keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat
into when the raius were extraordinary.
Abont the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The
3d of August, I fonnd the grapes I had bung up were
perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good raisius
of the sun: so I began to take them down from the
trees; and it was very happy that I did so, as the raius
which followed wonld have spoiled them, and I shonld
have lost the best part of my winter food; for I had
above two bundred large bunches of them. No sooner
had I taken them all down, and carried most of them
home to my cave, but it began to rain: and from hence,
which was the 14th of August, it rained more or less
every day till the middle of October; and sometimes
so violently that I conld not stir ont of my cave for
several days.
In this season I was much surprised with the increase
of my family. I had been concerned for the loss of one
of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thonght,
had been dead; and I heard no more of her, till, to my
astonishment, she came home with three kitteus. This
was the more strange to me, becanse, abont the end of
August, thongh I had killed a wild cat as I called it,
with my gun, yet I thonght it was quite a different kind
from onr European cats: yet the yonng cats were the
same kind of honse-breed as the old one; and both of
my cats being- females, I thonght it verv strange. But
from these three, I afterwards came to be so pestered
with cats, that I was forced to kill them like vermin,
or \vikl beasts, and to drive them from m\ honse'as
much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the S!6t!i, incessant rain;
sn that I conld not stir, and was now very careful not
to he much wet. In this confinement I began to be
straitened for food; but venturing ont once or twice,
I one day killed a goat, and the last day, which was the
26th, fonnd a very large tortoise, which was a treat to
me. My food was now regulated tbus: I ate a bunch
of raisius for my breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh,
or of the turtle broiled for my dinner (for, to my great
misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew any thing);
and two or three of the turtle's eggs for my supper.
Daring ihis confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three honrs at enlarging my cave,
and by degrees worked it on towards one side, till I
came to the ontside of the hilt; and made a door, or
way ont, which came beyond my fence or wall: and so
I came in and ont this way. But I was not perfectly
easy at lying so open: for as I had managed myself
before, I was in a perfect enclosure; whereas now, I
thonght I lay exposed; and yet I conld not perceive
that there was any living thing to fear, the higgest crea-
ture that I had yet seen upon the island being a goat.
September 30. I was now come to the unhappy an-
niversary of my landing. I cast up the notches on my
post, and fonnd I had been on shore three bundred and
sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, set-
ting it apart for religions exercise, prostrating myself
on the gronnd with the most serions bumiliation, con-
fessing my sius to God, acknowledging his righteons
jndgments upon me, and praying to him to have mercy
on me throngh Jesus Christ; and havingnot tasted the
least refreshment for twelve honrs, even till the going
down of the sun, I then ate a hiscuit and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began
it. I had all this time observed no sabhath-day; for as
at first I had no seuse of religion upon my mind, I had,
VOL. r. H
after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks, by
making a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-
day, and so did not really know what any of the days
were: but now having cast up the days as above, I
fonnd I had been there a year, so I divided it into
weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a sabbath:
thongh I fonnd, at the end of my acconnt, I had lost a
day or two in my reckoning. A little after this, my
ink beginning to fail me, I contented mjself to use i't
more sparingly; and to write down only the most re-
markable events of my life, withont continuing a daily
memorandum of other things.
The rainy season and the dry season began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so
as to provide for them accordingly; but I bonght all
my experience before I had it; and what I am going
to relate was one of the most disconraging experiments
that I had made at all.
I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of
harley and rice which I had so surprisingly fonnd
sprung up as I thonght of themselves. I believe there
were abont thirty stalks of rice, and abont twenty of
harley; and now I thonght it a proper time to sow it
after the raius; the sun being in its son them position,
going from me. Accordingly I dug a piece of gronnd,
as well as I conld with my wooden spade, and dividing
it into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was sow-
ing, it casually occurred to my thonghts that I wonld
not sow it all at first, becanse I did not know when was
the proper time for it; so I sowed abont two-thirds of
the seed, leaving abont a handful of each: and it was
a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not
one grain of what I sowed this time came to any thing;
fur the dry month following, and the earth having tbus
had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no moisture
to assist its growth, and never came up at all till the
wet season had come again, and then it grew as if it had
been but newly sown. Finding my first seed did not
grow, which i easily imagined was from the dronght, I
songht for a moister piece of gronnd to make another
trial in; and I dug up a piece of gronnd near my new-
bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a
little before the vernal equinox. This having the rainy
months of March and April to water it, sprung up very
pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but having
only part of the seed left, and not daring to sow all that
I had, I got but a small quantity at last, my whole crop
not amonnting to above half a peck of each kind. But
by this experiment I was made master of my business,
and knew exactly when was the proper time to sow;
and that I might expect two seed times and two har-
vests every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little dis-
covery, which was of ust to me afterwards. As soon
as the raius were over, and the weather began to settle,
which was abont the month of November, i made a
visit up the conntry to my bower; where, thongh I had
not been some months, \ et I fonnd all things just as I
left them. The circle or donble hedge that I had made
was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which I
had cut ont of some trees that grew thereabonts, were
all shot ont, and grown with long branches, as much as
a willow tree usually shoots the first year after lopping
its head; but I conld not tell what tree to call it that
these stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and yet
very well pleased, to see the yonng trees grow; and [
pruned them, and led them to grow as much alike as
I conld: and it is scarce credible how beantiful a figure
they grew into in three years; so that, though the
hedge made a circle of abont twenty-five yards in dia-
meter, yet the trees, for such I might now call them,
soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufficient
to lodge under all the dry season. This made me re-
solve to cut some more stakes, and make mo a hedge
like this, in a semicircle ronnd my wall (I mean that of
my first dwelling), which I did; and placing the trees
or stakes in a donble row, at abont eight yards dis-
tance from my first fence, they grew presently; and
were at first a fine cover to my hahitation, and after-
wards served for a defence also; as I shall observe in
its order.
I fonnd now that the seasous of the year might gene-
rally be divided, not into summer and winter, as in
Kurope, bat into the rainy seasous and ihe dry seasous,
which were generally tbus: From the middle of Fe-
bruary to the middle of April, rainy; the sun being
then on or near the equinox. From the middle of April
till the middle of August, dry ; the sun being then north
of the Line. From the middle of August till the middle
of October rainy; the sun being then come hack to the
Line. From the middle of October till the middle
of February, dry ; the sun being then to the sonth of
the Line.
The rainy seasous beld sometimes longer and-some-
times shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but this
was the general observation I made. After I had fonnd,
by experience, the ill cousequences of being abroad in
the rain, I took care to furnish myself with .pro visious
beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go ont: and
I sat within doors as much as possible during the wet
months. In this time I fonnd much employment, and
very suitable also to the time; for I fonnd great occa-
sion for many things which I had no way to furnish
myself with but by hard labonr and coustant applica-
tion: particularly, I tried many ways to make m vself a
hasket; but all the twigs I conld get for the purpose
proved so brittle that they wonld do nothing-. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I
was a boy, I used to take great delight in standing at a
hasket-maker's in the town where my father lived, to
see them make their wicker ware; and being, as boys
usually are, very officions to help, and a great observer
of the manner how they worked those things, and
sometimes lending a hand, I had by these meaus full
knowledge of the methods of it, so that I wanted no-
thing but the materials; when it came into my mind,
that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes
that grew might possibly be as tongh as the sallows,
willows, and osiers, in England; I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day I went to my conntry honse,
as I called it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs,
I fonnd them to my purpose as much as I conld desire:
wherenpon I came the next time prepared with a hat-
chet to cut down a quantity, which i Soon fonnd, for
there was great plenty of them. These T set up to dry
within my circle or hedge; and when they were fit for
101
use, I carried them to my cave: and here, during the
next season, I employed myself in making, as well as I

coald, several haskets, both to carry earth, or to carry
or lay op any thing as I had occasion for. Thongh I
did not fmish them very handsomely, yet I made them
sufliciently serviceable for my purpose: and tbus after-
wards I took care never to be withont them; and as my
wicker ware decayed, I made more; especially strong
deep haskets, to place my corn in, iustead of sacks,
when I shonld come to have any quantity of it.
Having mastered this difliculty, and employed a
world of time abont it, I bestirred myself to see, if
possible, how to supply two other wants. I had no
vessel to hold anything that was liquid, except two
rnnlets, which were almost full of rum ; and some glass
bottles, some of the common size, and others (which
were case bottles) square, for the holding of waters,
spirits, &c. I had not so much as a pot to boil any-
thing; except a great kettle which I saved ont of the
ship, and which was too hig for such use as I desired
it, viz. to make broth, and stew a hit of meat by itself.
The second thing I wonld fain have had was a tohacco-
pipe, but it was impossible for me to make one; how-
ever, I fonnd a contrivance for that too at last. I em-
ployed myself in planting my second row of stakes or
piles, and also in this wicker working, all the summer
or dry season; when another business took me up more
time than it conld be imagined I conld spare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see
the whole island; and thatl had traveled up the brook,
and so on to where I had built my bower, and where I
had an opening quite to the sea, on the other side of
the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to the
seashore, on that side: so taking my gun, a hatchet,
and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot
than usual ; with two hiscuit-cakes, and a great hunch
of raisius in my ponch for my store; I began my jonr-
ney. When I had passed the vale where my bower
stood, as above, I came within view of the sea, to the
west; and it being a very clear day, I fairly descried
land, whether an island or continent I conld not tell;
but it lay very high, extending from VV. to W.S.VV. at
a very great distance; by my guess it conld not be less
than fifteen or twenty leagues off.
I conld not tell what part of the world this might be;
otherwise than that I knew it must be part of America;
and, as I conclnded by all my observatious, must be
near the Spanish dominious: and perhaps was all in-
hahited by savages, where, if I shonld have landed, I
had been in a worse condition than I was now. I there-
fore acquiesced in the dispositious of Providence,
which I began now to own and to believe ordered
every thing for the best; I say, I quieted my mind
with this, and left off afflicting myself with fruitless
wishes of being there.
Besides, after some panse upon this aflair, I cousi-
dered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I shonld
certainly, one time or other, see some vessel pass or
repass one way or other; but if not, then it was the
savage coast between the Spanish conntry and the
Brazils, whose inhahitants are indeed the worst of sa-
vages; for they are cannihals, or men-eaters, and fail
not to murder and devonr all buman beings that fall
into their hands.
With these cousideratious, walking very leisurely
forward, I fonnd this side of the island, where I now
was, much pleasanter than mine; the open or savannah
fields sweetly adorned with flowers and grass, and full
of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots; and
fain wonld have canght one, if possible, to have kept
it to bo tame, and tanght it to speak to me. I did,
after taking some paius, catch a yonng parrot; for I
knocked it down with a stick, and having recovered it,
I bronght it home: but it was some years before I
conld made him speak; however, at last I tanght him
to call me by my name very familiarly. But the ac-
cident that followed, thongh it be a trifle, will be very
diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly amused with this joarney. I
fonnd in the low gronnds hares, as I thonght them to
be, and foxes; but they differed greatly from all the
other kinds I had met with, nor conld I satisfy myself
to eat them, thongh I killed several. But I had no
need to be venturons: for I had no want offood, and of
that which was very good too; especially these three
sorts, via. goats, pigeous, and turtle, or tortoise. With
these, added to my grapes, Leadenhall market conld
not have furnished a table better than I, in proportion
to the company; and thongh my case was deplorable
euongh, yet I had great canse for thankfulness; as I
was not driven to any extremities for food, but had ra-
ther plenty, even to dainties.
I never traveled on this jonrney above two miles ont-
right in a day, or thereabonts; but I took so manyturns
and returus, to see what discoveries I conld make, that
I came weary enongh to the place where I resolved to
sit down for the night; and then I either reposed myself
in a tree, or surronnded myself with a row of stakes,
set upright in the gronnd, either from one tree to an-
other, or so as no wild creature conld come at me with-
ont waking me.
As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised to
see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the
island: for here indeed the shore was covered with in-
numerable turtles; whereas on the other side, I had
fonnd but three in a year and a half. Here was also an
infinite number of fowls of many kinds; some of which
I had seen, and some of which I had not seen before,
and many of them very good meat; but such as I knew
not the names of, except those called penguius.
I conld have shot as many as I pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot; and therefore had
more mind to kill a she goat if I conld, which I conld
better feed on. But though there were many goats
here, more than on my side the island, yet it was with
much more difliculty that I conld come near them,
the conntry being flat and even, and they saw me much
sooner than when I was upon a hill.
I confess this side of the conntry was much pleasanter
than mine; yet I had not the least inclination to re-
move; for as I was fixed in my hahitation, it became
natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was here
to be as it were upon a jonrney, and from home. How-
ever, I traveled along the seashore towards the east, I
suppose abont twelve miles; and then setting up a
great pole upon the shore for a mark, I conclnded I
wonld go home again; and that the next jonrney I took
shonld be on the other side of the island, east from my
dwelling, and so ronnd till I came to my post again:
of which in its place.
I took another way to come hack than that I went,
thinking I conld easily keep so much of the island in
my view, that I conlil not miss my first dwelling hy
viewing the conntrv, but I fonnd myself mistaken; for
heing come abont two or three miles, I fonnd my selt'
descended into a very large valley, but so surronnded
with hills, and those hills covered with wood, that I
conld not see which was my way by any direction but
that of the san, nor even then, unless I knew very well
the position of the sun at that time of the day. And it
happened, to my farther misfortune, that the weather
proved hazy for three or fonr days while I was in this
i alley; and not being able to see the sun, I wandered
abont very uncomfortable, and at last was obliged to
find ont the seaside, look for my post, and come hack
the same way I went; and then by easy jonrneys I
turned homeward, the weather being exceedingly hot,
and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other things
very heavy,
In this jonrney my dog surprised a yonng kid, and
seized upon it: and running to take hold of it, I canght
it, and saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind
to bring it home if I conld; for I had often been musing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two,
and so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply
me \vhcn my powder and shot shonld he all spent.
I made a collar for this little creature, and with a string
which I had made of some ropeyarn which I always
carried ahont me, I led him along, thongh with some
difficulty, till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed
him and left him; for I was very impatient to be at
home, from whence I had been absent above a month.
I cannot express what satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old butch, and lie down in my hammook-
bed. This little wandering jonrney, withont a settled
place of abode had been so uupleasant to me, that my
own honse, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settle-
ment to me, compared to that; and it rendered every
thing abont me so comfortable, that I resolved I wonlil
never go a great way from it again, while it shonld be
my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale my-
self after my long jonrney: during which, most of the
time was taken up in the weighty affair of making a
cage for my Poll, who began now to be more domestic,
and to be mighty well acquainted with me. Then I
began to think of the poor kid which I had penned
within my little circle, and resolved to fetch it home,
or give it some food: accordingly 1 went, and fonnd it
where I left it (for indeed it conld not get ont), but
was almost starved for want of food. I went and cut
bonghs of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I conld
fmd, and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I
did before to lead it away; but it was so tame with
being bungry, that I had uo need to have tied it, for it
followed me like a dog: and as I continuallv fed it, the
creature became so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that
it was from that time one of my domesties also, and
wonld never leave me afterwards.
The rainy season of the antumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the same
solemn manner as before, being the anniversary of my
landing on the island; having now been there two
years, and no more prospect of my being delivered than
the first day I came there. I spent the whole day in
bumble and thankful acknowledgments for the many
wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was
attended with, and withont which it might have been
infinitely more miserable. I gave bumble and hearty
thanks to God for having been pleased to discover to me,
that it was possible I might be more happy, even in this
solitary condition, than I shonld have been in the enjoy-
ment of society, and in all the pleasures of the world:
that he conld fully make up to me the deficiencies of
my solitary state, and the want of human society, by his
presence, and the communicatious of his grace to my
sonl; supporting, comforting, and enconraging me to
depend upon his providence here, and to hope for his
eternal pres'ence hereafter.
It was now that I began seusibly to feel how mnch
more happy the life I now led was, with all its mise-
rable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abomina-
ble life I led all the past part of my days: and now I
changed both my sorrows and my jovs: my very de-
sires altered, my affectious changed their gusts, and my
delights were perfectly new from what they were at my
first coming, or indeed for the two years past.
Before, as I walked abont, either on my bunting, or
for viewing the conntry, the anguish of my sonl at my
condition wonld break ont upon me on a sndden, and
my very heart would die within me, to think of the
woods, the monntaius, the deserts I was in ; .;:ind how I
was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal hars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhahited wilderness, with-
ont redemption. In the midst of the greatest compo-
sures of my mind, this wonld break ont upon me like a
storm, and make me wrmg my hands, and weep like a
child: sometimes it wonld take me in the middle of mv
work, and I wonld immediately sit down and sigh, and
look upon the gronnd for an honr or two together:
this was still worse to me; but if I conld burst into
tears, or give vent to my feelings by words, it wonld
go nif; and my grief being exhansted, wonld ahate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new
thonghts; I daily read the word of God, and applied
all the comforts of it to my present state. One morn-
ing, being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these
words, « I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee:''
immediately it occurred that these words were to me;
why else shonld they be directed in such a manner,
just at the moment when I was monrning over my con-
dition, as one forsaken of God and man? " Well then/'
said I, "if God does not forsake me, of what ill con-
sequence can that be, or what matters it, thongh the
world shonld forsake me; seeing on the other hand, if
I had all the world, and shonld lose the favonr and
blessing of God, there wonld be no comparison in
the toss?"
From this moment I began to conclnde in my mind,
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this
forsaken, solitary condition, than it was probable I
shonld ever have been in any other particular state in
the world; and with this thonght I was going to give
thanks to God for bringing me to this place. I know
not what it was, but something shocked my mind at
that thonght, and I durst not speak the words. "How
caust thon be such a hypocrite," said I even andibly,
"to be thankful for a condition, which, however thon
mayst endeavonr to be contented with, thon wonldst
rather pray heartily to be delivered from?" Here I
stopped: but thongh I conld not say I thanked God for
being here, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for open-
ing my eyes, by whatever afflicting providences, to see
the former condition of my life, and to monrn for my
wickedness, and repent. I never opened the Bible, or
sbut it, but my very sonl within me blessed God for
directing my friend in England, withont any order of
mine, to pack it up among my goods; and for assisting
me afterwards to save it ont of the wreck of the ship.
Tbus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my
third year; and thongh I have not given the reader
the tronble of so particular an acconnt of my works
this year as the first, yet in general it may be observed,
that I was very seldom idle; but having regularly di-
vided mv time, according to the several daily employ-
ments that were before me; such as, first, My duty to
God, and the reading the Scriptures, which I coustantly
set apart some time for, thrice every day: secondlv,
Going abroad with my gun for food, which generally
took me up three honrs every morning, when it did not
rain: thirdly, Ordering, caring, preserving, and cook-
ing what I had killed or catched for my supply. These
took op great part of the day; also it is to be cousider-
ed, that in the middle of the day, when the sun was in
the zenith, the violence of the heat was too great to stir
ont; so that abont fonr honrs in the evening was all the
time I conld be supposed to work in; with this excep-
tion, that sometimes I changed my honrs of bunting
and working, and went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labonr, I desire may
be added the extreme laborionsuess of my work ; the
many honrs which, for want of tools, want of help, and
want of skill, every thing I did took up ont of my time:
for example, I was full two-and-forty days making me
a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave;
whereas, two sawyers, with their tools and a saw-pit,
won Id have cut six of them ont of the same tree in half
a day.
My case was this; it was a large tree which was to
be cut down, becanse my board was to be a broad one.
This tree I was three days cuttmg down, and two more
in cutting oil' the boughs, and reducing it to a log or
piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking and
hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips, till it
was li-.;Iit enongh to move; then I turned it, and made
one side of it smooth and flat as a board, from end to
end; then turning that side downward, cut the other
side, till I bronght the plank to be abont three inches
thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may jndge
the labonr of my hands in such a piece of work; but
labour and patience carried me throngh that, and many
other things: I only observe this in particular, to show
the reason why so much of my time went away with so
little work, viz. that what might be a little to be done
with help and tools, was a vast labonr, and required a
prodigions time, to do alone, and by hand. Notwith-
standing this, with patience and labonr I went throngh
many things; and, indeed, every thing that my circnm-
atatfx-s made necessary for me to do, as will appear by
what follows.
1 was now in the months of November and Decem-
her, expecting my crop of harley and rice. The gronnd
I had manured or dug for them was not great; for, as
I observed, my seed of each was not above the quan-
tity of half a peck, having lost one whole crop by sow-
ing in the dry season: but now my crop promised very
well; when on a sodden I fonnd I was in danger of
losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, which it
was scarce possible to keep from it; as first, the goats,
and wild crcai;urs which I called hares, who, tasting
the sweetness of the blade, lav in it night and day, as
soon as it came up, and ate it so close that it conld get
no time to shoot up into stalk.
I saw no remedy for this, but by making an enclosure
abont it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of
toil; and ihe more, becanse it required speed. How-
ever, as my arable land was but small, suited to my
crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in abont three
weeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures in the
day time, I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying
him up to a stake at the gate, where he wonld stand
and har-k all nigbt long; so in a little time the enemies
forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and
well, and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts rumed me before, while my corn
was in the blade, so the hirds were as likely to ruin me
now, when it was in the ear; for going along by the
place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop sur-
ronnded with fowls, I know not of how many sorts, who
stood, as it were, watching till I shonld be gone. I im-
mediately let fly among them (for I always had my gun
with me); I had no sooner shot, but there arose up a
little clond of fowls, which I had not seen at all, from
among the corn itself.
This tonched me seusibly, for I foresaw that in a few
days they wonld devonr all my hopes; that I shonld be
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all; and
what to do I conld not tell: however, I resolved not to
lose my corn, if possible, thongh I shonld watch it
night and day. ID the tirst place, I went among it to
see what damage was already done, and fonnd they had
spoiled a good deal of it; 'but thai as it was yet too
green for them, the loss was not so great, but that the
remainder was likely to be a good crop, if it conld be
saved.
I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming away,
I conld easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees
abont me, as if they only waited till I was gone away;
and the event proved it to be so; for, as I walked off,
as if gone, I was no sooner ont of their sight than they
dropped down, one by one, into the corn again. I was
so provoked that I conld not have patience to stay till
more came on, knowing that every grain they eat now,
was, as it might be said, a peck loaf to me in the couse-
quence; so coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and
killed three of them. This was what I wished for; so
I took them up, and served them as we serve notorions
thieves in England, viz. hanged them in chaius for a
terror to others. It is impossible to imagine that this
shonld have such an effect as it had; for the fowls not
only never came to the corn, but, in short, they forsook
all that part of the island, and I conld never see a hird
near the place as long as my scarecrows bung there.
This I was very glad of, yon may be sure; and abont
the latter end of December, which was onr second har-
vest of the year, I reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it
down: and all I conld do was to make one as well as
I conld, ont of one of the broad-swords or cutlasses,
which I saved among the arms of the ship. However,
as my first crop was but small, I had no great difficulty
to cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut
nothing off but the ears, and carried it away in a great
hasket which I had made, and so rubbed it ont with
my hands; and at the end of all my harvesting, I fonnd
that ont of my half peck of seed I had near two bushels
of rice, and above two bushels and a half of harley;
that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure.
However, this was great enconragement to me; and
I foresaw that in time it wonld please God to supply
me with bread; and yet here I was perplexed again;
for I neither knew bow to grind, or make meal of my
corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if made
into meal, how to make bread of it; and if how to make
it, yet I knew not bow to bake it: these things being
added to my desire of having a good quantity of store,
and to secure a coustant supply, I resolved not to taste
any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed agaiust
the next season; and in the mean time, to employ all •
my study and honrs of working to accomplish this great
work of providing myself with corn and bread.
It migjit be truly said, that now I worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe
few people have thonght much upon, viz. the strange
multitnde of little things necessary in the providing,
producing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing this
one article of bread.
I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, fonnd
this to my daily disconragement, and was made more
seusible of it every honr, even after I had got the first
handful of seed-corn, which, as I have said, came up
unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.
First, I had no plongh to turn up the earth; no spade
or shovel to dig it: well, this I conquered by making
a wooden spade, as I observed before; but this did my
work but in a wooden manner; and thongh it cost me
a great many days to make it, yet, for want of iron, it
not only wore ont the sooner, but made my work the
harder, and performed it much worse. However, this
I bore with, and was content to work it ont with pa-
tience, and bear with the hadness of the performance.
When the corn was sown, I had no harrow, but was
forced to go over it myself, and drag a great heavy
bongh of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be
called, rather than rake or harrow it. When it was
growing and grown, I have observed already how many
Ihings I wanted to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it,
cure and carry it home, thrash, part it from the chaff,
and save it: then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to
dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an
oven to hake it; and yet all these things I did with-
ont, as shall he observed; and the corn was an inesti-
mable comfort and advantage to me: all this, as I said,
made every thing laborions and tedions to me, but that
there was no help for; neither was my time so much
loss to me, becanse, as I had divided it, a certain part"
of it was every day appointed to these works; and as I
resolved to use none of-the corn for bread till I had a
greater quantity by .me, I had the next six months to
apply myself wholly, by labonr and invention, to fur-
nish myself with uteusils proper for the performing all
the operatious necessary mr making corn fit for my use.
But now I was to prepare more land; for I had seed
enongh to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did
this, I had a week's work at least to make me a spade;
which, when it was done was but a sorry one indeed,
and very heavy, and reqnired donble labour to work
with it: however, I went throngh that, and sowed my
seed in two large flat pieces of gronnd, as near my honse
as I conld find them to my mind, and fenced them in
with a good hedge, the stakes of which were all cut off
thai wood which I had set before, and knew it wonld
grow; so that in one year's time I knew I shonld have
a quick or living hedge, that wonld want but little re-
pair. This work took me up full three months; be-
canse a great part of the time was in the wet season,
when I could not go abroad. Within doors, that is,
when it rained, and I could not go ont, I fonnd employ-
ment on the following occasious; always observing, •
that while I was at work, I diverted mvself with talk-
ing to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I
quickly learned him to know his own name, and at last
to speak it ont pretty lond, Pol; which was the first
word I ever heard spoken in the island by any month
but my own. This therefore, was not my work, but
an assistant to my work; for now as I said, I had a
great emplovment upon my hands, as follows: I had
long stndied, by some meaus or other, to make my-
self some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted much,
but knew not where to come at them: however, con-
sidering the heat of the climate, I did not donbt but if
I could find oat any clay, I might botch up some such
pot as might, being dried in the sun, be hard and
strong enongh to bear handling, and to hold any thing
that was dry, and required to be kept so ; and as this
was necessary in the preparing corn, meal, &c. which
was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as
large as I conld, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold
what shonld he put into them.
It wonld make the reader pity me, or rather langh
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise
this pastil; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made;
how many of them fell in, and how many fell ont, the
clay not being stiff enongh l«., bear its own weight;
how many cracked by the over violent heat of the sun,
being set ont'too hastily; and how many fell in pieces
with only removing, as well before as after they were
dried: and, in a word, how, after labonring hard to
find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home,
and work it, I conld not make above two large earthen
ugly things (I cannot call them jars), in abont two
months' labonr.
However, as the sun haked thes3 two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two great wicker haskets, which I had made
on purpose for them, that they might not break; and as
between the pot and the hasket there was a little room
to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and harley straw;
and these two pots being to stand always dry, I thonght
wonld hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when
the corn was hrnised.
Thongh I miscarried so much in my desigu for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better suc-
cess; such as little ronnd pots, flat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkius, and any thing my hand turued to; and the
beat of the sun baked them very hard.
But all this wonld not auswer my end, which was to
get an earthen pot to hold liquids and bear the fire,
which none of these conld do. It happened some time
after, making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat,
when I went to put it ont after I had done with it, I
found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels
in the fire, burned as hard as a stone, and red as a tile.
J was agreeably surprised to see it; and said to myself,
that certainly they might be made to burn whole, if
they wonld burn broken.
This set me to study bow to order my fire so as to
make it burn some pots. I had no notion of a kiln,
such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with
lead, thongh I had some lead to do it with; but I
placed three large pipkius and two or three pots in a
VOL i. *
pile, one upon another, and placed my fire-wood all
ronnd it with a great heap of embers under them. I
plied the fire with fresh fuel ronnd the ontside, and
upon the top, till I saw the pots in the iuside red hot
quite throngh, and observed that thev did not crack at
all: when I saw them clear red, I let them stand in
that heat abont five or six hours, till I fonnd one of
them, thongh it did not crack, did melt or run; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the vio-
lence of the heat, and wonld have run into glass, if I
had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually, till the
pots began to ahate of the red colonr; and watching
them all night that I might not let the fire ahate too fast,
iu the morning I had three very good, I will not sav
handsome pipkius, and two other earthen pots, as hard'
burnt as conld be desired; and one of them perfectly
glazed with the running of the sand.
After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted
no sort of earthenware for my use; but I must needs
say, as to the shapes of them, they were very indif-
ferent, as any one may suppose, as I had no way of mak-
ing them but as the children make dirt pies, or as a
woman wonld make pies that never learned to raise
paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal
to mine, when I fonnd I had made an earthen pot that
wonld bear the fire; and I had hardly patience to stay
till they were cold before I set one on the fire again,
with some water in it to boil me some meat, which it
did admirably well; and with a piece of a kid I made
some verv good broth, thongh I wanted oatmeal, and
several other ingredients requisite to make it so good
as I wonld have had it been.
My next concern was to get a stone mortar to stamp
or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no
thonght of arriving to that perfection of art with one
i>air of hands. To supply this want I was at a great
oss; for, of all trades in the woMd, I was as perfectly
unqualified for a stone cutter, as for any whatever;
neither had I any tools to go abont it with. I spent
many a day to find ont a great stone hig enongh to cut
hollow, and make fit for a mortar; but conld find none
at all, except what was in the solid rock, and which I
had no way to dig or cut ont: nor indeed were the
rocks in the island of sufficient hardness, as they were
all of a sandy crumbling stone, which wonld neither
bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor wonld break the
corn withont fitling it with sand: so, after a great deal
of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over, and
resolved to look ont a great block of hard wood, which
I fonnd indeed much easier; and getting one as hig as
I had strength to stir, I ronnded it, and formed it on
the ontside with my axe and hatchet; and then, with
the help of fire, and infinite labonr, made a hollow
place in it, as the Indiaus in Brazil make their canoes.
After this, I made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of
the wood called iron-wood; and this [ prepared and
laid by agaiust I had my next crop of corn, when I pro-
posed to myself to grind, or rather ponnd my corn into
meal, to make my bread.
My next difliculty was to make a sieve or scarce, to
dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the
busk, withont which I did not see it possible I conld
have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, even
but to think on; for I had nothing like the necessary
thing to make it; I mean fine thin canvass or stuff to
searce the meal throngh. Here I was at a full stop
for many months ; nor did I really know what to do;
linen I had none left, but what was mere rags; I had
goats' hair, but neither knew how to weave it nor spin
it; and had I known how, here were no tools to work
it with: all the remedy I fonnd for this was, at last re-
collecting I had among the seamen's clothes which
were saved ont of the ship, some neckcloths of calico
or muslin, with some pieces of these I made three small
sieves, proper enongh for the work; and tbus I made
shift for some years: how I did afterwards I shall show
in its place.
The haking part was the next thing to be cousidered,
and how I shonld make bread when I came to have
corn: for, first, I had no yeast; as to that part there
was no supplying the want, so I did not concern myself
much about it; but tor an oven I was indeed puzzled.
At length I fonnd ont an expedient for that also, which
was this; I made some earthen vessels, very broad, bat
not deep, that is to say, abont two feet diameter, and not
above nine inches deep: these I burned in the fire, as I
had done the other, and laid them by; and when I
wanted to hake, I made a great fire upon my hearth,
which I had paved with some square tiles, of my own
making and burning also; hat I shonld not call them
square.
When the fire-wood was burned into embers, or live
coals, I drew them forward upon the hearth, so as to
cover it all over, and there let them lie till the hearth
was very hot; then sweeping away all the embers, I set
down my loaf, or loaves, and covering them with the
earthen pot, drew the embers all ronnd the ontside of
the pot, to keep in and add to the heat; and tbus, as
well as in the best oven in the world, I haked my harley
loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastry-cook
into the hargain; for I made myself several cakes and
pnddings of the rice; luit made no pies, as I had nothing
to put into them except the flesh of fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things took
me up most part of the third year of my abode here; for,
it is to be observed, in the intervals of these things, I
had my new harvest and bushandry to manage: I reaped
my corn in its season, and carried it home as well as I
conld, and laid it up in the ear, in my large haskets, till
I had time to rob it ont; for I had no floor to thrash it
on, or iustrument to thrash it with.
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I
really wanted to build my harus higger: I wanted a
place to lay it up in; for the increase of the corn now
yielded me so much, that I had of the harley abont twenty
bushels, and of rice as much, or more, iusomuch that
now I resolved to begin to use it freely; fur my bread
had been quite gone a great while: I resolved also to
see what quantity wonld be sufficient for me a whote
year, and to sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, I fonnd that the forty bushels of har-
ley and rice were much more than I conld cousume in a
year; so I resolved to sow jast the same quantity every
year that I sowed the last, in hopes that such a quantity
wonld fully provide me with bread, flee.
All the while these things were doing, yon may be
sure my thonghts ran many times upon the prospect of
land which I had seen from the other side of tiie island;
117
and I was not without some secret wishes that I was on
shore there ; fancying, that seeing the main land, and
an inhahited conntry, I might fmd some way or other to
convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find some
meaus of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dan-
gers of such a condition, and that I might fall»into tin;
hands of savages, and perhaps such as I might have rea-
son to think far worse than the lious and tigers of Africa;
that if I once came in their power, I should run a hazard
of more than a thonsand to one of being killed, and
perhaps of being eaten; for I had heard that the people
of the Caribbean coast were cannihals, or man-eaters,
and I knew, by the latitnde, that I conld not be far off
from that shore. Then supposing they were not canni-
hals, yet that they might kill me, as they had many
Europeaus who had fallen into their hands, even when
they nave been ten or twenty together; much more I,
who was but one, and conld make little or no defence;
all these things, I say, which I onght to have cousidered
well of, and did cast up in my thonghts afterwards,
took up none of my appreheusious at first; yet my head
ran mightily upon the thonght of getting over to the
shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat
with the shonlder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed
above a thonsand miles on the coast of Africa; but this
was in vain: then I thonght I wonld go and look at onr
ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown up upon

the shore a great way, in the storm, when we were first
cast away. She lay nearly where she did at first, but
not quite; having turned, by the force of the waves and
the winds, almost bottom upward, agaiust a high ridge
of heachy rongh sand; but no water about her, as be-
fore. If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to
have lannched her into the water, the boat wonld have
done very well, and I might have gone back into the
Ilrii/'.ls with her easily enough; but I might have fore-
seen, that I conld no more turn her and set her upright
upon her bottom, than I conld remove the island; how-
ever, I went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers,
and bronght them to the boat, resolving to try what I
conld do; suggesting to myself, that if [ conld but turn
her dowo, and repair the damages she had received, she
wonld he a very good boat, and I might venture to sea
in her.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless
toil, and spent, I think, three or fonr weeks abont it:
at last, finding it impossible to heave her up with my
little strength, I fell to digging away the sand, to un-
dermine her, and so as to make her fall down, setting
pieces of wood to thrust and guide her right in the fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir her up
again, or get under her, much less to move her forward
towards the water: so I was forced to give it over:
and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my
desire to venture over the main increased, rather than
diminished, as the means for it seemed impossible.
At length, I began to think whether it was not possi-
ble to make myself a canoe, or periagua, snch as the na-
tives of those climates make, even withont tools, or, as
I might say, withont hands, of the trunk of a great tree.
This I not only thonght possible, but easy, and pleased
myself extremely with the idea of making it, and with
my having much more convenience for it than any of
the Negroes or Indiaus; but not at all cousidering the
particular inconveniences which I lay under more than
the Indiaus did, viz. the want of hands to move it into
the water when it was made, a difliculty mnch harder
for me to surmonnt than all the cousequences of want of
tools conld be to them: for what could it avail me, if,
after I had chosen my tree, and with much tronble cut
it down, and might be able with my tools to hew and
dub the ontside into the proper shape of a boat, and
burn or cut ont the iuside to make it hollow, so as to
make a boat of it; if, after all this, I must leave it just
where I fonnd it, and was not able to lannch it into the
water. •
One wonld imagine, if I had had the least reflection
upon my mind of my circumstances while I was making
this boat, I shonld have immediately thonght how I was
to get it into the sea: but my thonghts were so intent
upon my voyage in it that I never once cousidered how
I shonld get it oft'the land; and it was really, in its own
nature, more easy for me to guide it over forty-five
miles of sea, than the forty-five fathoms of land, where
it lay, to set it afloat in the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did, who had any of his seuses awake.
I pleased myself with the desigu, withont determining
whether I was able to undertake it; not but that tlio
difficulty of lannching my boat came often into my head ,
but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this
foolish auswer: Let me first make it; i warrant 1 will
fmd sonic way or other to get it along when it is done.
This was a most preposterons method; but the eager-
ness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I
felled a cedar tree, and I question much whether Solo-
mon ever bad such a one for the building of the Temple
of Jerusalem; it was five feet ten inches diameter at
the lower part next the stump, and fonr feet eleven in-
ches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, where it
lessened, and then parted into branches. It was not
withont infinite labour that I felled this tree: I was
twenty days hacking and hewing at the bottom, and
fonrteen more getting the branches and limhs, and the
vast spreading head of it, cut off: after this, it cost me
a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to
something like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim
upright as it onght to do. It cost me near three months
more to clear the iuside, and work it ont so as to make
an exact boat of it: this I did, indeed, without fire, by
mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labonr,
till I had bronght it to be a very handsome periagua,
and hig enongh to have carried six and twenty men,
and cousequently hig enongh to have carried me and all
my cargo.
When I had gone throngh this work, I was extremely
delighted with it. The boat was really much higger
than ever I saw a canoe or periagua, that was made of
one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost,
yon may be sure; and there remained nothing but to
get it into the water; which, had I accomplished, I
make no question but I shonld have begun the maddest
Toyage, and the most unlikely to be performed, that ever
•was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me;
thongh they cost me inexpressible labonr too. It lay
abont one bundred yards from the water, and not more;
but the first inconvenience was; it was up hill towards
the creek. Well, to take away this disconragement, I
resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so
make a declivity: this I begun, and it cost me a prodi-
gions deal of paius; (but who grndge paius that have
their deliverance in view?) when this was worked
throngh, and this difficulty managed, it was still much
the same, for I conld no more stir the canoe than I conld
the other boat. Then I measured the distance of
gronnd, and resolved to cut a dock or canal, to brmg
the water up to the canoe, seeing I conld not bring the
canoe down to the water. Well, I began this work;
and when I began to enter upon it, and calculate how
deep it was to be dug, bow broad, how the stuffwas to
be thrown ont, I fonnd by the number of hands I had,
having none but my own, that it must have been ten or
twelve years before I conld have gone throngh with it;
for the shore lay so high, that at the upper end it must
have been at least twenty feet deep; this attempt,
thongh with great reluctancy, I was at length obliged to
give over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, thongh too
late, the folly of beginning a work before we connt the
cost, and before we jndge rightly of oar own strength to
go through with it.
In the middle of tin's work, I finished my fonrth year
in this place, and kept my anniversary with the same
devotion, and with as much comfort as before; for, by
a coustant stndy and serions application to the word of
God, and by the assistance of his grace, I gained a dif-
ferent knowledge from what I had before; I enter-
tained different notious of things; I looked now upon
the world as a thing remote, which I had nothing to do
with, no expectation from, and, indeed, no desires
abont: in a word, I had nothing to do with it, nor was
ever likely to have; I thonght it looked, as we may
perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a place I had
lived in, hat was come ont of it; and well might I say,
as father Abraham to Dives, " Between me and thee is
a great gulf fixed."
In the first place, I was here removed from all the
wickedness of the world; I had neither the lust of the
flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride of life. I had
nothing to covet, for I had all that I was now capable of
enjoying: I was lord of the whole manor; or, if I
pleased, I might call myself king or emperor over the
whole conntry •which I had possession of; there were
no rivals; I had no competitor, none to dispute sove-
reiguty or command with me: I might have raised ship
loadings of corn, but I had no use for it; so I let as
little grow as I thonght enongh for my occasion. I had
tortoise or turtle enongh, but now and then one was as
much as I conld put to any use; I had timber enongh
to have built a fleet of ships; and I had grapes enongh
to have made wine, or to have cured into' raisius, to
have loaded that fleet when it had been built.
But all I conld make use of was all that was valua-
ble: I had enough to eat and supply my wants, and
wfaat was the rest to me? If I killed more flesh than I
conld eat, the dog must eat it, or vermin; if I sowed
more corn than I conld eat, it must be spoiled; the
trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the gronnd;
I conld make no more use of them than for fuel, and
that I had no other occasion for but to dress my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of thmgs dic-
tated to me, upon just reflection, that all the good things
of this world are of no farther good to us than for onr
use; and that whatever we may heap up to give to
Others, we enjoy only as much as we can use, and no
more. The most covetons griping miser in the world
wonld have been cured of the vice of covetousness, if
he had been in my case; for I possessed infinitely more
than I knew what to do with. I had no room I'or de-
sire, except it was for things which I had not, and they
were comparatively but trifles, thongh indeed of great
use to me. I had, as [ hinted before, a parcel of
money, as well gold as silver, abont thirty-six pounds
sterling. Alas! there the nasty, sorry, useless stuff
lay; I had no manner of business for it; and I often
thonght within myself, that I wonld have given a hand-
ful of it for a gross of tohacco pipes, or for a handmill
to grind my corn; nay, I wonld have given it all for
sixpenuyworth of turnip and carrot seed from England,
or for a handful of peas and beaus, and a bottle of ink.
As it was, I had not the least advantage by it, or benefit
from it; but there it lay in a drawer, and grew monldy
with the damp of the cave in the wet seasous; and if I
had had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the
same case—they had been of no manner of value to me
becanse of no use.
I had now bronght my state of life to be much more
comfortable in itself than it was at first, and much easier
to my mind, as well as to my body. I frequently sat
down to meat with thankfulness, and admired the hand
of God's providence, which had tbus spread my table in
the wilderness: I learned to look more upon tite bright
side of my condition, and less upon the dark side, and
to cousider what I enjoyed rather than what I wanted:
and this gave me sometimes such secret comforts that I
cannot express them; and which I take notice of here,
to put those discontented people in mind of it, who can-
not enjoy comfortably what God has given them, be-
canse they see and covet something that he has not
given them. All onr discontents abont what we want
appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfulness
for what we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubt-
less wonld be so to any one that shonld fall into such
distress as mine was; and this was, to compare mv pre-
sent condition with whatl at first expected it wonld be;
uay, with what it wonld certainly have been, if the good
providence of God had not wonderfully ordered the
.ship to be cast up near to the shore, where I not only
conld come at her, hat conld bring what I got ont of
her to the shore, for my relief and comfort; withont
which, I had wanted for tools to work, weapous for de-
fence, and guupowder atuj shotfor getting my food.
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in repre-
senting to myself, in the most lively colonrs, how I must
have acted if I had got nothing ont of the ship. I
conld not have so much as got any food, except fish and
turtles; and that, as it was long before I fonnd any of
them, I must have perished ; that I shonld have lived,
if I had not perished, like a mere savage; that if I had
killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no
way to flay or open it, or part the flesh from the skin
and the bowels, or to cut it up; but must guaw it with
my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a beast.
These reflectious made me very seusible of the good-
ness of Providence to me, and very thankful for my
present condition, with all its hardships and misfor-
tunes: and this part also I cannot but recommend to
the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery, to
say, Is any affliction like mine? Let them cousider
how much worse the cases of some people are, and
their case might have been, if Providence had
thonght fit.
I had another reflection, which assisted me also to
comfort my mind with hopes: and this was comparing
my present condition with what I had deserved, and had
therefore reason to expect from the hand of Providence.
I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the
knowledge and fear of God. I had been well in-
structed by my father and mother; neither had they
been wanting to me, in their endeavonrs to infuse an
early religions awe of God into my mind, a seuse of my
duty, and what the nature and end of my being re-
quired of me. But, alas ! falling early into the seafar-
ing life, which, of all lives, is the most destitute of the
fear of God, thongh his terrors are always before them;
J say, falling early into the seafaring life, and into sea-
faring company, all that little seuse of religion which I
bad entertained was langhed ont of me by my mess-
mates; by a hardened despising of dangers, and the
•views of death, which grew hahitual to me; by my long
absence from all manner of opportunities to converse
with any thing but what was like myself, or to hear
any thing that was good, or tending towards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good, or of the
least seuse of what I was, or was to be, that in the
greatest deliverances I enjoyed (such as my escape
from Sallee, my being taken up by the Portuguese
master .of a ship, my being planted so well in the Bra-
zils, my receiving the cargo from England, and the
like), I never had once the words, Thank God, so much
as on my mind, or in my month ; uor in the greatest dis-
tress had I so mnch as a thonght to pray to him, or so
much as to say, Lord, have mercy upon me! no, nor to
mention the name of God, unless it was to swear by,
and blaspheme it.
I had terrible reflectious upon my mind for many
months, as I have already observed, on account of my
wicked and hardened life past; and when I looked
abont me, and cousidered what particular providences
had attended me since my coming into this place, and
how God had dealt bonntifully with me,—had not only
Eunished me less than my iniquity had deserved, but
ad so plentifully provided for me,—this gave me great
hopes that my repentance was accepted, and that God
had yet mercies in store for me.
With these reflectious, I worked my mind up, not
only to a resiguation to the will of God in the present
disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sincere
thankfulness for my condition; and that I, who was yet
a living man, onght not to complain, seeing I had not
the due punishment of my sius; that I enjoyed so many
mercies which I had no reason to have expected in that
place, that I onght never more to repine at my condi-
tion, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for that
daily bread, which nothing but a clond of wonders
conld have bronght; that I onght to cousider I had
been fed by a miracle, even as great as that of feeding
Elijah by raveus; nay, by a long series of miracles:
and that I conld hardly have named a place in the unin-
hahitable part of the world where I conld have been
cast more to my advantage; a place where, as I had no
society, which was my affliction on one hand, so I fonnd
no ravenons beasts, no furions wolves or tigers, to
threaten my life; no venomous or poisonons creatures
which I might feed on to my burt; no savages to mur-
der and devonr me. In a word, as my life was a life of
sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy another;
and I wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort, but
to make myself seusible of God's goodness to me, and
care over me in this condition; and after I did make a
just improvement of these things, I went away, and was
no more sad.
I had now been here so long that many things which
I bronght on shore for my help ware either quite gone,
or very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time,
all but a very little, which I eked ont with water, a
little and a little, till it was so pale it scarce left any
appearance of black upon the paper. As long as it
lasted, I made use of it to minute down the days of the
month on which any remarkable thing happened to me:
and, first, by casting up times past, I remember that
there was a strange concurrence of days in the varions
providences which befell me, and which, if I had been
superstitionsiy inclined to observe days as fatal or for-
tunate, I might have had reason to have looked upon
with a great deal of cariosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke
away from my father and my friends, and ran away to
Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day afterwards I
was taken by the Sallee man of war, and made a slave:
the same day of the year that I escaped ont of the
wreck of the ship in Yarmonth Roads, that same day-
year afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the
boat; and the same day of the year I was born on, viz.
the SOth of September, that same day I had my life so
miraculonsly saved twenty-six years after, when I was
cast on shore in this island: so that my wicked life and
my solitary life began both on one day.
The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of
my bread,I mean the hiscnit which I bronght ont of the
siiip: this I had bushanded to the last degree, allowing
myself but one cake of bread a day for above a year;
and yet I was quite withont bread for near a year before
I got any corn of my own; and great reason I had to
be thankful that I had any at all, the getting it being,
as has been already observed, next to miraculons.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily: as to
linen, I had none for a great while, except some che-
quered shirts which I fonnd in the chests of the other
seamen, and which I carefully preserved, becanse many
times I could bear no clothes on but a shirt; and it was
a very great help to me that I had, among all the men's
clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts. There
were also, indeed, several thick watch-coats of the sea-
men's which were left, but they were too hot to wear:
and thongh it is true that the weather was so violently
hot that there was no need of clothes, vet I could not go
quite naked, no, thongh I had been inclined to it, which
I was not, nor conld I abide the thonght of it, thongh I
was all alone. The reason why I conld not go quite
naked was, I conld not bear the heat of the sun so well
when quite naked as with some clothes on; nay, the
very heat frequently blistered my skin: whereas, with
a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whist-
ling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than withont
it. No more conld I ever bring myself to go ont in
the beat of the sun without a cap or hat; the heat of the
sun beating with such violence as it does in that place,
wonld give me the bead-ach presently, by darting so
directtv upon my head, withont a cap or hat on, so that
I could not bear it; whereas, if I put on my hat, it
would presentlv go away.
Upon these views, I began to cousider abont patting
the tew rags I had, which I called clothes, into some
oider: I had worn ont all the waistcoats I had, and my
business was now to try if I conld not make jackets ont
of the great watch-coats that I had by me, and with
such other materials as I had ; so I set to work a tailor-
ing, or rather, indeed, a botching, for I made most
piteons work of it. However, I made shift to make
two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped wonld
serve me a great while: as for breeches or drawers, I
made but a very sorry shift indeed till afterwards.
I have mentioned, that I saved the skius of all the
creatures that I killed, I mean foar-footed ones; and I
had bung them up, stretched oat with sticks, in the sun,
by which meaus some of them were so dry and hard
that they were fit for little, but others I fonnd very use-
ful. The first thing I made of these was a great cap for
my head, with the hair on the ontside, to shoot off the
rain; and this I performed so well, that after this I
made me a suit of clothes wholly of the skius, that is
to suy, a waistcoat, and breeches open to the knees, and
both loose; for they were rather wanting to keep me
cool than warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that
they were wretchedly made; for if I was a had carpen-
ter, I was a worse tailor. However, they were such as
1 made very good shift with; and when I was abroad,
if it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap
being uppermost, I was kept very dry.
After this I spent a great deal of time and paius to
make an umbrella: I was indeed in great want of one,
and had a great mind to make one; I had seen them
made in the Brazils, where they were very useful in
the great heats which are there; and I felt the heats
every jot as great here, and greater too, being nearer
the equinox: besides, as I was obliged to be much
abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well for
the raius as the heats. I took a world of paius at it,
and was a great while before I conld make any thmg
likely to hold; nay, after I thonght I had hit the way,
I spoiled two or three before I made one to my mind;
but at last I made one that auswered indiflerently well:
the main difliculty I fonnd was to make it to let down;
I conld make it spread, but if it did not let down too,
and draw in, it was not portable for me any way but
just over my head, which wonld not do. However, at
last, as I said, I made one to auswer, and covered it
with skius, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain
like a pent-honse, and kept off the BUD so effectually
that 1 could walk ont in the hottest of the weather with
greater advantage than I conld before in the coulest;
and when I had no ueed of it, conld close it, and carry
it under my arm.
Tbus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind bemg en-
tirely composed by resiguing to the will of God, and
throwmg mvself wholly upon the disposal of his provi-
dence. This made my life better than sociable; for
when I began to regret the want of conversation, I
wonld ask myself, whether tbus conversing mutually
with my own thonghts, and, as I hope I may say, with
even God himself, by ejaculatious, was not better than
the utmost enjoyment of buman society in the world?
I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extra-
ordinary thing happened to me, but I lived on in the
same conrse, in the same posture and place, just as be-
fore; the chief things I was employed in, besides my
yearly labonr of planting my harley and rice, and cur-
mg my raisius, of hoth which I always kept up just
enongh to have sufficient stock of one year's provision
beforehand; I say, besides this yearly labonr, and my
daily pursuit of going ont with my gun, I had one
labonr, to make me a canoe, which at last I finished: so
that by digging a canal to it of six feet wide, and fonr
feet deep, I bronght it into the creek, almost half a
mile. As for the first, *. hicli was so vastly hig, as I
made it withont cousidering beforehand, as I onght to
do, how I shonld be able to lannch it, so, never being
able to bring it into the water, or bring the water to it,
I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memoran-
dum to teach me to be wiser the next time: indeed, the
next time, thongh I oonld not get a tree proper for it,
and was in a place where I conld not get the water to it
at any less distance than, as I have said, near half a mile,
yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it
over: and thongh I was near two years abont it, yet I
never grndged my labonr, in hopes of having a boat to
go off to sea at last.
However, thongh my little periagua was finished, yet
the size of it was not at all auswerable to the desigu
which I had in view when I made the first; I mean of
venturing over to the terra firma, where it was above
forty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of my
boat assisted to put an end to that desigu, and now I
thonght no more of it. As I had a boat, my next desigu
was to make a cruise ronnd the island; for as I had
been on the other side in one place, crossing, as I have
already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I
made in that little jonrney made me very eager to see
other parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I thonght
of nothing hat sailing ronnd the island.
For this purpose, that I might do every thing with
discretion and cousideration, I fitted up a little mast in
my boat, and made a sail to it ont of some of the pieces
of tin; ship's sails~\vhich lay in store, and of which I had
a great stock by me. Having fitted my mast and sail,
and tried the boat, I fonnd she wonld sail very well:
then I made little lockers, or boxes, at each end of my
boat, to put provisious, necessaries, ammunition, &u.
into, to be kept dry, either from rain or the spray of the
sea; and a little, long, hollow place I cut in the iuside
of the boat, where I conld lay my gun, making a flap
to hang down over it, to keep it dry.
I fixed mv umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a
mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the
sun oft' me, like an awning; and tbus I every now and
then took a little voyage upon the sea: but never went
far ont, nor far from the littl* creek. At last, being
eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom,
I resolved upon my cruise; aiid accordingly I vic-
tualed my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of
loaves (cakes I shonld rather call them), of barley
bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice (a food I ate a
great deal of), a little bottle of rum, half a g'oat, and
powder and shot for killing more, and two large watch-
coats, of those which, as I mentioned before, I had
saved ont of the seamen's chests; these I took, one to
lie npon, and the oiher to cover me in the night.
It was the 6th of November, in iho sixth year of my
reigu, or my captivity, which yon please, that I set nut
on this voyage, and 1 fonnd it much longer than I ex-
pected; for thongh the island itself was not very Urge,
vet v, lu-n I came to the east side of it, I found a great
ledge of rocks lie ont abont two leagues into the sea*
some above water, some under it; and beyond that a
shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more, so that I
was obliged to go a great way ont to sea to donble the
point.
When first I discovered them, I was gomg to give
VOL. I. h
over my enterprise, and come hack again, not knowing
low far it might oblige me to go ont to sea, and, above
all, donbting how I shonld get hack again ; so I came
to an anchor; for I had made me a kind of an anchor
with a piece of a broken grappling which I got ont of
the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on
shore, climbing up on a hill, which seemed to overlook
that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and re-
solved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that bill where I stood,
I perceived a strong, and indeed a most furions current,
which ran to the east, and even came close to the point;
and I took the more notice of it, becanse I saw there
might be some danger, that when I came into it, I
might be carried ont to sea by the strength of it, and
not be able to make the island again: and, indeed, had
1 not got first upon this hill, I believe it wonld have
been so; for there was the same current on the other side
the island, only that it set oil' at a farther distance, and
I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I had
nothing to do but to get ont of the first current, and I
shonld presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days, becanse the wind
blowing pretty fresh at E.S.fi. and that being just con-
trary to the said current, made a great breach of the
sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for me to
keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go too
far off becanse of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having
ahated over-night, the sea was calm, and I ventured:
but I am a warning-piece again to all rash and iguorant
pilots ; for no sooner was I come to the point, when I
was not even my boat's length from the shore, hat I
fonnd myself in a great depth of water, and a current
like the sluice of a mill; it carried my boat along with
it with such violence that all I conld do conld not keep
her so much as on the edge of it; but I fonnd it burried
me farther and farther ont from the eddy, which was on
my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me,
and all I could do with my paddles siguified nothing:
and now I began to give myself over for lost; for as the
current was on both sides of the island, I knew in a few
leagues distance they must join again, and then I was
irrecoverably gone; nor did I see any possihility of
avoiding it; so that I had no prospect before me but of
perishing, not by the sea, for that was calm enongh,
but of starving for bunger. I had indeed fonnd a tor-
toise on the shore, as hig almost as I conld lift, and had
tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh
water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots; but what
was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, where,
to be sure, there was no shore, no main land or island,
for a thonsand leagues at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of
God to make even the most miserable condition of man-
kind worse. Now I looked hack upon my desolate,
solitary island, as the most pleasant place in the world;
and all the happiness my heart conld wish for was to be
but there again. I stretched ont my hands to it, with
eager wishes: "O happy desert!" said I, "I shall
never see thee more. O miserable creature! whither
am 1 going!" Then I reproached myself with my un-
thankful temper, and how I had repined at my solitary
condition; and now what wonld I give to be on shore
there again! Tbus we never see the true state of onr
condition till it is illustrated to us by its contraries, nor
know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want of
it. It is scarce possible to imagine the cousternation I
was now in, being driven from my beloved island (for
so it appeared to me now to be), into the wide ocean,
almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever
recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till in-
deed my strength was almost exhansted, and kept my
boat as much to the northward, that is, towards the side
of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I
conld; when abont noon, as the sun passed the meri-
dian, I thonght I felt a little breeze of wind in my face,
springing up from S.S.E. This cheered my heart a
little, and especially when, in abont half an honr more,
it blew a pretty gentle gale. By this time I was got at
a frightful distance from the inland, and had the least
clondy or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone
another way too; for I had no compass on board, and
shonld never have known bow to have steered towards
the island, if I had but once lost sight of it; but the
weather continuing clear, I applied myself to get up my
mast again, and spread my sail, standing away to Hie
north as much as possible, to get ont of the current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began
to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the
water some alteration of the current was near; for
where the current was so strong, the water was fonl;
but perceiving the water clear, I fonnd the current
ahate; and presently I fonnd to the east, at abont half
a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks: these
rocks I fonnd cansed the current to part again, and as
the main stress of it ran away more sontherly, leaving
the rocks to the north-east, so the otfier returned by
the repulse of the rocks, and made a strong eddy,
which ran hack again to the north-west, with a very
sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve bronght
to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves
just going to murder them, or who have been in such-
like extremities, may guess what my present surprise
of joy was, and how gladly i put my boat into the
stream of this eddy; and the wind also freshening,
how gladly I spread mv sail to it, running cheerfully
before the wind, and with a strong tide or eddy under
foot.
This eddy carried me abont a league in my way back
again, directly towards the island, but abont two
leagues more to the northward than the current which
carried me away at first: so that when I came near the
island, I fonnd myself open to the northern shore of it,
that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to
that which I went ont from.
When I had made something more than a league of
way by the help of this current or eddy, I fonnd it was
spent, and served me no farther. However, I fonnd
that being between two great currents, viz. that on the
sonth side, which had hurried me away, and that on the
north, which lay abont a league on the other side; I
say, between these two, in the wake of the island, I
fonnd the water at least still, and running uo way; and
having still a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on
steering directly for the island, thoagh not making such
fresh way as I did 'before.
Abont fonr o'clock in the evening, being then within
a league of the island, I fonnd the point of the rocks
which occasioned this disaster, stretching ont, as is de-
scribed before, to the sonthward, and casting off tho
current more sontherly, had, of conrse, made another
eddy to the north; and this I fonnd very strong, but not
directly setting the way my coarse lay, which was due
west, but almost full north. However, having a fresh
gale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting north-west;
and, in abont an honr, came within abont a mile of the
shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave
God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside
all thonghts of my deliverance by my boat; and re-
freshing myself with such things as I had, I bronght
my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had
spied under some trees, and laid me down to sleep,
being quite spent with the labonr and fatigue of the
voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home
with my boat; I had run so much hazard, and knew too
much of the case, to think of attempting it by the way
I went ont; and what might be at the other side (I
mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any mind
to run any more ventures; so I only resolved in the
morning to make my way westward along the shore,
and to see if there was no creek where I might lay up
my frigate in safety, so as to have her again, if I wanted
ber. In abont three miles, or thereabonts, coasting the
shore, I came to a very good inlet or hay, abont a mile
over, which narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet
or brook, where I fonnd a very convenient harbonr for
my boat, and where she lay as if she had been in a little
dock made on purpose for her. Here I put in, and
having stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore, to
look abont me, and see where I was.
I soon fonnd I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I traveled on foot to
that shore; so taking nothing ont of my boat but my
gun and umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I began m v
march. The way was comfortable enongh after such a
voyage as I had been upon, and I reached my old bower
in the evening, where I fonnd every thing; standing as I
loft it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as I
said before, my conntry honse.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade:
to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep,
but jndge yon, if yon can, that read my story, what a
surprise I must he in, when I was awaked ont of my
sleep by a voice, calling me by my name several times,
"Rohin, Rohin, Rohin Crusoe; poor Rohin Crusoe!
Where are yon, Rohin Crusoe? Where are yon?
Where have yon been?"
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with row-
ing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day,
and with walking the latter part, that I did not wake
thorongbly; but dozing between sleeping and waking,
thonght I dreamed that somebody spoke to me; but as
the voice continued to repeat " Rohin Crusoe, Robin
Crusoe," at last I began to wake more perfectly, and was
at first dreadfully frightened, and started up in the ut-
most cousternation; but no sooner were my eyes open,
but I saw my Pol sitting on the top of the hedge; and
immediately knew it was he that spoke to me; for
just in such bemoaning language I had used to talk to
him, and teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly
that he wonld sit upon my finger, and lay his hill close
to my face, and cry, " Poor Rohin Crusoe! Where are
yon? Where have yon been? How came yon here?"
and such things as I had tanght him.
However, even thongh I knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it conld be nobody else, it was a good while
before I could compose myself. First, I was amazed
how the creature got thither, and then, how he shonld
just keep abont the place, and no where else: but as I
was well satisfied it conld be nobody but honest Pol, I
got over it: and holding ont my hand, and calling him
by his name, Pol,.the sociable creature came to me, and
sat upon my tbumb, as he used to do, and continued
talking to me, Poor Rohin Crusoe! and how did I come
here? and where had I been? just ad if he had been
overjoyed to see me again: and so I carried him home
along with me.
I now had enongh of rambling to sea for some time,
and had enough to do for many days, to sit still, and re-
flect upon the danger I had been in. I wonld have
been very glad to have had my boat again on my side of
the island; but I knew not how it was practicable to
get it abont. As to the east side of the island, which I
had gone ronnd, I knew well enongh there was no ven-
turing that way; my very heart wonld shrink, and my
very blood run chill, hat to think of it; and as to the
other side of the island, I did not know how it might
be there; bat supposing the current ran with the same
force agaiust the shore at the east as it passed by it on
the other, I might run the same risk of being driven
down the stream, and carried by the island, as I had
been before of being carried away from it; so, with
these thonghts, I contented myself to be withont any
boat, thongh it had been the product of so many mouths'
labonr to make it, and of so many more to get it into
the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a
year, lived a very sedate, retired life, as yon may well
suppose; and my thoughts being very much composed,
as to my condition, and fully comforted in resigning my-
self to the dispositious of Providence, I thonght I lived
really very happily in all things, except that of society.
I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying
myself to; and I believe I conld, upon occasion, have
made a very good carpenter, especially 'cousidering how
few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection
in my earthenware, and contrived well enongh to make
them with a wheel, which I fonnd infinitely easier and
better; becanse I made things ronnd and shapable,
which before were filthy things indeed to look on.
But I think I was never more vain of my own perform-
ance, or more joyful for any thing I fonnd ont, than for
my being able to make a tohacco-pipe ; and thongh it
was a very ugly, clumsy thing when it was done, and
onlv burnod red, like other earthenware, yet as it was
hard and firm, and wonld draw the smoke, I was exceed-
ingly comforted with it, for I had been always used to
smoke: and there were pipes in the ship, but I forgot
them at first, not thinking that there was tohacco in the
island; and afterwards, when I searched the ship again,
I conld not come at any pipes at all.
In my wickerware also I improved much, and made
ahundance of necessary haskets, as well as my inven-
tion showed me; thongh not very handsome, yet they
were such as were very handy and convenient for my
laying things up in, or fetching things home. For ex-
ample, if I killed a goat abroad, I conld hang it up in a
tree, flay it, dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it
home in a basket; and the like by a turtle: I conld cut
it up, take ont the eggs, and n piece or two of the flesh,
which was enongh for me, and bring them home in a
basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also large deep
haskets were the receivers of my corn, which I always
rubbed ont as soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it
in great haskets.
I began now to perceive my powder ahated cousider-
ably; this was a want which it was impossible for me
to supply, and I began serionsly to cousider what I
must do when I shonld have no more powder; that is
to say, how I shonld do to kill any goats. I had, as is
observed, in the third year of my being here, kept a
yonng kid, and bred her up tame, and I was in hopes of
getting a he-goat: but I conld not by any meaus bring
it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and as I conld
never find in my heart to kill her, she died at last of
mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as, I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set
myself to stndy some art to trap and suare the goats, to
see whether j conld not catch some of them alive; and
particularly, I wanted a she-goat great with yonng.
For this purpose, I made suares to hamper them; and I
rlo believe they were more than once taken in them;
but my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and I al-
ways fonnd them broken, and my hait devonred. At
length I resolved to try a pitfall: so I dug several large
pits in the earth, in places where I had observed the
goats used to feed, and over those pits I placed burdles,
ot my own making too, with a great weight upon them;
and several times I put ears of harley and dry rice,
withont setting the trap; and I conld easily perceive
that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I
conld see the marks of their feet. At length I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, I fonnd
them all standing, and yet the hait eaten and gone; this
was very disconraging. However, I altered my traps;
and, not to tronble yon with particulars, going one
morning to see my traps, I fonnd in one of them a large
old he-goat, and in one of the others three kids, a male
and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him;
he was so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him; that
is to say, to go abont to bring him away alive, which
was what I wanted; I conld have killed him, hat that
was not my business, nor wonld it auswer my end ; so
I even let him ont, and he ran away as if he had been
frightened ont of his wits. But I did not then know
what I afterwards learned, that bunger will tame a lion.
If I had let him stay there three or four days withont
food, and then have carried him some water to drink,
and then a little corn, he wonld have been as tame as
one of the kids; for they are mighty sagacions, tracta-
ble creatures, where they are well used.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time: then I went to the three kids, and
taking them ono by one, I tied them with strings toge-
ther, and with some difliculty brought them all home.
It was a good while before they wonld feed; but
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and
they began to be tame. And now I fonnd that if I ex-
pected to supply myself with goat's flesh when I had no
powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way; when, perhaps, I might have them abont my
honse like a flock of sheep. But then it occurred to
me, that I must keep the tame from the wild, or else
Ihey wonld always run wild when they grew up: and
the only way for this was, to have some enclosed piece
of gronnd, well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to
keep them in so effectually that those within might not
break ont, or those withont break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands;
yet as I saw there was an absolute necessity for (loms
it, my first work was to find ont a proper piece of
gronnd, where there was likely to be herhage for them
to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to keep them
from the sun.
Those who understand such enclosures will think I
had very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place
very proper for all these (being a plain open piece of
meadow land, or savannah, as onr people call it in tho
western colonies), which had two or three little drills
of fresh water in it, and at one end was very woody; I
say, they will smile at my forecast, when I shall tell
them, I began by enclosing this ]>iece of gronnd in such
a manner, that my hedge or pale must have been at
least two miles abont. Nor was the madness of it so
great as to the compass, for if it was ten miles abont, I
was like to have time enongh to do it in; but I did not
cousider that my goats wonld be as wild in so much
compass as if they had had the whole island, and I
shonld have so much room to chase them in that I
shonld never catch them.
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe abont
fifty yards, when this thonght occurred to me; so I
presently stopped short, and, for the first beginning, I
resolved to enclose a piece of abont 150 yards in length,
and 100 yards in breadth; which, as it wonld maintain
as many as I shonld have in any reasonable time, so, as
my stock increased, I conld add more gronnd to my en-
closure.
This was acting with some prndence, and I went to
work with conrage. I was abont three months hedging
in the first piece; and, till I had done it, I tethered the
three kids in the best part of it, and used them to feed
as near me as possible, to make them familiar; and
very often I wonld go and carry them some ears of har-
ley, or a handful of rice, and feed them ont of my hand:
so that after my enclosure was finished, and I let them
loose, they wonld follow me up and dowu, bleating
after me for a handful of corn.
This auswered my end: and in abont a year and a
half [ had a flock of abont twelve goats, kills and all;
and in two years more, I had three and forty, besides
several that I took and killed for my food. After that
I enclosed five several pieces of gronnd to feed them
in, with little peus to drive them into, to take them as
I wanted, and gates ont of one piece of gronnd into
another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's
flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too; a thing
which, indeed, in the beginning, I did not so much as
think of, and which, when it came into my thonghts,
was really an agreeable surprise: for now I set up my
dairy, and dad sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a
day. And as nature, who gives supplies of food to
every creature, dictates even naturally how to make use
of it, so 1, that had never milked a cow, much less a
goat, or seen butter or cheese made, only when I was a
boy, after a great many essays and miscarriages, made me
both butter and cheese at last, and also salt (though I
fonnd it partly made to my hand by the heat of the sun
upon some of the rocks of the sea), and never wanted it
afterwards. How mercifully can onr Creator treat his
creatures, even in those conditious in which they seem-
ed to be overwhelmed in destruction! How can he
sweeten the hitterest providences, and give us canse to
praise him for dungeous and prisous! What a table
was here spread for me in a wilderness, where I saw no-
thing, at first, but to perish for bunger!
It wonld have made a stoic smile to have seen me and
my little family sit down to dinner: there was my ma-
jesty, the prince and lord of the whole island; I had
the lives of all my subjects at my absolute command; I
conld hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away; and
no rebels among all my subjects. Then to see how like
a king I dined too, all alone, attended by my servants!
Pol, as if be had been my favonrite, was the only per-
son permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now
grown very old and crazy, and had fonnd no species to
multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right hand;
and two cats, one on one side of the table, and one on
the other, expecting now and then a hit from my hand,
as a mark of special favonr.
But these were not the two cats which I bronght on
shore at first, for they were both of them dead, and had
been interred near my hahitation by my own hand ; hnt
one of ilium having multiplied by I know not what kind
of creature, these were two which I had preserved
tame; whereas the rest run wild in the woods, and be-
came indeed tronblesome to me at last; for they wonld
often come into my honse, and plunder me too, till at
last I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great
many; at length they left me.—With this attendance,
and in this plentiful manner, I lived; neither conld I
be said to want any thing but society: and of that, some
time after this, I was like to have too much.
I was something impatient, as I have observed, to
have the use of my boat, thongh very loath to run any
more hazards; and therefore sometimes I sat contriv-
ing ways to get her abont the island, and at other times
I sat myself down contented enongh without her. But
I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to tho
point of the island, where, as I have said, in my last
ramble, I went up the hill to see how tho shore lay, and
how the current set, that I might see what I had to do:
this inclination increased upon me every day, and at
length I resolved to travel thither by land, Following
the edge of the shore. I did so; but had any one in
.England been to meet such a man as I was, it must
either have frightened him, or raised a great deal of
langhter: and as I frequently stood still to look at my-
self, I conld not but smile at the notion of my traveling
throngh Yorkshire, with such an equipage, and in such
a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my figure, as
follows:
I had a great, high, shapeless cap, made of a goal's
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep
the sun from me as to shoot the rain off from running
into my neck: nothing being so burtful in these cli-
mates as the rain upon the flesh, under the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming
down to abont the middle of the thighs, and a pair of
open-kneed breeches of the same; the breeches were
made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hang
down such a length on either side, that, like pantaloous,
it reached to ihe middle of my legs; stockings and
uioes I had none, but had made me a: pair of some-
things, I scarce know what to call them, like buskius,
to Hap over my legs, and lace on either side like spat-
terdashes: but of a most harharons shape, as indeed
were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the same, iustead of
buckles; and in a kind of a frog on either side of this,
iustead of a sword and dagger, bung a little saw and a
hatchet; one on one side, and une on the other. I had
another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the same
manner, which bung over my shonlder; and at the end
of it, under my left arm, bung two ponches, both made
of goat's skin too; in one of which bung my powder, in
the other my shot. At my hack I carried my hasket,
and on my shonlder my gun; and over my head a great,
clumsy, ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all,
was the most necessary thing I had abont me, next to
my gun. As for my face, the colonr of it was really
not so mulattolike as one might expect from a man not
at all careful of it, and living within nine or ten degrees
of the equinox. My beard I had once suffered to grow
till it was abont a quarter of a yard long; but as I had
both scissars and razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty
short, except what grew on my upper lip, which I
had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee; for
the Moors did not wear such, thongh the Turks did:
of these mustachios or whiskers, I will not say they
were long enongh to hang my hat upon them, but they
were of a length and shape moustrons enongh, and such
as, in England, wonld have passed for frightful.
But all this is by the by ; for, as to my figure, I had
so few to observe me that it was of no manner of couse-
quence; so I say no more to that part. In this kind of
figure I went my new jonrney, and was ont five or six
days. I traveled first along the seashore, directly to
the place where I first bronght my boat to an anchor, to
get upon the rocks; and having no boat now to take
care of, I went overthe land, a nearer way, to the same
height that I was upon before; when looking forward
to the point of the rocks which lay ont, and which I was
obliged to donble with my boat, as is said above, I was
surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet; no rip-
pling, no motion, no current, any more there than in
any other places. I was at a strange loss to understand
this, and resolved to spend some time in the observing
it, to see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occa-
sioned it; but I was presently convinced how it was,
viz. that the tide of ebb setting from the west, and join-
ing with the current of waters from some great river on
the shore, must be the occasion of this current; and
that according as the wind blew more forcibly from the
west, or from the north, this current came nearer, or
went farther from the shore; -for waiting thereabonts
till evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the
tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current again
as before, only that it ran farther off, being near half a
league from the shore; whereas in my case, it set close
upon the shore, and burried me and my canoe along
with it; which, at another time, it wonld not have
done.
This observation convinced me, that I had nothing to
do but to observe the ebhing and the flowing of the tide,
and I might very easily bring my boat abont the island
again: but when I began to think of putting it in prac-
tice, I had such a terror upon my spirits, at the remem-
brance of the danger I had been in, that I conld not
think of it again with any patience; but, on the con-
trary, I took up another resolution, which was more
safe, thongh more laborions; and this was, that I wonld
build, or rather make me another periagua or canoe;
and so have one for one side of the island, and one fur
tbe other.
Yon are to understand, that now I had, as I may call
it, two plantatious in the island; one, my little fortifica-
tion or tent, with the wall abont it. under the rock,
with the cave behind me, which, by this time, I had en-
larged into several apartments or caves, one within ano-
ther. One of these, which was the driest and largest,
and had a door ont beyond my wall or fortification, that
is to say, bevond where my \\alljoined to the rock, was
all filled up with the large earthen pots, of which I have
Riven an acconnt, and with fonrteen or fifteen great
baskets, which wonld hold five or six bushels each,
where I kid up my stores of provisious, especially my
corn, some in the ear, cut off short from the straw, and
the other rubbed ont with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by this
time grown so hig, and spread so very much, that there
was not the least appearance, to any one's view, of any
hahitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within
the land, and upon lower gronnd, lay my two pieces of
corn land, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and
which duly yielded me their harvest in its season: and
whenever I had occasion for more corn, I had more land
adjoining as fit as that.
Besides this, I had my conntry seat; and I had now
a tolerable plantation there also: for, first, I had my
little bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair; that
is to say, I kept the hedge which encircled it in con-
stantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder standing
always in the iuside: I kept the trees, which at first
were no more than my stakes, but were now grown
very firm and tall, always cut so that they might spread
and grow thick and wild, and make the more agreeable
shade; which they did eflectually to my mind. In the
middle of this I had my tent always standing, being a
piece of a sail spread over poles, set up for that purpose,
and which never wanted any repair or renewing; and
under this I had made me a squab or conch, with the skius
of the creatures I had killed, and with other soft things;
and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to oar sea-
bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat
to cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to
he absent from my chief seat, I took up my conntry ha-
bitation.
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle,
that is to say, my goats; and as I had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of paius to fence and enclose this gronnd,
I was so anxions to see it kept entire, lest the goats
shonld break throngh, that I never left off, till, with in-
finite labonr, I had stuck the ontside of the hedge so
full of small stakes, and so near to one another, that it
was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was~ scarce
room to pot a hand throngh between them; which
afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in
the next rainy season, made the enclosure strong like a
wall,—indeed, stronger than any wall.
This will testify fur me that I was not idle, and that I
spared no paius to hring to pass whatever appeared ne-
cessary for my comfortable support; for I cousidered
the keeping up a breed of tame creatures tbus at my
hand wonld be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter,
and cheese for me as long as I lived in the place, if it
were to be forty yearn; and that keeping them iii my
reach depended entirely upon my perfecting my enclo-
sures to such a degree, that I might be sure of keeping
them together; which, by this method, indeed, I so ef-
fectually secured, that when these little stakes began to
grow, I had planted them so very thick, that I was
forced to pull some of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my winter store of raisins,
and which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as
Ihe best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet;.
and indeed they were not only agreeahle, but medici-
nal, wholesome, nonrishing, and refreshing to the last
degree.
As this was also abont half-way between my other
hahitation and the place where I had laid up my boat,
I generally stayed and lay here in my way thither; for
I used frequently to visit my boat; and I kept all things
abont, or belonging to her, in very good order: some-
times I went ont in her to divert myself, but no more
hazardons voyages wonld I go, nor scarce ever above
K stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so apprehen-
sive of being burried ont of my knowledge again by
the currents or winds, or any other accident. But now
I come to a new scene of my life.
It happened one day, abont noon, going towards my
boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a
man's naked foot on the shore, which was very plain to
be seen in the sand. I stood like one tbunderstruck,
or as if I had seen an apparition; I listened, I looked

ronnd me, but I conld hear nothing, nor see any thing;
I went up to a rising gronnd, to look farther; I went
up the shore, and down the shore, but it was all one; I
conld see no other impression but that one. I went to
it again to see if there were any more, and to observe
if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room for
that, for there was exactly the print of afoot, toes, heel,
and every part of a foot: how it camo thither I knew
not, nor conld I in the least imagine: but, after innu-
merable fluttering thonghts, like a man perfectly con-
fused and ont of myself, I came home to my fortifica-
tion, not feeling, as we say, the gronnd I went on, but
terrified to the last degree: looking behind me at every
two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and
fancying every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor
is it possible to describe how many varions shapes my
affrighted imagination represented things to me in, how
many wild ideas were fonnd every moment in my fancy,
and what strange unacconntable whimseys came into my
thonghts by the way.
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it
ever after this,) I fled into it like one pursued; whe
ther I went over by the ladder, as first contrived, or
went in at the hole in the rock, which I had called a
door, I cannot remember; no, nor conld I remember
the next morning: for never frightened hare fled to
cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than I
to this retreat.
I slept none that night; the farther T was from the
occasion of my fright, the greater my appreheusious
were; which is something contrary to the nature of
such things, and especially to the usaal practice of all
creatures in fear; but I was so emharrassed with my
own frightful ideas of the thing that I formed nothing
but dismal imaginatious to myself, even thongh I was
now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied it must
be the Devil, and reason joined in with me upon this
supposition; for how shonld any other thing in buman
shape come into the place? Where was the vessel that
bronght them? What marks were there of any other
footsteps? And how was it possible a man shonld
come there? But then to think that Satan shonld take
buman shape upon him in such a place, where there
conld he no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the
print of his foot behind him, and that even for no pur-
pose too, for he conld not be sure I shonld sec it,—this
was an amusement the other way. I cousidered that
the Devil might have fonnd ont abundance of other
ways to have terrified me than this of the single print
of a foot; that as I lived qnite on the other side of the
island, he wonld never have been so simple as to leave
a mark in a place where it was ten thonsand to one
whether [ should ever see it or not, and in the sand too,
which the first surge of the sea, upon a high wind,
wonld have defaced entirely: all this seemed mcousis-
tent with the thing itself, and with all the notious we
usually entertain of the subtilty of the Devil,
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue
me ont of all appreheusious of its being the Devil; and
I presently conclnded then, that it must be some more
dangerous creature, viz. that it must be some of the
savages of the main land over agaiust me, who had
wandered ont to sea in their canoes, and cither driven
by the currents or In contrary winds, had made the
island, and had been on shore, but were gone away
again to sea; beiiig as loath, perhaps, to have staved in
this desolate island as I wonld have been to have had
them.
While these rcdcctious were rolling upon my mind,
I was very thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy
ns not to bo thereabonts at that time, or that they did
not see my boat, by which they wonld have conclnded
that some inhabitants had been in the place, and per-
haps have searched farther for me; then terrible
thonghts racked my imagination abont their having
fonnd my boat, and that there were people here; and
that if so, I shonld certainly have them come again in
greater numbers, and devonr me; that if it shonld hap-
pen so that they shonld not find iue, yet they wonld find
my enclosure, destroy all my corn, and carry away all
my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at last for
mere want.
Tbus uiv fear hanished all my religious hope, all that
former confidence in God, which was founded upon
sueh wonderful experience as I had had of his good-
ness; as if he that had fed me by miracle hitherto conld
not preserve, by his power, the provision which he had
made for me by his goodness. I reproached myself
with my laziness, that wonld not sow any more corn
one year than wonld just serve me till the next season,
as if no accident wonld intervene to prevent my enjoy-
ing Hie crop that was upon the gronnd; and this I
thonght so just a reproof that I resolved for the future
to have two or three years' corn beforehand; so that,
whatever might come, I might not perish for want of
bread.
How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the
life of man! and by what secret different springs are
the aflectious burried about, as diflerent circumstances
present! To-day we love what to-morrow we hate; to-
day we seek what to-morrow we sbun; to-day we de-
sire what to-morrow we fear, nay, even tremble at the
apprehensious of; this was exemplified in me, at this
bme, in the most lively manner imaginable; for I,
whose only affliction was that I seemed hanished from
human society, that I was alone, circumscribe*! by the
bonndless ocean, cut oft' from mankind, and condemned
to what I called silent life; that I was as one whom
Heaven thonght not worthy to be numbered among the
living, or to appear am.ong the rest of his creatures;
that to have seen one of my own species wonld have
seemed to me a raising me from death to life, and the
greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to the supreme
blessin-- of salvation, conld bestow: I say, that I shonld
now tremble at the very appreheusious of seemg a man,
and was ready to sink into the gronnd at but the sha-
dow or silent appearance of a man s havmg set his loot
io the island. ... , .. r
Such is the uneven state of buman life : and it at-
forded me a great many curions speculatious afterwards,
when I had a little recovered my first surprise. I con-
sidered that this was the station of life the mfinitely
wise and good providence of God had determmed for
me • that as I conld not foresee what the ends of divine
wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute his
sovereiguty, who, as I was his creature had an un-
donbted right, txy creation, to govern and dispose of me
absolutely as bethonght fit; and who, as I was a crea-
ture that had offended him, had likewise a jndicial
risht to condemn me to what punishment he thonght
fit • and that it was my part to submit to bear his mdig-
nation, becanse I had sinned agaiust him. I then re-
flected, that as God, who was not only righteons bu
omnipotent, had thonght fit tbus to pumsh andI afflict
mTso he was able to deliver me ; that if he d,d not
think fit to do so, it was my unquestioned duty to resign
mvself absolutely and entirely to his will; and, on the
other hand, it was my duty also to hope m him, pray to
him, and quietly to attend the dictates and directious of
^The'so thought took mo up many honrs, days, nay, I
mavsay weeks and months; and one particular eflect
of my cogitatious on this occasion I cannot omit: One
morning early, lying in my bed and filled with
thonghts abont my danger from the appearances of
savazes I fonnd it discomposed me very much ; upon
which these words of the Scripture came into my
thoncht*, " Call upon me m the day of tronble, and I
will deliver thee, and thon shall glorify me." Upon this,
rising cheerfully ont of my bed, my heart was not only
comforted, but I was guided and enconraged to pray
earnestly to God for deliverance: when I had done
praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to read, the
first words that presented to me were, "Wait on the
Lord, and be of good cheer, and he shall strengthen thy
heart; wait, I say, on the Lord." It is impossible to
express the comfort this gave me. In auswer, I thank-
fully laid down the book, and was no more sad, at least
0n that occasion.
In the middle of these cogitatious, appreheusious,
and reflectious, it came into my thonghts one day, that
al I this might be a mere chimera of my own, and that this
foot might be the print of my own foot, when I came
on shore from my boat: this cheered me up a little too,
and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion;
that it was nothing else but my own foot; and why
inii-hi I not come that way from the boat, as well as I
was going that way to the boat? Again, I cousidered
also, that I conld by no meaus tell, for certain, where I
Lad trod, and where I had not; and that if, at last, this
was only ihe print of my own foot, I had played the
part of those fools who try to make stories of spectres
and apparitious, and then are frightened at them more
than any body.
Now I began to take conrage, and to peep abroad
again, for I had not stirred ont of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for provisious;
for I had little or nothing within doors but some har-
ley-cakes and water: then I knew that my goats wanted
to be milked too, which usually was my evening diver-
sion; and the poor creatures were in great pain and
inconvenience for want of it; and, indeed, it almost
spoiled some of them, and almost dried up their milk.
Enconraging myself, therefore, with the belief that this
was nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and
that I might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I
began to go abroad again, and went to my conntry-
honse to milk my flock: but to see with what fear I
went forward, how often I looked behind me, how I
was ready, every now and then, to lay down my hasket,
and run for my life, it wonld have made any one have
thonght I was hannted with an evil couscience, or that
J had been lately most terribly frightened; and so, in-
deed, I had. However, as I went down tbus two or
throe days, and having seen nothing, I began to be a
little bolder, and to thmk there was really nothing in it
but my own imagination; bat I conld not persuade my-
self full; of this till I shonld go down to the shore
again, and see this print of a foot, and measure it by
my own, and see if there was any similitnde or fitness,
that I might be assured it was my own foot: but when
I came to the place first, it appeared evidently to me,
that when I laid up my boat, I conld not possibly he on
shore any where thereabonts: secondly, when I came to
measure the mark with my own foot, I fonnd my foot
not so large by a great deal. Both these things filled
my head with new imaginatious, and gave me the vaponrs
again to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold
like one in an ague; and I went home again, filled with
the belief that some man or men had been on shore
there; or, in short, that the island was inhahited, and I
might be surprised before I was aware; and what
conrse to take for my security I knew not.
O what ridiculons resolutious men take when pos-
sessed with fear! It deprives them of the use of those
meaus which reason oilers for their relief. The first
thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down my en-
closures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the
woods, lest the enemy shonld find them, and then fre-
quent the island in prospect of the same or the like
booty: then to the simple thing of digging up my two
corn fields, lest they shonld find such a grain there, and
still be prompted to frequent the island: then to demo-
lish my bower and tent, that they might not see any ves-
tiges of hahitation, and be prompted to look farther, in
order to find ont the persous inhahiting.
These were the subject of the first night's cogitatious
after I was come home again, while the appreheusious
which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me,
and my head was full of vaponrs as above. Thus fear
of danger is ten thonsand times more terrifying than
danger itself, when apparent to the eyes; and we find
the burden of anxiety greater, by much, than the evil
which weare anxions about: and, which was worsethan
all this, I had not that relief in this tronble from the
resiguation I used to practise, that I hoped to have. I
looked, I thought, like Sanl, who complained not only
that the Philistines were upon him, but that God hail
forsaken him; for I did not now take due ways to com-
pose my mind, by crying to God in my distress, and
resting upon his providence, as I had done before, for
my defence and deliverance; which, if I had done, I
had at least been more cheerfully supported under this
new surprise, and perhaps carried throngh it with more
resolution.
This confusion of my thonghts kept me awake all
night; but in tho morning I fell asleep; and having,
l>y the amusement of my mind, been, as it were, tired,
and my spirits exhansted, I slept very sonndly, and
waked much better composed than I had ever been be-
fore. And now I began to think sedately; and, upon
the utmost dehate with myself, I conclnded Hint this
island, which was so exceedingly pleasant, fruitful, and
juo farther from the main land than as I had seen, was not
so entirely ahandoned as I might imagine; that althongh
there were no stated inhahitants who lived on the spot,
yet that there might sometimes come boats off from the
shore, who, either with desigu, or perhaps never but
when they were driven by cross winds, might come to
this place ; that I had lived here fifteen years now, and
had not met with the least shadtnv or figure of any peo-
ple yet; and that if at any time they shonld be driven
here, it was prohable they went away again as soon as
ever they conld, seeing they had never thonght fit to fix
here upon any occasion; that the most I conld suggest
auy danger from, was from any casual accidental land-
ing of straggling people from the main, who, as it was
likely, if they were driven hither, were here agaiust
their wills, so they made no stay here, but went off
again with all possible speed; seldom staying one
night on shore, lest they shonld not have the help of
the tides and daylight hack again; and that, therefore,
I had nothing to do but to cousider of some safe retreat,
in case I shonld see any savages land upon the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave
so large as to bring a door throngh again, which door,
as I said, came ont beyond where my fortification join-
ed to the rock: upon maturely cousidering this, there-
fore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification, in
Ihc same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my
wall, just where I had planted a donble row of trees
abont twelve years before, of which I made mention:
these trees having been planted so thick before, they
wanted but few piles to be driven between them, that
thev might be thicker and stronger, and mv wall wonld
he soon finished. 80 that I had now a donble wall; and
toy onter wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old
cables, and every thing I conld think of, to make it
strong; having in it seven little holes, abont as hig as I
might put my arm ont at. In the iuside of this, I thick-
ened my wall to abont ten feet thick, with continually
bringing earth ont of my cave, and laying it at the foot
of the wall, and walking upon it; and throngh the
seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which
1 took notice that I had got seven on shore ont of the
ship; these I planted like my cannon, and fitted them
into frames, that held them like a carriage, so that I
conld fire all the seven guus in two minutes'time, this
wall I was many a weary month in finishing, and yet
never thonght myself safe till it was done.
When Ihis was done, I stuck all the gronnd withont
my wall, for a great length every way, as full with
stakes or sticks of the osierlike wood, which I fonnd
so apt to grow, as they could well stand; iusomuch,
that I belicvel might set in-near twenty thonsand of
them, leaving a pretty large space between them and
mv wall, that I might have room to see an enemy, and
they might have no shelter from the yonng trees, if they
atte'mpted to approach my onter wall.
Tbus, in two years'time, I had
> years' time, I had a thick grove; and
in five or six years' time I had a wood before my dwel-
ling, growing so moustrons thick and strong that it
was indeed perfectly impassable; and no men, of what
kind soever, wonld ever imagine that there was any
thing beyond it, much less a hahitation. As for the
way which I proposed to myself to go in and ont (for I
left no avenue), it was by setting two ladders, one to a
part of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and
li't't. room to place another ladder upon that; so when
the two ladders were taken down, no man living conld
come down to me withont doing himself mischief; mid
if they had come down, they were still on the ontside
of my onter wall.
Tbus I took all the measures buman prndence conld
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen,
at length, that they were not altogether withont just
reason; thongh I foresaw nothing at that time more
than my mere fear suggested to me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless
of my other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me
for my little herd of goats; they were not only a ready
supply to me on every occasion, and began to be suf-
ficient for me, withont the expeuse of powder and suot,
but also withont the fatigue of bunting after the wild
ones; and I was loath to lose the advantage of them,
and to have them all to nurse up over again.
For this purpose, after long cousideration, I conld
think of but two wavs to preserve them: one was, to
find another convenient place to dig a cave under
gronnd, and to drive Iheni into it every night; and the
other was, to enclose two or three little hits of land,
remote from one another, and as much concealed as I
conld, where I might keep abont half a dozen yonng
goats in each place; so that if any disaster happened to
the flock in general, I might be able to raise them again
with little tronble and time; and this, thongh it wonld
require a great deal of time and labonr, I thonght was
the most rational desigu.
Accordingly, I spent some time to find ont the most
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one,
which was as private, indeed, as my heart conld wish
for: it was a little damp piece of gronnd, in the middle
of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed,
1 almost lost myself once before, endeavonring to come
hack that wav from the eastern part of tho island.
Here I fonnd a clear piece of land, near three acres, so
surronnded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure
by nature; at least it did not want near so much labonr
to make it so as the other pieces of gronnd I had
worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this pi nee of
ground, and in less than a month's time I had so fenced
it ronnd that my flock, or herd, call it which yon
please, who were not so wild now as at first they might
be supposed to he, were well enongh secured in it: so,
withont any farther delay, I removed ten yonng she
goats, and two he goats, to this piece; and when they
were there, I continued to perfect the fence, till I had
made it as secure as the other; which, however, I did
at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a great
deal. All this labonr I was at the expeuse of, purely
from my appreheusious on the acconnt of the print of
a man's foot which I had seen; for, as yet, I never saw
any buman creature come near the island; and I had
now lived two years under this uneasiness, which, in-
deed, made my life much less comfortable than it was
before, as may be well imagined by anv who know
'what it is to live in the coustant suare of the fear of
man. And this I must observe, with grief too, that the
discomposure of my mind had too great impressious
also upon the religious part of my thonghts: for the
dread and terror of falling into the hands of savages
and cannihals lay so upon my spirits that I seldom
fonnd myself in a due temper for application to my
Maker, at least not with the sedate calmness and re-
siguation of sonl which I was wont to do: I rather
prayed to God as under great affliction and pressure of
mind, surronnded with danger, and in expectation every
night of being murdered and devonred before morning;
and I must testify from my expericuce, that a temper of
peace, thankfulness, love, and affection, is much the
more proper frame for prayer than that of terror and
discomposure; and that under the dread of mischief
impending, a man is no more fit for a comforting per-
formance of the duty of praying to God, than he is for
a repentance on a sick bed; for these discomposures
aflect the mind, as the others do the body; and the
discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as great
a disahility as that of the body, and much greater;
praying to God being properly an act of the mind, not
of the body,
But to go on: after I had tbus secured one part of
my little living stock, I went abont the whole island,
searching for another private place to muko such ano-
thcr deposit; when, wandering more to the west point
of the island than I had ever done ynf, and looking ont
to sea, I thonght I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great
distance. I had fonnd a perspective glass or two in one
of the seamen's chests, which I saved ont of onr shin,
but I had it not abont me; and this was so remote that
I conld not tell what to make of it, thongh I looked at
it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer:
whether it was a boat or not, I do not know, but as I
descended from the hill I conld see no more of it; sol
gave it over; only I resolved to go no more ont withont
a perspective glass in my pocket. When I was come
down the hill to the end of the island, where, indeed,
I had never been before, I was presently convinced that
the seeing the print of a man's foot was not such a
strange thing in the island as I imagined: and but that
it was a special providence that I was cast upon the side
of the island where the savages never came, I shonld
easily have known that nothing was more frequent than
for the canoes from the main, when they happened to
be a little too far ont at sea, to shoot over to that side
of the island for harbonr: likewise, as they often met
and fonght in their canoes, the victors, having taken
any prisoners, wonld bring them over to this shore,
where, according to their dreadful customs, being all
cannihals, they wonld kill and eat them; of which
hereafter.
Wben I was come down the hill to the shore, as I
said above, being the S.W. point of the island, I was
perfectly confonnded and amazed; nor is it possible
for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing the
sbore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones
of buman bodies; and particularly, I observed a place
v, here there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in
the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed the savage
wretches had sat down to their inbuman feastings upon
the bodies of their fellow creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notious of any danger to myself
from it for a long while: all my appreheusious were
buried in the thonghts of such a pitch of inbuman, hel-
lish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy ot
human nature, whicb, though I bad heard of it often,
yet I never had so near a view of before: in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle ; my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of taint-
ing, when nature discharged tin? disorder from my
stomach; and having vomited with uncommon vio-
lence, I was a little relieved, but conld not bear to stay
in the place a moment; so J got me up the hill again
with all the speed I conld, and walked on towards my
own hahitation.
When I came a little ont of that part of the island,
I stood still awhile, as amazed, and then recovering
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of my
sonl, and, with a flood of tears in mv eyes, gave Gorl
thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world
where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures
as these; and that, thongh I had esteemed my present
condition very miserable, had yet given me so many
comforts in it that I had still more to give thanks for
than to complain of: and this, above all, that I had,
even in this miserable condition, been comforted with
the knowledge of Himself, and the hope of his blessing:
which was a felicity more titan sufficiently equivalent
to all the misery which I had suflered, or conld suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my
castle, and be^an to be much easier now, as to the
stilctv of my circumstances, than ever I was before i
for I observed that these wretches never came to this
island in search of what they conld get; perhaps not
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, anything here;
and having often, no donbt, been up in the covered
woody part of it, withont finding anything to their
purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen
years, and never saw the least footsteps of buman crea-
ture there before; and I might be eighteen years more
as entirely concealed as I was now, itl did not discover
myself to them, which I had no manner of occasion to
do; it-being my only business to keep myself entirely
concealed where I was, unless I fonnd a better sort of
creatures than cannihals to make myself known to. Yet
I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches
that I have been speaking of, and of the wretched in-
human custom of their devonring and editing one ano-
ther up, that I continued peusive and sad, and kept
close within my own circle, for almost two years after
this; when I say my own circle, I mean by it my three
plantatious, viz. my castle, my conntry seat, which I
called my bower, and my enclosure in the woods: nor
did I look after this for any other use than as an en-
closure for my goats; for the aversion which nature
gave me to these hellish wretches was such, that I was
as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the Devil himself.
I did not so much as go to look after my boat all this
tune, but began rather to think of making me another;
for I conld not think of ever making any more attempts
to bring the other boat ronnd the island to me, lest I
shonld meet with some of these creatures at sca; in
which, if I had happened to have fallen into their hands,
I knew what wonld have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was
in no danger of being discovered by these people, be-
gan to wear off my uueasmess abont them; and I began
to live just in the same composed manner as before;
only with this difference, that I used more cantion, and
kept my eyes more abont me than I did before, lest I
shonld happen to be seen by any of them; and parti-
cularly, I was more cautions of firing my gun, lest any
of them, being on the island, shonld happen to hear it.
It was therefore a very good providence to me that I
had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, and
that I had no need to bunt any more abont the woods,
or shoot at them; and if I did catch any of them after
this, it was by traps and suares, as I had done before:
so that for two years after this, I believe I never fired
my gun once off, thongh I never went ont withont it;
and, which was more, as I had saved three pistols ont
of the ship, I always carried them ont with me, or at
least two of them, sticking them in my goatskin belt.
I also furhislied up one of the great cutlasses that I had
ont of the ship, and made me a belt to hang it on also;
so that I was now a most formidable fellow to look at
when I went abroad, if yon add to the former descrip-
tion of myself, the particular of two pistols, and a great
broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but withont
a scabbard.
Things going on tbus, as I have said, for some time,
I seemed, excepting these cantious, to be reduced to my
former calm, sedate way of living. All these things teaded
to show me, more and more, how far my condition was
from being miserable, compared to some others; nay,
to many other particulars of life, which it might have
§ leased God to have made my lot. It put me upon re-
ecting how little repining there wonld be among man-
fcind at any condition of life, if people wonld rather
compare their condition with those that were worse, in
order to be thankful, than be always comparing them
with those which are better, to assist their murmurings
and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really
many things which I wanted, so, indeed, I thonght that
the frights I had been in abont these savage wretches,
and the concern I had been in for my own preservation,
had taken off the edge of my invention for my own
conveniences; and I had dropped a good desigu,
which I had once bent my thonghts too mnch upon, and
that was, to try if I conld not make some of my harley
into malt, and then try to brew myself some beer.
This was really a whimsical thonght, and I reproved
myself often for the simplicity of it; for'I presently
saw there wonld be the want of several tiiings neces-
sary to the making my beer, that it wonld he impossible
for me to supply: as, first, casks to preserve it in,
which was a thing that, as I have observed already, I
conld never compass: no, thongh I spent not only
many days, but weeks, nay months, in attempting it, but
to no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to
make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or
kettle to make it boil; and yet with all these things
wanting, I verily believe, had not the frights and ter-
rors I was in abont Ihe savages intervened, I had un-
dertaken it, and perhaps bronght it to pass too; for I
seldom gave any thing over withont accomplishing it,
when once I had it in my head to begin it. But my
invention now ran quite another way; for, night and
day, F conld think of nothing but how I might destroy
some of these mousters in their cruel, bloody entertain-
ment, and, if possible, save the victim they shonld
brmg hither to destroy. It wonld take up a larger
volume than this whole work is intended to be, to set
down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded
upon, in my thonghts, for the destroying: these crea-
tures, or at least frightening them so as to prevent
their coming hither any more: but all this was abortive;
nothing conld he possible to take eflect, unless I was to
be there to do it myself: aiid what conld one man do
among them, when perhaps there might be twenty or
thirty of them together, with their darts, or their bows
and arrows, with which they conld shoot as true to a
mark as I conld with my gun?
Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the
place where they made their fire, and putting in five or
six ponnds of guupowder, which, when they kindled
their fire, wonld cousequently take iice, and blow up
all that was near it: but as, in the first place, I shonld
be unwilling to waste so much powder upon them, my
store being now within the quantity of one harrel, so
neither conld I be sure of its going off at any certain
time, when it might surprise them; and at best, that it
wonld do little more than just blow the fire about their
cars, and fright them, but not sufficient to make them
forsake the place: so 1 laid it aside; and then proposed
that I wonld place myself in ambush in some convenient
place, with my three guus all donble loaded, and in the
middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when
I shonld be sure to kill or wonnd perhaps two or three
at every shot; and then falling in upon them with my
three pistols, and my sword, I made no donbt but that
if there were twenty I shonld kill them all. This fancy
pleased my thonghts for some weeks; aud I was so full
of it, that I often dreamed of it, and sometimes, that f
was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I went so
far with it in niv imagination, that I employed mvself
several days to find ont proper places to put myself in
ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them; and I went
frequently to the place itself, which was now grown
more familiar to me: but while m> mind was tbus filled
with thonghts of revesgc, and a bloody putting twenty
or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it, tin;
horror I had at the place, and at the siguals of the har-
harons wretches devonring ono another, abetted my
malice. Well, at length, I fonnd a place in the side
ni' the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely wait
till I saw any of their boats commg: and might then,
even before they wonld be ready to come on shore,
convey myself uuseen into some thickets of trees, in
one of which there was a hollow large enongh to con-
ceal me entirely; and there I might sit and observe
all their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their
heads, when thay were so close together as that it
wonld be next to impossible that I shonld miss my shot,
or that I conld fail wounding three or fonr of them at
the first shot. In this place, then, I resolved to fix my
desigu; and accordingly, I prepared two muskets and
mv ordinary fowlingpiece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of slugs each, and fonr or five smaller
bullets, abont the size of pistol bullets; and the fowling
piece I loaded with near a handful of swaushot of the
targest size: I also loaded my pistols with abont fonr
bullets each; and in this posture, well provided with
ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepared
myself for my expedition.
After i had tbus laid the scheme of my design, and,
in my imagination put it in practice, I continually made
my tonr every morning up to the top of the hill, which
was from my castle, as I called it, abont three miles,
or more, to see if I conld observe any boats upon the
sea, coming near the island, or standing over towards
it: but L began to tire of this hard duty, after I
had, for two or three months, coustantly kept my
watch, but came always hack withont any discovery;
there having not, in all thai time, been the least
appearance uot only on or near the shore, but on the
whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses conld reach
every way.
As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look
ont, so long also I kept Dp the vigonr of my desigu,
and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable
form for so ontrageons an execution as the killing
twenty or thirty naked savages, for an oftence which I
hud not at all entered into any discussion of in my
thoughts, any farther than my passious were at first
fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural custom
of the people of that conntry; who, it seems, had been
suflered by Providence, in his wise disposition of the
world, to have no other guide than that of their own
abominable and vitiated passious; and, cousequently,
were left, and perhaps had been so for some ages, ta
act such horrid things, and receive such dreadful cus-
toms, as nothing bat nature, entirely ahandoned by
Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy,
coald have run them into. But now, when as I have
said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion
which I had made so long and so far every morning in
vain, so my opinion of the action itself began to alter;
and I began, with cooler and calmer thonghts, to con-
sider what I was going to engage in; what anthority or
call I had to pretend to be jndge and executioner upon
these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit,
for so many ages to suffer, uupunished, to go on, and
to be, as it were, the executioners of his jndgments one
upon another. How far these people were oft'enders
agaiust me, and what right I had to engage in the quar-
rel of that blood which they shed promiscuonsly upon
one another, I dehated this very often with myself tbus;
How do I know what God himself jndges in this par-
ticular case? It is certam these people do not commit
this as a crime; it is not agaiust their own cousciences
reproving, or their light reproaching them; they do
not know it to be an offence, and then commit it in de-
fiance of divine justice, as we do in almost all the .sius
we commit. They think it no more a crime to kill a
captive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox; nor to
cat buman flesh, than we do to eat mutton.
When I cousidered this a little, it followed neces-
sarily that I was certainly in the wrong in it; that these
people were not murderers in the seuse that I had be-
fore condemned them in my thonghts, any more than
those Christiaus were murderers who often put to death
the prisoners taken in hattle; or more frequently, upon
many occasious, put whole troops of men to the sword,
withont giving quarter, thongh they threw down their
arms, and submitted. In the next place it occurred to
me, that althongh the usage they gave one another was
tbus brutish and inbuman, yet it was realty nothing to
me; these people had done me DO injury: that if they
attempted me, or I saw it necessary, for my immediate
preservation, to fall upon them, something might be
said for it; but that I was yet ont of their power, and
they realty had no knowledge of me, and cousequently
no desigu upon me; and therefore it conld not be just
for me to fall upon them: that this wonld justify the
conduct of tin- Spaniards in all their harharities prac-
tised in America, where they destroyed millious of
these people: who, however they were idolaters and
barhariaus, and had several bloody and harharons rites
in their customs, such as sacrificmg buman bodies to
their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, very innocent
people; and that the rooting them ont of the conntry is
"|.mken of with the utmost abhorrence and detestation
by even the Spaniards themselves at this time, and by
all other Christian natious in Europe, as a mere butch-
ery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjusti-
fiable either to God or man; and for which the very
name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and ter-
rible to all people of bumanity or of Christian com-
passion; as if the kingdom of Spain were particularly
eminent for the produce of a race of men, who were
withont principles of tenderness or the common bowels
of pity to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a
mark of generons temper in the mind.
These cousideratious really put me to a panse, and to
a kind of a full stop; and I began by little and little to
be off my desigu, and to conclnde I had taken wrong
measures in my resolution to attack the savages; and
tiiat it was not my business to meddle with them, un-
less they first attacked mo; and this it was my busiae&s,
if possible, to prevent; but that if I were discovered
and attacked by them, I knew my duty. On the other
hand, I argued with myself, that this reallv was the
way not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin and de-
stroy myself; for unless I was sure to kill every one
that not only shonld be on shore at that time, but that
should ever come on shore afterwards, if but one of
t!ium escaped to tell their conntry-people what baU
happened, they wonld come over again by thonsands t«
revenge the death of ibeir fellows, and I shonld only
bring upon myself a certain destruction, which, at pre-
sent, I had no manner of occasion for. Upon the whole,
I conclnded, that neither in principle nor in policy I
onght, one way or other, to concern myself in this af-
fair: that my business was, by all possible meaus, to
conceal myself from them, and not to leave the least
sigual to them to guess by that there were any living
creatures upon the island, I mean of buman shape.
Religion joined in with this prndential resolution; and
I was convinced now, many ways, that I was perfectly
ont of my duty when I was laying all my bloody
schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures, I
mean innocent as to me. As to the crimes they were
guilty oftowards one another, I had nothing to do with
them; they were national, and I onght to leave them
to the justice of God, who is the governor of natious,
ami knows how, by national punishments, to make a
just retribution for national offences, and to bring pub-
lic jndgments upon those who oflend in a public man-
ner, by such ways as best please him. This appeared
so clear to me now, that nothing was a greater satisfac-
tion to me than that I had not been suffered to do a
thing which I now saw so much reason to believe wonld
have been no less a sin than that of wilful murder, if I
had committed it; and I gave most bumble thanks on
my knees to God, that had tbus delivered me from
blood-guiltiness; beseeching him to grant me the pro-
tection of his providence, that I might not fall into the
hands of the harhariaus, or that I might not lay my
bands upon them, unless I had a more clear call from
Heaven to do it, in defence of my own life.
Iu this disposition I continued for near a year after
this; and so far was I from desiring an occasion for
falling upon these wretches, that in all that time I never
once went up the hill to see whether there were any of
them in sight, or to know whether any of them had
been on shore there or not, that I might not be tempted
to renew any of my contrivances agaiust them, or be
provoked, by any advantage that might present itself,
to fall upon them: only this I did, I went and removed
inv boat, which I had on the other side of the island,
ami carried it down to the oust cnd of the whole island,
fi
where I ran it into a little cove, which I fonnd under
some high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the
currents, the savages durst not, at least wonld not come
with their boats upon any acconnt whatever. With my
boat I carried away every thing that I had left there
belonging to her, thongh not necessary for the hare
going thither, viz. a mast and sail which I had made
for her, and a thing like an anchor, hat which indeed
conld not be called either anchor or grapnel; however,
it was the best I conld make of its kind: all these I
removed, that there might not be the least shadow of
any discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any
buman hahitation upon the island. Besides this, I kept
myself, as I said, more retired than ever, and seldom
went from my cell, other than upon my coustant em-
iloyment, viz. to milk my she goats, and manage my
ittfe flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the
other part of the island, was quite ont of danger; for
certain it is, that these savage people, who sometimes
hannted this island, never came with any thonghts of
finding anything here, and cousequently never wandered
off from the coast; and I donbt not but they might have
been several times on shore after my appreheusious of
them had made me cantions, as well as before. Indeed
I looked hack with some horror upon the thonghts of
what my condition wonld have been if I had chopped
upon them and been discovered before that, when,
naked and unarmed, except with one gun, and that
loaded often only with small shot, I walked every
where, peeping and peering abont the island to see
what I conld get; what a surprise shonld I have been
in, if, when I discovered the print of a man's foot, I
had, iustead of that, seen fifteen or twenty savages, and
fonnd them pursuing me, and by the swiftness of their
running, no possihility of my escaping them! The
thonghts of this sometimes sunk my very sonl within
me, and distressed my mind so much that I conld not
soon recover it, to think what I shonld have done, and
how I shonld not only have been unable to resist them,
but even shonld not have had presence of mind enongh
to do what I might have done ; much less what now,
after so much cousideration and preparation * might
be able to do. Indeed, after serions thinking of these
things, I wonld be very melancholy, and sometimes it
wonld last a great while; hat I resolved it all, at last,
into thankfulness to that Providence which had deli-
vered me from so many uuseen dangers, and had kept
from me those mischiefs which I conld have no way
been the agent in delivering myself from, becanse I had
not the least notion of any such thing depending, or the
least supposition of its being possible. This renewed a
contemplation which often had come to my thonghts in
former time, whni first I began to see the merciful dis-
positious of Heaven, in the dangers we run throngh in
this life; how wonderfully we are delivered when we
know nothing of it; how, when we are in a quandary
(as we call it), a donbt or hesitation whether, to go this
way, or that way, a secret hint shall direct us ihis way,
when we intended to go that way: nay, when seuse,
our own inclination, and perhaps business, has called to
go the other way, yet a strange impression upon the
mind, from we know not what springs, and by we know
not what power, shall overrule us to go this way; and
it shall afterwards appear, that had we gone that way
which we shonld have gone, and even to onr imagina-
tion onght to have gone, we shonld have been ruined
and lost. Upon these, and many like reflectious, I af-
terwards made it a certain rule with me, that whenever
I fonnd those secret hints or pressings of mind, to doing
or not doing anythmg that presented, or going this way
or that way, I never failed to obey the secret dictate;
thongh I knew no other reason for it than that such a
pressure, or such a hint, bung upon my mind. I conld
give many examples of the success of. this conduct in
the coarse of my life, but more especially in the latter
part of my inhahiting this unhappy island; besides
many occasious which it is very likely I might have
taken notice of, if I had seen with the same eyes then
that I see with now. But it is never too late to be wise;
and I cannot but advise all cousidering men, whose
lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents as
mine, or even thongh not so extraordinary, not to slight
such secret intimatious of Providence, let them come
from what invisible intelligence they will. That I shall
Hot discuss, and perhaps cannot acconnt for; bnt cer-
tainly they arc a proof of the converse of spirits, and a
secret communication between those embodied and
those anemhodied, and such a proof as can never be
withstood; of which I shall have occasion to give some
very remarkable iustances in the remainder of my soli-
tary residence in this dismal place.
1 believe the reader of this will not think it strange,
if I confess that these anxieties, these coustant dangers
I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, pot
an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances that
I had laid for my future accommodatious and conve-
niences. I had the care of my safety more now upon
my hands than that of my food. I cared not to drive a
nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I
might make shonld be heard: mnch less wonld I fire a
gun, for the same reason: and, above all, I was intole-
rably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which is
visible at a great distance in the day, shonld betray me.
For this reason I removed that part of my business
which required fire, such as burning of pots and pipes,
&c. into my new apartment in the woods; where, after
1 had been some time, I fonnd to my uuspeakable con-
solation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went
in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he
been at the'month of it, wonld be so hardy as to ven-
ture in; nor, indeed, wonld any man else, but one who
like me wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.
The month of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where by mere accident (I wonld say, if I
did not see abundant reason to ascribe all such things
now to Providence), I was cuttjng down some thick
branches of trees to make charcoal; and before I go on
I must observe the reason of my making this charcoal,
which was tbus: I was afraid of making asmoke abont
my hahitation, as I said before; and yet I conld not
live there withont baking my bread, cooking my meat,
&c. ; so I contrived to burn some wood here, as I had
seen done in England, under lurf, till it became chark,
or dry coal: and then putting the fire ont, I preserved
the coal to carry home, and perform the other services
for which fire was wanting, without danger of amok e.
But this is by the by i—While I was cutting down
some wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick
branch of low brushwood or underwood, there was a
kind of hollow place: I was curions to look in it, and
getting with difliculty into the month of it, I fonnd it
was pretty large: that is to say, sufficient for me to
stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me: but
I mast confess to yon that I made more haste ont than
I did in, when, looking farther into the place, and
which was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining
eyes of some creature, whether devil or man I knew
not, which twinkled like two stars; the dim light from
the cave's month shining directlv in, and makmg the
reflection. However, after some panse I recovered
myself, and began to call myself a thonsand fools, and
to think that he that was afraid to see the devil was
not fit to live twenty yearn in an island all alone; and
that I might well think there was nothing in this cave
that was more frightful than myself. Upon this, pluck-
ing up my conrage, I took up a firebrand, and in I
rushed again, with the stick flaming in my hand: I had
not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much
frightened as I was before; for I heard a very lond
sigh, like that of a man in some pain, and it was follow-
ed by a broken noise, as of words half expressed, and
then'a deep sigh again. I stepped hack, and was in-
deed struck with such a surprise that it put me into a
cold sweat, and if I had had a hat on my head, I wilt
not auswer for it that my hair might not have lifted it
off. But still pluck ing up my spirits as well as I could,
and enconraging myself a little with cousidering that
the power and presence of God was every where, and
was able to protect me, upon this I stepped forward
again, and by the light of the firebrand, holding it up a
little over my head, I saw lying on the ground a most
moustrons, frightful, old he goat, just making his will,
as we say, and gasping for life; and dying, indeed, of
mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I conld
get him ont, and he essaved to get up, but was not able
to raise himself; and I thonght with myself he might
even lie there; for if he had frightened me, so he would
certainly fright any of the savages, if any one of thorn
shonld be so hardy as to come in there while be had
any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to
look ronnd me, when I fonnd the cave was but very
small, that is to say, it might be abont twelve feet over,
but in no manner of shape, neither ronnd nor square, no
hands having ever been employed in making it but
those of mere Nature. I observed also that there was
a place at the farther side of it that went in further, but
was so low that it required me to creep upon my hands
and knees to go into it, and whither it went I knew not:
so having no candle, I gave it over for that time; but
resolved to come again the next day, provided with can-
dles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of
one of the muskets, with some wild fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six
large candles of my own making (for I made very good
candles now of goats' tallow, but was hard set for can-
dle-wick, using sometimes rags or rope-yarn, and some-
times the dried rind of a weed like nettles); and going
into this low place, I was ohliged to creep upon all
fonrs, as I have said, almost ten yards; which, by the
way, I thonght was a venture bold enongh, cousidering
that I knew not how far it might go, nor what was be-
yond it. When I had got throngh the strait, I fonnd
the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but
never was such a glorions sight seen in the island, I
dare say, as it was, to look ronnd the sides and roof of
this vanlt or cave; the wall reflected an bundred thon-
sand lights to me from my two candles. What it was in
the rock, whether diamonds, or any other precions
stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I
kneyv not. The place I was in was a most delightful
cavity or grotto of its kind, as conld be expected,
thongh perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level,
and had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that
there was no nanseons or venomons creature to be seen,
neither was there any damp or wet on the sides or roof:
the only difficulty in it was the entrance; which, how-
ever, as it was a place of security, and such a retreat as
I wanted, I thonght that was a convenience; so that I
was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved,
withont any delay, to bring some of those things which
I was most anxions abont to this place; particularly, I
resolved to bring hither my magazine of powder, and
all mv spare arms, viz. two fowling-pieces, for I had
three in all, and three muskets, for of them I had eight
in all: so I kept in my castle only five, which stood
ready monnted, like pieces of cannon, on my ontmost
fence; and were ready also to take ont upon any expe-
dition. Upon this occasion of removing my ammuni-
tion, I happened to open the harrel of powder, which I
took up ont of the sea, and which had been wet; and I
fonnd that the water had penetrated abont three or fonr
inches into the powder on every side, which, caking,
and growing hard, had preserved" the iuside like a ker-
nel in the shell; so that 1 had near sixty ponnds of very
good powder in the centre of the cask: this was a very
agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I carried all
away thither, never keeping above two or three ponnds
of powder with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise
of any kind: I also carried thither all the lead I had
left for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks,
where none conld come at them; for I persuaded my-
self, while I was here, that if five bundred savages were
to bunt me, they conld never find me ont; or, if they
did, they wonld not venture to attack me here. The
old goat, whum I fonnd expiring, died in the month of
the cave the next day after I made this discovery: and
I fonnd it much easier to dig a great hole there, and
throw him in and cover him with earth, than to drag
him ont: so I interred him there, to prevent offence to
my nose.
I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence
in this island; and was so naturalized to the place, and
the manner of living, that conld I have but enjoyed the
certainty that no savages wonld come to the place to
disturb me, I conld have been content to have capitu-
lated for spending the rest of my time there, even to the
last moment, till I had laid me down and died, like the
old goat in the cave. I had also arrived to some little
diversious and amusements, which made the time pass
a'great deal more pleasantly with me than it did before:
as, first, I had tanght my Pol, as I noted before, to
speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so arti-
culately and plain, that it was very pleasant to me; for
I believe no hird ever spoke plainer; and he lived
with me no less than six and twenty years: how long
he might have lived afterwards I know not, thongh I
know they have a notion in the Brazils that they live a
bundred years. My dog was a very pleasant and loving
companion to me for no less than sixteen years of my
time, and then died of mere old age. As for my cats,
they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree,
that I was obliged to shoot several of them at first, to
keep them from devonring me and all I had; but, at
length, when the two old ones I bronght with me were
gone, and after some time continually driving them
from me, and letting them have no provision with me,
they all ran wild into the woods, except two or three
favonrites, which I kept tame, and whose yonng, when
they had any, I always drowned; and these were part
of my family. Besides these, I always kept two or
three honsehold kids abont me, whom I tanght to feed
oot of my hand; and I had two more parrots, which
talked pretty well, and wonld all call Rohin Crusoe,
but none like my first; nor, indeed, did I take the
paius with any of them that I had done with him. I
had also several tame seafowls, whose names I knew not,
that I canght upon the shore, and cut their wings; and
the little stakes which I had planted before my castle
wall being now grown up to a good thick grove, these
fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred there,
which was very agreeable to me; so that, as I said
above, I began to be very well contented with the life
1 led, if I conld have been secured from the dread of
the savages. But it was otherwise directed; and it
may not be amiss for all people who shall meet with
my story, to make this just observation from it, viz.
How frequently, in the conrse of onr lives, the evil
which in itself we seek most to sbun, and, which, when
we are fallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is often-
times the very meaus or door of onr deliverance, by
which alone we can be raised again from the affliction
we are fallen into. I conld give many examples of this
in the conrse of my unacconntable life; but in nothing
was it more particularly remarkable than in the circum-
stances of my last years of solitary residence in this
island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above,
in mv twenty-third year; and this, being the sonthern
solstice (for winter I cannot call it), was the particular
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty much
abroad in the fields: when going oat pretty early in
the morning, even before it was thorongh daylight, I
was surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon the
shore, at a distance from me of abont two miles, towards
the end of the island where I had observed somo
savages had been, as before, and uot on the other side;
but, to my great affliction, it was on my side of the
island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and
stopped short within my grove, uot daring to go ont,
lest I might be surprised, and yet I had no more peace
within, from the appreheusious I had that if these
savages, in rambling over the island, shonld find my
corn standing or cut, or any of my works and improve-
ments, they wonld immediately conclnde that there
were people in the place, and wonld then never give
over till they had found me ont. In this extremity, I
went hack directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder
after me, and made all things withont look as wild and
natural as I conld.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defence: I loaded all my cannon, as I called
them, that is to say, my muskets, which were monnted
Dpon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and re-
solved to defend myself to the last gasp; not forgetting
serionsly to commend myself to the divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me oat of the
hands of the barhariaus. I continued in this posture
abont two honrs; and began to he mighty impatient for
intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send ont.
After sitting awhile longer, and musing what I shonld
do in this case, I was not able to hear sitting in iguorance
any longer; so setting up my ladder to the side of the
lull, where there was a flat place, as I observed before,
and then pulling the ladder after me, I set it up again,
and monnted to the top of the hill; and pulling ont my
perspective-glass, which I had taken on purpose, I laid
me down flat on my belly on the gronnd, and began to
look for the place. I presently fonnd there were no less
than nine naked savages, sitting ronnd a small fire thev
had made, not to warm them, for they had no need of
that, the weather being extremely hot, but, as I sup-
posed, to dress some of their harharons diet of buman
flesh, which they had bronght with them, whether alive
or dead, I conld not tell.
They had two canoes with them, which they had
hanled up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of
ebb, they seemed to me to wait for the return of the
flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine what
confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them
come on my side of the island, and so near me too; but
when I cousidered their coming must be always with
the current of the ebb, I began, afterwards, to he more
sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go
abroad with safety all the time of the tide of flood, if
they were not on shore before: and having made this
observation, I went abroad abont my harvest work with
the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and
row (or paddle, as we call it), away. I shonld have
observed, that for an honr or more before they went ofl',
they went a dancing; and I conld easily discern their
postures and gestures by my glass. I conld not per-
ceive, by my nicest observation, but that they were
stark naked, and had not the least covering npon them;
but whether they were men or women, I conld not dis-
tinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two
guus upon my shonlders, and two pistols in my girdle,
and my great sword by my side, withont a scabhard,
and with all the speed I was able to make, went away
to the hill where i had discovered the first appearance
of all; and as soon as I got thither, which was not in
Jess than two honrs (for I conld not go apace, being so
loaded with arms as I was), I perceived there had been
three canoes more of the savages at that place; and
looking ont farther, I saw they were all at sea together,
making over for the main. This was a dreadful sight
to me, especially as, going down to the shore, I conld
see the marks of horror which the dismal work they
had been abont had left behind it, viz. the blood, Ihe
bones, and part of the flesh, of buman bodies, eaten
and devonred by those wretches with merriment and
sport. I was so filled with indiguation at the sight,
that I now began to premeditate the destruction of the
next that I saw there, let them be whom or how many
soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits which
they made tbus to this island were not very frequent,
for it was above fifteen months before any more of them
came on shore there again; that is to say, I neither saw
them, nor any footsteps or siguals of them, in all that
time; for, as to the rainy seasous, then they are sure not
to come abroad, at least not so far: yet all this while I
lived uncomfortably, by reason of the coustant appre-
heusious of their coming upon me by surprise; from
whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is more
bitter than the suffering, especially if there is no room
to shake off that expectation, or Ihoso appreheusious.
Daring all this time I was in the murdering bumonr,
and took up most of my honrs, which shonld have been
better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and
fall upon them, the very next time I shonld see them;
especially if they shonld be divided, as they were the
last time, into two parties: nor did I cousider at all,
that if I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, I was
still the next day, or week, or month, to kill another,
and so another, even ad infnitum, till I shonld be at
length no less a murderer than they were in being man-
eaters, and perhaps much more so. I spent my days
now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind, expecting
that I should, one day or other, fall into the hands of
these merciless creatures; and if I did at any time ven-
ture abroad, it was not withont looking ronnd me with
the greatest care and cantion imaginable. And now I
fonnd, to my great comfort, how happy it was that 1 had
provided a tame flock or herd of goats; for I durst not
upon anv acconnt, fire my gun, especially near that side
of the island where they usually came, lest I shonld
alarm the savages; and if they had fled from me now,
I was sure to have them come again, with perhaps two
or three bundred canoes with them, in a few days, and
then I knew what to expect. However, I wore oat a
year and three months more before I ever saw any more
of the savages, and then I fonnd them again, as I shall
soon observe. It is true, they might have been there
once or twice, but either they made no staj', or at least
I did not see them: but in the month of May, as near as
I conld calculate, and in my lonr and twentieth year, I
bad a very strange enconnter with them; of which in
its place.
The perturhation of my mind, during this fifteen or
sixteen months' interval, was very great; I slept un-
quiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often
started ont of my sleep in the night: in the day great
tronbles overwhelmed my mind; and in the uight I
dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the reasous
why I might justify the doing of it. But, to wave all
this for a while.—It was in the middle of May, on Hie
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden
calendar wonld reckon, for I marked ail upon the post
still, I say, it was on the sixteenth of May that it blew
a very great storm of wind all day, with a great deal of
lightning and tbunder, and a very fonl uight it was after
it. I knew not what was the particular occasion of it,
but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with
very serions thonghts abont my present condition, I
was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thonght,
fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise quite of a
diflerent nature from any I had met with before; for
the notious this put into my thonghts were quite of
another kind. I started up in the greatest haste ima-
ginable, and, in a trice, clapped my ladder to the mid-
dle place of the rock, and pulled it after me; and
monnting it the second time, got to the top of the hill
the very moment that a flash of fire hid me listen for a
second gun, which accordingly, in abont half a minute,
I heard; and, by the sonnd, knew that it was from that
part of the sea where I was driven down tue current in
mv boat. I immediately cousidered that this mast be
aome ship in distress, and that they had some comrade,
or some other ship in company, and fired these for sig-
nals of distress, and to obtain help. I had ihe presence
of mind, at that minute, to think, that thongh I conld
not help them, it might be they might help me: sol
bronght together all the dry wood I conld get at hand,
and making a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon
the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely; and
thongh the wind blew verv hard, yet it burned fairly ont,
so that I was certain, if there was any such thing as a
ship, they must needs see it, and no donbt they did;
for as soon as ever my fire blazed up I heard another
Him, and after that several others, all from the same
quarter. I plied my fire all night long, till daybreak;
and when it was broad day, and the air cleared up, I
saw something at a great distance at sea, full east of the
island, whether a sail or a bull I conld not distinguish,
DO, not with my glass; tho distance was so great, and
the weather still something hazy also; at least it was so
ont at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move; so I presently concluded
that it was a ship at anchor; and being eager, yon may
be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and
ran towards the sonth side of the island, to the rocks
where I had formerly been carried away with the cur-
rent; and getting up there, the weather by this time
being perfectly clear, I conld plainly see, to my great
sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in the night upon
those concealed rocks which I fonnd when I was ontin
mv boat; and which rocks, as they checked the vio-
lence ol the stream, and made a kind of connter-stream,
or eddy, were the occasion of my recovering from ihe
most desperate, hopeless condition that ever I had been
ia, in all my life. Tbus, what is one man's safety is ano-
ther man's destruction; for it seems these men, whoever
they were, being ont of their knowledge, and the rocks
being wholly under water, had been driven upon them
in the night, the wind blowing hard at E.N.E. Had
they seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose they
did not, they must, as I thonght, have endeavonred to
have saved themselves on shore by the help of their
boat; but their firing off guus for help, especially when
they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many
thonghts: first, I imagined that upon seeing my light,
they might have put themselves into their boat, and
endeavonred to make the shore; but that the sea going
very high, they might have been cast away: other
times I imagined that they might have lost their boat
before, as might be the case many ways; as, particu-
larly, by the breaking of the sea upon their ship, which
many times obliged men to stave, or take in pieces,
their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard with
their own hands: other times I imagined they had some
other ship or ships in company, who, upon the siguals
of distress Ihey had made, had taken them up and car-
ried them off: other times I fancied they were all gone
off to sea in their boat, and being burried away by the
current that I had been formerly in, were carried ont
into the great oeean, where there was nothing but
misery and perishing; and that, perhaps, they might by
this time think of starving, and of being in a condition
to eat one another.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the
condition I was in, I conld do no more than look on
upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them; which
had still this good effect on my side, that it gave me
more and more canse to give thanks to God, who had so
happily and comfortably provided for me in my deso-
late condition; and that of two ships' companies, who
were now cast away upon this part of the world, not
one life should be spared but mine. I learned here
again to observe, that it is very rare that the providence
of God casts us into any condition of life so low, or any
misery so great, but we may see something or other to
be thankful for, and may see others in worse circum-
stances than onr own. Such certainly was the case of
these men, of whom I conld not so much as see room
to suppose any of them were saved; nothing conld
make it rational so much as to wish or expect that they
did not all perish there, except the possihility only of
their being taken up by another ship in company; and
this was but mere possihility indeed, for I saw not the
least sigu or appearance of any such thing. ( cannot
explain, by any possible energy of words, what a strange
longing or hankering of desires I felt in my sonl upon
this sight, breaking ont sometimes tbus: "Othat there
had been but one or two, nay' or but one RODl, saved
ont of this ship, to have escaped to me, that I might but
have had one companion, one fellow-orealure to have
spoken to me, and to have conversed with!" In all the
time of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong
a desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, or so
deep a regret at the want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the affec-
tious, which, when they are set agomg by somo object
in view, or, thongh not in view, yet rendered present
to the mind by the power of imagination, that motion •*
carries ontthe sonl, by its impetuosity, to such violent,
eager embracings of the object, that the absence of it is
iusupportable. Such were these earnest wishings that
bat one man had been saved. I believe I repeated tho
words, "O that it had been but one!'' a thonsand
times; and mv desires were so moved by it, ihat when
I spoke the words my hands wonld clinch together,
and my fingers wonld press the palms of my hands, so
that if I had had any soft thing in my hand, it would
have crushed it involuntarily; and the teeth in mv head
wonld strike together, and set agaiust one another so
strong, that for some time I conld not part them again.
Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason
and manner of them: all I can say to them is, to de-
scribe the fact, which was even surprising to mp, when
I fonnd it, thongh I knew not from whence it proceed-
ed: it was donbtless the eflect of ardent wishes, and of
strong ideas formed in mv mind, realizing the comfort
which the conversation of one of my fellow-christiann
wonld have been to me.—But it was not to be; either
their fate or mine, or both, forbade it: for, till the last
vear of my being on this island, I never knew whether
any were saved ont of that ship or no; and had only
the aflliction, some days after, to see the corpse of a
VOL. i. N
178
LIFE AND ADVENTURES

drowned boy come on shore at the end of Hie island
which was next the shipwreck. He had no clothes on
but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen
drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct
me so much as to guess what nation he was of; he had
nothing in his pockets but two pieces-of-eight and a
tobacco-pipe;—the last was to me of ten times more
value than the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
nut in my boat to this wreck, not donbting but I might
fmd something on board that might be useful to me:
but that did not altogether press me so much as the pos-
sihility that there might be yet some living creature on
board, whose life I might not only save, but might, by
saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree;
and this thonght clung so to my heart that I conld not
be quiet night or day,but I must venture ont in my
boat on board this wreck; and committing the rest to
God's providence; I thonght the impression was so
strong upon my mind that it conld not be resisted, that
it must come from some invisible direction, and that I
should be wanting to myself if I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened
hack to my castle, prepared every thing for my voyage,
took a quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh water, a
compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a
great deal of that left), and a hasket of raisius: and
tbus, loading myself with every thing necessary, I went
down to my boat, got the water ont of her, put her
afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then wcut home
again for more. My second cargo was a great bag of
rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for a shade,
another large pot of fresh water, and abont two dozen
of small loaves, or harley-cakes, more than before,
with a bottle of goat's milk and a cheese: all which,
with great labonr and sweat, I carried to my boat; and
praying to God to direct my voyage, I put oat; ami
rowing, or paddling, the canoe along the shore, came at
last to the utmost point of the island on the north-east
side. And now I was to lannch ont into the ocean, and
either to venture or not to venture. I looked on the
rapid currents which ran coustantly on both sides of the
island at a distance, and which were very terrible to
me, from the remembrance of the hazard I had been in
before, and my heart began to fail me; for I foresaw
that if I was driven into either of those currents, I
shonld be carried a great way ont to sea, and perhaps
ont of my reach, or sight of the island again; and that
then, as my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind
shonld rise, I should be inevitably lost.
These thonghts so oppressed my mind, that I began
to give over my enterprise; and havmg hanled my
boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped ont, and
set me down upon a rising hit of gronnd, very peusive
and anxions, between fear and desire, abont my voyage;
when, as I was musing, I conld perceive that the tide
was turned, and the flood come on; upon which my
going was impracticable for so many honrs. Upon
this, presently it occurred to me, that I shonld go up to
the highest piece of gronnd I could find, and observe,
if I conld how the sets of the tide, or currents, lay
when the flood came in, that I might jndge whether, if
I was driven one way ont, I might not expect to be
driven another way home, with the same rapidness of
the currents. This thonght was no sooner in my head
than I cast my eye upon a little hill, which sufficiently
overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I had
a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and
which way I was to guide myself in my return. Here
I fonnd, that as the current of ebb set ont close by the
sonth point of the island, so the current of the flood set
in close by the shore of the north side; and that [ had
nothing to do but to keep to the north side of the island
in my return, and I shonld do well enongh.
Enconraged with this observation, I resolved, the
next morning, to set ont with the first of the tide; and
reposing myself for the night in my canoe, under the
great watch-coat I mentioned, I lannched ont. I first
made a little ont to sea, full north, till I began to feel
the benefit of the current, which set eastward, and
which carried me at a great rate; and yet did not so
burry me as the current on the sonth side had done be-
fore, so as to take from me all government of the boat;
but having a strong steerage with my paddle, I went at
a great rate directly for the wreck, and in less than two
honrs I came up to it. It was a dismal sight to look at:
the ship, which, by its building, was Spanish, stack
fast, jammed in between two rocks; all the stern and
quarter of her were beaten to pieces by the sea; and as
her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on
with great violence, her mainmast and foremast were
brought by the board, that is to say, broken short off;
but her bowsprit was sonnd, and the head and bow ap-
peared firm. When I came close to her, a dog ap-
peared upon her, who, seeing me coming, yelped and
cried; and as soon as I called him, jumped into the sea
to come to me; I took him into the boat, but fonnd
him almost dead with bunger and thirst. I gave him
a cake of mv bread, and he devonred it like a ravenons
wolf that had been starving a fortnight in the suow: I
then gave the poor creature some fresh water, with
which, if I wonld have let him, he wonld have burst
himself. After this, I went on board; but the first
sight I met with was two men drowned in the cook-
room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast
about one another. I conclnded, as is indeed prohable,
that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea
broke so high, and so continually over her, that the
men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with
the coustant rushing in of the water, as much as if they
had been under water. Besides the dog, there was QO-
thing left in tbe ship that had life; nor any goods, that
1 conld see, but what were spoiled by the water. There
were some casks of iiquor, whether wine or brandy I
knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and which, the
water being ebbed oat, I conld see; but they were too
hig to meddle with. I saw several chests, which I be-
lieved belonged to some of the seamen; and I got two
of them into the boat, withont examining what was in
them. Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the
forepart broken off, I am persuaded I might have made
a good voyage; for, by what I found in these two
chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a great deal
of wealth on board; and, if I may guess from the conrse
she steered, she must have been bonnd from Buenos
Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the sonth part of Ame-
rica, beyond the Brazils, to the Havannah, in the Gnlf
of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no
donbt, a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that
time, to any body; and what became of her crew, I
then knew not.
I fonnd, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallous, which I got into my
boat with much difficulty. There were several muskets
in the cahin, and a great powder-horn, with abont fonr
pounds of powder in it; as for the muskets, I had no
occasion for them, so I left them, but took the powder-
horn, i took a fireshovel and tongs, which I wanted
extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a copper put
to make chocolate, and a gridiron: and with this cargo,
and the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make
home again; and the same evening, abont an honr
within night, i reached the island again, weary and
fatigued to the last degree. I reposed that night in the
boat; and in the morning I resolved to harbonr what I
had got in my new cave, and not carrv it home to my
castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on
shore, and began to examine the particulars. The cask
of liquor I fonnd to be a kind of rum, but not such as
we had at the Brazils, and, in a word, not at all good;
but when I came to open the chests, I fonnd several
things of great use to me: for example, I fonnd in one
4 fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kmd, and
filled with cordial waters, fine and very good; the bot-
tles held abont three pints each, and were tipped with
silver. I fonnd two pots of very good succades, or
sweatmeats, so fastened also on the top that the salt
water had not burt them; and two more of the same,
which the water had spoiled. I fonnd some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me; and abont a
dozen ami a half of white linen handkerchiefs and
colonred neckcloths; the former were also very wel-
come, being exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a
hot day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the
chest, I fonnd there three great hags of pieces-of-eight,
which held abont eleven bundred pieces in all ; and in
one of them, wrapped up in a paper, six donbloous of
gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold; I suppose
they might all weigh near a ponnd. In the other chest
were some clothes, but of little valne; but, by the circum-
stances, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate;
thongh there was no powder in it, exeept two ponnds
of fine glazed powder, in three small flasks, kept, I
suppose, for charging their fowling pieces on occasion.
Upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage that
was of any use to me; for, as to the money, I had no
manner of occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt
under my feet; and I wonld have given it all for three
or fonr pair of English shoes and stockings, which were
things I greatly wanted, but had none on my feet for
many years. I had indeed got two pair of shoes now,
which I took offthe feet of the two drowned men whom
I saw in the wreck, and I fonnd two pair more in one
of the chests, which were very welcome to me; bot
they were not like onr English shoes, either for ease or
service, being rather what we call pumps than shoes.
I fonnd in this seaman's chest abont fifty nieces-of-eight
in rials, but no gold: I suppose this belonged to a
poorer man than the other, which seemed to belong to
some officer. Well, however, I lugged this money
home to my cave, and laid it up, as I had done that be-
fore which I bronght from onr own ship; but it was a
great pity, as I said, that the other part of this ship had
not come to my share; for I am satisfied I might have
loaded my canoe several times over with money; and
thonght I, if I ever escape to England, it might lie here
safe enongh till I may come again and fetch it.
Having now bronght all my things on shore, and se-
cured them, I went hack to my boat, and rowed or pad-
dled her along the shore to her old harbour, where I laid
her up, and made the best of my way to my old hahita-
tion, where I fonnd every thing safe and quiet. I began
now to repose myself, live after my old fashion, and
take care of my family affairs; and for a while I lived
easy enongh, only that i was more vigilant than I used
to be, looked ont oftener, and did not go abroad so
much; and if at any time I did stir with any freedom,
it was always to the east part of the island, where I was
Fretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where
could go withont so many precantious, and such a load
of arms and ammunition as i always carried with me if
I went the other way. I lived in this condition near
two years more; but my unlucky head, that was al ways
to let me know it was born to make my body miserable,
was all these two years filled with projects and desigus,
how, if it were possible, I might get away from this
island: for, sometimes I was for making another voyage
to the wreck, thongh my reason told me that there was
nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage;
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another;
and I believe verily, if I had had the boat that I went
from Sallee in, I shonld have ventured to sea, bonnd
any where, I knew not whither, I have been, in all
my circumstances, a memento to those who are tonched
with the general plague of mankind, whence, for anght
I know, one half of their miseries flow; I mean that of
not being satisfied with the station wherein God and
nature hath placed them: for, not to look hack upon
my primitive condition, and the excellent advice of my
father, the opposition to which was, as I may call it, my
original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the same kind
had been the meaus ot my coming into this miserable
condition; for had that Providence, which so happily
seated me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me with
conu'ned desires, and I conld have been contented to
have gone on gradually, I might have been by this time,
I mean in the time of my being in this island, one of the
most cousiderable planters in the Brazils; nay, I am
persuaded, that by the improvements I had made in
that little time I lived there, and the increase I shonld
prohably have made if I had remained, I might have
been worth a bundred thonsand moidores: and what
business had I to leave a settled fortune, a well stocked
plantation, improving and increasing, to turn super-
cargo to Guinea to fetch negroes, when patience and
time wonld have so increased onr stock at home, that
we conld have bonght them at onr own door from those
whose business it was to fetch them P and thongh it had
cost us something more, yet the difference of that price
was by no meaus worth saving at so great a hazard.
JBut as this is usually the fate of yonng heads, so re-
flection upon the folly of it is as commonly the exercise
of more years, or of the dear-bonght experience of
time: so it was with me now; and yet so deep had the
mistake taken root in my temper, that I conld not sa-
tisfy myself in my| station, but was continually poring
upon the meaus and possihility of my escape from this
place: and that I may, with the greater pleasure to the
reader, bring on the remaining part of my story, it may
not be improper to give some acconnt of my first con-
ceptious on the subject of this foolish scheme for my
escape, and how, and upon what fonndation I acted.
I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after
my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and se-
cured under water, as usual, and my condition restored
to what it was before; I had more wealth, indeed, than
I had before, but was not at all the richer; for I had no
more use for it than the Indiaus of Peru had before the
Spaniards came there.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March,
the fonr and twentieth year of my first setting foot in
this island of solitnde, I was lying in my bed or ham-
mock, awake; very well in health, had no pain, DO dis-
temper, no uneasiness of body, nor any uneasiness of
mind, more than ordinary, but could by no meaus close
my eyes, that is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink all night
long, otherwise than as follows:—It is impossible to
set down the innumerable crowd of thonghts that whirl-
ed throngh that great thoronghfare of the brain, the
memory, in this night's time: I ran over the whole his-
tory of my life, in miniature, or by abridgment, as I
may call it, to my coming to this island, and also of that
part of my life since I came to this island. In my re-
flectious upon the state of my case since I came on
shore on this island, I was comparing the happy pos-
ture of my aflairs in the first years of my hahitation
here, compared to the life of anxiety, fear, and care,
which I had lived in ever since I had seen the print of
a foot in the sand; not that I did not believe the sa-
vages had frequented the island even all the while, and
might have been several bundreds of them at times on
shore there; but I had never known it, and was inca-
pable of any appreheusious abont it; my satisfaction
was perfect, thongh my danger was the same, and I was
as happy in not knowing my danger as if I had never
really been exposed to it. This furnished my thonghts
with many very profitable reflectious, and particularly
this one: How infinitely good that Providence is, which
has provided, in its government of mankind, such nar-
row bonnds to his sight and knowledge of things ; and
thongh he walks in the midst of so many thonsand dan-
gers, the sight of which, if discovered to him, wonld
distract his mind and sink his spirits, he is kept serene
and calm, by having the events of things hid from his
eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which sur-
ronnd him.
After these thonghts had for some time entertained
IDC, I came to reflect serionsly upon the real danger I had
been in for so many \ ears in this very island, and how
I had walked abont In the greatest security, and with
all possible tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing
but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual ap-
proach of night, had been between me and the worst
kind of destruction, viz. that of falling into the hands
of cannihals and savages, who wonld have seized on me
with the same view as I wonld on a goat or a turtle,
and have thonght it no more a crime to kill and devonr
me, than I did of a pigeon or a curlew. I wonld un-
justly slander myself, if I shonld say I was not sincerely
tfaankful to my great Preserver, to whose smgular
protection I acknowledged, with great bumility, all
these unknown deliverances were doe, and witbont
which I mast inevitably have fallen into their merciless
hands.
When these thonghts were over, my head was for
some time taken up in cousidering the nature of these
wretched creatures, I mean the savages, and how it
came to pass in the world, that the wise Governor of
all things shonld give up any of his creatures to such
inbumanity, nay, to something so much below even
brutality itself, as to devonr its own kind: but as this
ended in some (at that time) fruitless speculatious, it
occurred to me to inquire, what part of the world
these wretches lived in? how far off the coast was
from whence they came? what they ventured over so
far from home for? what kind of boats they had? and
why I might not order myself and my business so, that
I might be as able to go over thither, as they were to
come to me?
I never so much as tronbled myself to cousider what
I shonld do with myself when I went thither; what
wonld become of me if I fell into the hands of the
savages; or how I shonld escape them if they attacked
me; no, nor so much as how it was possible for me to
reach the coast, and not be attacked by some or other
of them, withont any possihility of delivering myself;
and if I shonld not fall into their hands, what I shonld
do for provision, or whither I shonld bend my conrse:
none of these thonghts, I say, so much as came in my
way; but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of
my passing over in my boat to the main land. I looked
upon my present condition as the most miserable that
conld possibly be; that I was not able to throw myself
into anything but death, that conld be called worse;
and if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps
meet with relief, or I might coast along, as I did on the
African shore, till I came to some inhahited conntry,
and where I might find some relief; and after all, per-
haps I might fall in with some Christian ship that might
take me in; and if the worst came to the worst, I conld
but die, which wonld pnt an end to all these miseries
at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed
wmd, an impaticut temper, made desperate as it wore,
by the long continuance of my tronbles, and the disap-
pointments 1 had met in the wreck I had been on board
of, and where I had been so near obtaining what I so
earnestly longed for, viz. somebody to speak to, and to
learn some knowledge from them of the place where I
was, and of the prohable meaus of my deliverance.
I was agitated wholly by these thonghts; all my calm
of mind, in my resiguation to Providence, and waiting
the issue of the dispositious of Heaven, seemed to be
suspended; and I had, as it were, no power' to turn
my thonghts to anything but to the project of a voyage
to the main, which came upon me with such force,
and such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to be
resisted.
When this had agitated my thonghts for two hours
or more, with such violence that it set my very blood
into a ferment, and mv pulse beat as if I had been in a
fever, merely with the extraordinary fervonr of my
mind abont it, nature, as if I had been fatigued and
exhansted with the very thonghts of it, threw me into
a sonnd sleep. One wonld have thonght I shonld have
dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of any thing relating
to it: but I dreamed that as I was going ont in the
morning as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore
two canoes and eleven savages, coming to land, and
that they bronght with them another savage, whom
they were going to kill, in order to eat him; when, on
a sndden, the savage that they were going to kill
jumped away, and ran for his life; and I thonght, in
my sleep, that he came running into my little thick
grove before my fortification, to hide himself; and that
I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the others
songht him that way, showed myself to him, and smil-
ing upon him, enconraged him: that he kneeled down
to me, seeming to pray me to assist him; upon which
I showed him my ladder, made him go up, and carried
him into my cave, and be became my servant: and that
as soon as I had got this man, I said to myself, " Now
I may certainly venture to the main land, for this fellow
will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do,
and whither to go for provisious, and whither not to go
for fear of being devonred; what places to venture into
and what to slum." I waked with this thonght; and
was under such inexpressible impressious of joy at the
prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disappoint-
ments which I felt upon coming to myself, and finding
that it was no more than a dream, were equally extra-
vagant the other way, and threw me into a very great
dejection of spirits.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion; that
my only way to go abont to attempt an escape was, if
possible, to get a savage into my possession; and, if
possible, it shonld be one of their prisoners whom they
had condemned to be eaten, and should bring hither to
kill. But these thonghts still were attended with this
difficulty, that it was impossible to effect this withont
attacking a whole caravan of them, and killing them
all ; and this was not only a very desperate attempt,
and might miscarry; f.ui, on the other hand, I had
greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to myself; and mv
heart trembled at the thonghts of shedding so much
blood, thongh it was for my deliverance. I need not
repeat the arguments which occurred to me agaiust
this, they being the same mentioned before: bat thongh
I had other reasous to ofter now, viz. that those men
were enemies to my life, and wonld devonr me if they
conld; that it was self-preservation, in the highest de-
gree, to deliver myself from this death of a life, and
was acting in my own defence as much as if they were
actually assanlting me, and the like; I say, thongh
these things argued for it, yet the thonghts of shedding
buman blood for my deliverance were very terrible to
me, and such as I conld by no meaus reconcile myself
to for a great while. However, at last, after manv
secret disputes with myself, and after great perplexities
abont it (for all these arguments, one way and another,
struggled in my head a long time), the eager prevail-
ing desire of deliverance at length mastered all the
rest; and I resolved, if possible, to get one of those
aavages into my hands, cost what it wonld. My next
thing was to contrive how to do it, and this indeed was
very difficult to resolve on: but as I conld pitch upon
no prohable meaus for it, so I resolved to put myself
wpon the watch, to see them when they came oo shore,
and leave the rest to the event; taking such measures
as the opportunity shonld present, let what wonld be.
With these resolutious in my thonghts, I set myself
upon the scont as often as possible, and indeed so often,
that I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year
and a half that I waited; and for great part of that
time went ont to the west end, and to the sonth west
corner of the island almost every day, to look for
canoes, but none appeared. This was very disconrag-
mg-, and began to tronble me much, thongh I cannot say
that it did in this case (as it had done some time before)
wear off the edge of my desire to the thing; hat the longer
it seemed to be delayed, the more eager T was for it:
in a word, I was not at first so careful to sbun the sight
of these savages, and avoid being seen by them, as I
was now eager to be upon them. Besides, I fancied
myself able to manage one, nay, two or three savages,
if [ had them, so as to make them entirely slates tome,
to do whatever f shonld direct them, and to prevent
their being able at any time to do me any hurt. It was
a great while tliat I pleased myself with this affair;
but nothing still presented; all my fancies and schemes
came to nothing, for no savages came near me for a
great while.
Abont a year and a half after I entertained these
notious (and by lung musing had, as it were, resolved
them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to pnt
them into execution), I was surprised one morning
early, with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore
together on my side the island, and the people who be-
longed to them all landed, and ont of my sight. The
number of them broke all my measures; for seeing so
many, and knowing that they always came fonr or six,
or sometimes more ia a boat, I conld not tell what to
think of ii, or bow to take my measures, to attack
twenty or thirty men single handed; so lay still in my
castle, perplexed and discomforted: However, I put
myself mto all the same postures for an attack that I
bad formerly provided, and was just ready for action,
if any thing bad presented. Having waited a good
while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at
length, being very impatient, I set my guus at the foot
of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the hill,
by my two stages, as usual; standing so, however, that
my head did not appear above the hill, so that they
conld not perceive me by any meaus. Here I observed,
by the help of my perspective glass, that they were no
less than thirty in number; that they had a fire kindled,
and that they had meat dressed. How they had cook-
ed it I knew not, or what it was; but they were all
dancing, in I know not how many harharons gestures
and figures, their own way, ronnd the fire.
While I was tbus looking on them, I perceived, by
my perspective, two miserable wretches dragged from
the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and were
now bronght ont for the slanghter. I perceived one of
them immediately fall, being knocked down I suppose
with a club or wooden sword, for that was their way,
and two or three others were at work immediately,
cutting him open for their cookery, while the other
victim was left standing by himself, till they shonld be
ready for him. In that very moment, this poor wretch
seeing himself a little at liberty, and unbonnd, nature
iuspired him with hopes of life, and he started away
from them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the
sands, directly towards me; I mean, towards that part
of the coast where my hahitation was. I was dread-
fully frightened, I must acknowledge, when I perceived
him run my way, and especially when, as I thonght, I
saw him pursued by the whole body: and now I ex-
pected that part of my dream was coming to pass, and
that he wonld certainly take shelter in my grove: but I
conld not depend, by any meaus, upon my dream for
the rest of it, viz. that the other savages wonld not pur-
sue him thither, and find him there. However, I kept
my station, and my spirits began to recover when I
fonnd that there was not above three men that followed
him; and still more was I enconraged when I fonnd
that he ontstripped them exceedingly in running, and
gained gronnd of them; so that if he conld but hold it
for half an honr, I saw easily he wonld fairly get away
from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned often in the first part of my story,
where I landed my cargoes ont of the ship; and this I
saw plainly he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wretch wonld be taken there: hat when the savage
escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, thongh the
tide was then up; but plunging in, swam throngh in
abont thirty strokes, or thereabonts, landed, and ran
on with exceeding strength and swiftness. When the
three persous came to the creek, I found that two of
them conld swim, but the third conld not, and that
standing on the other side, he looked at the others, but
went no farther, and soon after wept softly hack again;
which, as it happened, was very well for him in the
end. I observed that the two who swam were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek, as the fel-
low was that fled from them. It came now very warmly
upon my thonghts, and indeed irresistibly, that now
was the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a com-
panion or assistant, and that I was plainly called by
Providence to save this poor creature's life. I imme-
diately ran down the ladders with all possible expedi-
tion, fetched my two guus, for they were both at the
foot of the ladders, as I observed before, and getting
up again with the same haste to the top of the hill, I
crossed towards the sea, and having a very short cut,
and all down hill, placed myself in the way between the
pursuers and the pursued, hallooing alond to him that
[led, who, looking hack, was at first perhaps as much
frightened at me as at them; but I beckoned with mv
hand to him to come hack; and in the mean time I
slowly advanced towards the two that followed; then
rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him
dowa with the stock of my piece. I was loath to fire,
becanse I wonld not have the rest hear; thongh, at
that distance, it wonld not have been easily heard, and
being ont of sight of the smoke too, they wonld not
have easily known what to make of it. Having knock-
ed this fellow down, the other who pursued him stop-
ped, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced apace
towards him: but as I came nearer, I perceived pre-
sently he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to
shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to shoot at him
first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The
P
5.
poor savage who fled, but had stopped, thongh he saw
'•"ih his enemies fallen and killed, as he thonght, yet
was so frightened with the fire and noise of my piece,
that ho stood stock still, and neither came forward nor
went hackward, thongh he seemed rather inclined still
to fly than to come on. I hallooed again to him, and
made sigus to come forward, which he easily under-
stood, and came a little way; then stopped again, and
then a little farther, and stopped again; and I conld
then perceive fhat he stood trembling, as if he had been
taken prisoner, and had just been to be killed, as tiis
two enemies were. I beckoned to him again to come
to me, and gave him all the sigus of enconragement
that I conld think of; and he came nearer and nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of
acknowledgment for saving his life. I smiled at him,
and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come
still nearer: at length he came close to me; and then
he kneeled down again, kissed the gronnd, and laid his
head upon the gronnd, and taking me by the foot, set
my foot upon his head; this it seems was in token of
swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and
made much of him, and enconraged him all I conld.
•But there was more work to do yet; for I perceived
the savage whom I knocked down was not killed, but
stunned with the blow, and began to come to himself:
M) I pointed to him, and showed him the savage, that
he was not dead ; upon this ho spoke some words to
m;.-, and thongh I conld not understand them, yet I
thonght they were pleasant to hear; for they were the
first sonnd of a man's voice that I had heard, my own
excepted, for above twenty-five years. But there was
no time for such reflectious now; the savage who was
knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up
upon the gronnd, and I perceived that my savage began
to be afraid; hut when I saw that, I presented my other
piece at the man, as if I wonld shoot him: upon this
my savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to me
to lend him my sword, which bung naked in a belt by
my side, which I did. He no sooner had it, but he
ruus to his enemy, and, at one- blow, cut off his head
so cleverly, no executioner in Germany conld have
done it sooner or better; which I thonght very strange
for one who, I had reason to believe, never saw a sword
in his life before, except their own wooden swords:
howevcr, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make
their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood
is so hard, that they will even cut off heads with them,
ay, and arms, and that at one blow too. When he had
done this, he comes langhing to me in sign of trinmph,
and brought me the sword again, and with abundance
of .gestures which I did Dot understand, laid it down,
with the head of the savage that he had killed, just
before me. But that which astonished him most, was
to know how I killed the other Indian so far off: so
Eointing to him, he made sigus to me to let him go to
iin; so I bade him go, as well as I conld. When he
came to him, be stood like one amazed, looking at him,
turning him first on one side, then on the other, looked
at the wonnd the bullet had made, which, it seems was
just in his breast, where it had made a hole, and no
great quantity of blood had followed; but he had bled
inwardly, for he was quite dead. He took up his how
and arrows, and came hack; so I turned to go away,
and beckoned him to follow me, making sigus to him
that more might come after them. Upon this, he made
sigus to me that he shonld bury them with sand, th.it
they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed ; and
so I made sigus to him again to do so. He I' I! to work;
and in an iustant he had scraped a hole in the sand with
bis hands, hig enongh to bury the first in, and then
dragged him into it, and covered him; and did so by
the other also: I believe he had buried them both in a
quarter of an honr. Then calling him away, I carried
him, not to niy castle, but qaite away to my cave, on
the farther part of the island : so I did not let my dream
eometopass in that part, viz. that he came into my grove
for shelter. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of
raisius to eat, and a dranght of water, which I fonnd
he was indeed in great distress for, by his running; and
having refreshed him, I made sigus for him to go and
lie down to sleep, showing him a place where I had laid
some rice straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to
VOL. i. °
sleep upon myself sometimes; so the poor creature lay
down, and went to sleep.
He WHS a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight strong limbs, not too large, tall and
well shaped; and, as I reckon, abont twenty-six years
of age. He had a very pood conntenance, not a fierce
and surly aspect, but seemed to have something very
manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness and
softness of an European in his conntenance too, espe-
cially when he smiled. His hair was long and black,
not curled liLc wool: his forehead very high and large;
and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes.
The colonr of his skin was not quite black, but very
tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow, nanseons tawny,
as the Braziliaus and Virginiaus, and other natives of
America are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive colonr,
that had in it something very agreeable, though not
very easy to describe. His face was ronnd and plump;
his nose small, not tlat like the Negroes; a very good
month, thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and as
white as ivory.
After be had slumbered, rather than slept, abont
half an honr, he awoke again, and came ont of the cave
to me, for I had been milking my goats, which I had in
the enclosure just by: when he espied me, he came
running to me, laying himself down Hgain upon the
ground, with all the possible sigus of an bumble thank-
fnl disposition, making a great many antic gestures to
show it. At last, be lays his head flat upon the gronnd,
close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his head,
as he had done before; and after this, made all the
sigus to me of subjection, servitnde, and submission,
imaginable, to let me know how he wonld serve me so
long as he lived. I understood him in many things,
and let him know I was very well pleased with him.
In a little time I began to speak to hmi, and teach him
t<> speak to me; and first I let him know liis name
should be FRIDAY, which was the day I saved his life:
1 called him so for the memory of the time. I like-
wise tanght him to say Master; and then let him know
that was to be my name: I likewise tanght him to sav
Yes and No, and to kuow the meaning of them. I gave
him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me
drink it before him! and sop my hread in it; and gave
him a cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly
complied with, and made sigus that it was very good
for him. I kept there with him all that night; but as
soon as it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me,
and let him know I wonld give him some clothes; at
which he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked.
As we went bv the place where he had buried the two
men, he pointed exactly to the place, and showed me
the marks that he hud made to find them again, makmg
sigus to me that we shonld dig them up again, and eat
them. At this I appeared very a»gry, expressed my
abhorrence of it, made as if I wonld vomit at the
thonghts of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to
come away; which he did immediately, with great sub-
mission, i then led him up to the tO|> of the hill, to see
it' his enemies were gone; and pulling ont my glass, I
looked, and saw plainly the place where they had been,
but no appearance of them or their canoes; so that it
was plain they were gone, and had left their two com-
rades behind them, withont any search after them.
tint I was not content with this discovery; but hav-
ing now more conrage, and cousequently more curi-
osity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him the
sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his
hack, which I found he conld use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for my-
self; and awav we marched to the place where these
creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get some
fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the place,
my very blood ran chill in my veius, and my heart sunk
Avithin me, at the horror of the spectacle; indeed, it
was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, thongh
Friday made nothing of it. The place was covered
with human bones, the gronnd dyeu with their blood,
and great pieces of flesh left here and there, half eaten,
mangled and scorched; and, in short, all the tokeus of
the trinmphant feast they had been making there, after
a victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five
hands, and the bones of three or fonr legs and feet, and
abundance of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by
his sigus, made me understand that they bronght over
fonr prisoners to feast upon; that three of them were
eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself, was the
fourth; that there had been a great hattle between
them and their next king, of whose subjects, it seems,
he had been one, and that they had taken a great nuw-
ber of prisoners; all which were carried to several
places by those who had taken them in the fight, in
order to feast upon them, as was done here by these
wretches upon those they bronght hither.
I cansed Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesb,
and whatever remained, and lay them together in a
heap, and make a great fire upon it, and burn them all
to ashes. I found Friday had still a hankering sto-
mach after some of the flesh, and was still a cannihal
in his nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at
the very thonghts of it, and at the least appearance of
it, that he durst not discover it: for I had, by some
meaus, let him know that I wonld kill him, if he of-
fered it.
When be had done this, we came hack to onr castle;
and there I fell to work for my man Friday; and first
of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had
ont of the poor gunner's chest I mentioned, which I
fonnd in the wreck; and which, with a little altera-
tion, titted him very well ; and then I made him a jer-
kin of goat's skin, as well as my skill wonld allow (for
I was now grown a tolerable good tailor); and I gave
him a cap which I made of hare's skin, very convenient,
and fashionable enongh: and tbus he was clothed for
the present tolerably well, and was mighty well pleased
to see himself almost as well clothed as his master. It
is true, he went awkwardly in these clothes at first;
wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and the
sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shonlders, and the
iuside of his arms; but a little easing them where he
complained they burt him, and using himself to them,
he took to them at length very well.
Tbe next day after I came home to my butch with
him, I began to cousider where I shonld lodge him;
and that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly
easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortificatious, in the iuside of the
tast, and in the ontside of the first. As there -was a
door or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal
framed door case, and a door to it of boards, and set it
up in the passage, a little within the entrance; and
causing the door to open in the iuside, I harred it up
in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that Friday
contd no way come at me in the iuside of my innermost
wall, withont making so mnch noise in getting over
that it must needs waken me; for my first wait had now
a complete roof over it of long poles, covering all my
tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill; which was
again laid across with smaller sticks, iustead of laths,
and then thatched over a great thickness with the rico
straw, which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or
place which was left to go in or oat by the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trapdoor, which, it* it had been at-
tempted on the ontside, would not have opened at all,
but wonld have fallen down and made a great noise:
as to weapous, I took them all into my side every night.
But I Deeded none of all this precantion; for never
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than
Friday was to me; withont passious, sullenness, or de-
sigus, perfectly obliged and engaged; his very affec-
tious were tied to me, like those of a child to a father;
and I dare say he wonld have sacrificed his life for the
saving mine, upon any occasion whatsoever: the many
testimonies he gave me of this put it ont of donbt, and
soon convinced me that I needed to use no precantious,
as to my safety on bis acconnt.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and
that with wonder, that however it had pleased God, in
his providence, ami in the government of the works of
his hands, to take from so great a part of the world of
bis creatures the best uses to which their faculties ami
the powers of their sonls are adapted, yet that he has
bestowed upon i hem the same powers, the same reason,
the same affectious, the same sentiments of kindness
and obligation, the same passious and resentments of
wrongs, the same seuse of gratitnde, sincerity, fidelity,
and all the capacities of doing good, and receiving
good, that he has given to us; and that when be pleases
to ofler them occasious of exerting these, they are as
readv, nay, more ready, to apply them to the right uses
for which they were bestowed, than we are. This made
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the
several occasious presented, how mean a use we make
of nil these, even thongh we have these powers enlight-
ened by the great lamp of iustruction, the Spirit of God,
and by the knowledge of his word added to onr under-
standing; and why it has pleased God to hide the like
saving knowledge from so many millious of sonls, who,
if I might jndge by this poor savage, wonld make a
much better use of it than we did. From hence, I
sometimes was led too far, to invade the sovereiguty of
Providence, and, as it were, arraigu the justiee of so
arhitrary a disposition of things, that shonld hide that
light from some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect
a like duty from both; but I sbut it up, and checked
my thonghts with this conclusion: first, That we did
not know by what light and law these shonld be con-
demned; but that as God was necessarily, and, by the
nature of his being, infinitely holy and just, so it conld
not he, but if these creatures were all sentenced to ab-
sence from himself, it was on acconnt of sinning agaiust
that light, which, as the Scripture sa^s, was a law to
themselves, and by such rules as their cousciences wonld
acknowledge to be just, thongh the fonndation was not
discovered to us; and secondly, That still, as we all
are the clay in the hand of the potter, no vessel conlU
say to him '' Why hastthon formed me tbus?"
But to return to my new companion:—I was greatly

delighted with him, and made it my business to teach
him every thing that was proper to make him useful,
handy, and helpful ; but especially to make him speak,
and understand me when I spoke: and he was the
aptest scholar that ever was; and particularly was so
merry, so coustantly diligent, and so pleased when he
conld but understand me, or make me understand him,
that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now
inv life began to be so easy that I began to. say to my-
self, that could I but have been safe from more savages,
I cared not if I was never to remove from the place
where I lived.
After I had been two Or three days returned to my
castle, I thonght that, in order to bring Friday off
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of
a cannihal's stomach, I onght to let him taste other
flesh; so I took him ont with me one morning to the
woods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid ont of
my own flock, and bring it home and dress it; but as I
was going, I saw a she goat lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting by her. I catched hold of
Friday;—Hold, said I, stand still; and made sigus to
him not to stir: immediately I presented my piece,
shot, and killed one of the kids. The poor creature,
who had, at a distance, indeed, seen me kill the savage,
his enemy, but did not know, nor conld imagine how
it was done, was seusibly surprised, trembled and
shook, and looked so ama/.ed that I thonght he wonld
have sank down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or
perceive 1 had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat,
to feel whether he was not wonnded; and, as I found
presently, thought I was resolved to kill him: for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my
knees, said a great many things I did not understand;
bot I coold easily see the meaning was, to pray me not
to kill him.
I soon fonnd a way to convince him that I wonld do
!iim no harm; and taking hnn up by the hand, langhed
at him, and pointing to the kid which I had killed,
beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he did:
and while he was wondering, and looking to see how
the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again. By
and by I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sitting upon a
tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand a little
what I wonld do, I called him to me again, pointed at
the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, thongh I thonght
it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and
to my gun, and to the gronnd under the parrot, to let
him see I wonld make it fall, I made him understand
that I wonld shoot and kill that hird ; accordingly, I
fired, and hade him look, and immediately he saw the
parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, not-
withstanding all I had said to him; and I fonnd ho was
the more amazed, becanse he did not see me put any-
thing into the gun, but thonght that there must be souic
wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing,
able to kill man, beast, hird, or anything near or far
off; and the astonishment this created in him was such
as conld not wear oft'for a longtime; and, I believe, if
I wonld have let him, he wonld have worshiped me
and mv gun. As for the gun itself, he wonld not so
much as touch it for several days after; but he wonld
speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had auswered hnn,
when he was by himself; which, as I afterwards learn-
ed of him, was to desire it not to kill him. Well, after
his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed tu
him to run and fetch the hird I had shot, which he did,
but staid some time; for the parrot, not being quite
dead, had fluttered away a good distance from the placu
where she fell: however, he fonnd her, took her up,
and bronght her to me; and as I had perceived bis ig-
norance abont the gun before, I took this advantage to
charge the gun again, and not to let him see me do it,
that I might be ready for any other mark that might
present; but nothing more offered at that time: so I
bronght home the kid, and the same evening I took the
skin off, and cut it ont as well as I conld; and having a.
pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the
flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed
very glad of it, and liked it very well ; but that which
was strangest to him was to see me eat salt with it. He
made a sigu to me that the salt was not good to eat;
and putting a little into his own month, he seemed to
nanseate it, and wonld spit and sputter at it, washing
Ijis month with fresh water after it; on the other hand,
%
I took some meat into my month withont salt, and I
pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as
he had done at the salt; but it wonld not do; he wonld
never care for salt with his meat or in his broth; at
least not for a great while, and then but a very little.
Having tbus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was resolved to feast him the next dny with roasting a
piece of the kid: this I did by hanging it before the
ire on a string, as I had seen many people do in Eng-
land, setting two poles up, one on each side of the fire,
and one across on the top, and tying the string to the
cross stick, letting the meat turn continually. This
Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste
the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well ha
liked it, that I conld not but understand him: and at
last be told me, as well as he conld, he wonld never
eat man's flesh any more, which I was very glad to
bear.
The next day, I set him to work to beating some
corn ont, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as
I observed before; and he soon understood how to do
it as well as I, especially after he had seen what the
meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of;
for after that I let him see me make myjbread, and hake
it too; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the
work for me, as well as I conld do it myself.
I began now to cousider, that having two months to
feed iustead of one, I must provide more gronnd for
my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than I
used to do; so I marked ont a larger piece of land, and
began the fence in the same manner as before, in which
Friday worked not only very willingly and very hard,
but did it very cheerfully: and I told him what it was
for; that it was for corn to make more bread, becanse
he was now with me, and that I might have enongh for
him and myself too. He appeared very seusible of that
part, and let me know that he thonght I had much more
labonr upon me on his acconnt, than I had for myself;
and that he wonld work the harder for me, if I wonld
tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in
this place ; Friday began to talk pretty well, and under-
stand the names of almost every thing I had occasion
to call for, and of every place I had to send him to,
and talked a great deal to me; so that, in short, I be-
gan now to have some use fur my tongue again, which,
mdeed, I had very little occasion for before, that is to
say, about speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to
him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself:
his simple unfeigued honesty appeared to me more and
more every day, and I began really to love the crea-
ture; and, on his side, I believe he loved me more than
it was possible tor him ever to love anything before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering in-
clination to his own conntry again; and having tanght
him English so well that he conld auswer me almost
any question, I asked him whether the nation that he
belonged to never conquered in hattle? At which he
smiled, and said, " Yes, yes, we always fight the bet-
ter:" that is, he meant, always get the better io fight;
and so we began the following disconrse:
Master. Yon always fight the better; how came
yon to be taken prisoner then, Friday?
Friday. Mv nation beat much for all that.
Master. How beat? If yonr nation beat them, how
came yon to be taken?
Friday. They more many than my nation, in the
place where me was; they take one, two, three, and
me: my nation over-beat them m the yonder place,
where me no was; there my nation take one, two,
great thonsand.
Master. But why did not yonr side recover yon
from the hands of yonr enemies then?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe; my nation have n0 canoe that
time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does yonr uation
do with the men they take? Do they carry them away
and eat them, as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat maus too; eat all up.
Master. \V here do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place, wllere they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other
else place.
Master' Have yon been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I have been here (points to the N.W.
side of the island, which, it seems, was their side).
By this I understood that my man Friday had for-
merly been among the savages who u»ed i» come on
shore on the farther part of the island, on the same
man-eating occasious he was now bronght for; and,
some time af'ter, when I took the conrage to carry him
to that side, being the same I formerlv mentioned, be
presently knew the place, and told me he was there
once, whcu they eat up twenty men, two women, and
one child: be conld not tell twenty in English, but he
numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, and
pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, becanse it introduces what
follows; that after I had this discourse with him, I
asked him how far it was from onr island to the shore,
and whether the canoes were not often lost. He told
mo there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that
after a little way out tu sea, there WHS a current and
wind, always one way in the morning, the other in the
afteruooon. This I understood to be no more than tho
sets of the tide, as going out or coming in; but I after-
wards understood it was occasioned by the great draft
and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the month
or gulf of which river, as I fonnd afterwards, onr island
lay; and that this land which I perceived to the VV.
and N.W. was the great island Trinidad, on the north
point of the month of the river. I asked Friday a
thonsand questious abont the conntry, the inhabitants,
the sea, the coast, and what natious were near: he told
me all be knew, with the greatest openness imaginable.
I asked him the names of the several natious of his sort
of people, but conld get no other name than Caribs:
from whence I easily understood, that Ihece were the
Caribbees, which onr maps place on the part of Ame-
rica which reaches from the month of the river Oroo-
noko to Guiana, and ouwards to St. Martha. He told
me, that up a great way beyond the moon, Uiat was,
beyond the setting of the moon, which must he west
from their country, there dwelt white bearded men,
like me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which I
mentioned before; and that they had killed much maus,
that was his word: by all which I understood he meant
the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had been
spread over the whole conntry, and were remembered
by all the natious, from father to son.
I inquired if he conld tell me how I might go from
this island and get among those white men? he told me,
Yes, yes, yon may go in two canoe. I conld not under-
stand what he meant, or make him describe to me what
he meant by two canoe; till at last, with great difficulty,
I fonnd he meant it must be in a large boat, as hig as
two canoes. This part of Friday's disconrse began to
relish with me very well; and from this time I enter-
tained some hopes that, one time or other, I might
find an opportunity to make my escape from this
place, and that this poor savage might be a meaus to
help me.
During the long time that Friday had now been with
me, and that he began to speak to me and understand
me, I was not wanting to lay a fonndation of religions
knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked him one
time, Who made him? The poor creature did not un-
derstand me at all, but thonght I had asked him who
was his father: but I took it up by another handle, and
asked him who made the sea, the gronnd we walked on,
and the hills and woods! He told me, it was one old
Benamuckee, that lived beyond all ; he conld describe
nothing of this great person, but that he was very old,
much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the
moon or the stars. I asked him then, if this old person
had made all things, why did not all things worship
him? He looked very grave, and with a perfect look
of innocence said, Ail things say O to him. I asked
him if the people who die in his conntry went away any
where? He said, Yes; they all went to Benamuckec;
then I asked him whether lbese they eat up went thither
too? He said, Yes.
From these things I began to iustruct him in the
knowledge of the true God: I told him that tbe great
Maker of all things lived up there, pointing up towards
heaven; that he governed the world tu the same power
and providence by which he maile it, that he was om-
nipotent, and conld do every thing lor us, give every
tiiing to us, take every thing from us; and tbus, by
degrees, I opened his eves. He listened with great
attention, and received with pleasure the notion of
Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the man-
ner of making onr prayers to God, and his being able
to hear us, even in heaven. He told me ouc day, that
if onr God conld hi-ar us up beyond the sun, he must
needs be a greater God than their Bonamuckee, who
Iived but a little way off, and yet conld not hear till
they went up to the great monntaius where he dwelt
to speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither
to speak to him? He said, No; they never went that
were yonng men; none wcut thither but the old men,
whom he called their Oowokakce; that is, as I made
him explain it to me, their religions, or clergy; and
that they went to say O (so he called saying prayers),
and then came hack, and told them what Benamuckee
said. By this I observed, that there is priestcraft even
among the most blinded iguorant pagaus in the world;
and the policy of making a secret of religion, in order
to preserve the veneration of the people to the clergy,
is uot only to be fonnd in the Roman, but perhaps
among all religious in the world, even among the most
brutish and harharons savages.
I endeavonred to clear up this frand to my man
Friday; and told him, that the pretence of their old
men going up to the monntaius to say O to tiieir god
Benamuckee was a cheat; and their bringing word
from thence what he said was much more so; that if
they met with any auswer, or spake with any one there,
it must bo with an evil spirit: and then I entered into
a long disconrse with him abont the devil, the original
of him, his rebellion agaiust God, his enmity to man,
the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts
of the world to be worshiped iustead of God, and as
God, and the many stratagems he made use of to delnde
mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret access to
onr passious and io our aflectious, and to adapt his
suares to onr inclinatious, so as to canse us even to be
onr own tempters, and run upon onr destruction by onr
own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notious in
Ins mind abont the devil as it was abont the being of
a God: nature assisted all my arguments to evidence
to him even the necessity of a great First Cause, and
overruling, governing Power, a secret directing Pro-
vidence, and of the equity and justice of paying homage
to him that made us, and the like; but there appeared
nothing of this kind in the notion of an evil spirit; of
his original, his being, his nature, and, ahove all, of his
inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so loo:
and the poor creature puzzled me once in such a man-
ner, by a question merely natural and innocent, that I
scarce knew what to say to him. I had been talking a
great deal to him of the power of God, his omnipo-
tence, his aversion to sin, his being a cousuming fire to
the workers of iniquity; how, as he had made as all,
he could destroy us and all the world in a moment;
and he listened with great seriousuess to me all the
while. After this, I had been telling him bow the
devil was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used
Iill his malice and skill to defeat the good desigus of
Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the
world, and Ihe like. "Well," says Friday, " but yon
say God is so strong, so great; is he not nnich strong,
much might as the devil ?—" Yes, yes," says I, " Fri-
day, God is stronger than the devil: God is above the
devil, and therefore we pray to God to tread him down
under onr feet, and enable us to resist his temptatious,
and quench his fiery darts."—" But," says he again,
"if God much stronger, much might as the devil, why
God no kill the devil, so make him no more do wicked?"
I was strangely surprised at this question; and, after
all, thongh I was now an old man, yet I was but a
yonng doctor, and ill qualified for a casuist, or a solver
of difficulties; and at first I conld not tell what to say;
so I pretended not to hear him, and asked him what he
said; but he was too earnest for an auswer, to forget
his question, no that he repeated it in the very same
broken words as above. By this time I had recovered
myself a little, and I said, "God will at last punish
him severely; he is reserved for the jndgment, and is
to be cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with ever-
lasting fire." This did not satisfy Friday; but he re-
turus upon me, repeating my words, "Reserve at last!
me no understand: but why not kill the devil now; not
kill great ago?''—" Yon may as well ask me/' said I,
"why God does not kill yon and me, when we do
wicked things here that offend him: we are preserved
to repent and be pardoned.'' He mused some time on
this: "Well, well," says he, mighty affectionately,
4i that well: so yon, f, devil, all wicked, all preserve,
repent, God pardon all." Here I was run down again
by him to the last degree; and it was a testimony to
me, how the mere notious of nature, thongh they will
guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God,
and of a worship or homage due to the supreme being
of God, as the cousequence of our nature, yet nothing
but divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, and of redemption purchased for us, of a Me-
diator of the new covenant, and of an intercessor at the
footstool of God's throne; I say, nothing but a revela-
tion from Heaven can form these in the sonl ; and that
therefore, the gospel of onr Lord and Savionr Jesus
Christ, I mean the Word of God, and the Spirit of God,
promised for the guide and sanctifier of his people, are
the absolutely necessary iustructors of the sonls of men
i:i the saving knowledge of God, and the meaus of sal-
vation,
I therefore diverted the present disconrse between
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some snd-
den occasion of going ont; then sending him for some-
thing a good way oft', I serionsly prayed to God that he
wonld enable me to iustruct savingly this poor savage;
assisting, by his Spirit, the heart of the poor iguorant
creature to receive the light of the knowledge of God
in Christ, reconciling him to himself, and wonld guide
me to speak so to him from the Word of God, as his
couscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and
his sonl saved. When he came again to me, I entered
into a long disconrse with him upon the subject of the
redemption of man by tlie Savionr of the world, and of
the doctrine of the gospel preached from heaven, viz.
of repentance towards God, and I'tith in onr blessed
Lord Jesus. I then explained to him as well as I
conld, why onr blessed Redeemer took not on him the
nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham; and how,
for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the
redemption; that ho came only to the lost sheep of the
honse of Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge
in all the methods I took for this poor creature's in-
struction, and must acknowledge, what I believe all
that act upon the same principle will find, that in lay-
ing things open to him, I really informed and iustruct-
ed myself in many things that either I did not know, or
had not fully considered before, but which occurred
naturally to my mind upon searching into them, for
the information of this poor savage; and I had more
aflection in my inquiry after things upon this occasion
than ever I felt before: so that, whether this poor wild
wretch was the bettor for me or no, I had great reason
to be thankful that ever he came to me; my grief sat
lighter upon me; my hahitation grew comfortable to
me beyond measure: and when I reflected that in this
solitary life which I had been confined to, I had not
only been moved to look up to heaven myself, and to
seek to the hand that had bronght me here, but was
now to be made an iustrument, under Providence, to
save the life, and, for anght I knew, the sonl of a poor
savage, and bring him to the true knowledge of reli-
gion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know
Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; I say, when I re-
flected upon all these things, a secret joy ran throngh
every pai I of my sonl, and I frequently rejoiced that
ever I was bronght to this place, which I had so often
thonght the most dreadful of all afflictious that conld
possibly have befallen me.
I continued in this thankful frame all the remainder
of my time; and the conversation which employed the
hours between Friday and me was such as made the
three years which we lived there together perfectly and
completely happy, if any such thing as complete hap-
piness can be formed in a sublunary state. This savage
was now a good Christian, a tonch better than I; thongh
I have reason to hope, and bless God for it, tlmt we
were equally penitent, and comforted, restored peni-
tents. We had here the word of God to read, and DO
farther oif from his Spirit to iustruct, than if we had
been in England. I always applied myself, in reading
the Scriptures, to let him know, as well as I conld, the
meaning of what I read; and he again, by his serions
inquiries and questionings, made me, as I said before,
a much better scholar in the Scripture knowledge than
I shonld ever have been by my own mere private read-
ing. Another thing I caunot refrain from observing
here also, from experience in this retired part of my
life, viz. how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is
that the knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of sal-
vation by Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the
Word of God, so easy to be received and understood,
that, as the bure reading the Scripture made me capa-
ble of understanding enongh of my duty to carry me
directly on to the great work of sincere repentance for
my MIL-, and laying bold of a Savionr for life and sal-
vation, to a stated reformation in practice, and obedience
to all God's commands, and this withont any teacher or
iustructor, I mean buman; so the same plain iustruc-
tion sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage
creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian as I
have known few equal to him in my life.
As to all the disputes, wrangling, strife, and conten-
tion which have happened in the world about religion,
whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes of cburch
government, they were all perfectly useless to us, and,
for anght I can yet see, they have been so tu the rest of
the world. We had the sure guide to heavea, viz. the
word of God; and we had, blessed be God, comfort-
able views of the Spirit of God teaching and iustructing
us by his word, leading us into all truth, and making
us both willmg and obedient to the iustruction of his
word. And I cannot see the least use that the greatest
knowledge of the disputed points of religion, which
have made such confusions in the world, wonld have
been to us, if we conld have obtained it.—Bat I must
go on with the historical part of things, and take every
part in its order.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquaint-
ed, and that he conld understand almost nil I said to
him, and speak pretty fluently thongh in broken Eng-
lish to me, I acquainted him with my own history, or at
least so much of it as related to my coming to this place;
how I had lived here, and how long: I let him into the
mystery, for such it was to him, of guupowder and bul-
let, and tanght him how to shoot. I gave him a knife,
which he was wonderfnlly delighted with; and I made
him a belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as in Eng-
land we wear hangers in; and in the frog, iustead of a
hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as
good a weapon in some cases, but much more useful
upon other occasious.
I described to him the conntry of Europe, particu-
larly England, which I came from; how we lived, how
v.; worshiped God, how we behaved to one another,
and bow we traded in ships to all parts of the world. I
gave him an acconnt of the wreck which I had been on
board of, and showed him, as near as I conld, the place
where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces before,
and gone. I showed him the ruius of onr boat, which
we lost when we escaped, and which I conld not stir
with my whole strength then; but was now fallen al-
most all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood
musing a great while, and said nothing. I asked him
what it was he stndied upon? At last, says he, " Me
see such boat like come to place at my nation." I did
not understand him a good while; but, at last, when I
had examined farther into it, I understood by him, that
a boat, such as that had been, came on shore upon the
conntry where he lived; that is, as he explamed it,
was driven thither by stress of weather. I presently
imagined that some European ship must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose
and drive ashore; but was so dull that I never once
thoaght of men making their escape from a wreck thi-
Jher, much less whence they might come: so I only
inquired after a description of tut) boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enongh; but
bronght me better to understand him when be added
with some warmth, " We save the white maus from
drown." Then I presently asked him, if there wore
any white maus, as he called them, in the boat ?" Yes,"
he said; "the boat full of white maus." I asked him
how many? He told upon his fingers seventeen. [
asked him then what became of them? He told me,
"T^- '*ve> "ie-v dwell at m.V nation."
This put new thonghts into my head; for I presently
imagined that these might be the men belonging to the
ship that was cast away in the sight of my island, as I
now called it; ami, who, after the ship was struck on
the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved
themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that
wild shore among the savages. Upon this I mquired
of him more critically what was become of them; he
assured me they lived still there; that they had been
there abont fonr years; that the savages let them alone,
and gave them victuals to live on. I asked him how it

that is to say, they never eat any men but such;
to fight with them, and are taken in hattle.
It was after this some cousiderable time, that bein"-
upon the top of the hill at the east side of the island,
from whence, as I have said, I had in a clear day dis-
covered the main or continent of America, Friday, the
weather being very serene, looks very earnestly to-
wards the main land, and, in a kind of surprise, falls
a jumping and dancing, and calls ont to me, for I was
at some distance from him. I asked him what was the
matter? "Ojoy!" says he; "O glad! there see my
conntry, there my nation '." I observed an extraordi-
nary seuse of pleasure appeared in his face, and his
eyes sparkled, and his conntenance discovered a
strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own
conntry again. This observation of mine put a great
many thonghts into me, which made me at first not so
easy abont iny new man Friday as I was before; and I
made no doubt but that it Friday conld get hack to
his own nation again, he wonld not only forget all Ills
religion, hat all his obligation to me, and wonld he
forward enongh to give his conntrymen an acconnt of
me, and come back perhaps with a bundred or two
of them, and make a feast upon me, at which he might
be as merry as he used to be with those of his enemies,
when they were taken in war. But I wronged the poor
honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry
afterwards. However, as my jealonsy increased, aml
held me some weeks, I was a little more circumspect,
and not so familiar and kind to him as before: in which
I was certainly in the wrung too; the honest, grateful
creature having no thonght abont it, but what cousisted
with the best principles, both as a religious Christian,
and as a grateful friend; as appeared afterwards to my
full satisfaction.
While my jealousy of dim lasted, yon may be sure I
was every day pumping him, to see if he wonld dis-
cover any of the uew thoughts which I suspected were
in him: but I found everv thing he said was so honest
and so innocent that I conld n'nd nothing to nonrish my
suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he made
me at last entirely his own again; nor did he m the
least perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I conld
not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the conti-
nent, I called to him, and said, " Friday, do not yon
wish yonrself in yonr own conntry, jonr own nation r"
—" Yes," he said, "I be much O glad to be at my
own nation." "What wonld yon do there? said I:
"wonld yon turn wild again, eat men's flesh again, and
be a savage, as yon were before:1" He looked full of
concern' and shaking his head, said' " No, no, Friday
tell them to live good; tell them to pray G.od; tell
them to eat corn bread, cattle flesh, milk; no eat man
again."—" Why then," said I to him, "they will kill
yon." Ho looked grave at that, and then said, "Wo,
no; they no kill me, they willing love learn." He
meant by this, they wonld be willing to learn. He
added, they learned much of tho bearded maus that
came in the boat. Then I asked him if he wonld go
back to them. He smiled at that, and told me that he
conld not swim so far. I told him, I wonld make a
canoe for him. He told me he wonld go, if I wonld
go with him. "I go!" says I, "why, they will eat
me if I come there."—" No, no," says he, " me make
they no eat yon; me make they much love yon." He
meant, he wonld telt them how I had killed his enemies,
and saved his life, and so hu wonld make them love me.
Then he told me, as well as he conld, how kind they
were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he
called them, who came on shore there in distress.
From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture
over, and see if I could possibly join with those beard-
ed men, who I made no donbt were Spaniards and Por-
tuguese: not donbting but if I conld, we might find
some method to escape from thence, being upon the
continent, and a good company together, better than I
could from an island forty miles off the shore, and
alone, withont help. So, after some days, I took Fri-
day to work again, by way of disconrse, and tofd him I
wonld give him a boat to go hack to his own nation;
am! accordingly, I carried him to my frigate, which lay
on the other side of the island, and having cleared it
of water tfor I always kept it sunk in water), I bronght
it ont, showed it him, and we both went into it. I
found he was a most dexterons fellow at managing it,
and wonld make it go almost as swift again as I conld.
So when he was in I said to him, " Well, now, Friday,
shall we go to yonr nation?" He looked verv dull at
my saying so; which it seems was, becanse he thonght
the boat too small to go so far: I then tohi him I had
a higger; so the next day I went to the place where
the first boat lay which I had made, but which I conld
not get iiito the water. He said that was hig enongh:
hat then, as I had taken no care of it, and it bad lain
two or three and twenty years there, the sun had split
and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten. Friday
told me such a boat wonld do very well, and wonld
carry " much enongh vittle, drink, bread;" that was
his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my
d«sigu of going over with him to the continent that I
told him we wonld go and make one as hig as that,
and be shonld go home in it. He auswered not one
word, hat looked very grave and sad. I asked him
what was the matter with him? He asked me again,
'• Why yon angry mad with Friday? what me done?"
I asked him what be meant: I told him I was not am;ry
with him at all. "No angry!" says he, repealing the
words several times, " why send Friday home away to
my nation?"—" Why, says I, " Friday did not yon say
yon wished yon were there ?"—" Yes, yes," says he,
"wish be both there; no wish Friday there, no master
there." In a word, he wonld not think of going there
withont me. "I go there, Friday!" says I, " what
shall I do there?" He returned very quick upon me
at this: "Yon do great deal much good," says be;
"yon teach wild maus be good sober, tame maus; yon
tell them know God, pray God, and live new life."—
"Alas, Friday!" says I, " thon knowest not what thon
sayest; I am but an iguorant man myself."—" Yes,
yes," says he, "yon teachee me good, yon teachee
them good."—"No, no, Friday," says I, "yon shall
go withont me; leave me here to live by myself, as I
did before." lie looked confused again at that word;
and running to one of the hatchets which he used to
wear, he takes it op hastily, and gives it to me. "What
inust I do with this?" says I to him. "Yon take kill
Friday," says he. "What must I kill yon for?" said I
again. He returus very quick, "What yon send Fri-
day away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday away."
This he spoke so earnestly that I saw tears stand in his
c\es: in a word, 1 so plainly discovered the utmost
affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him,
that I told him then, and often after, that I wonld
never send him away from me, if he was willing to
stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I fonnd by all his disconrse a
settled atlection to me, and that nothing shonld part
him from me, so I fonnd all the fonndation of his de-
sire to go to his own conntry was laid in his ardent af-
fection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them
good; a thing which, as I had no notion of myself, so I
had not the least thonght or intention or desire of un-
dertaking it. Bat still I fonnd a strong inclination to
my attempting an escape, as above, founded on the sup-
position gathered from the disconrse, viz. that there
were seventeen bearded men there: and therefore,
withont any more delay, I went to work with Friday,
to find ont a great tree proper to foil, and make a targe
pcriagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There
were trees enongh in the island to have built a little
flcet, not of periaguas or canoes, but even of good large
vessels: but the main thing I looked at was, to get one
»o near the water that we might lannch it when it was
made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first. At
last, Friday pitched upon a tree; for I fonnd he knew
much better than I what kind of wood was fittest for
it; oor can I tell, to this day, what wood to call the
tree we cut down, except that it was very like the tiee
we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua wood,
for it was much of the same colonr and smell. Friday
was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree ont,
to make it for a boat, but I showed him how to cut it
with tools; which, after I had showed him huw to use,
he did very handily: and in abont a month's hard
labonr we finished it, and made it very handsome;
especiallv when, with onr axes, which I showed him
how to handle, we cut and hewed the ontside into the
true shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost na
near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were, incb
by inch, upon great rollers into the water; but when
she was in, she wonld have carried twenty meu with
great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was so
hig, it amazed me to see with what dexterity, and huw
swift my man Friday wonld manage her, turn her, and
jculdlc iier along. So I asked him if ho wonld, and it'
we might venture over in her. "Yes," he said, *' we
venture over in her very well, thongh great blow
wind." However, I had a farther desigu that he knew
nothing of, and that was, to make a mast and a sail, a;id
to lit her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that
was easy enongh to get; so I pitched upon a straight
yonng cedar tree, which I fonnd near the place, and
which there were great plenty of in the island: and I
set Friday to work to cat it down, and gave him direc-
tious how to shape and order it. But as to the sail,
that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails,
or rather pieces of old sails enongh; hat as I had had
them now six and twenty years by me, and had not been
very careful to preserve them, not imagining that I
shonld ever have this kind of use for them, I did not
donbt but they were all rottenj; and, indeed, most of
them were so. However, I found two pieces, which
appeared pretty good, and with these I went to work;
and with a great deal of paius, and awkward stitching
yon may be sure, for want of needles, I at length made
a throe cornered ugly thing, like what we call in Eng-
land a shoulder of mutton sail, to go with a boom at
bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as usu-
ally onr ships' long-boats sail with, and such as I best
knew how to manage, as it was sucb a one as I had to
the boat in which I made my escape from Barhary, as
related in the first part of my story.
I was near two months performing this last work,
viz. rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished
them very complete, making a small stay, and a sail,
or foresail, to it, to assist, if we shonld tarn to wind-
ward; and, which was more than all, I fixed a rndder
to the stern of her to steer with. I was but a bungling
shipwright, yet as I knew the usefulness, and even ne-
cessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much
paius to do it, that at last I bronght it to pass; thongb,
cousidering the many dull contrivances I had for it that
failed, I think it cost me almost as much labour as mak-
ing the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat; for, thongh he knew very well how to paddle a
canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a
rndder; and was the most amazed when he saw me
work the boat to and again in the sea by the rndder,
and how the sail gibbed, and filled this way or that
way, as the conrse we sailed changed; I say, when he
saw this, he stood like one astonished ami amazed.
However, with a little use, I made all these things fa-
miHar to him, and he became an expert sailor, except
that as to the compass; I conld make him understand
very little of that. On the other hand, as there was
very little clondy weather, and seldom or never any
fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion for a
compass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by
night, and the shore by day, except in the rainy sea-
sous, and then nobody cared to stir abroad either by
land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven and twentieth year
of my captivity in this place; thongh the three last 3 ears
thai I had this creature with me onght rather to be left
ont of the acconnt, my habitation being quite of another
kind than in all the rest of the time. I kept the anni-
•versary of my landing here with the same thankfulness
to God for his mercies as at first; and if I had such
canse of acknowledgment at first, 1 had much more so
now, having such additional testimonies ot the care of
Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of being;
effectually and speedily delivered; for I had an invinci-
ble impression upon my thonghts that my deliverance
was at hand, and that! shonld not be another year in this
place. I went on, however, with my bushandry; digging,
planting, and fencing, as usual. I gathered and cured my
grapes, and did every necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was, in the mean time,' upon me,
wben I kept more within doors than at other times.
We had stowed onr new vessel as secure as we conld,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the
beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and hanl-
ing her up to the shore at high water mark, I made my
man Friday dig a little dock, just hig enough to hold
her, and just deep enongh to give her water unongh to
float in; and then, when the tide was ont, we made a
strong dam across the end of it, to keep the water ont;
and so she lay dry as to the tide from the sea; and to
keen the rain off, we laid a great many bonghs of trees,
so thick that she was as well thatched as a honse; and
thus we waited for the months of November and De-
cember, in which I desigued to make my adventure..
When the settled season began to come in, as the
thonght of my desigu returned with the fair weather,
I was preparing daily for the voyage: and the first
thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of provi-
sious, being the stores for onr voyage; and intended,
in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
lannch ont onr boat. I was busy one morning upon
something of lhis kind, when I called to Friday, and
bid him go to the seashore, and see if he conld find a
turtle, or tortoise, a thing which we generally got once
a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the flesh.
Friday had not been long gone, when he came running
hack, and flew over my onter wall, or fence, like one
that felt not the gronnd, or the steps he set his feet 6n;
and before I had time to speak to him, he cries ont to
me, "O master! O master! O sorrow! O had!''—
"What's the matter, Friday?" says I. "O yonder,
there," says he, "one, two, three canoe; one, two,
three!" By this way of speaking, I conclnded there
were six; but on inquiry I fonnd it was but three.
"Well, Friday," says I, " do not be frightened." So
I heartened him up as well as I conld: however, I saw
the poor fellow was most terribly scared; for nothing
ran in his head but that they were come to look for
him, and wonld cut him in pieces and eat him; and the
poor fellow trembled so that I scarce knew what to do
with him. I comforted him as well as I conld, and told
him I was in as much danger as he, and that they wonld
eat me as well as him. '' But," says I, '' Friday, we
must resolve to fight them. Can yon fight, Friday?"
—" Me shoot," says he, " but there come many great
number."—" No matter for that," said I, again; " oar
£uus will fright them that we do not kill." So I asked
him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he wonld de-
fend me, and stand by me, and do just as I hid him.
He said, "Me die, when yon hid die, master." So f
went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave him;
for I had been so good a bushand of my rum, that I had
a great deal left. When he drank it, I made him take
the two fowlingpieces, which wu always carried, and
loaded them with large swaushot, as hig as small pis-
tot bullets: then I took fonr muskets, and loaded them
"ith two slugs, and five small bullets each; and my
two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each: I
hang my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and
gave Friday his hatchet. When I had tbus prepared
my ocl f, I took my perspective glass, and went up to the
side of the hill, to si-e what I conld discover; and I
fonnd quickly by my glass, that there were onc and
twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and
that their whole business seemed to be the trinmphant
hanquet upon these three buman bodies; a harharons
least indeed! but nothing more than, as I had observ-
ed, was usual with them. I observed also, that tiny
were landed, not where they had done when Friday
made his escape, but nearer to my creek, where the
shore was low, and where a* thick wood came almost
close down to the sea. This, with the abhorrence of
the inbuman errand these wretches came abont, filled
me with such indiguation that I came down again to
Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down to
them, and kill them all; and asked him if he wonld
stand by me. He had now got over his fright, and his
spirits being a little raised with the dram I had given
him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he
wonld die when I hid die.
In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which
I had charged, as before, between us: I gave Friday
one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guus upon
his shonlder; and I took one pistol, and the other three
guus, myself; and in this posture we marched ont. I
took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Fri-
day a large hag with more powder and bullets; and, as
to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and
not to stir, or shoot, or do anything, till I bid him;
and, in the mean time, uot to speak a word. In this
posture, I fetched a compass to my right hand of near
a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into the
wood, so that I conld come within shot of them before
I shonld be discovered, which I had seen by my glass
it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, m\ former thonghts
returning, I began to ahate my resolution: I do not
wean that I entertained any fear of their number; for,
as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I
was superior to them, nay, thongh I had bcea aloac.
Hut it occurred to mv thonghts, what call, what occa-
sion, much less what necessity I was in, to go and dip
my hands in blood, to attack people who had neither
done or intended me any wrong? Who, as to me,
were innocent, and whose harharons customs were their
own disaster; being, in them, a token indeed of God's
having left them, with the other natious of that part of
the world, to such stupidity, and to such inbuman
conrses; but did not call me to take upon me to be a
jndge of iheir actious, much less an executioner of his
justice; that, whenever he thonght fit, he wonld take
the canse into his own hands, and, by national ven-
geance, punish them, as a people, for national crimes;
but that in the moan time, it was none of my business;
that it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was
a declared enemv, and in a state of war with those verv
particular people, and it was lawful for him to attack
them; but I conld not say the same with respect to my-
self. These things were so warmly pressed upon my
thonghts all the way as I went, that I resolved I wonld
only go and place myself near them, that I might ob-
serve their harharons feast, and that I wonld act then
as God shonld direct; but that, unless something offer-
ed that was more a call to me than yet I knew of, I
wonld not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood: and, with
all possible wariness and silence, Friday following
close at my heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of
the wood, on the side which was next to them, onlv
that one corner of the wood lay between me and them.
Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him a great
tree which was just at the corner of the wood, I hade
him go to the tree, and bring me word if he conld see
there plainlv what they were doing. He did so, and
came immediately hack to me, and told me they might
be plainly viewed there; that they were all abont their
fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that
another lav hound upon the sand, a little from them,
which, he said, they wonld kill next, and which fired
the very soul within me. He told me it was not one of
their nation, but one of the bearded men he had told
me of, that came to their conntry in the boat. I wan
filled with horror at the very naming the white beard-
ed man; and, going to the tree, I saw plainly by my
glass a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea,
with his hands and his feet tied with Hags, or things
like rushes, and that he was an European, aud had
clothes on.
There was another tree, and a litUe thicket beyond
it, aboat fifty yards nearer to them than the place
where I was, which, by going a little way abont, I saw
I might come at undiscovered, and that then I shonld
be within hall' a shot of them: so I withheld my pas-
sion, thongh I was indeed euraged to the highest de-
gree; and going back abont twenty paces, I got behind
some hashes, which held all the way till I came to the
other tree; and then came to a little rising gronnd,
which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of
abont eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the
dreadful wretches sat upon the gronnd, all close bud-
dled together, and had just sent the other two to
butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps
limb by limb, to their fire; and they were stooping
down to untie the hands at his feet. I turned to Friday
—" Now, Friday,'' said I, " do as I bid thee." Friday
said he wonld. "Then, Friday," says I, "do exactly
as \on see me do; fail in nothing." So I set dowu one
of the muskets and the fowlingpiece upon the gronnd,
and Friday did the like by his; and with the other
musket I took my aim at the savages, hidding him to
do tfae like: then asking him if he WHS ready, he said,
"Yes." "Then fire at them," said I; and the same
moment. I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side that he shot, he killed two of them, and
wonnded three more; and on my side, I killed onb,
and wonnded two. They were, yon may be sure, in a
dreadful cousternation; and all of them who were not
burt, jumped upon their feet, but did not immediately
know which way to run, or which way to look, for
thay knew not from whence their destruction came.
Friday kent his eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid
bim, he might observe what I did; so, as soon as the
first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took
ap the fowlingpiece, and Friday did the like: he saw
me cock and present; he did the same again. "Are
yon ready, Friday?'' said I.—" Yes,'' says he. "I>et
fly, then," savs I, "in the name of God!" and with
that I fired again among the amazed wretches, and so
did Friday; and as onr pieces were now loaden with
what I called swaushot, or small pistol bullets, we
fonnd only two drop, hut so many were wonnded, that
they ran abont yelling and screaming like mad crea-
tures, all bloody, and most of them miserably wonnded,
whereof three more fell quickly after, thon-h not quite
dead.
'' Now, Friday," savs I, laying down the discharged
pieces, and taking up the musket which was yet loaden,
"follow me;'' which he did with a great deal of con-
rage; upou which I rushed out of the wood, and show-
ed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I
perceived they saw me, I shonted as lond as I could,
and hade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I
conld, which by the way was not very fast, being
luaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards the
poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach,
or shore, between the place where they sat and the sea.
The two butchers, who were just going to work with
him, had left him at the surprise of onr first fire, and
tled in a terrible fright to the seaside, and had jumped
into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the samo
way. I turned to Friday, and hade him step forwards,
and fire at them; he understood me immediately, and
running abont forty yards, to be nearer them, he shot
at them, and I thonght he had killed them all, for I saw
them all fall of a heap into the boat, thongh I saw two
of them up again quickly: however, he killed two of
them, and wonnded the third no that he lay down in the
bottom of the boat as if he had been dead.
While my mim Friday tired at them, I pulled ont my
knife and cut the flngs that bonnd the poor victim; and
loosing his hands :md feet, 1 lifted him up, and asked
him in the Portuguese tongue, what ho was. He an-
swered in Latin, Christianus; but was. so weak and
fimit that he conld scarce stand or speak. I took my
bottle ont of m\ pocket, and gave it him, making sigus
that he shonld drink, which he did; and I gave him a
piece of bread, which he eat. Then I asked him what
conntryman he was: and he said Espaguiole; and being
a little recovered, let me know, by all the sigus he
conld possibly make, how much he was in my debt for
his deliverance. "Seiguior,'' said I, with as much
Spanish as I conld make up, " we will talk afterwards,
but we must fight now: if yon have any strength left,
take this pistol and sword, and lay abont yon." He
took them very thankfully; and no sooner had he the
arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigour
into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and
had cut two of them in pieces in an iustant; for the
truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the
poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise
of onr pieces that they fell down for mere amazement
and fear, and had no more power to attempt their own
escape, than their flesh had to resist onr shut: and that
was the case of those five that Friday shot at in the
boat; for as three of them fell with the burt they re-
ceived, so the other two fell with the fright
I kept my piece in my hand still withont firing, beinjy
willing to keep my charge ready, becanse I had given
the Spaniard my pistol and sword: so I called to Fri-
day, and hade him run up to the tree from whence -\\r
first fired, and fetch the arms which lay there that had
been discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and
then giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load
all the rest again, and hade them come to me when they
wanted. While I was loading these pieces, there hap-
pened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard, and
one of the savages, who made at him with one of their
great wooden swords, the samelike weapon that was to
have killed him before, if I had not prevented it. The
Spaniard, who was as bold and brave as conld be ima-
gined, thongh weak, had fonght this Indian a good
while, and had cut him two great wonnds on his head;
but the savage being a stont, lusty fellow, closing in
with him, had thrown him down, being faint, and WHS
wringing my sword ont of his hand; when the Spaniard,
thongh undermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew the
pistol from his girdle, shot the savage throngh the body,
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was run-
ning to help him, conld come near him.
Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches, with no weapon in his hand but his
hatchet; and with that be despatched those three, who,
as I said before, were wonnded at first, and fallen, and
all the rest he conld come up with: and the Spaniard
coming to me for a guo, I gave him one of the fowling-
pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and
wonnded them both; but, as he was not able to run,
they both got from him into the wood, where Friday
pursued them, and killed one of them, but the other
was too nimble for him; and thongh he was wonnded,
yet had plunged himself into the sea* and swam with
all his might off to those two who were left in the canoe,
which three in the canoe, with uue wonnded, that we
knew not whether he died or no, were alt that escaped
onr hands of one and twenty; the acconnt of the whole
is as follows: three killed at onr first shot from the
tree; two killed at the next shot; two killed by Fri-
day in the boat; two killed by Friday, of those at first
wonnded; one killed by Friday in the wood; three
killed by the Spaniard; fonr killed, being fonnd
dropped here and there, of their wonnds, or killed by
Friday in his chase of them; fonr escaped in the
boat, whereof one wonnded, if not dead.—Twenty-one
in all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get ont
of guushot, and thongh Friday made two or three shots
at them, I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday
wonld fain have had me take one of their canoes, and
pursue them ; and indeed, I was very anxions abont
their escape, lest carrying the news home to their ueo-
Elc, they shonld come hack perhaps with two or tfirco
andrcd of the canoes, and devonr us by mere multi-
tnde; so I cousented to pursue them by sea, and run-
ning to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and hade Fri-
day follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was
surprised to find another poor creature lie there, bonnd
hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slanghter,
and almost dead with fear, not knowing wbut was the
matter; for he had not been able to look up over the
side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels
and had been tied so long, that he had really hat little
life in him,
I immediately cat the twisted flags or rushes, which
they had bonnd him with, and wonld have helped him
op; but he conld not stand or speak, but groaned most
piteoosly, believing, it seems, still, that he was only un-
bonnd in order to be killed. When Friday came to
him, I hade him speak to him, and tell him of his deli-
Terance; and, pulling ont my bottle, made him give the
poor wretch a dram; which, with the news of his being
delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat. But
when Friday came to hear him speak, and look in his
face, it wonld have moved any one to tears to have
seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, bugged
him, cried, langhed, hallooed, jumped about, danced
sung; then cried again, wrung his hands, beat his own
face and head; and then sung and jumped abont a^-ain
like a distracted creature. It was a good while before
I conld make him speak to mo, or tell me what was the
matter; but when he came a little to himself, he told
me that it was his father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to
see what eestasy and filial affection had worked in this
poor savage at the sight of his father, and of his being
delivered from death; nor, indeed, can I describe half
the extravagances of his affection after this; for he went
into the boat, and ont of the boat, a great many times:
when he went in to him, he wonld sit down by himj
open his breast, and hold his father's head close to his
bosom for many minutes together, to nonrish it; then
he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and
stiff with the hinding, and chafed and rubbed them with
bis hands; and I, perceiving what the case was, gave
him some rum ont of my bottle to rub them with, which
did them a great deal of good.
This affair put an end to onr pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now got almost ont
of sight; and it was happy for us that we did not, for it
blew so hard within two honrs after, and before they
conld be got a quarter of their way, and continued
VOL. i. Q
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-west,
whi eh was agaiust them, that I conld not suppose their
boat conld live, or that they ever reached their own
coast.
But, to return to Friday; he was so busy abont his
father, that I conld not find in my heart to take him off
for some time; but after I thonght he conld leave him
a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping and
langhing, and pleased to the highest extreme; tLeo I
asked him if he had given his father nay bread. He
shook his head, and said, " None; ngly dog eat all up
self." I then gave him a cake of bread, ont of a little
pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him a dram
for himself, but he wonld not taste it, but carried it to
bis father. I had in niv pocket two or three bunches of
raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father.
He had no sooner given his father these raisius, hat I
saw him come ont of the boat, and run awav, as if 1m
had been bewitched, he ran at such a rate; for he was
the swiftest fellow on his feet that ever I saw: I say, he
ran at such a rate that he was ont of sight, as it were,
iu an iustant; and thongh I called, and hallooed ont
too, after him, it was all one, away ho went; and in a
quarter of an honr I saw him come hack again, thongh
not so fast as he went; and as he came nearer, I fonnd
his pace slacker, becanse he had something in his haiul.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father
some fresh water, and that he had got two more cakes or
loaves of bread; the bread he gave me, but the water
be carried to his father; however, as I was very thirsty
too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived his
father more than ail the rumor spirits I had given him,
for he wasjust fainting with thirst.
Wben his father had tlrank, I called to him to know
if there was any water left: he said, "Yes/' and I
hade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as
much want of it as his lather; and I sent one of the
cakes, that Friday bronght, to the Spaniard ton, wbu
was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upou
a green place under tho shade of a tree; and whose
linibs were also very stiff, ;un! very much swelled with
the rnde handage he had been tied with. When I saw
that, upon I'rnlav's coming to him with the water, he
sat up and drank, and took the bread, and began tu i-at,
I went to him and gave him a handful of raisius: ho
looked up in my face \vith alt the tokeus of gratitnde
and thankfulness that conld appear in any conntenance;
but was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted
himself in the fight, that he conld not stand up upon his
feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was
really not able, his ankles were so swelled and so pain-
ful to him; so I hade him sit still, and cansed Friday to
rub hin ankles, and hathe them with rum, as he had
done his father's.
I observed the poor aflectionate creature, every two
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn
ins head abont, to sec if his lather was in the same place
and posture as he left him sitting; and at last he fonnd
he was not to be seen; at which he started up, and,
withont speaking a word, flew with that swiftness to
him, that one conld scarce perceive his feet to tonch the
gronnd as he went: but whcu he camo he only fonnd
be had laid himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday
came hack to me presently; and tt.on I spoke to tho
Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if be conld, and
lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him to
onr dwelling, where I wonld take care of him: hut
Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite
up upon his hack, and carried him away to the boat,
and set him down softly upon the side or gunnel of the
canoe, with his feet in the iuside of it; and then hfting
faim quite in, he set him close to his father; and pre-
sently stepping ont again, lannched the boat ofl', and
paddled it along the shore faster than I conld walk,
thongh the wind blew pretty hard too: so he bronght
them both safo into onr creek, and leaving them in the
boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As he passed
me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went.
He told me, "Go fetch more boat:" so away he went
Hke the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like
him; and hv had the other canoe in the creek almost HA
soon as I got to it by land; so he wafted me over, and
then went to help onr new guests ont of the boat, whiuli
he did; hat they were neither of them able to walk, so
that poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, 1 went to work in my thonght, and
calling to Friday to hid them sit down on the bank
while he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-har-
row to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them both
op together upon it, between as.
But when we got them to the ontside of onr wall, or
fortification, we were at a worse loss than before, for it
was impossible to get them over, and I was resolved not
to break it down; sol set to work again; and Friday
and I, in about two honrs' time, made a very handsome
tent, covered with old sails, and above that with bonghs
of trees, being in the space withont onr ontward fence,
and between that and the grove of yonng wood which I
had planted: and here we made them two beds of such
things as I had, viz. of good rice-straw, with blankets
laid upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on
each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thonght myself
very rich m subjects; and it was a merry reflection,
which I frequently made, how like a king I looked.
First of all, the whole conntry was my own mere pro-
perty, so that I had an undonbted right of dominion.
Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected; I was
absolutely lord and lawgiver; they all owed their lives
to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there
had been occasion for it, for me. It was remarkable,
too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three
different religious: my man Friday was a Protestant,
his father was a Pagan and a cannihal, and the Spaniard
was a Papist: however, I allowed liberty of couscience
thronghont my dominious:—But this is by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued pri-
soners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest them
upon, I began to think of making some provision for
them; and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday to
take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, ont of
my particular flock, to be killed; when I cut off tho
hinder-quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set
Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them
a very good dishr I assure yon, of flesh and broth: anil
as I cooked it withont doors, for f made no fire within
my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and
having set a table there for them, 1 sat down, and eat
my own dinner also with them, and, as well as I conld,
cheered them and enconraged them. Friday was my
interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to the
Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language of
the savages pretty well.
After wo had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Fri-
day to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch onr mus-
kets and other fire-arfus, which, for want of time, we
had left upon the place of hattle; and, the next day, I
ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the sa-
vages, which lay open to the sun, and wonld presently
be ofleusive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid re-
maius of their harharons feast, which I knew were
pretty mnch, and which I conld not think of doing my-
self; nay, I conld not bear to see them, if I went that
way; all which he punctually performed, and effaced
the very appearance of the savages being there; so that
when I went again, I conld scarce know where it was,
otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing to
the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my
two new subjects: and, first, I set Friday to inquire of
his father what he thonght of the escape of the savages
in that canoe, and whether we might expect a return of
them, with a power too great for us to resist. His fiist
opinion was, that the savages in the boat never conld
live ont the storm which blew that night they went off,
but must, of necessity, be drowned, or driven sonth to
those other shores, where they were as sure to be de-
vonred as they were to be drowned, if they were cast
away: but, as to what they wonld, if they came safe on
shore, he said he knew not; but it was Ins opinion, that
they were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of
their being attacked, the noise, and the fire, that be be-
lieved they wonld tell the people they were all killed
by tbunder and lightning, not by the hand of man; and
that the two which appeared, viz. Friday and I, were
two beavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy
them, and not men with weapous. This, he said, he
knew; becanse he heard them all cry ont so, in their
language, ODC to another; for it was impossible for
fhem to conceive that a man conld dart fire, and speak
tbunder, and kill at a distance, withont lifting Dp the
hand, as was done now: and this old savage was in the
right; for, as I understood since, bv other hands, the
savages never attempted to go over to the island after-
wards, they were so terrified with the acconnts given by
those fonr men (for, it seems, they did escape the sea)
that they believed whoever went to that enchanted
island wonld be destroyed with fire from the gods.
IHiis, however, I knew not; and therefore was under
continual appreheusious for a good while, and kept al-
ways upon my guard, with all my army: for, as there
were now fonr of as, I wonld have ventured upon a
bundred of them, fairly in the upen field, at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of thcir coming wore off; and I began to take
my former thoughts of a vo\age to the main into cousi-
deration; heing likewise assured, by Friday's father,
that I might depend upon good usage from their nation,
on his acconnt, if I wonld go. But my thonghts were
a little suspended when I had a serious disconrse with
the Spaniard, and when I understood that there were
sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who,
having been cast away, and made their escape to that
side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages,
but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed
for life. I asked him all the particulars of their voyage,
and fonnd they were a Spanish ship, bonnd from the
Rio de la Plata to the Havanna, being directed to leave
their loading there, which was chicfly hides and silver,
and to bring hack what European goods they conld
meet with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen
on board, whom they took ont of another wreck; that
five of their own men were drowned, when first the ship
was lost, and that these escaped throngh infinite dan-
gers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the
cannihal coast, where they expected to have been de-
voured every moment. He told me they had some
arms with them, but they were perfectly useless, for
that they had neither powder nor hall, the washing of
the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a little,
which they used, at their first landing, to provide them-
selves some food.
I asked him what he thonght wonld become of them
there, and if they had formed any desigu of making
their escape. He said they had many cousultatious
abont it; but that having neither vessel, nor tools to
build one, nor provisious of any kind, their conncils al-
ways ended in tears and despair. I asked him now he
thonght they wonld receive a proposal from me, which
might tend towards an escape; and whether, if they
were all here, it might not be done. I told him with
freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill usage of
me, if I put my life in their hands; fur that gratitnde
was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did
men always square their dealings by the obligatious
they had received, so muoh as they did by the advan-
tages they expected. I told him it wonld be very hard
that 1 shonld be the iustrument of their deliverance,
and that they shonld afterwards make me their priso-
ner in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to
lie made a sacrifice, what necessity or what accident
soever bronght him thither; and that I had rather be
delivered up to the savages, and be devonred alive,
than fall into the merciless claws of the priests, and be
carried into the Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I
was persuaded, it they were all here, we might, with so
many hands, buitd a hark large enongh to carrv us all
away, either to the Brazils, southward, or'to the
islands, or Spanish coast northward; but that if, in re-
quital, they shonld, when I had put weapous into their
bands, carry me by force among their own people, I
might be ill used for my kindness to them, and make
my case worse than it was before.
He auswered, with a great deal of candonr and inge-
nuonsuess, that their condition was so miserable, and
that they were so seusible of it, that, he believed, they
wonld abhor the thonght of using any man unkindlv
that shonld contribute to their deliverance; and that if
1 pleased, he wonld go to them with the old man, and
disconrse with them abont it and return again, and
bring me their auswer; that he wonld make conditious
with them upon their solemn oath, that they shonld be
absolutely under my leading, as their commander and
captain; and they shonld swear upon the holy sacra-
ments and gospel, to be true to me, and go to such
Christian conntry as that I shonld agree to, and no
other, and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my
orders, till they were landed safely in such conntry as I
intended; and that he wonld bring a contract from
them, under their hands, for that purpose. Then he
told me he wonld first swear to me himself, that he
voold never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gave
him orders; and that he wonld take my side to the last
drop of his blood, if there shonld happen the least
breach of faith among his conntrymen. He told me
they were all of them very civil, honest men, and they
were under the greatest distress imaginable, having
neither weapous or clothes, nor any food, but at the
mercy and discretion of flic savages; ont of all hopes
of ever returning to their own conntry; and that he was
sure, if I wonld undertake their relief, they wonld live
and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when we had
got all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself
started an objection, which had so much prndence in it
on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand,
that I could not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by
his advice, put offthe deliverance of his comrades for at
least half a year. The case was tbus: He had been with
us now abont a month, during which time I had let him
see in what manner I had provided, with the assistance
of Providence, for my support; and he saw evidently
what stock of corn and rico I had laid up; which,
thongh it was more than sufficient for myself, yet it was
not sufficient, withont good bushandry, for my family,
now if was increased to fonr; but much less wonld it
be sufficient if his conntrymen, who were, as he said,
sixteen, still alive, shonld come over; and, least of all,
wonld it be sufficient to victual onr vessel, if we shonld
build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies
of America; so he told me he thonght it wonld be
more advisable to let him and the other two dig and
cultivate some more land, as mnch as I conld spare
seed to sow, and that we shonld wait another harvest,
that we might have a supply of corn for his conntrv-
men, when they should come; fur want might be a
temptation to them to disagree, or not to think them-
selves delivered, otherwise than ont of one difficulty
into another. "Yon know," says he, " the children of
Israel, thongh they rejoiced at first for their being deli-
Tered ont of Egypt, yet rebelled even agaiust God him-
self, that delivered them, when they came to want bread
in the wilderness."
His cantion was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I conld not but be very well pleased with his
proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity: so
we fell to digging all fonr of us, as well as the wooden
tools we were furnished with permitted; and in abont
a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time,
we had got as much land cured and trimmed up as we
sowed two and twenty bushels of hailey on, and six-
teen jars of rice; which was, in short, all the seed we
had to spare: nor, indeed, did we leave onrselves har-
ley sufficient for onr own food, for the six months that
we had to expect onr crop; that is to say, reckoning
from the time we set onr seed aside for sowing; for it
is not to be supposed it is six months in the gronnd
in that conntry.
Having now society enongh, and onr number being
suflicient to put us ont of fear of the savages, if they had
come, unless their number had been very great, we
went freely all over the island, whenever we found oc-
casion; and as here we had onr escape or deliverance
upon onr thonghts, it was impossible, at least for me, to
have the meaus of it ont of mine. For this purpose, I
marked ont several trees which I thonght lit for onr
work, and I set Friday and his father to cutting them
down; and then I cansed the Spaniard, to whom I im-
parted my thonghts on that affair, to oversee and direct
their work. I showed them with what indefatigable
paius I had hewed a large tree into single planks, and I
caused them to do the like, till they had made abont a
dozen large planks of good oak, near two feet broad,
thirty-five feet long, and from two indies to four inches
thick: what prodigions labonr it took up, any one may
imagine.
At the same time, I contrived to mcrease my little
flock of tame goats as much as I conld ; and, for this
purpose. I made Friday and the Spaniard go oat one
day, and myself with Friday the next day (for we took
onr turus), and hy this meaus we got abont twenty
yonng kids lo breed up with the rest; for whenever we
shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added them to onr
flock. But, above all, the season for curing the grapes
coming on, I cansed such a prodigions quantity to be
bung up in the sun, that, I believe, had we been at All-
cant, where the raisius of the sun are cured, we conld
have filled sixty or eighty harrels ; and these, with onr
bread, was a great part of onr food, and was very good
living too, I assure yon, for it is exceeding nourishing.
It was now harvest, and onr crop in good order: it
was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enongh to auswer onr
end; for from twenty-two bushels of harley we bronght
in and threshed ont above two bundred and twenty
bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice; which
was store enongh for onr food to the next harvest,
though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore
with me; or if we had been ready for a voyage, it
would very plentifully have victualled onr ship to have
carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, any
part of America. When we had tbus housed and se-
cured onr magazine of corn, we fell to work to make
more wicker-ware, viz. great haskets, in which we kept
it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterons at
this part, and often blamed me that I did not make some
things for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no
need of it.
And now having a full supply of food for all the
guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over
to the main, to see what he conld do with those he had
left behind them there. I gave him a strict charge not
to bring any man with him who wonld not first swear,
in the presence of himself and the old savage, that he
.wonld no way injure, fight with, or attack the person he
shonld find in the Island, who was so kind as to send
for them in order to their deliverance; but that they
wonld stand by him, and defend him agaiust all such
attempts, aod wherever they went, wonld he entirely
under and subjected to his command; and that this
shonld be put in writing, and sigued with their hands.
How they were to have done this, when I knew thev
had neither pen or ink, was a question which we never
asked. Under these iustructious, the Spaniard and the
old savage, the father of Friday, went away i" one of
the canoes which they might he said to come in, or
rather were brought in, when they came as prisoners to
be devonred bv the savages. I gave each of them a
rnusket. with a firelock on it, and abont eight charges
ot powder and hall, charging them to be very good bus-
bands of both, and not to use either of them but upon
urgent occasious.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-
S"ven years and some days. I gave them provisious
of bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for them-
selves for many days, and sufficient for all the Spa-
niards for about eight days' time; and wishing them a
good voyage, I saw them go; agreeing with them abont
a sigual they shonld hang ont at their return, by which
1 shonld know them again, when they came hack, at a
distance, before they came on shore. They went away
with a f.iir gale, on the day that the moon was at full,
by my acconnt in the month of October; but as for an
exact reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I conld
never recover it again; nor had I kept even the num-
ber of years so punctually as to be sure I WHS right;
though, as it proved, when \ afterwards examined my
acconnl, I fonnd I had kept a true reckoning of years.
It was no less than eight days I had waited fur them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of
which the like has not perhaps been heard of in history.
I was fast asleep in my butch one morning, when my
man Friday came runnmg in to me, and called alond,
4i Master, master, they are come, they are come!" I
jumped up, and regardless of danger, I went ont as
soon as I conld get my clothes on, throngh my little
grove, which, by the way, was by this time grown to be
a very thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went
withont my arms, which was not my custom to do: bat
I was surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, j pre-
sently saw a boat at abont a league and a half distance,
standing in for the shore, with a shonlder of mutton
sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to
bring them in: also I observed presently, that they did
not come from that side which the shore lay on, bat
from the sonthernmost end of the island. Upon this, I
called Friday in, and hade him lie close, for these were
not the people we looked for, and that we might not
know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In
the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective-glass,
to see what I conld make of them; and having taken
the Udder ont, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I
used to do when I was appreheusive of any thing, and
to take my view the plainer, withont being discovered.
I [had scarce set my foot opon the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at abont
two leagues and a half distance from me.S.S.K. but not
above a league and a half from the shore. By my ob-
servation, it appeared plainly to be an English 'ship,
and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat,
I cannot express the confusion I was in; thongh the
joy of seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe
was manned by my own conntrymen, and cousequently
friends, was such as I cannot describe; but yet I had
some secret doubts bung abont me, I cannot tell from
whence they came, hidding me keep upon my guard.
In the first place, it occurred to me to cousider what
business an English ship conld have in that part of the
world, since it was not the way to or from any part of
the world where the English had any traffic; and I
knew i IK-rT had been no storms to drive them in there,
as in distress; and that if they were really English, it
v. us most prohable that they were here upon no good
desigu; and that I had better continue as I was than
fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger which sometimes are given him when he may
think there is no possihility of its being real. That
such faints and notices are given as, I believe few that
have made any observatious of things can deny; that
llii-v are certain discoveries of an invisible; world, and
a converse of spirits, we cannot donbt; and if the ten-
dency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why
shonld we not suppose they are from some friendly
agent (whether supreme, or inferior and subordinate,
is not the question), and that they are given for onr
good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; for had I not been made can-
tions by this secret admonition, come it from whence it
will, I had been undone inevitably, and in afar worse
condition than before, as yon will see presently. I had
not kept myself long in this posture, but I saw the boat
draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to
thrust in at, for the convenience of landing; however,
as they did not come quite far enough, they did not see
the little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts, but
rim their boat on shore upon the beach, at abont half a
mile from me, which was very happy for me; for other-
wise they wonld have landed just at my door, as I may
say, and wonld soon have beaten me ont of my castle,
and perhaps have plundered me of alt I had. When
they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were Eng-
lishmen, at least most of them; one or two I thought
were Dutch, hat it did not prove so; there were in all
eleven men, whereof three of them I fonnd were un-
armed, and, as I thonght, bonnd; and when the first
fonr or five of them were jumped on shore, they took
those three oat of the boat, as prisoners: one of the
three 1 conld perceive using the most passionate ges-
tures of entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind
of extravagance; the other two, I conld perceive, lifted
up their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned, in-
deed, but not to such a degree as the first. I was per-
fectly confonnded at the sight, and knew not what the
meaning of it shonld be. Friday called ont to me in
English, as well as ho conld, "O master! yon see
English maus eat prisoner as well as savage maus."—
"Why, Friday," says I, "do yon think they are going
to eat them then?"—" Yes/'says Friday, "they will
eat them."—" No, no," says I, "Friday; I am afraid
they will murder them, indeed, but yon may be sure
they will not eat them.''
All this while I had no thonght of what the matter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight, expecting every moment when the throe prisoners
should be killed; nay, once £ saw one «f the villaius
lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it,
or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I ex-
pected to see him full every moment; at which all the
blood in my body seemed to run chill in my veius. I
wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage
that was gone with him, or that I had any way to have
come undiscovered within shot of them, that I might
have rescued the three men, lor I saw no fire-arms they
had among them ; but it foil ont to my mind another
way. After I had observed the ontrageous usage of the
three men by the iusolent seamen, I oh.sorvcd the fel-
lows run scattering abont the island, as if they wanted
to see the conntry. I observed that the three other
men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but
they sat down all three upon the gronnd, very peusive,
and looked like men in despair. This put me in mind
of the first time when I came on shore, and began to
look abont me; how I gave myself over for lost,
how wildly I looked ronnd me; what dreadful ap-
preheusious I had; and how I lodged in the tree nil
night, for fear of being devonred by wild beasts. As
I knew nothing, that night, of the supply I was to re-
ceive bv the providential driving of the ship nearer
the land by the storms and tide, by which I have since
been so long nonrished and supported; so these threo
poor desolate men knew nothing how certain of deli-
verance and supply they were, how near it was to them,
and how effectually and reallv they were in ft condition
of safety, at the same time that they thonght themselves
lost, and their case desperate. So little do we seo be-
fore us in the world, and so much reason have we to
depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world,
that he does uot leave his creatures so absolutely de>ti-
tute, but that, in the worst circumstances, they have al-
ways something to be thankful for, and sometimes are
nearer their deliverance than they imagine; nay, are
even bronght to their deliverance by the meaus by
which they seem to be bronght to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high water when these peo-
ple came on shore; and partly while they rambled
abont to see what kind of a place they were in, they
had carelessly staid till the tide was spent, aiid the wa-
ter was ebbed cousiderably away, leaving their boat
agronnd. They had left two men in fhe boat, who,
as I fonnd afterwards, having drank a little too much
brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them waking a
little sooner than the other, and finding the boat too
fast agronnd for him to stir it, hallooed ont for the rest,
who were straggling abont; upon which they all soon
came to the boat: but it was past all their strength to
launch her, the boat being very heavy, and the shore
on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quick-
sand. In this condition, like true seamen, who are per-
haps the least of all mankind given to forethonght, they
gave it over, and away they strolled abont the conntry
agam; and I heard one of them say alond to another,
calling them off. from the boat, " VVhy, let her aluue,
Jack, can't yon? she'll float next tide :"by which I was
tull v confirmed in the main inquiry of what conntrymen
they were. All this while I kept myself very close, uot
once daring to stir ont of mv castle, any farther than to
my place of observation, near the top of the hill; and
very glad I was to think how well it was fortified. I
knew it was no less than ten honrs before the boat conld
float again, and by that time it wonld he dark, and I
might be at more liberty to see their motious, and to
hear their disconrse, if they had any. In the mean
time, I fitted myself up for a hattle, as before, thongh
with more cantion, knowing I had to do with another
kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered Friday
alf.0, whom I had made an excellent marksman with his
gua, to load himself with anus. I took myself two
fowling-pieces, and I gave him three muskets. My
figure, indeed, was very fierce; I had my formidabte
goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned,
a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and
a gun upon each shonlder.
It was my design, as I suid above, not to have made
a in
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
any attempt till it was dark: but abont two o'clock,
being the heat of the day, I fonnd that, in short, they
were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I
thonght, laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed

men, too anxions for their condition to get any sleep,
were, however, sat down under th.e shelter of a great
tree, at abont a quarter of a mile from me, and, as T
thonght, ont of sight of any of the rest. Upon this I
resolved to discover myself to them, and learn some-
thing of their condition; immediately I marched in the
figure as above, my man Friday at a good distance be-
hind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but not mak-
ing quite so staring a spectrelike figure as I did. I
came as near them undiscovered as I conld, and then,
before any of them saw me, I called alond to them in
Spanish, " What are ye gentlemen?" They started up
at the noise; but were ten times more confonnded
when they saw me, and the uncoath figure that I made.
They made no auswer at all, but I thonght I perceived
them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them
in English: "Gentlemen," said I, "do not be sur-
prised at me: perhaps yon may have a friend near,
when yon did not expect h."—" He must be sent di-
rectly from Heaven then/' said one of them very
gravely to me, and pulling oft'his hat at the same time,
to me; " for onr condition is past the help of man.''—
"All help is from Heaven, Sir/' said I: "But can you
put a stranger in the way how to help yon? for yon
seem to be in some great distress. I saw yon when yon
landed; and when yon seemed to make application to
the brutes that came with yon, I saw OHO of them lift
up his sword to kill yon."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, "Am
I talking to God or man? Is it a real man or an angel?''
—" Be in no fear abont that, Sir," said I; "if God had
sent an angel to relieve yon, he wonld have come bet-
ter clothed, and armed after another manner than urn
see me: pray lay aside yonr fears; I am a man, an Eng-
lishman, and disposed to assist yon: yon see I have one
servant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell as
freely, can we serve yon? What is vour case?"—" Our
case," said he, "Sir, is too long to tell yon, while onr
murderers are so near us: but, in short, sir, I was com-
mander of that ship, my men have mutinied agaiust me;
they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder me;
and at last have set me on shore in this desolate place,
with these two men with me, one my mate, the other a
passenger, where we expected to perish, believing- the
place to be uninhahited, and know not yet what to think
of it."—"Where are these brutes, yonr enemies?"
said I: "Do yon know where they are gone?"—
"There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of
trees; "my heart trembles for fear they have seen as,
and heard yon spoak; if they have, they will certainly
marder us all."—" Have they any fire-arms?'' said I.
He auswered, " they had only two pieces, one of which
they left in the boat." "Well then," said I, "leave
the rest to me; I see they are all asleep, it is an easy
thing to kill them all: but shall we rather take them pri-
noners?" He told me there were two desperate villaius
among them, that it was scarce safe to show any mercy
io; but if they were secured, ho believed all the rest
wonld return to their duty. I asked him which they
were? He told me he conld not at that distance distin-
guish them, but he wonld obey my orders in any thing
[ wonld direct. "Well," says t, "let us retreat ont
of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will
resolve further." So they willingly went hack with me,
till the woods covered us from them.
VOL. i. R
"Look yon, Sir," said I, " if I venture upon yonr
deliverance, are yon willing to make two conditious
with me?" He anticipated my proposals, by telling
me, that both he and the ship, if recovered, shonld be
vvhollv directed and commanded by me in every thing;
and, if the ship was not recovered, he wonld live and
die with me in what part of the world soever I wonld
send him; and the two other men said the same.
"Well," says I, "my conditious are but two: first,
That while yon stay iu this island with me, yon will not
pretend to any anthority here; and if I put arms in yonr
Lands, yon will, upon all occasious, give them up tome,
and do no prejndice to me or mine upon this island ; and,
in the mean time, be governed by my orders: secondly,
That if the ship is or may be recovered, yon will carry
me and my man to England, passage free/'
He gave me all the assurances that the invention or
faith of man conld devise, that he wonld comply with
these most reasonable demands; and, besides, wonld
o\ve his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occa-
sious, as long as he lived." "Well then," said I,
"here are three muskets for yon, with powder and hall:
tell me next what yon think is proper to be done." He
showed all the testimonies of his gratitnde that he wai
able, but offered to be wholly guided by me. I told
him I thonght it was hard venturing anything; but the
best method I conld think of was to fire upon them at
once, as they lay, and if any were not killed at the first
volley, and offered to submit, rve might save them, and
so put it wholly upon God's providence to direct the
shot. He said very modestly, that he was loath to kill
them, if he conld help it: but that those two were in-
corrigible villaius, and had been the anthors of all the
mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we shonld be
undone still: ibr they wonld go on board and bring the
whole ship's company, and destroy us all. "Well
then," says I, '' necessity legitimates my advice, for it
is the only way to save onr lives." However, seeing
him still cantions of shedding blood, I tuld him they
shonld go themselves, and manage as they fonnd con-
venient.
In the middle of this disconrse we heard some of
them awake, and SUOD after wo saw two of them on their
feet. I asked him if either of them were the beads of
the mutiny? He said, No. "Well then/' said I, " you
may let them escape; and Providence seems to have
awakened them on purpose to save themselves—Now/'
says I, "if the rest escape yon, it is yonr fanlt." Ani-
mated with this, he took the musket I had given him
in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two com-
rades with him, with each a piece in his hand; the two
men who were with him going tiist, made some noise,
at which one of the seamen who was awake turned
abont, and seeing them coming, cried ont to the rest;
but it was too late then, for the moment he cried ont
they fired; I mean the two men, the captam wisely re-
serving his own piece, they had so well aimed their
shot at the men they knew, that one of them was killed
on the spot, and the other very much wonnded; but
iint being dead, he started op on his feet, and called
eagerly for help to the other; but the captain stepping
tu him, told him it was too late to cry for help, he
shonld call upon God to forgive his villany; and with
that word knocked him down with the stock of his
musket, so that he never spoke more: there were three
more in tho company, and one of them was also slightly
wonnded. By this time I was come; and when they
saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they
begged for mercy. The captain told them he wonld
spare their lives, if they wonld give him an assurance
of their abhorrence of the treachery they had been
guilty of, and wonld swear to be faithful to him in re-
covering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her hack
to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him
all the protestatious of their sincerity that conld be
desired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare
their lives, which I was not agaiust, only that I obliged
him to keep them bonnd hand and foot while they were
on the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring
away the oars and sails, which they did: and by and
by three straggling men, that were (happily for them)
parted from the rest, came hack upon hearing the guus
fired: and seeing the captain, who was before their pri-
soner, DOW their conqueror, they submitted to be bonnd
also; and so oar victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I shonld in-
quire into one another's circumstances: I began first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard with
an attention even to amazement; and particularly at
Ihe wonderful manner of my being furnished with pro-
visious and ammunition; and indeed, as my story is a
whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply.
But v lu-ii he reflected from thence upon himself, and
how I seemed to have been preserved there on purpose
to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he
could not speak a word more. After this communica-
tion was at an end, I carried him and his two men into
my apartment, leading them in just where I came ont,
viz. at the top of the honse, where I refreshed them
with such provision as I had, and showed them all the
contrivances I had made, durmg my long, long inhahit-
ing that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but, above alt, the captain admired my for-
tification, and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat
with a grove of trees, which, having been now planted
near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a little wood, and so
thick, that it was impassable in any part of it but at
that one side where I had reserved my little winding
passage into it. I told him this was my castle and my
residence, but that I had a seat in the conntry, as most
princes have, whither I conld retreat upon occasion,
and I wonld show him that too another time: hat at
present onr business was to cousider how to recover
the ship. He agreed with me as to that; hot told me,
he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for
that there were still six and twenty hands on board,
who having entered into a cursed couspiracy, by which
they had all forfeited their lives to the law, wonld be
hardened in it now by desperation, and wonld carry it
on, knowing that if they were subdued, they wonld be
bronght to the gallows as soon as they came to England,
or to any of the English colonies; and that therefore
there wonld be no attacking them with so small a num-
ber as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and
fonnd it was a very rational conclusion, and that there-
fore something was to be resolved on speedily, ss well
to draw the men on board into some suare for their sur-
prise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and destroy-
ing as. Upon Ihis, it presently occurred to me, that in
a little while the ship's crew, wondering what was
become of their comrades and of the boat, wonld cer-
tainly come on shore in their other boat, to look for
them; and that then perhaps they might come armed,
and be too strong for us: this he allowed to be rational.
Upon this, I told him the first tiiing we had to do' was
to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that
they might not carry her off; and taking every thing
out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be fit to
swim: accordingly we went on board, took the arms
which were left on board ont of her, and whatever else
we fonnd there, which was a bottle of brandy, and ano-
ther of rum, a few hiscuit cakes, a horn of powder, and
a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvass (the sugar
was five or six ponnds); all which was very welcome
to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had
none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the
oars, mast, sail, and rndder of the boat were carried
away before, as above), we knocked a great hole in her
bottom, that if they had come .strong enongh to master
us, yet they conld not carry off the boat. Indeed, it
was not much in my thonghts that we conld be able to
recover the ship; but my view was, that if they went
away withont the boat, I did not much question toma&e
ber fit again to carry us to the Leeward Islands, and
call upon onr friends the Spaniards itt my way, for I had
them still in my thonghts.
While we were tbus preparing onr desigus, and had
first, by main strength, heaved the boat upon the beach
so high that the tide wonld not float her off at high
water mark, and besides, had broke a hole in her bot-
tom too hig to be quickly stopped, and were set down
musing what we shonld do, we heard the ship fire a
gun, and make a waft. with her eusigu as a sigual for the
boat to come on board: but no boat stirred; and they
fired several times, making other siguals for the boat.
At last, when all their siguals and firing proved fruit-
less, and they fonnd the boat did not stir, we saw them,
by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat ont, and
row towards the shore; and we fonnd, as they ap-
proached, that there were no less than ten men in her,
and that they had fire arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we
had a full view of them as they came, and a plain sight
even of their faces; becanse the tide having set them a
little to the east of the other boat, they rowed up under
shore, to come to the same place where the other had
landed, and where the boat lay; by this meaus, I say,
we had a full view of them, and the captain knew the
persous and characters of all the men in the boat, of
whom, be said there were three very honest fellows,
who, he was sure, were led into tins couspiracy by the
rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as
for the boatswain, who it seems was the chief officer
among them, and all the rest, they were as ontrageons
as any of the ship's crew, and were no donbt made des-
perate in their new enterprise; and terribly apprehen-
sive he was that they wonld be too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him that men in onr circum-
stances wese past the operation of fear; that seeing
almost every condition that conld be was better than
that which we were supposed to be in, we onght to ex-
pect that the cousequence, whether death or life, wonld
lie sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he
thonght of the circumstances of my life, and whether a
deliverance were not worth venturing for? "And
where, Sir," said I, "is yonr belief of my being pre-
served here on purpose to save yonr life, which elevated
yon a little while ago? For my part," said I, " there
seems to me but one thing amiss in alt the prospect of
it."—" What is that?" says he. "Why," said I, "it
is, that as yon say there are three or fonr honest fellows
among them, which shonld be spared: had they been
all of the wicked part of the crew, I shonld have thonght
God's providence had singled them oat to deliver them
Sato your hands; for depend upon it, every man that
comes ashore is onr own, and shall die or live as they
beiiave to us." As I spoke this with a raised voice
and cheerful conntenance, I found it greatly enconraged
him; so we set vigoronsly to onr business.
We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's
coming from the ship, cousidered of separating onr pri-
soners; and we had, indeed, secured them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured
than ordinary, I scut with Friday, and one of the three
delivered men, to my cave, where they were remote
enongh, and ont of danger of being heard or discovered,
or of finding their way ont of the woods if they conld
have delivered themselves: here they left them bonnd,
but gave them provisious; and promised them, if they
continued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a
day or two; but that if they attempted their escape,
they shonld be put to death withont mercy. They pro-
mised faithfully to bear their confinement with patience,
and were very thankful that they had such good usage
as to have provisious and light left them; for Friday
gave them candles (such as we made onrselves) for their
comfort; and they did not know but that he stood sen-
tinel over them at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them
were kept pinioned, indeed, becanse the captain was
not free to trust them; but the other two were taken
into my service, upon the captain's recommendation,
and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with
as; so with them and the three honest men, we were
seven men well armed; and I made no donbt we shonld
be able to deal well enongh with the ten that were
coming, cousidering that the captain had said there
were three or fonr honest men among them also. As
soon as they got to the place where their other boat
lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and came all on
shore, hanling the boat up after them, which I was
glad to see, for I was afraid they wonld rather have
left the boat at an anchor some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her to guard her, and so we shonld
not be able to seize the boat. Being on shore, the first
titing they did, they ran all to their other boat; and it
was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find
her stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a
great hole in her bottom. After they had mused a while
upon this, they set up two or three great shonts, hul-
looing with all their might, to try if they conld make
their companious hear; but all was to no purpose:
then they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of
their smalt arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the
echos made the woods ring; but it was alt one; those
in the cave we were sure conld not hear, and those in
onr keeping, thongh they heard it well enongh, yet
durst give no auswer to them. They were so astonished
at the surprise of this, that as they told us afterwards,
they resolved to go all on board again to their ship,
and let them know that the men were all murdered,
and the longboat staved; accordingly, they imme-
diately lannched their boat again, and got all of them
on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even confonnd-
ed at this, believing they" wonld go on board the ship
again, and set sail, giving their comrades over for lost,
and so he shonld still lose the ship, which he was in
hopes we shonld have recovered; but be was quickly
as much frightened the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but
we perceived them all coming onshore again: but with
this new measure in their conduct, which it seems they
cousulted together upon, viz. to leaie three men in the
boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the
conntry to look for their fellows. This was a great
disappointment to us, for now we were at a loss what
to do, as onr seizing those seven men on shore wonld
be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape; be-
canse they wonld then row away to the ship, and then
the rest of them wonld be sure to weigh and set sail,
and so onr recovering the ship wonld be lost. How-
ever, we had no remedy but to wait and see what the
issue of tiiings might present. The seven men came
on snore, and the three who remained in the boat put
her off to a good distance from the shore, and came. to
an anchor to wait for them; MO that it was impossible
/or us to conic at them in the boat. Those Uiat came
on shore kept close together, marching towards the top
of the little hill under which my hahitation lay; and
we conld see them plainly thongh they could not per-
ceive us. We conld have been very glad they wonld
have eome nearer to us, so that we might have fired at
them, or that they wonld have gone farther off, that
we might come abroad. But when they were come to
the brow of the hill, where they conld see a great way
into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the
north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they
shonted and hallooed till they were weary; and not
caring- it seems to venture far from the shore, nor far
from one another, they sat down together under a tree
to cousider of it. Had they thonght tit to have gone
to sleep there, as the other part of them had done, they
had done the job for us; but they were too full of ap-
preheusious of danger to venture to go to sleep, thongh
they conld not tell what the danger was they had to
fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this cousultation of theirs, viz. that perhaps they would
all fire a volley again, to endeavonr to make iheir fel-
lows hear, and that we shonld all sally upon them, just
at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged,
and they wonld certainly yield, and we shonld have
them withont bloodshed. I liked this proposal, pro-
vided it was done while we were near enough to come
up to them before they conld load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen; and we lay still a long
time, very irresolute what course to take. At length
I told them there wonld be nothing done, in my opi-
nion, till night; and then, if they did not return to the
boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them
and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with
them in the hoat to get them on shore. We waited a
great while, thongh very impatient for their removing;
and were very uneasy, when, after long cousultatious,
we saw them all start up, and march down Inwards the
sea: it seems they had such dreadful appreheusious
upon them of the danger of the place, that they re-
solved to go on board the ship again, give their com-
panious over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore,
I imagined it to be as it reallv was, that they had given
over their search, and were for going hack again; and
the captain, as soon as I told him my thonghts, was
ready to sink at the appreheusious of it: hot I presently
thonght of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and
which auswered my end to a tiitle. I ordered Friday
and the captain's mate to go over the little creek west-
ward, towards the place where the savages came on
shore when Friday was rescued, and as soon as they
came to a little rising gronnd, at abont half a mile dis-
tance, I hade ihem halloo out, as lond as they conld,
and wait till they fonnd the seamen heard them; that
as soon as ever they heard the seamen auswer them,
they shonld return it again; and then keeping ont of
sight, take a ronnd, always auswering when the others
hallooed, to draw them as far into the island, and among
the woods, as possible, and then wheel abont again to
me by such ways as I directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and
the mate hallooed: and they presently heard them, and
auswering, run along the shore westward, towards the
voice they heard, when they were presently stopped
by the creek, where the water being up, they conld not
get over, and called for the boat to come up and set
them over; as, indeed, I expected. When they had
set themselves orer, I observed that the boat being
gone a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a
harbonr within the land, they took one of the three men
ont of her, to go along with them, and left only two in
the boat, having fastened her to the stump of a little
tree on the shore. This was what I wished for; and
immediately leaving Friday and the captain's mate to
their business, I took the rest with me, and crossing
the creek ont of their sight, we surprised the two men
before they were aware; one of them lying on the
shore, and the other being in the boat. The fellow on
shore was between sleeping and waking, and going to
start up; the captain, wbo was foremost, ran in upon
him, and knocked him down; and then called ont to
him in the boat to yield, or he was a dead man. There
needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to
yield, when he saw five men upon him, and his com-
rade knocked down: besides, this was, it seems, one of
the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the
rest of the crew, and therefore was easilv persuaded
not only to yield, hat afterwards to join very sincerely
with us. In the mean time, Friday and the captain's
mate so well managed their business with the rest, that
they drew them, by hallooing and auswering, from one
hill to another, and IVom one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they
were very sure they conld not reach hack to the boat
before it was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily
tired themselves also, by the time they came hack
to as.
We had nothing now to do hat to watch for them in
the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure
work with them. It was several hours after Friday
came hack to me before they came hack to their boat;
and we conld hear the foremost of them, long before
they came quite up, calling to those behind to come
along; and conld also hear them auswer, and complain
bow lame and tired they were, and not able to come
any faster; which was very welcome news \o us. At
length they came up to the boat: but it is impossible
to express their confusion wlnrn they fonnd the boat
fast agronnd in the creek, the tide ebbed ont, and their
two men gone. We conld hear them call to one ano-
ther in a most lamentable manner, telling one another
they were got into an enchanted island; that either
there were inhahitants in it, and they shonld all bo
murdered, or else there were devils and spirits in it,
and they shonld be all carried away and devonred.
Tbey hallooed again, and called their two comrades by
their names a great many times, but no auswer. After
some time, we conld see them, by the liitlu light there
was, run abont, wringing their hands like men in de-
spair, and that sometimes they wonld go and sit down
in the boat to rest themselves; then come ashore again,
and walk abont again, and so the same thing over again.
M v men wonld fain have had me give them leave tn
fall upon them at once in the dark; but I was willing
to take them at some advantage, so as to spare thcm,
and kill as few of them as I conld; and especially I w.<s
unwilling to hazard the killing any of onr men, know-
ing the others were very well armed. I resolved to
wait, to see if they did not separate; and therefore, to
make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and
ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their
hands and feet, as close to the gronnd as theyconld,
that they might not be discovered, and get as near them
as they conld possibly, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the
boatswain, who was the principl ringleader of the mu-
tiny, and had now shown himself the most dejeated and
dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards them,
with two more of the crew: the captain was so eager at
having this principal rogue so much iu his power, that
he conld hardly have patience to let him come so near
as to be sure of him, for they only heard his tongue
before: but when they came nearer, the captain and
Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them. The
boatswain was kilted upon the spot; the next man was
shot into the body, and fell just by him, thongh he did
not die till an honr or two after; and the third run for
it. At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men, viz.
myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lientenant-general;
the captain and his two iucn, and the three prisoners of
war whom we had trusted with arms. We came upon
them, indeed, in the dark, so that they conld not see
onr number; and I made the man they had left in the
boat, who was now one of us, to call them by name, to
try if I conld bring them to a parley, and so might per-
haps reduce them to terms; which fell ont just as we
desired: fur indeed it was easy to think, as their con-
dition then was, they wonld be very willing to capitu-
late. So he c;ills ont as lond as he conld, to one of
them, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith an-
swered immediately, "Is that Rohiuson?" For it
seems he know the voice. The other auswered, " Av,
a_j; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down yonr arms
and yield, or yon are all dead menlhis moment,"—"XV ho
must we yield to? Where are they?" says Smith again.
"Here they are/' says he; " here's onr captain and
fifty men with him, have been bunting yon these two
honrs: the boatswain is killed, Will Fry is wonnded,
and I am a prisoner; and if yon do not yield, von are
all lost."—" Will they give us quarter then?" says
Tom Smith, " and we will yield."—"I'll go and ask,
if yon promise to yield," said Rohiuson: so he asked
the captain; and the captain himself then calls nut,
"Yon, Smith, yon know my voice; if yon lay down
yonr arms immediately, and submit, yon shall have yonr
lives, all but Will Atkius."
Upon this Will Atkius cried ont, " For God's sake,
captain, give me quarter; what have I done? They
have all been as had as I:" which, l>y the way, was
not true neither; for, it seems, this Will Atkius was
the first man that laid hold of the captain, when they
first mutinied, and used him harbaronsly, in tying his
hands, and giving him injurions language. However,
the captain told him he must lay down his arms at dis-
cretion, and trust to the governor's mercy: by which
he meant me, for they all called me governor. In a
word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their
lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with them,
and two more, who bonnd them all; and then my great
army of fifty men, which, particularly with those three,
were in all but eight, came up and seized upon them,
and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and one
more ont of sight for reasous of slate.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of
seizing the ship: and as for the captain, now he bad
leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them
upon the villany of their practices with him, and at
length upon the further xvickedness of their desigu, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows. They all ap-
peared vory penitent, and begged hard for their lives.
As for that, be told them they were none of his pri-
soners, but the commander's of the island; that they
thonght they had set him on shore in a barren, unin-
hahited island; but it had pleased God so to direct
them, that it was inhahited, and that the governor was
an Englishman; that he might hang them all there, if
he pleasi'd; but as he had given them all quarter, he
supposed he wonld send them to England, to he dealt
with there as justice required, except Atkius, whom
he was commanded by the governor to advise to pre-
pare for death, for that he wonld be hanged in the
morning.
Thongh this was all but a fiction of his own, vet it
had its desired effeet; Alkius fell upon his knees, to
beg the captain to intercede with the governor for his
life: and all the rest begged of him, for God's sake,
that I ln.-v might not be sent to England.
It now occurred to me, that the time of onr deliver-
ance was come, and that it wonld be a most easy thing
to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting pos-
session of the ship; so I retired in the dark from them,
that they might not see what kind of a governor they
had, and called the captain to me: when I called, as at
a good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak
again, and say to the captain, "Captain, the com-
mander calls for yon;" and presently the captain re-
plied, "Tell his excellency I am just a coming." This
more perfectly amused them, and they all believed that
the commander was just by with his fifty men. Upon
the captain's coming to me, I told him my project for
seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and
resolved to put it in execution the next morning. But,
in order to execute it with more art, and to; be secure
of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners,
and that he shonld go and take Atkius, and two more
of the worst of them, and send them pinioned to the
cave where the others lay. This was committed to
Friday, and the two men who came on shore with the
captain. They conveyed them to the cave as to a pri-
son: and it was, indeed, a dismal place, especially to
men in their condition. The others I ordered to my
bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full de-
scription; and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned,
tho place was secure enongh, cousidering they wure
upon their behavionr.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was
to enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try
them, and tell me whether he thonght they might be
trusted or no to go on board and surprise the ship.
He talked to them of the injury done him, of the con-
dition they were bronght to, and that thongh the go-
vernor had given them quarter for their lives as to the
present action, yet that if they were sent to England,
they wonld all be hanged in chaius, to be sure; but
that if they wonld join in so just an attempt as to re-
cover the ship, he wonld have the governor's engage-
ment for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
wonld be accepted by men in their condition; they fell
down on their knees to the captain, ami promised, with
the deepest imprecatious, that they wonld be faithful to
him to the last drop, and that they shonld owe their
lives to him, and wonld go with him all over the world;
that they wonld own him as a father to them as long as
they lived. "Well," says the captain, " I inust go and
tell the governor what yon say, and see what I can do to
bring him to cousent to it." So he bronght me an ac-
connt of the temper he fonnd them in, and that he verily
believed they wonld be faithful. However, that we
might be very secure, I told him he shonld go hack
again and choose ont those five, and tell them, that
they might see he did not want men, that he wonld take
ont those five to be his assistants, and that the gover-
nor wonld keep the other two, and the three that were
sent prisoners to the castle (my cave) as hostages for
the fidelity of those five; and that if they proved un-
faithful in the execution, the five hostages shonld be
hanged in chaius alive on the shore. This looked se-
vere, and convinced them that the governor was in
earnest: however, they had no way left them but to
accept it; and it was now the business of the prisoners,
as much as of the captain, to persuade the other five to
do their duty.
Our strength was now tbus ordered for the expe-
dition: first, The captain, his mate, and passenger:
second, Then the two prisoners of the first gang, to
whom, having their character from the captam, I had
given their liberty, and trusted them with arms: third,
The other two Ihat I had kept till now in my bower
pinioned, but, on tho captain's motion, had now re-
leased: fourth, These five released at last; so that
they were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners
in the cave lor hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ship; bat as for me and my
man Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to stir,
having seven men left behind ; and it was employment
enongh for us to keep them asunder, and supply them
with victuals. As to the five in the cave, I resolved
to keep them fast, but Friday went in twice a day to
them, to supply them with necessaries; and I made the
other two carry provisious to a certain distance, where
Friday was to take it.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the person the
governor had ordered to look after them; and that it
was the governor's pleasure they shonld not stir any
where but by my direction ; that if they did, they wonld
be fetched into the castle, and be laid in irous: so that
as we never suflered them to see me as a governor, I
now appeared as another person, and spoke of the go-
vernor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all
occasious.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to
furnish Ins two boats, stop the breach of one, and man
them. He made his passenger captain of one, with fonr
of the men; and himself, his mate, and five more, went
in the other; and they contrived their business very
well, for they came up to the ship abont midnight. As
soon as they came within call of the ship, he made
Robiuson hail them, and tell them they had bronght oif
the men and the boat, but that it was a long time before
they had found them, and the like, holding them in a
chat till they came to the ship's side; when the cap-
tain and the mate entering first, with their arms, imme-
diately knocked down the second mate and carpenter
with the butend of their muskets, being very faithfully
seconded by their men; they secured all the rest that
were upon the main and quarterdecks, and began to
fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were below;.
when the other boat and their men entering at the fore
chaius, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle
which went down into the cook-room, making three
men they fonnd there prisoners. When this was done,
;;nd all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate,
with three men, to break into the round honse, where
the new rebel captain lay, who, having taken the alarm,
had got up, and with two men and a boy had got fire-
arms in their hands; and when the mate with a crow
split open the door, the new captain and his men fired
boldly among them, and wonnded the mate with a mus-
ket hall, which broke his arm and wonnded two more
of ih*; im n, but killed nobody. The mate calling for
help, rushed, however, mto the ronnd house, wonnded
as he was and with his pistol shot the new captain
throngh the head, the bullet entering at his month, and
came ont again behind one of his ears, so that be never
spoke a word more: upon which the rest yielded,
and the ship was taken eflectually, withont any more
tives lost.
As soon as the ship was tbus secured, the captain
ordered seven guus to be fired, which was the sigual
agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success,
which yon may be sure I was very glad to hear, having
sat watching upon the shore for it till near two o'clocfc
in the morning. Having tbus heard the sigual plainly,
I laid me down; and it having been a day of great fa-
tigue to me, I slept very sonnd, till I was something
fin prised with the noise of a gun; and presently start-
ing up, I heard a man call me by the name of Governor,
Governor, and presently I knew the captain's voice:
when climhiijg up to the top of the hill, mere he stood,
and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his arms.
"My dear friend and deliverer," says he, "there's
yonr ship, for she is all yonrs, and so are we, and all
that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and
there she rode within little more than half a mile of the
shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they
were masters of her, and, the weather being fair, had
bronght her to an anchor just agaiust the month of the
little creek; and, the tide being up, the captain had
bronght the pinnace in near the place where I at first
landed my rafts, and so landed just at my door. I was
at first ready to sink down with the surprise; for I saw
mv deliverance, indeed, visibly put mto my hands, all
lings easv, and a large ship just ready to cany me
Rway whither I pleased to.no. At l.rst, to."-"*"!
I was not able to auswer him one word; but as he bad
taken me in Itls arms, I held fast by him or I shonld
Lave fallen to the gronnd. He perceived the surprise,

and immediately pulls a bottle ont of la pocket, and
save me a dram of cordial, which he had bronght on
lurpoTe for me. After I had drank it, I sat down upon
?he gronnd; and thongh it bronght me to myself yet
it was a good while before I conldspeak a word to him.
All this time the poor man was in as great an eestasy as
I only not under any surprise, as I was; and he said a
thonsand kind and tender things to me, to compose and
bring me to myself: but such was the flood of joy m
,ny breast that it put all my spirits mto confusion; a
ast it broke ont into tears; and m a little while after I
recovered my speech. I then took my turn and em-
braced him as my deliverer, and we rejoio.ed toge^er.
I told him I looked upon him as a man sent Irom Hea-
ven to deliver me, and that the whole trausaction seem-
ed to be a chain of wonders; that such thmgs as these
were the testimonies we had of a secret hand ot "•evi-
dence governing the world, and an evidence that tlie
eve of an infinite power conld search mto the remotest
corner of the world, and send help to the miserable
whenever he pleased. I forgot not to lift up my heart
in thankfulness to Heaven; and what heart conld iorbear
to bless Him, who had not only in a miraculons manner
provided for me in such a wilderness, and in such a
desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance
must always be acknowledged to proceed?
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he
had bronght me some little refreshment, such as the
ship afforded, and such as the wretches that had been
so long his masters had not plundered him of. Upon
this he called alond to the boat, and hade his men bring
the things ashore that were for the governor; and, in-
deed, it was a present as if I had been one that was not
to be carried away with them, but as if I had been to
dwell upon the island still. First, he had bronght me
a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters, six
large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two
quarts each), two ponnds of excellent good tohacco,
twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of
pork, with a hag of peas, and abont an bundred weight
of hiscuit: he also brought me a box of sugar, a box of
flonr, a hag full of lemous, and two bottles of lime juice,
and abundance of other things. But besides these, and
what was a thonsand times more useful to me, he bronght
me six new clean shirts, six very good neckcloths, two
pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of
stockings, with a very good suit of clothes of his own,
which had been worn but very little; in a word, he
clothed me from bead to foot. It was a very kind and
agreeable present, as any one may imagine, to one in
my circumstances; but never was any thing in t he world
of that kind so uupleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it
was to me to wear such clothes at first.
After these ceremonies were passed, and after all his
good things were bronght into my little apartment, we
began to cousult what was to be done with the prisoners
we had; for it was worth cousidering whether we might
venture to take them away with us or no, especially
two of them, whom he knew to be incorrigible and
refractory to the last degree; and the captain said he
knew they were such rogues that there was no oblig-
ing them, and if he did carry them away, it must be
in irous, as malefactors, to be delivered over to justice
at the first English colony he conld come at; and I fonnd
Jhat the captain himself was very anxions abont it.
Upon this I told him, that if be desired it, I wonld un-
dertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it
their own reqnest that he shonld leave them upon the
island. "I shonld be very glad of that," says the cap-
tam, "with all my heart."—" Well/' says I, " I will
send for them up, and talk with them for yon." So I
cansed Friday and the two hostages, for they were now
discharged, their comrades having performed their pro-
mise; I say, I cansed them to go to tin!1 cave, and bring
up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower,
and keep them there till I came. After some time, I
came thither dressed in my new hahit; and now I was
called governor again. Being all met, and the captain
with me, I cansed the men to be bronght before me,
and I told them I had got a full acconnt of their vil-
lanons behavionr to the captain, and how they had run
away with the ship, and were preparing to commit far-
ther robberies, but that Providence had eusnared them
in their own wavs, and that they were fallen into the
pit which they had dng for others. I let them know
that by my direction the ship had been seized ; that she
lay now in the road; and they might see by and by,
that their new captain had received the reward of his
villanv, and that they wonld see him hanging at the
\ ard arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what they
had to say why I shonld not execute them as pirates,
taken in the fact, as by my commission they conld nut
donbt but I had anthority so to do.
One of them auswered in the name of the rest, that
they had nothing to say but this, that when they were
taken, the captain promised them their lives, and they
bumbly implored my mercy. But I told them I knew
not what mercy to show them; for as for myself, I had
resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken passage with the captain to go for England ; and
as for the captain, he conld not carry them to England,
other than as prisoners, in irous, to be tried for mutiny
and ranning away with the ship ; the cousequence of
which, they must needs know, wonld be the gallows;
fio that I conld not tell what was best for them, unless
they had a mind to take their fate in the island; if the;
desired that, as I had liberty to leave the island, I had
some inclination to give them their lives, if they thonght
J
they conld shift on shore. They seemed very thankful
for it, and said they wonld mack rather venture to stay
there than he carried to England to be hanged: so I
left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty
of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this
I seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him
that they were my prisoners, not his; and that seeing I
had offered them so much favonr, I wonld be as good
as my word; and that if he did not think fit to cousent
to it, I wonld set them at liberty as I fonnd them; and
if he did not like it, he might take them again if he
conld catch them. Upon this they appeared very
thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty, and
hade them retire into the woods tu I he place whence
they came, and I wonld leave them some firearms,
some ammunition, and some directious how they shonld
live very well, if they thonght fit. Upon this I pre-
pared to go on board the ship; but told the captain I
wonld stay that night to prepare my things, and desired
him to go on board, in the mean time, and keep all
right in the ship, and send the boat on shore next day
for me ; ordering him, at all events, to canse the new
captain, who was killed, to be hanged at Ihe yard-arm,
that these men might see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men np
to me to my apartment, and entered serionsly into dis-
conrse with them on their circumstances. I told them
I thonght they had made a right choice; that if the
captain had carried them away, they would certainly
be hanged. I showed them the new captain hanging
at the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had
nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willinguess to stay,
I then told them I wonld let them into the story of my
living there, and put them into the way of making it
easy to them: accordingly, I gave them the whole his-
tory of the place, and of my coming to it; showed them
my fortificatious, the way I made my bread, planted my
corn, cured my grapes; and, in a word, all that was
necessary to make them easy. I told them the story
also of the seventeen Spaniards that were to be expect-
ed, for whom I left a letter, and made them promise to
treat them in common with themselves. Here it may
be noted, that the captain had ink on board, who was
greatly surprised that I never hit upon a way of mak-
ing ink of charcoal and water, or of something else, as
I had done things much more difficult.
I left them my firearms, viz. five muskets, three
fowlingpieoes, aad three swords. I had above a barrel
and a half of powder left; for after the first year or
two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a
description of the way I managed the goats, and direc-
tious to milk and fatten them, and to make both butter
and cheese: in a word, I gave them every part of my
own story; and told them I shonld prevail with the
captain to leave them two harrels of guupowder more,
and some garden seeds, which I told them I wonld
have been very glad of: also I gave them the hag of
peas which the captain had bronght me to eat, and
iade them he sure to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
P
b
went on board the ship. We prepared immediately to
sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning
early, two of the five men came swimming to the ship's
side, and making the most lamentable complaint of the
other ihree, begged to be taken into the ship for God's
sake, for they shonld be murdered, and begged the
captain to take them on board, thongh he hanged them
immediately. Upon this the captain pretended to have
no power withont me; but after some difficulty, and
after their solemn promises of amendment, they were
taken on board, and were some time after sonndly
whipped and pickled; after which they proved very
honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the men;
to which the captain, at my intercession, cansed their
chests and clothes to be added, which they took' and
were very thankful for. I also enconraged them, by
tfelling them that if it lay in my power to send any ves-
sel to take them in, I wonld not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board,
for reliques, the great goatskin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain
by me so long useless that it was grown rusty or tar-
nished, and conld hardly pass for silver, till it hud
been a little ruhhed and handled; as also the money [
fonnd in the wreck of the Spanish ship. And tuus I
left the island, the 19th of December, as I fonnd by the
ship's acconnt, in the year 1686, after I had been upon
it eight and twenty years, two months, and nineteen
days; being delivered from this second captivity the
same day of the month that I first made my escape iu
the long-boat, from among the Moors of Sal lee. In this
vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England the
llth of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five
years absent.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger
to all the world as if I had never l>een known there.
My benefactor and faithful steward, whom I had left
my money in trust with, was alive, but had had great
misfortunes in the world; was become a widow the se-
cond time, and very low in the world, I made her
very easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I wonld
give her no tronble; bat on the contrary, in gratitnde
for her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved
her as my little stock wonld alford; which at that time
wonld indeed allow me to do but little for her; but I
assured her I would never forget her former kindness
to me; nor did I forget her when I had sufficient to
help her, as shall be observed in its proper place. I
went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father
was dead, and my mother and all the family extinct,
except that I fonnd two sisters, and two of the children
of one of my brothers; and as I had been long ago
given over for dead, there had been no provision made
forme; so that, in a word, I fonnd nothing- to relieve
or assist me; and that the little money I had wonld not
do Hindi fur me as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitnde, indeed, which I
did not expect; and this was, that the maiter of the
ship whom I had BO happily delivered, and by the same
meaus saved the ship and cargo, having given a very
handsome account to the owners of the manner how I
had saved the lives of the men, and the ship, they in-
vited me to meet them and some other merchants con-
cerned, and all together made me a very handsome
compliment upon the subject, and a present of almost
200/. sterling.
But after making several reflectious upon the cir-
cumstances of my life, and how little way this wonld
go towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go
to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some infor-
mation of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and
of what was become of my partner, who, I had reason
to suppose, had some years past given me over for
dead. With this view I took shipping for Lisbon,
where I arrived in April following; my man Friday
accompanying me very honestly in all these ramblings,
and proving a most faithful servant upon all occasious.
When I came to Lisbon, I found ont, by inquiry, and
to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the captain
of the ship who first took me up at sea off the shore of
Africa. He was now giowu old, and had left ofl' going
to sea, having put his son, who was far from a yonng
man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade.
The old man did not know me; and, indeed, I hardly
knew him: but I soon bronght him to my remembrance,
and as soon bronght myself to his remembrance, when
I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressious of the old ac-
quaintance between us, I inquired, yon may he sun-.
after my plantation and my partner. The old man to!-
me he had not been in the Brazils for abont nine years;
but that he conld assure me, that when he came awav
i.i\ partner was living; but the trustees, whom I had
jomed with him to take coguizance of my purl, were
both dead: that, however, he believed I wonld have u
very good acconnt of the improvement of the planta-
tion; for that upon the general belief of my being cast
away and drowned, my trustees had given in the ac-
connt of the produce of my part of the plantation to the
procurator fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case I
never came to claim it, one-third to the king, and two-
thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be expend-
ed for the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of
the Indiaus to the Catholic faith; but that if I appear-
ed, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it wonld
be restored; only that the improvement, or annual
production, being distributed to charitable uses, conM
not be restored: hat be assured me that the steward of
the king's revenue from lands, and the provedore, or
steward of the monastery, had taken great care all along
that the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave
every year a faithful acconnt of the produce, of whicb
they had duly received my moiety? I asked him if be
knew to what height of improvement be bad bronght
the plantation, and whether he thonght it might be
worth looking after; or whether, on my going thither,
I shonld meet with any obstruction to my possessing
my just right in the moiety? He told me he conld not
tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improv-
ed; hat this he knew, that my partner was grown ex-
ceeding rich upon the enjoying his part of it; and that,
to the best of his remembrance, he had beard that the
kmg's third of my part, which was, it seems, granted
away to some other monastery or religions honse,
amounted to above two bundred moidores a year: that
i;s to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there
was no question to be made of that, my partner being
alive to witness my title, and my name being also en-
rolled in the register of the conntry; also he told me,
that the survivors of my two trustees were very fair
honest people, and very wealthy; and he believed I
wonld not only have their assistance for putting me iu
possession, hat wonld fiml a very cousiderable sum of
money in their hands for my acconnt, being the pro-
duce of the farm while their fathers held the trust, and
before it wasgivun up, as above; which, as he remem-
bered, was for abont twelve years.
I showed myself a liftle concerned and uneasy at Ihis
acconnt, and inquired of the old captain how it came
to pass that the trustees shonld tbus dispose of my
effects, when he knew that I had made my will, and
had made him, the Portuguese captain, my universal
heir, &c.
He told me that was true; but that as there was no
proof of my being dead, he conld not act as executor,
until som(/certaia acconnt shonld come of my death;
and, besides, be was not willing to intermeddte with
a thing so remote: that it was true ho had registered
my will, and put in his claim; and conld bo have given
any acconnt of my being dead or alive be wonld have
acted by procuration, and taken possession of the in-
geino (so they called the sugar honse), and have given
his son, who was now at the Brazils, orders to do it.
"But," says the old man, " I have one piece of news
to telt yon, which perhaps uny not be so acceptable to
yon as the rest; and that is, believing yon were lost,
and all the world believing so also, jonr partner and
trustees did ofler to acconnt with me, in yonr name, for
the first six or eight years' profits, which I received.
There being at that time great disbursements ibr in-
creasing the works, building an ingeino, and buying
slaves, it did not amonnt to near so much as afterwards
it produced: however," says the old man, '' I shall
give yon a true acconnt of what I have received in all,
and how I have disposed of it."
Alier a few days' farther conference with this ancient
friend, he bronght me an acconnt of the first six years
income of my plantation, sigued by my partner and the
merchant-trustees, being always delivered in goods,
viz. tohacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum,
molasses, &.c. which is the cousequence of a sugar-
work; and I fonnd by this acconnt, that every year
the income cousiderably increased; but, as above, the
disbursements being large, the sum at first was small:
however the old man let me see that he was debtor lo
me fonr bundred imd seventy moidores of gold, besides
sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen donble rolls of tohacco,
which were lost in his ship ; he having been shipwreck-
ed coming home to Lisbon, abont eleven years after
my leaving the place. The good man then began to
complain of his misfortunes, and how he had been
obliged to make use of my money to recover his losses,
and buy him a share in a now ship. "However, my
old friend," says he, "yon shall not want a supply in
yonr necessity; and as soon as my son returus, yon shall
be fully satisfied." Upon this he pulls ont an old
ponch, and gives me one bundred and sixty Portugal
moidores in gold; and giving the writings of his title
to the ship, which his son was gone to the Brazils in,
of which be was a quarter-part owner, and his son ano-
ther, he puts them both into my hands for security of
the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kind-
ness of the poor man to be able to bear this; and re-
membering what he had done for me, how he had taken
me up at sea, and how generonsly he had used me on
all occasious, and particularly how sincere a friend he
was now to me, I conld hardly refrain weeping at
what be had said to me; therefore I asked him if his
circumstances admitted him to spare so much money
at that time, and if it wonld not straiten him? He told
me he conld not say but it might straiten him a little;
but, however, it was my money, and I might want it
more than he.
Every thing the good man said was full of affection,
and I conld hardly refrain from tears while he spoke;
iu short, I took one bundred of the mnidores, and
called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them:
i lien I returned him the rest, and told him if ever I
had possession of the plantation, I would return the
other to him also (as, indeed, I afterwards did); and
that as to the hill of sale of his part in his son's ship, I
wonld not take it by any meaus; but that if I wanted
the money, I fonnd he was honest enongh to pay me;
and if I did not, but came to receive what he gave me
reason to expect, I wonld never have a penny more
from him.
When this was passed, the old man aske-d me if he
shonld put me into a method to make my claim to my
plantation? I told him I thonght to go over lo it my-
self. He said I might do so it I pleased; but that if
I did not, there were ways enongh to secure my right,
and immediately to appropriate the profits to my use:
and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready
to go away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a
public register, with his ath'davit, aflirming, upon oath,
that I was alive, and that I was the same person who
took up the land for the planting the said plantation at
first. This being regularly attested by a notary, and a
procuration affixed, he directed me to send it, with a
letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance
at the place; and then proposed my staving with him
till an acconnt came of the return.
Never was any thing more honourable than the pro-
ceedings upon this procuration; for in less than seven
months I received a large packet from the survivors ot
my trustees, the merchants, for whose acconnt T went
to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclosed.
First, There was the acconnt-current of the pro-
duce of my farm or plantation, from the year when
their fathers had halanced with my old Portugal cap-
tain, being for six years; the halance appeared to be
one thonsand one bundred and seventy-fonr moidoics
in iu^ favonr.
Secondly, There was the account of fonr years more,
while they kept the effects in their hands, before the
government claimed the administration, as being the
eflects of a person not to be fonnd, which they called
civil death ; and the halance of this, the value of the
plantation increasing, amonnted to nineteen thonsand
fonr bundred and forty-six crusadoes, being abont three
thonsand two bundred and forty moidores.
Thirdlv, Tficre was the prior of St. Augustine's ac-
connt, who had received the profits for above fonrteen
years; but not being to acconnt for what was disposed
of by the hospital, very honestly declared he had eight
bundred and seventy-two moidores not distributed,
which he acknowledged to my acconnt: as to the king's
part, that refunded nothing.
There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating
me very affectionately upon my being alive, giving me
an acconnt how the estate was improved, and what it
produced a year; with a particular of the number of
squares or acres that it contained, how plan ted, how many
slaves there were upon it, and making two and twenty
crosses for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave
Marias to thank the blessed Virgin that I was alive;
inviting me very passionately to come over and take
possession of mv own; and, in the mean time, to give
him orders to whom he shonld deliver my effects, if
I did not come myself; conclnding \\ith a hearty ten-
der of his friendship, and that of his family; and sent
me, as a present, seven fine leopards' skius, which be
had, it seems, received from Africa, by some other ship
that he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had made
a better voyage than I. He sent me also five chests
of excellent sweetmeats, and a bundred pieces of gold
uncoined, not quite so large as moidores. By the same
fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me one thon-
sand two bundred chests of sugar, eight bundred rolls
of tohacco, and the rest of the whole acconnt in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of
Job was better than the beginning. It is impossible to
express the flutterings of my very heart when I fonnd
all my wealth abont me; for as the Brazil ships come
all in fleets, the same ships which bronght my letters
bronght my goods: and the effects were safe in the
river before the letters came to my hand. In a word,
I turned pale, and grew sick; and had not the old man
run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sndden sur-
prise of joy had overset nature, and I had died upon
the spot: nay, after that, I continued very ill, nnd was
so some honrs, till a physician being sent for, and some-
thing of the real canse of my illness being known, he
ordered me to be let blood ,• after which I had relief,
and grew well: but I verily believe, if I had not been
eased by a vent given in that manner to the spirits, I
shonld have died.
I was now master, all on a sndden, of above five
thonsand ponnds sterling in money, and had an estate,
as I might well call it, in the Brazils, of above a thon-
sand ponnds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in
England; and, in a word, I was in a condition which I
scarce knew how to understand, or how to compose
myself for the enjoyment of it. The first thing I did
was to recompeuse my original benefactor, my good
old captain, who had been first charitable to me in my
distress, kind to me in my beginning, and honest to me
at the end. I showed him all that was scut to me; I
told him, that next to the providence of Heaven, which
disposed all things, it was owing to him; and that it
now lay on me to reward him, which I wonld do a bun-
dred fold: so I first returned to him the bundred moi-
dores I had received of him; then I sent for a notary,
and cansed him to draw up a general release or dis-
charge from the fonr bundred and seventy moidores,
which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest
and firmest manner possible. After which I cansed a
procuration to be drawn, empowering him to be my
receiver of the annual profits of my plantation, and ap-
pointing my partner to acconnt with him, and make the
returus by the usual fleets to him in my name; and a
clanse in the end, being a grant of one bundred nioi-
dores a year to him during his life, ont of the effects,
and fifty moidores a year to his sou after him, for his
life: ami tbus I requited my old man,
I was now to cousider which way to steer my conrse
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence
had tbus put into my hands; and, indeed, I had more
care upon my head now than I had in m\ silent state
of life in the island, where I wanted nothmg but what
I hiid, and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas I
had nuw a great charge upon me, and my business was
how to secure it. I had never a cave now to hide my
money in, or a place where it might lie withont lock or
key, till it grew monldy and tarnished before any bodv
wonld meddle with it; on the contrary, I knew not
where to put it, or whom to trust with it. My old pa-
tron the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the
only refuge I had. In the next place, my interest in
the Brazils seemed to summon me thither; but now I
coald not tell how to think of going thither till I bad
settled my aflairs, and left my effects in some safe hands
behind me. At first I thought of my old friend the
widow, who I Kuew was honest, and wonld be just to
me; but then she was in years, and but poor, and, for
anght I knew, might be in debt; so that, in a word, I
1 had no way hat to go back to England myself, and
take my effects with me.
It was some months, however, before I resolved
upon this; and therefore, as I had rewarded the old
captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my
former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor
widow, whose buhband had been my first benefactor,
and she, while it was in her power, my faithful steward
and iustructor. So the first thing I did, I got a mer-
chant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in Lon-
don, not only to pay a hill, but to go fmd her ont, and
carry her in money a bundred ponnds from me, and to
talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty, by telU
ing her she shonld, if I lived, have a further supply:
at the same time I sent my two sisters in the conntry a
bundred ponnds each, they being, thongh not in want,
yet not in very good circumstances; one having been
married and left a widow; and the other having a bus-
hand not so kind to her as he shonld he. But among
all my relatious or acquaintance!!, I conld not \et pitch
upon one to whom I durst commit the gross oi' my
stock, that I might go away to the Brazils, and leave
things safe behind me; and this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to tin- Brazils, and
have settled myself there, for I was, as it were, natu-
ralized to the place; but I had some little scruple in
my mind abont religion, which iuseusiblv drew me
luu'k. However, it was not religion that kept iue from
going there for the present; and as I had made no
scruple of being openly of the religion of the conntry
all the while I was among them, so neither did I yet;
nnly that, now and then, having of late thonght more
of it than formerly, when I began to think of living
and dying among them, I began to regret my having
professed myself a Papist, and thonght it might not be
the best religion to die with. «.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Brazils, but that really I
did not know with whom to leave my effects behind
me; so I resolved, at last,'to go to England with it,
where, if I arrived, I conclnded I shonld make some
acquaintance, or find some relatious that wonld be
faithful to me; and accordingly, I prepared to go to
.England with alt my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going bome, I first,
the Brazil fleet being just going away, resolved to give
auswers suitable to the just and faithful acconnt of
thmgs I had from thence; and, first, to the prior of St.
Augustine, I wrote a letter full of thanks for their just
dealings, and the offer of the eight bundred and se-
venty-two moidores which were undisposed of, which
1 desired might be given,five bundred to the monastery,
and three bundred and seventy-two to the poor, as the
!,rior shonld direct; desiring the good padre's prayers
or me, and the like. I wrote next a letter of thanks
to my two trustees, with all the acknowledgment that
so much justice and honesty called for; as for sending
them any present, they were far above having any
occasion for it. Lastly, I wrote to m^ partner, ac-
knowledging his industry in the improvmg the planta-
tion, and Iiia integrity in increasing the stock of the
works; giving him iustrnctious for his Jut a re govern-
ment of my part, acconlingto the powers I had Ieft with
my old patron, to whom I desired him to send whatever
became due to me, till he shonld hear from me more
particularly; assuring him that it was my intentiou not
only to come to him, but to settle myself there for the
remainder of my life. To this I added a very hand-
some present of some Italian silks for his wife and two
danghters, for such the captain's son informed me he
had; with two pieces of fine English broad cloth, the
best I conld pet in Lisbon, five pieces of black haize,
and some Flanders lace of'a good value.
Having tbus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my eflects into good hills of exchange, my
next difficulty was, which way to go to England: 1
had been accustomed enongh to the sea, and yet I had
a strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time;
and thongh I conld give no reason for it, yet the difli-
culty increased upon me so much, that thongh I had
once shipped my haggage in order to go, yet I altered
my mind, and that not once, but two or three times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and
this might be one of the reasous; but let no man
slight the strong impulses of his own thonghts in cases
of such moment: two of the ships which I had singled
ont to go in, I mean more particularly singled ont than
any oiher, having pat my things on board one of them,
and in the other to have agreed with the captain; I
say, two of these ships miscarried, viz. one was taken
by the Algerines, and the other was cast away on the
Start, near Torhay, and all the people drowned, except
three; so that in either of those vessels I had been
made miserable.
Having been tbus harassed in my thonghts, my old
pilot, to whom I commnnicated every thing, pressed
me eariK-stI}' not to go by sea, but either to go by land
to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay to
Ilochelle, from whence it was but an easy and sale
jonrney by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover;
or to go up to Madaid, and so all the way by land
throngh France. In a word, I was so prepossessed
against my going by sea at all, except from Calais to
Dover, that I resolved to travel all the way by land;
which, as I was not iii haste, and did not value the
charge, was by mueh the pleasanter way: and to make it
more so, my old captain bronght an English gentleman,
the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to
travel with me-; after which we picked up two more
English merchants also, and two yonng Portuguese
gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that in all
there were six of us, and five servants; the two mer-
chants and the two Portuguese contenting themselves
with one servant between two, to save the charge; and
as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me as a
servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much a
stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a ser-
vant on the road.
In this manner I set oat from Lisbon; and onr com-
pany being very well monnted and armed, we made a
little troop, whereof they did me the hononr to call me
captain, as well becanse I was the oldest man, as be-
canse I had two servants, and, indeed was the original
of the whole journey.
As I have troubled yon with none of my sea journals,
so I shall trouble yon now with none of my land jonr-
nal; but some adventures that happened to us in this
tedions and difficuIt jonrney I must not omit.
When we'came to Madrid, we, being all of us stran-
gers to Spain, were willing to stav some time to see the
conrt of Spain, and to see what was worth observing;
but it being the latter part'of the summer, we hastened
away, and set ont from Madrid abont the middle of
October; but when we came to the edge of Navarre,
we were alarmed, at several towus on the way, with
an acconnt that so much suow was fallen on the French
side of the monntaius, that several travellers were
obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having at-
tempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on.
When wo came to Pampeluna itself, we fonnd it so
indeed; and to rue, that had bocu always used to a hut
climate, and to conntries where I conld scarce bear
any clothes on, the cold was iusufferable: nor indeed,
was it more painful than surprising, to como but ten
days before ont of Old Castile, where the weather was
not only warm, but very hot, and immediately to feel a
VCL. I. T
wind from the Pyrenean monntaius so very keen, so
severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger be-
numhing and perishing of onr fingers and toes.
Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the
monntaius all covered with suow, and felt cold weather,
which he had never seen or felt before in his life. To
mend the matter, when we came to Pampeluna, it con-
tinned suowing with so much violence and so long
that the people said winter was come before its time;
and the roads, which were diflicult before, were now
quite impassable; for, in a word, the suow lay in some
places too Ibick for us to travel, and being not hard
frozen, as is the case in the northern conntries, there
was no going without bemg in danger of being buried
alive every sir p. \Ve stayed no less than twenty days
at Pampeluna; when seeing the winter coming on, and
no likelihood of its being better, for it was the severest
winter all over Europe that had been known in the me-
mory of man, I proposed that we shonld all go away
to Fontarahia, and there take shipping for Itonrdeanx,
which was a very little voyage. .Bat while I was con-
sidering this, there came in fonr French gentlemen, who
having been stoppetl on the French side of the passes,
as we were on the Spanish, had fonnd ont a guide, who,
traversing the country near the head of Languedoc,
had bronght them over the monntaius by such ways
that they were not much incommoded with the suow;
for where they met with suow in any quantity, they
said it was frozen hard enongh to bear them and their
horses. We sent for this guide, who told us he wonld
undertake to carry us the same way with no hazard
from the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently to
protect onrselves from wild beasts; for, he said, upon
these great suows it was frequent for some wolves to
show themselves. at the foot of the monntaius, being
made ravenous for want of food, the gronnd being
covered with suow. We told him we were well enongh
prepared for such creatures as they were, if he wonld
eusure us from a kind of two legged wolves, which, we
were told, we were in most danger from, especially on
the French side of the monntaius. He satisfied us that
there was no danger of that kind in the way that we were
to go, so we readily agreed to follow him, as did also
Iwelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to
go, and were obliged to come back again.
Accordingly, we set oat from Pampcluna, with onr
guide, on the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was
surprised, when, iustead of going forward, he came
directly hack with us on the same road that we came
from Madrid, about twenty miles; when having passed
two rivers, and come into the plain country, \\e fonnd
onrselves in a warm climate again, where the country
was pleasant, and no suow to be seen; hut on a sndden,
turning to his left, he approached the monntaius ano-
ther way; and thongh it is true the hills and precipices
looked dreadful, yet he made so many tonrs, such
meanders, and led us by such winding ways, that we
iuseusibly passed the height of the monntaius withont
being much encumbered with the suow; and, all on a
sndden, he showed us the pleasant and fruitful pro-
vinces of Languedoc and Gascony, all green and flon-
rishing, thongh, indeed, at a great distance, and we had
some rongh way to pass still.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found
it suowed one whole day and a night so fast that we
conld not travel; but he hid us be easy; we shonld
soon be past it all: we fonnd, indeed, that we began to
descend every day, and tc come more north than before;
and so, depending upon onr guide, we went on.
It was abont two honrs before night, when onr guide
being something before us, and not just in sight, out
rushed three moustrons wolves, and after them a bear,
ont of a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood: two of
the wolves made at the guide, and had he been far he-
fore us, he wonld have been devonred before we conld
have helped him; one of them fastened upon his horse,
and the other attacked the man with that violence, that
he had not time or presence of mind enongh to draw
Itia pistol, but hallooed and cried ont to us most lustily.
My man Friday being next me, I hade him ride up, and
see what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in
sight of the man, he hallooed ont as lond as the other,
"O master! O master!" but, like a bold fellow, rode
directly up to the poor man, and with his pistol shot the
wolf that attacked him in the head.
276
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for he having been used to such creatures in
his conntry, he had no fear upon him, but went close
up to him and shot him, as above; whereas any other
of us wonld have fired at a farther distance, and have
perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered shooting
the man.
But it was enongh to have terrified a bolder man
than I ; and, indeed, it alarmed all onr company, when
with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both
sides the most dismal howling of wolves; and the noise,
redonbled by the echo of the monntaius, appeared to
us as it- there had been a prodigions number of them;
and perhaps there was not such a few as that we Irad no
cause of appreheusious: however, as Friday had killed
this wolf, the other that had fastened upon the horse
left him immediately, and fled, withont doing him any
damage, having happily fastened upon his head, where
the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth. But the
man was most burt; for the raging creature had hit
him twice, once in the arm, and the other time a little
above his knee; and thongh he had made some de-
fence, he was just as it were tumbling down by the dis-
order of his horse, when Friday came up and shot the
wolf.

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's
pistol we all mended onr pace, and rode up as fast as
the way, which was very difficult, wonld give us leave,
to sec what was the matter. As aoon as we came clear
of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw clearly
what had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged
the poor guide, thongh we did not presently discern
what kind of creature it was he had killed.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in
such a surprising manner as that which followed be-
tween Friday and the bear, which gave us all, thongh
at first we were surprised and afraid for him, the great-
est diversion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy
clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does,
who is swift and light, so he has two particular quali-
ties, which generally arc the rule of his actious: first,
as to men, who are not his proper prey (he does not
usually attempt Ihem, except they first attack him, un-
less he be excessive bungry, which it is prohable might
now be the case, the gronnd being covered with suow),
il von do not meddle with him, he wilt not meddle with
von; but then yon must take care to be very civil to
liim, and give him the road, for he is a very nice gen-
tlcman; he will not go a step ont of his way for a
prince; nay, if yon are really afraid, yonr best wav is
to look another way, and keep going on; for some-
times if yon stop, and stand still, and look steadfastly
at him, he takes it for an affront; but if yon throw or
toss anything at him, and it hits him, though it were
Imt a hit of stick as big as yonr finger, he thinks him-
self abused, and sets all other business aside to pursue
his revenge, and will have satisfaction in point of hononr;
—this is his first quality: the next is, if he be once
affronted, he will never leave yon, night nor day, till he
has his revenge, but follows at a good ronnd rate till
he overtakes yon.
My man Friday had delivered onr guide, and when
we came up to him, he was helping him off from his
horse, for the man was both burt and frightened, when
on a sndden we espied the bear come ont of the wood,
and a vast moustrons one it was, the higgest by far that
ever I saw. We were all a littlc surprised when we
saw him; but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see
joy and conrage in the fellow's conntenance: "O, O, O!"
ways Friday, three times, pointing to him ; "O master!
yon give me te leave, me shakee te hand with him; me
jnakee yon good langh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased:
"Yon foul," says 1, "he will eat yon up.''—'' Katee
me up! eatee me up!" says Friday, twice over again;
"me eatee him up; me makee yon good langh; jon
all stay here, me show yon good langh." So down he
sits, and gets off his boots in a moment, and puts on a
pair of pumps (as we call the Hat shoes they wear, and
which be had in his pocket), gives my other servant
his horse, and with his gun away he flew, swift like the
wind.
The bear was walking softlv on, and offered to med-
dle with nobody, till Friday coming pretty near, calls
to him, as if the bear conld understand him, " Hark
ye, hark ye," says Friday, "me spcakce with yon."
We followed at a distance, for now being come down
on the Gascony side of the monntaius, we were entered
a vast forest, where the conntry was plain aud pretty
open, though it had many trees in it scattered bere and
there. Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the
bear, came up with him quickly, and takes up a great
stone and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head,
but did him no more barm than if he had thrown it
agaiust a wall; but it auswered Friday's end, for the
rogue was .so void of fear that he did it purely to make
the bear follow him, and show us some langh, as be
called it. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw
him, he turus abont, and comes after him, taking devil-
ish long strides, and sbuffling on at a strange rate, so as
wonld have put a horse to a middling gallop: away
ruus Friday, and takes his conrse as if he run towards
as for help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the
bear, and deliver my man; thongh I was angry at him
heartily for bringing the bear hack upon us, when he
was going abont his own business another way: and
especially I was angry that he had turned the bear upoa
us, and then run away; and I called ont, " Yon dog, is
this yonr making us langh? Come away, and take your
horse, that we may shoot the creature." He heard me,
and cried ont, "*No shoot, no shoot; standstill, and
yon get much langh:" and as the nimble creature ran
two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a sndden on
one side of us, and seeing a great oak tree fit for his
Eurpose, he beckoned to as to follow; aad donbling
is pace, he gets nimbly up tin; tree, laving Ins gun
down upoo the gronnd, at abont five or six \unls from
the bottom of the tree. The bear soon came to the
tree, and we followed at a distance: the first thing he
did, he stopped at the gun, smelled to it, but let it tie,
and up he scrambles into the tree, climhing like a cat,
thongh so moustrons heavy. I was ama/.ed at the folly,
as I thonght it, of my man, and conld not for my life
see anything to langh at yet, till seeing the hear get up
the tree, we all rode near to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got ont
to the small end of a large branch, and the bear got
abont halfway to him. As soon as the bear got ont to
that part where the limb of the tree was weaker,—
"Ha!" says he to us, " now yon see mo teaoheo the
bear dance:" so be falls a jumping and shaking the
bongh, at which the bear began to totter, but stood
still, and began to look behind him, to see how he
shonld get back: then, indeed, we did langh heartily.
But Friday had not done with him by a great deal;
when seeing him stand still, he calls ont to him again,
as if he had supposed the bear conld speak English,
"What, yon come no farther? pray yon come farther;"
so he left jumping and shaking the tree; and the bear,
just fisit he understood what he said, did come a little
farther; then he fell a jumping again, and the bear
stopped again. We thonght now was a good time to
knock him in the head, and called to Friday to stand
still, and we wonld shoot the bear: but he cried ont
earnestly, " O pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by
and then :" he wonld have said by and by. However,
to shorten the story, Friday danced so much, and the
hear stood so ticklish, that we had langhing enough,
hut still conld not imagine what the fellow wonld do:
for first we thought he depended upon shaking the
bear off; and we fonnd the bear was too cunning for
that too; for he wonld not go ont far enongh to be
thrown down, but clings fast with his great broad claws
and feet, so that we conld not imagine what wonld be
the end of it, and what the jest \\ould be at last. But
Friday pot us ont of donbt quickly: for seeing the bear
cling fast to the hongh, and that he wonld not be per-
suaded to come any farther, " Well, well," says Friday,
"yon no come farther, me go; yon no come to me, me
come to yon:" and upon this he goes ont to the smaller
end of the bongh, where it wonld bend with his weight,
and gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the
bongh till he came near enongh to jump down on Ins
feet, and away he ruus to his gun, takes it up, and stands
still. "Well," said I to him, " Friday, what will yon
do now? Why don't yon shoot him?"—"No shoot,"
says Friday, "no yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me
stay, give yon one more langh ;''and, indeed, so he did,
us yon will see presently; for when the bear saw Ins
enemy gone, he comes hack from the bongh where he
stood, but did it mighty cantiously, looking behind
him every step, and coming hackward till he got into
the body of the tree; then with the same hinder end
foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it with his
claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurelv.
At this juncture, and just before he conld set his hind
foot on the gronnd, Friday stepped up close to him,
clapped the mu/zle of his piece into his car, and shot
him dead. Then the rogue turned about to see if we
did not langh; and when he saw we were pleased, bv
onr looks, he falls a langhing himself very lond. "So
we kill bear in my conntry," says Friday. "So yon
kill them?" says I, "why, yon have no guus."—" No,"
says he, " no gun, but shoot great much long arrow."
This was a good diversion to us; but we were still in
a wild place, and onr guide very much burt, and what
to do we hardly knew: the howling of wolves ran much
in my head; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard
on the shore of Africa, of which I have said something
already, I never heard anything that filled me with so
much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us
off, or else, as Friday wonld have had us, we shonld
certainly have taken the skin of this moustrons creature
off, which was worth saving; but we had near three
leagues to go, and onr guide hastened us; so we left
him, and went forward on onr jonrney.
The ground was stiil covered with suow, thongh not
so deep and dangerons as on the mountaius; and Ihe
ravenons creatures, as we heard afterwards, were coma
down inlo the forest and plain conntry, pressed by
bunger, to seek for food, and had done a great deal of
mischief in the villages, where they surprised the
conntry people, killed a great many of their sheep and
horses, and some people too. We had one dangerons
place to pass, which, onr guide told us, if there were
more wolves in the conntry we shonld find them there;
and this was a small plam, surronnded with woods on
every side, and a long narrow defile, or lane, which we
were to pass to get through the wood, and then we
shonld come to the village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an honr of sunset when we entered
the first wood, and a little after suuset when we came
into the plain; we met with nothing in the first wood,
except that in a little plain within the wood, which was
not above two furlongs over, we saw five great wolves
cross the road, full speed, one after another, as if they
had been in chase of some prey, anu had it in view;
they took no notice of us, and were gone ont of sight in
a few moments. Upon this onr guide, who by the way
was but a faint-hearted fellow, hid us keep in a ready
posture, for he believed there were more wolves a com-
ing. We kept onr arms ready, and onr eyes abont us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came throngh that
wood, which was near half a league, and entered the
plain. As soon as we cameinto the plain, we had occa-
sion enongh to look abont us: the first object we met
with was a dead horse, that is to say, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of
them at work, we conld not say eating of him, but
picking of his bones rather; for they had eaten up all
the flesh before. We did not think fit to disturb them
at their feast, neither did they take much notice of us.
Friday wonld have let tiy at them, but I wonld not
suHer him bv any meaus; for I fonnd we were like to
have more business upon onr hands than we were aware
of. We were not gone half over the plain, when we
began to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our lell
in a frightful manner, and presently after we saw abont
a bundred coming on directly towards us, all in a body,
and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up by experienced officers. I scarce knew m
what manuer to receive them, but fonnd, to draw on*-
selves in a close line was the only way; so we formed
in a moment: but that we might not have too much
interval, I ordered that only every other man shonld
fire, and that the others who had not fired shonld stand
ready to give them a second volley immediately, if they
continued to advance upon us; and then that those who
had fired at first shonld not pretend 1o load their fusees
again, but stand ready, every one with a pistol, for wo
were alt armed with a fusee and a pair of pistols each
man; so we were, by this method, able to fire six vol-
leys, half of us at a time: however, at present we had
no necessity; for upon firing the first volley, the enemy
made a full stop, being terrified as well with the noise
as with the fire; fonr of them, being shot in the head,
dropped; several others were wonnded, and went
bleeding- off, as we conld see by the suow. I fonnd
they stopped, but did not immediately retreat; where-
upon, remembering that I had been told that the fiercest
creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I cansed
all tho company to halloo as lond as we conld; and I
fonnd the notion not altogether mistaken; for upon onr
shont they began to retire, and turn abont. I then or-
dered a second volley to be fired in their rear, which
put them to the gallop, and away they went to the
woods. This gave us leisure to charge oar pieces
again; and that we might lose no time, we kept going:
but we had but little more than loaded onr fusees, and
put onrselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible
noise in the same wood on oar left, only that it was
farther onward, the same way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be
dusky, which made it worse on onr side; but the noise
increasing, we conld easily perceive that it was the
howling and yelling of those hellish creatures; and, on
a sndden, we perceived two or three troops of wolves,
one on onr left, one behind us, and one in onr front,
so that we seemed to be surronnded with them: how-
ever, as they did not fall upon us, we kept onr way
forward, as fast as we conld make onr horses go, whicb,
the way being vary rongh, was only a good hard trot.
In this manner we came in view of the entrance of a
wood, throngh which we were to pass, at the farther
side of the plain; but we were greatly surprised, when
coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. On a
sndden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the
noise of a gun, and looking that way, oat rushed a
horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, flying like the
wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him full
speed ; indeed the horse had the heels of them, hat as
we supposed that he conld not hold it at that rate, we
donbted not but they wonld get up with him at last;
no question but they did.
But here we had a most horrible sight; for, riding up
to the entrance where the horse came ont, we fonnd
the carcasses of another horse and of two men, devonred
by the ravenons creatures; and one of the men was no
donbt the same whom we heard fire the gun, for there
lay a gaa just by him fired off; but as to the man, his
head and the upper part of his body were eaten up.
This filled us with norror, aiid we knew not what
conrse to take; but the creatures resolved us soon,
for they gathered abont us presently, in hopes of prey;
and I verily believe there were three bundred of them,
It happened very much to onr advantage, that at the
entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there
lay some large timber trees, which had been cut down
the summer before, and I suppose lay there for car-
riage. I drew my little troop in among those trees,
and placing onrselves in a line behind one long tree,
I advised them all to alight, and keeping that tree he-
fore us for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three
fronts, enclosing onr horses in the centre. We did so,
and it was well we did; for never was a more furions
charge than the creatures made upon us in this place.
They came on with a growling kind of noise, and
monnted the piece of timber, which, as I said, was onr
breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their
prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally
occasioned by their seeing onr horses behind us. I
ordered our men to fire as before, every other man;
and they took their aim so sure, that they killed se-
veral of the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on
like devils, those behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired a second volley of onr fusees, we
thonght ihcy stopped a little, ami I hoped they wonld
have gone off, but it was l,nt a moment, for others came
forward again; so we fired two vollevs of onr pistols;
and I believe in these lour firings we had killed seven-
teen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many, yet
they came on again. I was loath to spend onr shot too
hastily; so I called my servant, not my man Friday, for
he was better employed, for, with the greatest dex-
terity imaginable, he had charged my fusee and his own
while we were engaged; but, as I said, I called my
other man, and giving him a horn of powder, I hade
him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and let it
be a large train. He did so; and had but just time to
get away, when the wolves came up to it, and some got
upon it, when I, suapping an uncharged pistol close to
the powder, set it on fire: those that were upon the
timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them
fell, or rather jumped in among us, with the force and
fright of the fire; we dispatched these in an iustant, and
the rest were so frightened with the light, which the
night, for it was now very near dark, made more terri-
ble, that they drew hack a little; upon which I ordered
oar last pistols to be fired off in one volley, and after
that we gave a shont: upon this the wolves turned
tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame
ones, that we found struggling on the gronnd, and fell a
cutting them with onr swords, which auswered onr ex-
pectation; for the crying and howling they made was
better understood by their fellows; so that they all fled
and left us.
We had, first and last, killed abont threescore of
them; and had it been daylight, we had killed many
more. The field of hattle being tbus cleared, we made
forward again, for we had still near a league to go.
We heard the ravenons creatures howl and yell in the
woods as we went, several times, and sometimes we
fancied we saw some of them, but the suow dazzling
onr eyes, we were not certain: in abont an honr more
we camc to the town where we were to lodge, which
we fouud in a terrible fright, and all in arms; for, it
seems, the night before, the wolves and some bears had
broke into the village, and put them in such terror
that they were obliged to keep guard night and day, but
especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and, in-
deed, their people.
The next morning oar guide was so ill, and his limbs
swelled so much with the rankling ofhis two wonnds,
thai he conld go no farther; so wo were obliged to take
a new guide here, and go to Thoulonse, where we
found a warm climate, a fruitful, pleasant conntry, and
no suow, no wolves, nor any thing like them: but when
we told our story at Thonlonse, they told us it was
nothing' but what was ordinary in the great forest at the
foot of the monntaius, especiallv when the suow lay on
the gronnd; but they inquired much what kind of a
guide we had got, who wonld venture to bring us that
way in such a severe season; and told us it was sur-
prising we were not all devonred. When we told
them how we placed onrselves, and the horses in the
middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was
fifty to one but we had been all destroyed; for it was
the sight of the horses which made the wolves so furi-
ous, seeing their prey; and that, at other times, they
are really afraid of a gun; but being excessive bungry,
.-mil raging on that acconnt, the eagerness to come at the
horses had made them seuseless of danger; and that if
we had not, by the continued fire, and at last by the
stratagem of the train of powder, mastered them, it had
heen great odds but that we had been torn to pieces:
whereas, had we been content to have sat still on horse-
back, and fired as horsemen, they would not have taken
the horses so much for their own, when men were on
their hacks, as otherwise; and withal they told us, that
at last, if we had stood all together, and left onr horses,
they wonld have been so eager to have devoured them
that we might have come off safe, especially having onr
fire-arms in our hands, and being so many in number.
For my part, I was never so seusible of danger in my
life; for seeing above three bundred devils come roar-
ing and open-monthed to devonr us, ami having nothing
to shelter us or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost;
and, as it was, I believe I shall never care to cross those
monntaius again; I think I wonld much rather go a
thonsand leagues by sea, thongh I was sure to meet with
a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of m my
passage throngh France, nothing but what other travel-
lers have given an acconnt of with much more advan-
tage than I can. I traveled from Thonlouse to Paris,
and withont any cousiderable stay came to Calais, and
landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January, after having
a severe cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had
in a little time all my new-discovered estate safe abont
me; the hills of exchange which I bronght with me
having been very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy conusellor was my
good ancient widow; who, in gratitnde for the money
I had sent her, thonght no paius too much, nor care too
great, to employ for me; and I trusted her so entirely
with every thing that I was perfectly easy as to the
security of my eflects: and, indeed, I was very happy
from the beginning, and now to the end, in the uuspotted
integrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now having resolved to dispose of my plantation
in the Brazils, I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon; who
having oflered it to the two merchants, the survivors
of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they accepted
the oft'er, and remitted thirty-three thonsand pieces-of-
eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon, to pay
for it.
In return, T sigued the iustrument of sale in the form
which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man,
who sent me the hills of exchange for 32,800 pieees-of-
eight for the estate; reserving the payment of 100 moi-
dores a year to him (the old man) during his life, and
50 moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which I
had promised them; and which the plantation was to
make good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given
the first part of a life of fortune and adventure, a life of
Providence's chequer-work, and of a variety which the
world will seldom be able to show the like;'of: begin-
ning foolisbly, but closing much more happily than any
part of it ever gave me leave so much as to hope for.
Any one wonld think, that in this state of complicated
good fortune, I was past running any more hazards, and
so indeed I had been, if other circumstances had con-
curred; but I was inured to a wandering liYe, had no
family, n0r many relatious; nor, however rich, had I
contracted much acquaintance; and thongh I had sold
my estate in the Brazils, yet I conld not keep that conn-
try cat of my head, and had a great mind to be upon
the wing as;ain; especiallv I conld not resist the strung
inclination I had to see my island, and to know if the
poor Spaniards were in being there. My true friend,
the widow, earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so far
prevailed with me, that, for almost seven years, she
prevented my running abroad; daring which time I
took my two nephews, the childrcu of one of my bro-
thers, into my care: the eldest having something of his
own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a settle-
ment of some addition to his estate, after my decease.
The other I pat ont to a captain of a ship: and after five
years, finding him a seusible, bold, enterprising yonng
fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him to sea:
and this yonng fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as
I was, to farther adventures myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here; for,
first of all, [ married, and that not either to my disad-
vantage or dissatisfaction, and had three children, two
sous and ono danghter; but my wife dying, and my
nephew coming home with good success from a voyage
to Spina, my inclination to go abroad, and his impor-
tunity, prevailed, and engaged me to go in Ins ship as a
private trader to the East Indies: this was in the year
1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island,
saw my successors the Spaniards, had the whole story
of their lives, and of the villaius I left there; how at
first they iusulted the poor Spaniards, how they after-
wards agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at
last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with
them; how they were subjected to the Spaniards; how
honestly the Spaniards used them; a history, if it were
entered into, as full of variety and wonderful accidents
as my own part: particularly also as to their hattles
with the Caribbeans, who landed several times upon the
island, and as to the improvement they made upon the
i.tland itself; and how five of them made an attempt
upon the main land, and brought away eleven mon and
five women prisoners; by which, at my coming, I fonnd
abont twenty yonng children on the island.
Here I stayed about twenty days; left them supplies
of all necessary things, and particularly of arms, pow-
der, shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I
bronght from England with me • viz. a carpenter and a
smith.
Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with them,
reserved to myself the property of the whole, but gave
them such parts respectively as they agreed on; and,
having settled all things with them, and engaged them
not to leave the place, I left them there.
From thence I tonched at the Brazils, from whence I
sent a hark, which I bonght there, with more people, to
the island; and in it, besides other supplies, I seat
seven women, being such as I fonnd proper for service,
or for wives to such as wonld take them. As to the Eng-
lishmen, I promised them to send them some women from
England, with a good cargo of necessaries, if they wonld
apply themselves to planting; which I afterwards conld
not perform. The fellows proved very honest and dili-
gent, after they were mastered, and had their properties
set apart for them. I sent them also from the Brazils
five cows, three of them being hig with calf, some
sheep, and some hogs, which, when I came again, were
cousiderably increased.
But all these things, with an acconnt how three hnn-
dred Caribbees came and invaded them, and ruined
their plantatious, aud how they fonght with that whole
number twice, and were at first defeated and one of
them killed; but at last a storm destroying their enemies'
canoes, they famished or destroyed almost all the rest,
and renewed and recovered the possession of their plan-
tation, and still lived upon the island.
All these things, with some very surprising incidents
in some new adventures of my own, for ten years more,
I shall give a further acconnt of in another volume.
EXD OF VOL. I.
C. Whiuinftham, College Honse, Chiawick.
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE,
OF YORK, MARINER.
WITH AN ACCOUNT OF
Tils Crabcls rounD 3TI;vce Paris of tljc
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
VOL. I.

CIIISWICK:
JFtom ttie pregg of <t> ra
COLLEGE HOUSE.
SOLD BY R. JENNINGS, POULTRY; T. TEGG, CHEAPSIDE;
A. K. NEWMAN AND CO. LEADENHALL STREET; LONDON:
J. SUTHERLAND, EDINBURGH',
AND RICHARD GBIFFIN AND CO. GLASGOW.
1822.
i--
IV.
THE
LIFE
OF
DANIEL DE FOE.
I I.\\IMI. DE FOE was descended from a respectable
family in the connty of Northampton, and born in
London, abont the year I663. His father, James
Foe, was a butcher, in the parish of St. Giles's, Crip-
plegate, and a protestant dissenter. Why the subject
of this memoir prefixed the lie to his family name
cannot now be ascertained, nor did he at any period
of his life think it necessary to give his reasous to the
public. The political scribblers of the day, how-
ever, thonght proper to remedy this lack of infor-
mation, and accused him of possessing so little of the
amor patrice, as to make the addition in order that
he might not be taken for an Englishman; thongh
this idea conld have had no other fonndation than
the circumstance of his having, in cousequence of his
zeal for Kin^r William, attacked the prejndices of his
conntrymen in his "Trueborn Englishman."
After receiving a good education at an academy at
Newington, yonng Ue Foe, before he had attained
his twenty-first year, commenced his career as an
author, by writing a pampblet agaiust a very pre-
vailing sentiment m favonr of the Turks, who were
at that time laying siege to Vienna. This produc-
tion, being very inferior to those of his maturer years,
was very little read, and the indignant author, des-
pairing of success with his pen, had reconrse to the
sword; or, as he termed it, when boasting of the ex-
ploit in his later years, "displayed his attachment
to liberty and protestantism, by joining the ill ad-
vised iusurrection under the Duke of Monmonth, in
the west. On the failure of that unfortunate enter-
prise, he returned again to the metropolis; and it
is not improhable, but that the circumstance of his
being a native of London, and his person not much
known in that part of the kingdom where the rebel-
lion took place, might facilitate his escape, and be
the meaus of preventing his being bronght to trial
for his share in the trausaction. With the professious
of a writer and a soldier, Mr. De Foe, in the year
I685, joined that of a trader; he was first engaged
as a hosier in Cornhill, and afterwards as a maker of
bricks and pantiles, near Tilbury Fort, in Kssex;
but, in cousequence of spending those honrs in the
hilarity of the tavern which he onght to have em-
ployed in the calculatious of the connting honse, his
commercial schemes proved uusuccessful; and in
I694 he was obliged to abscond from his creditors,
not failing to attribute those misfortunes to the war
and the severity of the times, which were donbtless
owing to his own misconduct. It is much to his
credit, however, that, after having been freed from
his debts by composition, and being in prosperons
circumstances from King William's favonr, he volun-
tarily paid most of his creditors both the principal
and mterest of their claims. This is such an example
of honesty as it wonld be unjust to L)e Foe and to
the world to conceal. The amonnt of the sums tbus
paid must have been very cousiderable, as he after-
wards feelingly mentious to Lord Haversham, who
had reproached him with covetonsuess; " With a
numerons family, and no helps but my own industrv,
I have forced my way throngh a sea of misfortunes,
and reduced my debts, exclusive of composition,
from seventeen thonsand to less than five thonsand
ponnds."
At the beginning of the year I700, Mr. De Foe
published a satire in verse, which excited very con-
siderable attention, called the "The Trueborn Eng-
lishman." Its purpose was to furnish a reply to those
who were continually abusing King William and
some of his friends as foreigners, by showing that the
present race of Englishmen was a mixed and hete-
rogeneons brood, scarcely any of which conld lay
claim to native purity of blood. The satire was in
many parts very severe; and, thongh it gave high
offence, it claimed a cousiderable share of the public
attention. The reader will perhaps be gratified by
a specimen of this production, wherein he endea-
vours to acconnt for—-
what makes this discontented land appear
Less happy now in timea of peace than war;
Why civit feuds disturb the nation more
Than att onr btoody wars had done before:
Foots ont of favonr grudge at knaves in ptace,
And men are atways honest in disgrace:
The conrt preferments make men knaves in conrse,
But they, who wontd he in them, wontd be woree.
'Tis noi at foreigners that we repine,
Wontd foreigners their perquisites resign:
The grand contention's ptainty to be seen,
To get some mm put ont, aud some put in.
It will be immediately perceived that De Foe conld
have no preteusious to the character of a poet; but
he has, notwithstanding, some nervons and well ver-
sified lines, and in choice of subject and moral he is
in general excellent. The Trueborn Englishman
conclndes tbus:—
Contd bat our ancestors retrieve their fate,
And see their offspring tbus degenerate;
How we contend for Dirth and names unknown>
And buitd on their past aciious, not oar own;
They'd cancet records, and iin ii tombs deface,
And openty disown the vite degenerate race.
For fame of famifies is att a cheat,
TIS PERSONAL VIRTUE ONLY MAKES US GREAT.
For this defence of foreiguers, De Foe was amply
iill I Mill I '1M VTUIt'U ''^ *T f*3 JJV.V.UHW1 .j ••
possessing, with a strong mind and a ready

kind of yielding couscience which allowed him to
support the measures of his benefactors, thongh con-
vinced they were injurions to his conntry. De Foe
now retired to Newington with his family, and fora
short time lived at ease; but the death of his royal
patron deprived him of a generons protector, and
opened a scene of sorrow which probably imblttered
his future life.
He had always discovered a great inclination to
engage in religions controversy, and the furions con-
test, civil and ecclesiastical, which eusued on the
accession of Queen Anne, gave him an opportunity
of gratifying his favonrite passion. He therefore
published a tract, entitled "The shortest Way with
the Dissenters, or Proposals for the Establishment
of the Cburch," which contamed an ironical recom-
mendation of persecution, but written in so serions
a strain that many persous, particularly Dissenters,
at first mistook its real intention. The high cburch
party, however, saw and felt the ridicule, and, by
their influence, a prosecution was commenced agaiust
him, and a proclamation publi>hed in the Gazette,
offering a reward for his appreheusion*. When De
Foe fonnd with how much rigonr himself and his
pampblet were abont to be treated, he at first secret-
ed himself; but his printer and bookseller being
taken into custody, he surrendered, being resolved,as
he expresses it, u to throw himself upon the favonr of
government, rather than that others shonld be ruined
•' Si. Jamv/s, January 10, 17O2-3.
* " Whereas Daniel De Foe, atias De Fooe, is charged with
writing a scandalons and sediiious pamphtet, entitted ' The
shortest Way with the Dissenters:' he is a middte-sized spare
man, abont foriy years otd, of a brown comptexion, and dark
brown coton) ed hair, hut wears a wig ; a hooked nose, a sharp
chin, gray eyes, and a targe mote near his month, was horn in
London, and for many years was a hose-factor in Freeman's
Yard, in Cornhilt, and now is owner of the brick and pantite
works near 'tithury Fort, in Essex; whoever shatt discover
the said Daniet I)e Foe, to one of her Majesty's Principat
Secretaries of State, or any of her Majesty's Justices of 1'eace,
BO as he may he apprehended, shall have a reward of fitty
ponnds, which her Majesty has ordered immediatety to be paid
upon such discovery."—Laniteii Ouv. No. 3871J.
for his mistakes." In July, I703, he was bronght to
trial, fonnd guilty, and sentenced to he imprisoned,
to stand in the pillory, and to pav a fine of two
bundred marks. He underwent the infamons part
of the punishment with great fortitnde; and it seems
to have been generally thonght that he was treated
with uureasonable severity. So far was he from
being ashamed of his fate himself that he wrote a
hymn to the pillory, which tbus ends, allnding to his
accusers:—
Tetl them, the men that placed bim hcie
Are scandals to the iimes;
Are at a to?s to find his guilt,
And can't commit his crimes.
Pope, who has thonght fit to introduce him in his
Dunciad tprobably from no other reason than party
difference), characterises him in the following line:—
Earless on high stood unaba?h'd De Foe.
This is one of those iustances of injustice and malig-
nity which so frequently occur in the Dunciad, and
which reflect more dishononr on the author than on
the parties traduced. De Foe lay friendless and
distressed in Newgate, his family ruined, and himself
withont hopes of deliverance, till Sir Robert Harley,
who approved of his principles, and foresaw that
during a factions age such a genins conld be con-
verted to many uses, represented his unmerited suf-
ferings to the Queen, and at length procured his
release. The treasurer, Lord Godolphin, also sent
a cousiderable sum to his wife and family, and to
him money to pay his fine and the expeuse of his
discharge. Gratitnde and fidelity are iuseparable
from an honest man; and it was this benevolent act
that prompted De Foe to support Harley with his
able and ingenions pen, when Anne lay lifeless, and
his benefactor, in the vicissitnde of party, was per-
secuted by faction, and overpowered, thongh not
conquered, by violence.
The talents and perseverance of De Foe began
now to be properly estimated, and, as a firm sup-
porter of the administration, he was sent by Lord
Godolphin to Scotland, on an errand which, as he
says, was far from being unfit for a sovereigu to
direct, or an honest man to perform. His know-
ledge of commerce and revenue, his powers of in-
sinuation, and, above all, his readiness of pen, were
deemed of no small utility in promoting the union
of the two kingdoms; of which he w rote an able
history in 1709, with .two dedicatious, one to the
Queen, and another to the Duke of Queeusbury.
Soon afterwards he unhappily, by some equivocal
writings, rendered himself suspected by both parties,
so that he once more retired to Newington, in hopes
of spending the remainder of his days in peace.
His peusion being 'withdrawn, and wearied with
politics, he began to compose works of a diflerent
kind.—The year I7I5 may therefore be regarded as
the period of De Foe's political life. Faction hence-
forth fonnd other advocates, and parties procured
other writers to disseminate their suggestious, and to
propagate their falsehoods.
In 17I5 De Foe published the " Family Iustruc-
tor;" a work inculcating the domestic duties in a
lively manner, by narration and dialogue, and dis-
playing much knowledge of life in the middle ranks
of society. "Religions Conrtship" also appeared
soon after, which, like the Family Iustructor, is
eminently religious and moral in its tendency, and
strongly impresses on the mind that spirit of sobriety
and private devotion, for which the dissenters have
generally been distinguished. The most celebrated
of all his works, " The Life and Adventures of Ro-
biuson Crusoe," appeared in I7I9. This work has
passed throngh numerons editious, and been traus-
lated into almost all modern languages. The great
invention which is displayed in it, the variety of in-
cidents and circumstances which it contaius, related
in the most easy and natural Kianner, together with
the excellency of the moral and religions reflectious,
render it a performance of very superior and uncom-
mon merit, and one of the most interesting works
that ever appeared. It is strongly recommended,
by Ronsseau, as a book admirably calculated to pro-
mote the purposes of natunil education; and Dr.
Blair Bays, " No fiction in any language was ever
better supported than the Adventures of Rohiuson
Crusoe. While it is carried on with that appear-
ance of truth and simplicity which takes a strong
hold of the imagination of ail readers, it suggests, at
the same time, very useful iustruction; by showing
how much the native powers of man may be exerted
for surmonnting the difficulties of any external situ-
ation." It has been pretended, that DC Foe sur-
reptitionsly appropriated the papers of Alexander
Selkirk, a Scotch mariner, who lived fonr years alone
on the island of Juan Fernandez, and a sketch of
whose story had before appeared in the voyage of
Captain \Voodcs Rogers. But this charge, thongh
repeatedly and confidently bronght, appears to be
totally destitute of any fonndation. l)e Foe pro-
bably took some general hints for his work from the
story of Selkirk, but there exists no proof whatever,
nor is it reasonable to suppose that he possessed
any of his papers or memoirs, which had been
published seven jears before the appearance of
Robluson Crusoe. As a farther proof of De Foe's
innocence, Captain Rogers's Acconnt of Selkirk may
be produced, in which it is said that the latter had
neither preserved pen, ink, or paper, and had, in a
great measure, lost his language; cousequently De
Foe conld not have received any written assistance,
and we have only the assertion of his enemies to
prove that he had any verhal.
The great success of Rohiuson Crusoe induced its
author to write a number of other lives and adven-
tures, some of which were popular in their times,
thongh at present nearly forgotten. One of his latest
publicatious was "A Tonr throngh the Island of
Great Britain," a performance of very inferior merit;
but De Foe was now the garrulons old man, and his
spirit (to use the words of an ingenions hiographer)
"like a candle struggling in the socket, blazed and
sunk, blazed and sunk, till it disappeared at length
in total darkness." His laborions and unfortunate
life was finished on the 26th of April, I73I, in the
parish of St. Giles's, Cripplegate.
Daniel De Foe possessed very extraordinary ta-
lents; as a commercial writer, he is fairly entitled
to stand in the foremost rank among his contempo-
raries, whatever may be their performances or their
fame. His distinguishing characteristics are origi-
nality, spirit, and a profonnd knowledge of his sub-
ject; and in these particulars he has seldom been
surpassed. As the author of Robiuson Crusoe, he
has a claim not only to the admiration, but to the
gratitnde of his conntrymen; and so long as we
have a regard for supereminent merit, ana take an
interest in the welfare of the rising generation, that
gratitnde will not cease to exist. Iim the opinion
of the learned and ingenions Dr. Beattie will be
the best euloginm that can be prononnced on that
celebrated romance: '' Rohiuson Crusoe," says the
Doctor, " must be allowed, by the most rigid mo-
ralist, to be one of those novels which one may
read, not onlv with pleasure, but also with profit.
It breathes thronghont a spirit of piety and benevo-
lence; it sets in a very striking light the importance
of the mechanic arts, which they, who know not
what it is to be withont them, are so apt to under-
value; it fixes in the mind a lively idea of the hor-
rors of solitnde, and, cousequently, of the sweets
of social life, and of the blessings we derive froni
conversation and mutual aid: and it shows how, by
labonring with one's own hands, one may secure in-
dependence, and open for one's self many sonrces
of health and amusement. I agree, therefore, with
Ronsseau, that it is one of the best books that can
be put into the hands of children."
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
OF
ROBINSON CRUSOE.
I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a
good family, thongh not of that conntry, my father being
a foreiguer of Bremen, who settled first at Hull: he
got a good estate by merchandise, and leaving off his
trade, lived afterwards at York; from whence he had
married my mother, whose relatious were named Ro-
hiuson, a very good family in that conntry, and from
whom I was called Rohiuson Krentznaer; but, by the
usual corruption of words in England, we are now call-
ed, nay, we call onrselves, and write onr name Crusoe;
and BO my companious always called me.
I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lientenant-
colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, for-
merly commanded by the famons Colonel Lockhart,
and was killed at the hattle near Dunkirk agaiust the
Spaniards. What became of my second brother I never
knew, any more than my father and mother did know
what was become of me.
Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any
trade, my head began to be filled very early with ramb-
ling thonghts: my father, who was very ancient, had
given me a competent share of learning, as far as honse
education and a conntry free-school generally go, and
desigued me for the law; but I wonld be satisfied with
VOL. i. • B
nothing but going to sea; and IDV inclination to this led
me so strongly agaiust the will, nay, the commands of
my lather, and agaiust all the entreaties ani! persuasious
of my mother and other friends, that there seemed to
be something fatal in that propeusion of nature, tending
directly to the life of misery which was to befall me.
My failier, a wise and grave man, gave me serions
and excellent couusel agaiust what he foresaw was my
di-sigu. He called me one morning into his chamber,
where he was confined by the gont, and expostulated
very warmly with me upon ihis subject: he asked me
what reasous more than a mere wandering inclination
I had for leaving my father's honse and my native
conntry, where I might be well introduced, and had a
prospect of raising my fortune by application and in-
dustry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me
it was for men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of
aspiring, superior fortunes on the other, who went
abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and
make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature
ont of the common road; that these things were all
either too far above me, or too far below me; that
mine was the middle state, or what might be called the
upper siation oflow lite, which he had fonnd, by long
experience, was the best state in the world, the most
suited to buman happiness, not exposed to the miseries
and hardships, the labonrs and suflerings, of the mecha-
nic part of mankind, and not emharrassed with the
pride, luxury, amhition, and envy of the upper part
of mankind. He told me, I might jndge of the happi-
ness of this state by one thing, viz. that this was the
state of life which all other people envied ; that kings
have frequently lamented the miserable cousequences
of being born to great things, and wished they had been
placed in the middle of the two extremes, between the
mean and the great; that the wise man gave his testi-
mony to this, as the just standard of true felicity, when
he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.
He hid me observe it, and I shonld always find, that
the calamities of life were shared among the upper and
lower part of mankind; but that the middle station bad
the fewest disasters, and was not exposed to so many
vicissitndes as the higher or lower part of mankind;
nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
uneasinesses, either of body or mind, as those were,
who, by vicions living, luxury, and extravagances, on
one hand, or by hard labonr, want' of necessaries, aml
mean and iusufficient diet, on the other hand, bring dis-
tempers upon themselves by the natural cousequences of
their way of living: that the middle station of lite was
calculated for all kind of virtues and all kmd of enjoy-
ments; that peace and plenty were the handmaids of a
middle fortune; that temperance, moderation, quiet-
ness, health, society, all agreeable diversious, and all
desirable pleasures, were the blessings attending the
middle station of life; that this way men went silently
and smoothly throngh the world, and comfortably ont
of it, not emharrassed with the labonrs of the hands or
of the head, nor sold to the life of slavery for daily
bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances, which
rob the sou I of peace, and the body of rest; not enraged
with the passion of envy, or secret burning lust of am-
hition for great things; but, in easy circumstances,
sliding gently throngh the world, and seusibly tasting
the sweets of living, without the hitter, feeling that
they are happy, and learning, by every day's experience
to know it more seusibly.
After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to play the yonng man, not to
precipitate myself into miseries which nature, and the
station of life I was born in, seemed to have provided
agaiust; that I was under no necessity of seeking my
bread; that he wonld do well for me, and endeavour to
enter me fairly into the station of life which he had been
jast recommending to me; and that, if I was not very
easy and happy in the world, it must be my mere fate
or fault that must hinder it; and that he shonld have
nothing to auswer for, having tbus discharged his duty
in warning me agaiust measures which he knew wonld
be to my burt: in a word, that as he would do very
kind things for me if I would stay and settle at home as
he directed, so he wonld not have so much hand in my
misfortunes, as to give me any enconragement to go
away: and to close all, he told me I had my elder bro-
ther for an example, to whom he had used the same
earnest persuasious to keep him from going into the
Low Conntry wars, but conld not prevail, his young
desires prompting him to run into the army, where he
was killed; and thongh he said he wonld not cease to
niy for me, yet he wonld venture to say to me, that if
id take this foolish step, God wonld not bless me,
and I wonld have leisure hereafter to reflect upon hav-
ing neglected his conusel, when there might be none U
assist in my recovery.
I observed in this last part of his disconrse, which
was truly prophetic, thongh I suppose my father did not
know it to be so himself; I say, I observed the tears
run down his face very plentifully, and especially when
he spoke of my brother who was killed: and that when
he spoke of my having leisure to repent, and none to
assist me, he was so moved, that be broke off the dis-
course, and told me, his heart was so full be conld say
no more to me.
I was sincerely affected with this disconrse, as indeed
who conld be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of
going abroad any more, but to settle at home according
to my father's desire. But alas! a few days wore it all
off; and, in short, to prevent any of my father's further
importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved to rim
fjuite away from him. However, I did not act so has-
tily neither, as my first beat of resolution prompted, but
I took my mother, at a time when I thonght her a little
pleasanter than ordinary, and told her, that my thonghts
were so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I
shonld never settle to any thing with resolution enoagh
to go through with it, and my father had better give
me his cousent than force me to go withont it; that I
was now eighteen years old, which was too late to go
apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I
was sure, if I did, I shonld never serve ont my time,
and I shonld certainly run away from my master before
my time was ont, and go to sea; and if she wonld speak
to my father to let me go one voyage abroad, if I came
home again, and did not like it, I wonld go no more,
and I wonld promise, by a donble diligence, to recover
that time I had lost.

This put my mother into a great passion: she told me,
she knew it wonld be to no purpose to speak to my fa-
ther upon any such subject; that he knew too well what
was my interest to give his cousent to any such thing
so much for my burt; and that she wondered how I
could think of any such thing after such a disconrse as
I had had with my father, and such kind and tender ex-
pressious as she knew my father had used to me; and
that, in short, if I wonld ruin myself, there was no help
for me; but I might depend I shonld never have their
cousent to it: that for her part, she wonld not have so
much hand in my destruction; and I shonld never have
it to say, that my mother was willing when my father
was not.
Thongh my mother refused to move it to my father,
vet, as I have heard afterwards, she reported all the
disconrse to him, and that my father, after showing a
great concern at it, said to her with a sigh, "That boy
might be happy if be wonld stay at home; but if he
goes abroad, he will be the most miserable wretch that
was ever born; I can give no cousent to it."
It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, thongh, in the meantime, I continued obstinately
deaf to all proposals of settling to business, and fre-
quently expostulating with my father and mother abont
their being so positively determined agaiust what they
knew my inclinatious prompted me to. But being one
day at Hull, where I went casually, and withont any
purpose of making an elopement at that time; but, I
say, being there, and one of my companious then going
by sea In London, in his father's ship, and prompting
me to go with them, with the common allurement of
seafaring men, viz. that it shonld cost me nothing for
my passage, I cousulted neither father or mother any
more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but leaving-
them to hear of it as they might, withont asking God's
blessing, or my father's, withont any cousideration of
circumstances or cousequences, and in an ill hour, God
knows, on the first of September, 1651, I went on board
a ship bonnd for London. Never any yonng adven-
turer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or conti-
nued longer than mine. The ship was no sooner gotten
ont of the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and
the waves to rise in a most frightful manner; and, as I
had never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly
sick in body, and terrified in mind. I began now se-
riously to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly
I was overtaken by the jndgment of Heaven for wick-
edly leaving my father's honse, and ahandoning my duty.
All the good conusel of my parents, my father's tears
and my mother's entreaties, came now fresh into my
mind; and my couscience, which was not yet come to
the pitch of hardness to which it has been since, re-
proached me with the contempt of advice, and the
ureach of my duty to God and my father.
All this while the storm increased, and the sea, whicli
I had never been upon before, went very high, thongh
nothing like what I have seen many times since; no,
nor like what I saw a few days after: but it was enongh
to affect me then, who was but a yonng sailor, and had
never known any thing of the "matter. I expected
every wave wonld have swallowed us up, and that
every time the ship fell down, as I thonght, in the
trongh or hollow of the sea, we shonld never rise more;
and in this agony of mind I made many vows and reso-
lutious, that if it wonld please God here to spare my
life this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon
dry land again, I wonld go directly home to my father,
and never set it into a ship again while I lived; that I
wonld take his advice, and never run myself into such
miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the
goodness of his observatious abont the middle station
oMife, bow easy, bow comfortably he had lived all his
days, and never had been exposed to tempests at sea,
or tronbles on shore; and I resolved that I wonld, like
a true repenting prodigal, go bome to my father.
These wise and sober thonghts continued durmg the
storm, and indeed some time after; but the next day,
as the wind was ahated, and the sea calmer, I began to
be a little inured to it: however, I was very grave for
all that day, being also still a little seasick; but towards
night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over,
and a charming fine evening followed; the suu went
down perfectly clear, and rose so next morning; and
having little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun
shining upon it, the sight was, as I thonght, the most
delightful that I ever saw.
I had slept well in the night, and was no more sea-
sick, very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea
that was so rongh and terrible the day before, and conld
be so calm and so pleasant in a little time after. And
now, lest my good resolutious shonld continue, my com-
panion, who had indeed enticed mo away, came to me
and said, "Well, Bob," clapping me on the shonlder,
"bow do yon do after it? I warra'nt yon were fright-
ened, wa'n't yon, last night, when it blew hat a cap-full
of wind?''—" A cap-full, do yon call it?" said, I; "it
was a terrible storm."—" A storm, yon fool yon," re-
plied he, " do yon call that a storm? why it was nothing;
at all; give us but a good ship and sea room, and we
think nothing of such a squall of wind as that; but
yon're but a fresh water sailor, Bob. Come, let us
make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that; do yon
see what charming weather it is now?" To make short
this sad part of my story, we went the old way of all
sailors ; the punch was made, and I was made drunk
with it; and in that one night's wickedness I drowned
all my repentance, all my reflectious upon my past con-
duct, and all my resolutious for the future. In a word,
as tbe sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and
settled calmness by the abatement of that storm, so the
Larry of my thonghts being over, my fears and appre-
hen si o us of being swallowed up by the sea being for-
gotten, and the current of my former desires returned,
I entirely forgot the vows and promises that I made in
my distress. I fonnd, indeed, some intervals of reflec-
tion; and serions thonghts did, as it were, endeavonr
to return again sometimes; but I shook them off, and
ronsed myself from them as it were from a distemper,
and applying myself to drinking and company, soon
mastered the return of those fits; for so I called them;
and I had in five or six days got as complete a victory
over couscience as any yonng fellow, that resolved not
to be tronbled with it, conld desire: but I was to have
another trial for it still; and Providence, as in such
cases generally it does, resolved to leave me entirely
withont excuse: for if I wonld not take this for a deli-
verance, the next was to be such a one as the worst
and most hardened wretch among us wonld confess
both the danger and the mercy of.
The sixth day of onr being at sea we came into Yar-
month Roads; the wind having been contrary, and the
weather calm, we had made but little way since the
storm. Here we were obliged to come to anchor, and
here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz. at sonth
west, for seven or eight days, during which time a
great many ships from Newcastle came into the same
roads, as the common harbonr where the ships might
wait for a wind for the River.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but shonld
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too
fresh; and, after we had lain fonr or five days, blew
very hard. However, the roads being reckoned as good
as a harbonr, the anchorage good,and onr gronnd tackle
very strong, onr men were unconcerned, and not in the
least appreheusive of danger, but spent the time in rest
and mirth, after the manner of the sea; but the eighth
day in the morning the wind increased, and we had all
hands at work to strike onr topmasts, and make every
thing suug and close, that the ship might ride as easy
as possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed,
and onr ship rode forecastle in, shipped several seas,
and we thonght once or twice onr anchor had come
home; upon which oar master ordered ont the sheet
*anchor; so that wo rode with two anchors ahead, and
the cables veered ont to the better end.
By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed ; and
now I began to see terror and amazement in the faces
even of the seamen themselves. The master, thongh
vigilant in the business of preserving the ship, vet as he
•Went in and ont of his cahin by me, I conld hear him
softly say to himself several times, " Lord, be merciful
to as! we shall be all lost; we shall be all undonei/' and
the like- During these first burries I was stupid, lying
still in my cahin, which was in the steerage, and cannot
describe my temper: I conld ill reassume the first pe-
nitence which I had so apparently trampled upon, and
hardened myself agaiust: I thonght the hitterness of
death had been passed, and that this wonld be nothing
like the first: but when the master himself came by
me, as I said just now, and said we shonld be alt lust,
I was dreadfully frighted: I got op ont of my cahin,
and looked ont; but such a dismal sight I never saw;
the sea went mountaius high, and broke upon us every
three or fonr minutes: when I conld look abont, I
conld see'nothing but distress aronnd us: two ships
that rid near us, we fonnd, had cut their masts by the
board, being deep laden; and onr men cried ont, that
a ship which rid abont a mile ahead of us was founder-
ed. Two more ships, being driven from their anchors,
were run ont of the roads to sea, at all adventures, and
that with not a mast standing. The light ships fared
the best, as not so much labonring in the sea; but two
or three of them drove, and came close by us, running
away with only their spritsail ont before the wind.
Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the
master of onr ship to let them cut away the foremast,
which he was_very unwilling to do: but the boatswain
protesting to him, that if he did not, the ship wonld
fonnder, he cousented; and when they had cut away
the foremast, the mainmast stood so loose, and shook
the ship so much, they were obliged to cut her away
also, and make a clear deck.
Any one may jndge what a condition I must be in at
all this, who was but a yonng sailor, and who had been
itt such a fright before at but a little. But if I can ex-
press at this distance the thonghts that I had abont me
at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon
acconnt of my former convictious, and the having re-
turned from them to the resolutious I had wickedly
taken at first, than I was at death itself; and these,
added to the terror of the storm, put rue in such a con-
dition, that I can by no words describe it. But the
worst was not come yet; the storm continued with such
fury, that the seamen themselves acknowledged they
had never known a worse. We had a good ship, but
she was deep laden, and wallowed in the sea, that the
seamen every now and then cried ont, she wonld
fonnder. It was my advantage in one respect, that I
did not know what they meant by fonnder, till I inquir-
ed. However, the storm was so violent, that I saw
what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and
some others more seusible than the rest, at their pravers,
and expecting every moment when the ship wonld go
to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under
all the rest of onr distresses, one of the men that had
been down on purpose to see, cried ont, we had sprung
aleak; another said, there was fonr foot water in the
hold. Then all hands were called to the pump. At
that very word my heart, as I thonght, died within me,
and I fell hackwards upon the side of my bed where I
sat, into the cahin. However, the men roused me, and
told me, that I, that was able to do nothing before, was
as well able to pump as another; at which I stirred dp,
and went to the pump and worked very heartily. While
this was doing, the master seeing some light colliers,
who, not able to ride ont the storm, were obliged to
slip and run away to sea, and wonld not come near us,
ordered us to fire a gun as a sigual of distress. I, who
knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised, that I
thonght the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing had
happened. In a word, I was so surprised, thai I fell
down in a swoon. As this was a time when every body
had his own Hie to think of, nobody minded me, or
what was become of me; but another man stepped up
to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let
me lie, thinking I had been dead, and it was a great
while before I came to myself.
We worked on; but the water increasing- in the
hold, it was apparent that the ship wonld fonnder; and
thongh the storm began to ahate a little, yet as it was
not possible she conld swim till we might run mto a
port, so the master continued firing guus for help; and
a light ship, who had rid it ont just a-head of us, ven-
tured a boat ont to help us. It was with the utmost
hazard the boat came near us, but it was impossible for
us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's
side, till at last the men rowing very heartily, and ven-
turing their lives to save onrs, onr men cast them a
rope over the stern with a buoy to it, and then veered
it ont a great length, which they, after great labour and
hazard, took hold of, and we hanled them close under
onr stern, and got all into their boat. It was to no
purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to
think of reaching to their own ship; so all agreed to
let her drive, and only to pull her in towards shore as
much as we could; and onr master promised them,
that if the host was staved upon shore he wonld make
it good to their master: so partly rowing and partly
driving, onr boat went away to the northward, sloping
towards the shore almost as far as Winter ton Ness.
We were not much more than a quarter of an hoar
ont of onrship before we saw her sink, and then I under-
stood for the first time what was meant by a ship fonn-
dering in the sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly
eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was sink-
ing; for from that moment they rather put me into the
boat, than that I might be said to go in; my heart was,
as it were, dead within me, partly with fright, partly
with horror of mind, and the thonghts of what was yet
before me.
While we were in this condition, the men yet labonr-
ing at the oar to bring the hmit near the shore, we
conld see (when, onr boat monnting the waves, we
were able to see the shore) a great many people running
along the strand to assist us when we shonld come
near; but we made but slow way towards the shore;
nor were we able to reach it, till, being past the light-
honse at Winterton, the shore falls off to the westward,
towards Cromer, and so the land broke oif a little the
violence of the wind. Here we got in, and, thongh not
withont much difficulty, got all safe on shore, and
walked afterwards on foot to Yarmonth, where, as un-
fortunate men, we were used with great bumanity, as
well by the magistrates of the town, who assigued us
good quarters, as by particular merchants and owners
of ships, and had money given as sufficient to carry us
either to London or hack to Hall, as we thonght fit.
Had I now had the seuse to have gone hack to Hull,
and have gone home, I had been happy, and my father,
an emblem of onr blessed Savionr's parable, had even
killed the fatted calf for me; for hearing the ship I
went away in was cast away in Yarmonth Roads, it was
a great while before he had any assurance that I was
not drowned.
But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy
that nothing conld resist; and thongh I had several
times lond calls from my reason, and my more com-
posed jndgment, to go home, yet I had no power to do
it. I know not what to call this, nor will I urge that it
is a secret overruling decree that burries us on to be
the iustruments of onr own destruction, even thongh it
be before us, and that we rush upon it with onr eyes
open. Certainly, nothing but some such decreed una-
voidable misery attending, and which it was impossible
for me to escape, conld have pushed me forward agaiust
the calm reasonings and persuasious of my most retired
thonghts, and agaiust two such visible iustructious as I
had met with in inv first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before,
and who was the master's son, was now less forward
than I. The first time be spoke to me after we were
at Yarmonth, which was not till two or three days, for
we were separated in the town to several quarters; I
•ay, the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was
altered, and looking very melancholy, and shaking his
head, asked me how I did, and telling his father who I
was, and how I had come this voyage only for a trial,
in order to go farther abroad ; his father turning to me
with a very grave and concerned tone, " Yonng man,"
says he, " yon onght never to go to sea any more; yon
onght to take this for a plain and visible token that you
•re not to be a seafaring man.—" Why, Sir," said I,
"will yon go to sea no more?" "That is another case/'
said he; "it is in v calling, and therefore my duty; but
as yon made this voyage for a trial, yon see what a
taste Heaven has given yon of what yon are to expect
if yon persist. Perhaps this has all befallen us on yoar
acconnt, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray,"
continues be, " what are yon; and on what acconnt did
yon go to sea?" Upon that I told him some of my
story; at the end of which he burst ont in a strange
kind of passion; " What had I done," says be, "that
such an unhappy wretch shonld come into my ship? I
wonld Dot set my foot in the same ship with thee again
for a thonsand ponnds." This indeed was, as I said, an
excursion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by thu
seuse of his loss, and was farther than he could have
anthority to go. However, he afterwards talked very
gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to my father,
and not tempt Providence to my ruin; told me I might
see a visible hand of Heaven agaiust me. "And yonng
man," said be, " depend upon it, if yon do not go hack,
wherever yon go, yon will meet with nothing but disas-
ters and disappointments, till yonr father's words are
fulfilled upon yon."
We parted soon after; for I made him little auswer,
and I saw him no more: which way he went, I know
not. As for me, having some money in my pocket, I
traveled to London by land; and there, as well as on
the road, had many struggles with myself, what conrse
of life I shonld take, and whether I shonld go home, or
go to sea.
As to going home, shame opposed the best notious
that oftered to my thonghts; and it immediately oc-
curred to me bow I shonld be langhed at among the
neighbonrs, and shonld be ashamed to see, not my
father and mother only, hat even every body else; from
whence I have since often observed, how incongruons
and irrational the common temper of mankind is, espe-
cially of yonth, to that reason which onght to guide
them in such cases, viz. that they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; nor ashamed of the
action for which they onght justly to bo esteemed fools,
but are ashamed of the returning, which only can make
them be esteemed wise men.
In this state of life, however, I remained some time,
uncertain what measures to take, and what conrse of
life to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to
going home; and as I stayed a while, the remembrance
of the distress I had been in wore off; and as that
ahated, Ihe little notion I had in my desires to a return
wore oif with it, till at last I quite laid aside the thonghts
of it, and looked ont for a vovage.
That evil influence which carried me first away from
my father's honse, that burried me into the wild and
indigested notion of raising my fortune ; and that im-
pressed those conceits so forcibly upon me, as to make
me deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties and
even the commands of my father: I say, the same in-
fluence, whatever it was, presented the most unfortu-
nate of all enterprises to my view; and I went on board
a vessel bonnd to the coast of Africa; or, as onr sailors
vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my great misfortune that in all these adven-
tures I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, thongh
I might indeed have worked a little harder than ordi-
nary, yet at the same time I had learned the duty and
oflice of a foremast-man; and in time might have qua-
lified myself for a mate or licutenant, if not for a master.
But as it was always my fate to choose for the worse, so
I did here; for having- money in my pocket, and good
clothes upon my back, I wonld alwavs go on board in
the hahit of a gentleman; and so I neither had any bu-
siness in the ship, or learned to do any.
It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good com-
pany in London, which does not always happen to such
loose and nnguided \onng fellows as I then was; the
devil generally not omitting to lay some suare for them
very early: but it was not so with me. I first fell ac-
quainted with the master of a ship who had been on the
coast of Guinea; and who, having had very good suc-
cess there, was resolved to go again; and who, taking
a fancy to my conversation, which was not at alt disa-
greeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind to
see the world, told me if I wonld go the voyage \viih
him I should be at no expeuse; I shonld be his mess-
mate and his companion; and if I could carry any
tiiing with me, I should have all the advantage of it
that the trade would admit; and perhaps I might meet
with some enconragement.
I embraced the offer; and entering into a strict
friendship with this captain, who was nn honest and
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and
carried a small adventure with me, which, by the disin-
terested honestv of my friend the captain, I inceased
very cousiderably; for I carried ahont £40 in such
toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy.
This £AQ I had mustered together by the assistance of
some of' my relatious whom I corresponded with, and
who, I believe, got my father, or at least my mother, to
contribute so much as that to my first adventure.
This was the only vo\age in which I may say I was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to
the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain;
under whom also I got a competent knowledge of the
mathematiesaml the rules of navigation, learned how to
keep an acconnt <-f the ship's course, take an observa-
tion, and, in short, to understand snme things that were
needful te be understood by a sailor: for, as he took
delight to iustruct me, I took delight to learn; aud, in
a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a mer-
chant: for I brought home five ponnds nine onnces of
gold-dast for my adventure, which yielded me in Lon-
don at my return almost =£300, and this filled me with
those aspiring thonghts which have so completed my
ruin.
Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too;
particularly, that I was continually sick, being thrown
mto a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the
climate; onr principal trading being upon the coast,
from the latitnde of 13 degrees north even to the line
itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, d\ing soon alter his ar-
rival, I resolved to go the same voyage again, and I
emharked in the same vessel with one who was his mate
in his former voyage, and had uow got the command of
the ship. This was the nnhappiest voyage that ever
man made; for thongh I did not carry quite jfe'iQO of
my new-gained wealth, so that I had s£200 left, and
which I lodged with my friend's widow, who was very
just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this
voyage; and the first was this, viz. onr ship making her
conrse towards the Canary Islands, or rather between
those islands and the African shore, was surprised in
the gray of the morning by a Turkish rover, of Sallee,
who gave chase to us with all the sail she conld make.
We crowded also an much canvass as onr yards wonld
spread, or onr masts carry to have got clear; but find-
ing the pirate gained upon us, and wonld certainly
come up with us in a few honrs, we prepared to fight;
our ship having twelve guus, and the rover eighteen.
Abont three in the afternoon he came up with us, and
bringing to, by mistake, just athwart onr quarter, in-
stead of athwart onr stern, as be intended, we bronght
eight of onr guus to bear on that side, and ponred in a.
broadside upon him, which made him sheer off again,
after returning onr fire, and ponring in also his small
shot from near 200 men which he had on board. How-
ever, we had not a man tonched, all onr men keeping
close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to de-
fend onrselves; but laying us on board the next time
upon onr other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our
decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the
sails and rigging. We plied them with small shot,
half pikes, powder chests, and such like, and cleared
onr deck of them twice. However, to cut short this
melancholy part of onr story, onr ship being disabled,
and three of onr men killed and eight wonnded, we
were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners
into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first
I apprehended; nor was I carried up the conntry to the
emperor's conrt, as the rest of onr men were, but was
kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize,
and made his slave, being yonng and nimble, and fit for
his business. At this surprising change of my circum-
stances, from a merchant to a miserable slave, I was
perfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked back upon
my father's prophetic disconrse to me, that I shonld be
miserable, and have none to relieve me, which I thonght
was now so eflectually bronght to pass, that I conld
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had over-
taken me, and I was undone withont redemption: but,
alas! this was but a taste of the misery I was to go
throngh, as will appear in the sequel of this story.
As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to
Iiis honse, so I was in hopes that he wonld take me with
hiui when he went to sea again, believing that it wonld
some time or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish
or Portugal man of war; and that then I shonld be set
at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken
away; for when he went to sea, be left me on shore to
Iook after his little garden, and do the common drnd-
gery of slaves abont his honse; and when he came
home again from the cruise, he ordered me to lie in the
cahin to look after the shin.
Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method I might take to eflect it, but found no way that
bad the least prohahility in it: nothing presented to
make the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody
to communicate it to that wonld emhark with me, no
fellow slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman
there but myself; so that for two years, thongh I often
pleased myself with the imagination, yet I never had
the least enconraging prospect of putting it in practice.
After abont two years an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thonght of making some at-
tempt for my liberty again in my head. My patron
lying at home longer than usual withont fitting ont his
ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money, he used
coustantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener, if
the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnace, and go
ont into the road a-fishing; and as he always took mo
and ayonng Moresco with him torow the boat, we made
him very merry, and I proved very dexterons in catch-
ing fish; iusomuch that sometimes he wonld send me
with a Moor, one of his kiusmen, and the yonth of
Moresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of fish
for hi m.
It happened one time, that going a-fishing in a stark
VOL. i. c'
calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that thongh we wero
not half a league from the shore we lost sight of it;
and rowing we knew not whither or which way, we
labonred all day, and all the next night, and when the
morning came we fonnd we had pulled off to sea in-
stead of pulling in for the shore; and that we were at
least two leagues from the shore: however, we got well
in again, thongh with a great deal of labonr and some
danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the
morning; but particularly we were all very bungry.
But onr patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to
take more care of himself for the future; and having
lying by him the long-boat of onr English ship he had
taken, be resolved he wonld not go a-fishing any more
withont a compass and some provision; so he ordered
the carpenter of his ship, who also was an English
slave, to build a little state-room, or cahin, in the mid-
dle of the long-boat, like that of a harge, with a place
to stand behind it to steer and hanl home the main-
sheet: and room before for a hand or two to stand and
work the sails; she sailed with what we call a shonlder
of mutton sail ; and the boom gibbed over the top of
the cahin, which lay very suug and low, and had in it
room for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to
eat on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles of
such liquor as he thonght fit to drink; and particularly
his bread, rice, and coffee.
We went frequently ont with this boat a-fishing, and
as I was most dexterons to catch fish for him, he never
went withont me. It happened that he had appointed
to go ont in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish,
with two or three Moors of some distinction in that
place, and for whom he had provided extraordinarily,
and had therefore sent on board the boat over-night a
larger store of provisious than ordinary; and had or-
dered me to get ready three fuzees with powder and
shot, which were on board his ship ; for that they de-
sigued some sport of fowling as well as fishing.
I got all things ready as be had directed, and waited
the next morning with the boat washed clean, her
eusigu and pendants ont, and every thing. to accommo-
date his guests; when by and by my patron came on
board alone, and told me his guests had put off going,
upon some business that fell oat, and ordered me with
the man and boy, as usual, to go ont with the boat and
catch them some fish, for that his friends were to sup
at his honse; and commanded that as soon as I got
some fish ( shonld bring it home to his honse; all which
I prepared to do.
This moment my former notious of deliverance darted
into my thonghts, for now I fonnd I was like to have a
little ship at mv command; and my master being gone,
I prepared to furnish myself, not for fishing business,
but for a voyage; thongh T knew not, neither did I so
much as cousider, whither I shonld steer; for any
where, to get ont of that place, was my way.
My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak
to this Moor, to get something for onr subsistence on
board; for I told him we must not presume to eat of
onr patron's bread; he said, that was true: so he
bronght a large hasket of rusk or hiscuit of their kind,
and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew
where my patron's case of bottles stood, which it was
evident, by the make, were taken ont of some English
prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while the
Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before for
onr master: I conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax
into the boat, which weighed above half a bundred
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a
saw, and a hammer, all which were of great use to us
afterwards, especially the wax to make candles. Ano-
ther trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came
into also; his name was Ismael, whom they call Muley,
or Moley; so I called him: "Moley," said I, "onr
patron's guus are on board the boat; can yon not get a
little powder and shot? it may be we may kill some
aloamies (a fowl like onr curlews) for onrselves, for I
know he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship.'' "Yes,"
says he, '' I'll bring some;" and accordingly he bronght
a great leather ponch which held abont a ponnd and a
half of powder, or rather more; and another with shot,
that had five or six ponnds, with some bullets, and put
all into the boat: at the same time I had fonnd some
powder of my master's in the great cahin, with which I
filled one of the large bottles in the case, which was at-
most empty, ponring what was in it into another; and
tbus furnished with everv thing needful, we sailed ont
of the port to fish. The castle, which is at the entrance
of the port, knew who we were, and took no notice of
us: and we were not above a mile ont of the port be-
fore we hanled in onr sail, and set us down to fish.
The wind blew from the N.N.E. which was contrary to
HIV desire; for had it blown sontherly, I had been sure
to have made the coast of Spain, and at least reached to
the hay of Cadiz; but my resolutious were, blow which
way it wonld, I wonld be gone from that horrid place
where I was, and leave the rest to fate.
After we had fished some time and catched nothing,
for when I had fish on my hook I wonld not pull them
up, that he might not see them, I said to the Moor,
"This will not do; onr master will not be tbus served;
we must stand farther off." He, thinking no harm,
agreed, and being in the head of the boat set the sails;
and as I had the helm I ran the boat ont near a league
farther, and then bronght her to as if I wonld fish;
when giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to
where the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for
something behind him, I took him by surprise witl) my
arm under his waist, and tossed him clear overboard
into the sea. He rose immediately, for he swam like
a cork, and called to me, begged to be taken in, told
me he wonld go all over the world with me. He swam
so strong after the boat, that he wonld have reached
me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon
which I stepped inlo the cahin, and fetching one of the
fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told Mm, I
had done him no burt, and if he wonld be quiet I
wonld do him none: "But," said I, " yon swim well
enongh to reach to the shore, and the sea is calm;
make the best of yonr wav to shore, and I will do you
no harm; but if yon come near the boat I'll shoot you
throngh the head, for I am resolved to have my liberty;"
so he turned himself abont, and swam fur the shore,
and I make no donbt but he reached it with ease, for
he was an excellent swimmer.
I conld have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was DO
venturing to trust him. When he was gone I turned
to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him,
"IX in v, if yon will be faithful to me Til make von a
great man; but if yon will not stroke yonr face to be
true to me," that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's
beard, "I must throw yon into the sea too." The boy
smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I conld
not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, and
go all over the world with me.
While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming,
I stood ont directly to sea with the boat, rather stretch-
ing to windward, that they might think me gone
towards the Straits' mouth (as indeed any one that had
been in their wits most have been supposed to do); for
ivbo would have supposed we were sailed on to the
sonthward, to the truly Barharian coast, where whole
natious of Negroes were sure to surronnd us with their
canoes, and destroy us; where we conld never once go
on shore but we shonld be devonred by savage beasts,
or more merciless savages of bumankind!
But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed
my conrse, ami steered directly sonth and by east, bend-
ing my conrse a little toward the east, that I might
keep in with the shore; and having a fair, fresh gale of
wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail that I
believe by the next day at three o'clock in the after-
noon, when I first made the land, I conld not be less
than 150 miles south of Sallee; quite beyond the Em-
peror of Morocco's dominious, or indeed of any other
king thereabont, for we saw no people.
Yet such was the fright I bad taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful appreheusious I had of falling into
their hands, that I wonld not stop, or go on shore, or
come to an anchor; the wind continuing fair till I had
sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind
shifting to the sonthward, I conclnded also that if any
of onr vessels were in chase of me, they also wonld now
give over; so I ventured to make to the coast, and
come to anchor in the month of a little river, I knew
not what, or where; neither what latitnde, what conn-
try, what nation, or what river: I neither saw, nor de-
sired to see, any people; the principal thing I wanted
was fresh water. We oame into this creek in the erod-
ing, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was dark,
and discover the conntry; but, as soon as it was quite
dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the harking,
roarmg, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew Dot
what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with
fear, and begged of me not to go on shore till day.
"Well, Xury," said I, "then I won't; hat it may be
we may see men by day, who will be as had to us as
those lious."—"Then we give them the shoot gun,"
says Xury, langhing, "make them ran wey." Such
English Xury spoke by conversing among as slaves.
However I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I
gave him a dram (ont of onr patron's case of bottles) to
cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was good, and
I took it; we dropped onr little anchor, and lay still all
night; I say still, for we slept none, for in two or three
honrs we saw vast great creatures (we koew not what
to call them) of many sorts, come down to the seashore
and run into the water, wallowing and washing them-
selves for the pleasure of cooling themselves; and they
made such hideons howlings and yellings, that I never
indeed heard the like.
Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I
too; but we were both more frightened when we heard
one of these mighty creatures come swimming towards
onr boat; we conld not see him, but we might hear
him by his blowing to be a moustrons buge and furions
beast; Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so for
anght I know; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh
the anchor and row away: "No," says I, '' Xury; we
can slip onr cable with the buoy to it, and go oif to sea;
they cannot follow us far." I had no sooner said so,
but I perceived the creature (whatever it was) within
two oars' length, which something surprised me; how-
ever, I immediately stepped to the cahin door, and tak-
ing op my gun, fired at him; upon which he immedi-
ately turned abont, and swam towards the shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises,
nd hideons cries and howlings, that were raised, as
well upon the edge of the shore as higher within the
conntry, upon the noise or report of the gun, a thing I
have some reason to believe those creatures had never
beard before: this convinced me that there was no
Soing on shore for as in the night upon that coast, and
ow to venture on shore in the day was another ques-
tion too; for to have fallen into the hands of any of the
savages had been as had as to have*fallen into the hands
of lious and tigers; at least we were equally apprehen-
sive of the danger of it.
Be that as it wonld, we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint left
in the boat; when or where to get it, was the point:
Xury said, if I wonld let him go on shore with one of
the jars, be wonld find if there was any water, and
bring some to me. I asked him why he wonld go?
why I shonld not go, and he stay in the boat? The boy
auswered with so much affection, that made me love
him ever after. Says he, " If wild maus come, they eat
me, yon go wey."—" Well, Xury," said I, "we will
both go, and if the wild maus come, we will kill them,
they shall eat neither of us." So I gave Xury a piece
of rusk bread to eat, and a dram ont of onr patron's case
of bottles which I mentioned before; and we hanled
the boat in as near the shore as we thonght was proper,'
and so waded to shore; carrying nothing but onr arms,
and two jars for water.
I did not care to go ont of sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river: but
the boy seeing a low place abont a mile up the conntry,
rambled to it; and by and by I saw him come running
towards me. I thonght he was pursued by some
savage, or frighted with some wild beast, and I ran for-
ward towards him to help him, but when I came nearer
to him, I saw something hanging over his shonlders,
which was a creature that he had shot, like a hare, bat
different in colonr, and longer legs; however, we were
very glad of it, and it was very good meat; but the
great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he
had Ibund good water, and seen no wild maus.
But we fonnd afterwards that we need not take such
paius for water, for a little higher up the creek where
we were, we fonnd the water fresh when the tide was
ont, which flows but a little way up; so we filled onr
jars, aml feasted on the hare we had killed, and pre-
pared to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of
any buman creature in that part of the conntry.
As I had been one voyage to this coast hefore, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and the
Cape de Yerd islands also, lay not far offfrom the coast.
lint as I had no iustruments to take an observation to
know what latitnde we were in, and not exactly know-
ing, or at least remembering, what latitnde they were
in, I knew not where to look for them, or when to
stand off lo sea towards them; otherwise I might now
easily have found some of these islands. But my hope
was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to that
part where the English traded, I shonld find some of
their vessels upon their usual desigu of trade, that
wonld relieve and take us in.
By the best of my calculation, that place where I now
was, must be that conntry, which, lying between the
emperor of Morocco's dominious and the Negroes, lies
waste, and uninhahited, except by wild beasts; the Ne-
groes having ahandoned it, and gone farther sonth for
fear of the Moors; and the Moors not thinking it worth
'inhahiting, by reason of its harrenness; and indeed
both forsaking it becanse of the prodigions numbers of
tigers, lious, and leopards, and other furions creatures
which harbour .there; so that ihe Moors use it for their
bunting only, where they go like an army, two or three
thonsand men at a time; and indeed for nearan bundred
miles together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a
waste, uninhahited country by dav, and heard nothing
but howlings and roaring of wild beasts by night.
Once or twice in the day-time I thonght I saw the
Pico of Tenerifte, being the high top of the Monntain
Tenerifle in the Canaries; and had a great mind to ven-
ture ont, in the hopes of reaching thither; but having
tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds,
the sea also going too high for my httle vessel ; so I
resolved to pursue my tirst desigu, and keep along the
shore.
Several times I was ohliged to land for fresh water,
after we had left this place; and once in particular,
being early in the mornmg, we came to an anchor under
a little point of land which was pretty high; and the
tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther in.
Xury, whose eyes were more abont him than it seems
mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me that we had
best go farther off the shore; " for," says he, " look
yonder lies a dreadful mouster on the side of that hil-
lock fast asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw
a dreadful mouster indeed, for it was a terrible great
lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the shade
of a piece of the hill that bung as it were a little over
him. '' Xury/' says I, '' you shall go on shore and kill
him." Xury looked frightened, and said, "Me kill!
he eat me at one month ;" one monthful he meant: how-
ever, I said uo more to the boy, but had him lie still,
and I took onr higgest gun, which was almost musket-
bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and
with two slugs, and laid it down; then I loaded another
gun with two bullets; and the third (for we had three
pieces), I loaded with five smaller bullets. I took the
best aim I conld with the first piece to have shot Mm in
the head, but he lay so with his leg raised a little above
his nose, that the slugs hit his leg abont the knee, and
broke the bone. He started up, growling at first, but
finding his teg broke, felt down again, and then got up
upon three legs, and gave the most hideons roar that
ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not
bit him on the head; however I took up the second
iece immediately, and, thongh he began to move oft',
red again, and shot him in the head, and had the plea-
sure to see him drop, and make but little noise, but lie
struggling for life. Then Xury look heart, and wonld
have me let him go on shore ; " Well, go," said I; so
the boy jumped into the water, and taking a little gun
in one hand, swum to shore with the other, and coming
close to the creature, put the muzzle of the piece to his
ear, and shot him in the head again, which dispatched
him quite.
This was game indeed to us, but this was no food;
and I was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and
shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us.
However, Xury said he wonld have some of him; so
be comes on board, and asked me to give him the hat-
p
fi
chet. "For what, Xury?" said I, "Me cut off his
head," said he. However, Xury conld not cut off his
head, but be cut off a foot, and bronght it with him, and
it was a moustrons great one.
I bethonght myself however, that perhaps the skin of
him might one way or other be of some value to us;
and I resolved to take off his skin if I cuuld. So Xury
and I went to work with him; but Xury was much the
better workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do it.
Indeed it took us both up the whole day, but at last we
got off the hide of him, and spreading it on the top of
onr cahin, the sun effectually dried it in two days' time,
and it afterwards served me to lie upon.
After this stop, we made on to the sonthward conti-
nually for ten or twelve days, living very sparing on
onr provisious, which began to ahate very much, and
going no oftener into the shore than we were obliged
to for fresh water: my desigu in this was, to make the
river Gamhia or Senegal, that is to say, any where abont
the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes to meet with
some liuropean ship; and if I did not, I knew not what
coarse I had to take, but to seek for the islands, or
perish there among the Negroes. I knew that all the
ships from Europe, which sailed either to the coast of
Guinea or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this
Cape, or those islands; and in a word, I put the whole
of my fortune upon this single point, cither that I must
meet with some ship, or must perish.
When I had pursued this resolution abont ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land was
inhahited; and in two or three places, as we sailed by,
we saw people stand upon the shore to look at us; we
conld also perceive they were quite black, and stark
naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to
them; but Xury was my better conusellor, and said to
me, " No go, no go." However, I hanled in nearer
the shore that I might talk to them, and I fonnd they
run along the shore by me a good way: I observed
they had no weapous in their hands, except one, who
had a long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance,
and that they wonld throw them a great way with a
good aim; so I kept at a distance, but talked with Ihcm
by sigus as well as I conld ; and particularly made sigus
for something to eat; they beckoned to me to stop my
boat, and they wonld fetch me some meat. Upon this
I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and two of
them ran up into the country, and in less than half an
hoar came hack, and bronght with them two pieces of
dry flesh and some corn, such as is the produce of their
conntry ; but we neither knew what the one or the other
was: however, we were willing to accept it, but bow to
come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for ven-
turing on shore to them, and they were as much afraid
of as: but they took a safe way for us all, for they
bronght it to the shore and laid it down, and went and
stood a great way oif till we fetched it on board, and
then came close to us again.
We made sigus of thanks to them, for we had nothing
to make them amends: but an opportunity oflered that
very iustant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we
were lying by the shore came two mighty creatures,
one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great fury
from the monntaius towards the sea; whether it was
the male pursuing the female, or whether they were in
sport or rage, we conld not tell, any more than we conld
tell whether it was usual or strange, but I believe it
was the latter; becanse, in the first place, those ra-
renons creatures seldom appear but in the night; and
in the second place, we fonnd the people terribly fright-
ened, especially the women. The man that had the
lance or dart did not fly from them, but the rest did;
however, as the two creatures ran directly into the
water, they did not seem to oiler to fall upon any of the
Negroes, but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam
abont, as if they had come for their diversion: at last,
one of them began to come nearer our boat than I at
first expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded
my gao with all possible expedition, and hade Xin-y
load both the others. As soon as he came fairly within
m v reach, I fired, and shot him directly in the head:
immediately he sunk down into the water, but rose in-
stantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was strug-
gling for life, and so indeed he was: he immediately
made to the shore; but between the wonnd, which was
his mortal burt, and the strangling of the water, he died
just before he reached the shore.
It is impossible to express the astonishment of these
poor creatures at the noise and fire of my gun; some
of them were even ready to die for fear, and fell down
as dead with the very terror; but when they saw the
creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that I made
sigus to them to come to the shore, they took heart and
came to the shore, and began to search for the creature.
I fonnd him by his blood staining the water; and by the
help of a rope, which I slung ronnd him, and gave the
Negroes to hanl, they dragged him on shore, and fonnd
that it was a most curions leopard, spotted, and fine to
an admirable degree; and the Negroes held up their
hands with admiration, to think what it was I had killed
him with.
The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire
and the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up di-
rectly to the monntaius from whence they came; nor
conld I, at that distance, know what it was. I fonnd
quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh of this
creature, so I was witling to have them take it as a fa-
vonr from me; which, when I made sigus to them that
they might take him, they were very thankful for. Im-
mediately they fell to work with him; and thongh they
had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, they
took off his skin as readily, and much more readily,
than we conld have done with a knife. They ottered
me some of the flesh, which I declined, making as if I
wonld give it them, but made sigus for the skin, which
they gave me very freely, and bronght me a great deal
more of their provisious, which, thongh [ did not un-
derstand, yet I accepted. I then made sigus to them
for some water, and held ont one of my jars to them,
turning it bottom upwards, to show that it was empty,
and that I wanted to have it filled. They called imme-
diately to some of their friends, and there came two
women, and bronght a great vessel made of earth, and
burned, as I suppose, in the sun; this the}- set down to
me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars,
and filled them all three. The women were as stark
naked as the men.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it
was, and water; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I
made forward for abont eleven days more, withont
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run ont
a great length into the sea, at abont the distance of fonr
or five leagues before me; and the sea being very calm,
I kept a large ofling, to make this point. At length,
donbling the point, at abont two leagues from the land,
I saw plainly land on the other side, to seaward: then I
conclnded, as it was most certain indeed, that this was
the Cape de Yerd, and those the islands, called, from
thencc, Cape de Verd islands. However, they were at
a great distance, and I conld not well tell what I had
best to do; for if I shonld be taken with a gale of wind,
I might neither reach one nor the oiher.
la this dilemma, as I was very peusive, I stepped
into the cahin, and sat me down, Xury having the
helm; when, on a sndden, the boy cried ont, Master,
master, a ship with a sail! and the foolish boy was
frightened ont of his wits, thinking it must needs be
some of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I
knew we were gotten far enongh ont of their reach. I
jumped ont of the cuhin, and immediately saw, not only
the ship, but what siii: was, viz. that it was a Portuguese
ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the coast of Gui-
nea, for Negroes. But, when I observed the conrse she
steered, I was soon convinced they were bonnd some
other way, and did not desigu to come any nearer to the
shore: upon which I stretched ont to sea as much as I
conld, resolving to speak with them, if possible.
With all the sail I conld make, I fuund I shonld not
be able to come in their way, but that they wonld be
gone by before I conld make any sigual to them: but
after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to despair,
they, it seems, saw me, by the help of their perspective
glasses, and that it was some European boat, which,
they supposed, must belong to some sh:.> that was lust;
so they shortened sail, to let me come up. I was en-
conraged with this, and as I had my patron's eusigu on
board, I made a waft of it to them, for a sigual of dis-
tress, and fired a gun, both which they saw; for they
told me Ibey saw the smoke, though thin- did nut hear
the gun. Upon these signals, they very kindly bronght
to, and lay by for me; and in abont three honrs time I
came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, in Spanish,
and in French, but I understood none of them; but, at
last, a Scotch sailor, who was on board, called to me,
and I auswered him, and told him I was an Englishman,
that I had made my escape ont of slavery from the
Moors, at Sallee: they then hade me come on board,
and very kindly took me in, and all my goods.
It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will
believe, that I was tbus delivered, as I esteemed it, from
such a miserable, and almost hopeless condition as I
was in; and I immediately offered all I had to the cap-
tain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but he
generonsly told me, he wonld take nothing from me,
but that all I had shonld be delivered safe to me, when
I came to the Brazils. "For," says he, " I have saved
yonr life on no other terms than I wonld be glad to be
saved myself; and it may, one time or other, be my lot
to be taken up in the same condition. Besides," con-
tinued he, "when I carry yon to the Brazils, so great a
way from yonr own conntry, if I shonld take from yon
what yon have, yon will be starved there, and then I
onlv take away that life I have given. No, no, Seiguior
Inglese" (Mr. Englishman), says he; "I will carry
yon thither in charity, and these things will help to
buy yonr subsistence there, and yonr passage home
again."
As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just
in the performance, to a tittle; for he ordered the sea-
men, that none shonld offer to tonch any thing I had:
then be took every thing into his own possession, and
gave me hack an exact inventory of them, that I might
have them, even so much as my three earthero jars.
As to my boat, it was a very good one; and that he
saw, and told u;e he wonld buy it of me for the ship's
use; and asked me what I wonld have for it? I told
him, he had been so generons to me in every thing, that
I conld not offer to make any price of the boat, but left
it entirely to him: upon which, he told me he wonld
give me a note of hand to pay me eighty pieces of eight
for it at Brazil; and wlicii it came there, if any one of-
fered to give more, be wonld make it up. He oftered
me also sixty pieces of eight more for my boy Xury,
which I was loath to take; not that I was not willing to
let the captain have him, but I was very loath to sell the
poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me so faithfully in
procuring my own. However, when I let him know my
reason, he owned it to be just, and offered me this me-
dinm, that he wonld give the boy an obligation to set
him free in ten years, if he turned Christian: upon this,
and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let tho
captain have him.
We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and ar-
rived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints'
Bay, in abont twenty-two days after. And now I was
once more delivered from the most miserable of all
conditious of life; and what to do next with myself I
was now to cousider.
The generons treatment the captain gave me I can
never enongh remember . he wonld take nothing of me
for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's
skin, and forty for tho lion's skiii which I had m my
boat, and cansed every thing I had in the ship to be
punctually delivered to me; and what I was willing to
sell be bonght of me; sudi as the case of bottles, two
of my guus, and a piece of the lamp of bees-wax,—for
I had made candles of the rest: in a word, j made abont
two bundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo;
and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brazils.
I had not been long here before I was recommended
to the bonse of a good honest man, like himself, who
had an ingeino, as they call it (that is, a plantation and
a sngar house). I lived with him some time, and ac-
quainted myself, by that meaus, with the manner of
planting and making of sugar: and seeing how well the
planters lived, and how they got rich snddenly, I re-
solved, if I conld get a licence to settle there, I wonld
t urn planter among them: endeavonring in the mean
time, to find ont some way to get my money, which I
had left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose,
getting a kind of a letter of naturalization, I purchased
as much land that was nnonred as my nioney wonld
reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and settle-
ment ; such a one as might be suitable to the stock which
I proposed to myself to receive from England.
I had a neighbonr, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born
of English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much
such circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbonr,
becanse his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on
very sociably together. My stock was but low, as well
as his; and we rather planted for food than any thing
else, for about two years. However, we began to in-
crease, and onr land began to come into order; so that
the third year we planted some tohacco, and inage each
of us a large piece of gronnd ready for planting canes
in the year to come: but we both wanted help; and
now I fonnd, more than before, I had done wrong in
parting with my boy Xury.
But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right,
was no great wonder. I had no remedy, but to go on:
1 had got into an employment quite remoteto my genins,
and directly contrary to the life I delighted in, and for
which I forsook my father's honse, and broke throngh
all his good advice: nay, I was coming into the very
middle station, or upper degree of low life, which my
father advised me to before; and which, if I resolved
to go on with, I might as well have staid at home, and
never have fatigued myself in the world, as I had done:
and I used often to say to myself, I conld have done
this as well in England, among my friends, as have gone
five thonsand miles of}'to do it among strangers and sa-
vages in a wilderness, and at such a distance, as never
to hear from any part of the world that had the least
knowledge of me.
In this manner I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with,
but now and then this neighbonr; no work to be done,
but by the labonr of my bands: and I used to s;iv, I
lived just like a man cast away upon some desolate
island, that had nobody there but himself. But bow
just has it been! and how shonld all men reflect, that
when they compare their present conditious with others
that are worse, Heaven may oblige them to make the
exchange, and be convinced of iheir former felicity by
their experience: I say, how just has it been, that the
truly solitary lite I reflected on, in an island of mere
desolation, shonld be my lot, \vbo had so often unjustly
compared it with the life which I then led, in which,
had I continued, I had in all prohahility, been exceed-
ing prosperons and rich.
I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation, before my kind friend, the
captain of the ship that took me up at sea, went hack;
for the ship remained there, in providing his lading,
and preparing for his voyage, near three months ; when,
telling him what little stock I had left behind rue in
London, he gave me this friendly and sincere advice:
"Seiguior Inglese," says he, for so he always called
me, " if yon will give me letters, and a procuration here
in form to me, with orders to the person who has yonr
money in London, to send yonr effects to Lisbon, to
such persous as I shall direct, and in such goods as are
proper for this conntry, L will bring yon the produce nf
them, God willing, at my return; but, since human af-
fairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I would
have yon give orders for but one bundred ponnds ster-
ling, which, yon say, is half yonr stock, and let the ha-
zard be run for the first, so that if it come safe, yon mav
order the rest the same way; and, if it miscarry, yon
may have the other half to have reconrse to for yonr
supply."
This was so wholesome ad vice, and looked so friendly,
that I conld not but be convinced it WHS the best conrse
I conld take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the
gentlewoman with whom I left my money, and a procu-
ration to the Portuguese captain, as he desired me.
I wrote the English captain's widow a full acconnt of
all my adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I had
met with the Portuguese captain at sea, the bumanity of
his behavionr, and what condition I was now in, with
alt other necessary directious for mv supplv; and when
this honest captain came to Lisbon, he fonnd meaus, by
some of the English merchants there, to send over, not
the order only, but a full acconnt of my story to a mer-
chant at London, who represented it effectual I v to her:
whereupoD she uot onl\ delivered the money, but, ont
VOL. i. I>
of her own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very
handsome present for his Immunity and charity to me.
The merchant in London, vesting this bundred ponnds
in English goods. such as the captain had wrote for, sent
them directly to him at Lisbon, and he bronght them
all safe to me at the Brazils: among which, withont my
direction (for I was too young in my business to think
of them), he had taken care to have all sorts of tools,
iron work, and uteusils, necessary for my plantation,
and which were of great use to me.
When this cargo arrived, I thonght my fortune made,
for I was surprised with the joy of it; and my good
steward, the captain, had laid ont the five ponnds,
which my friend had sent him as a present for himself,
to purchase and bring me over a servant, under bond
for six years' service, and wonld not accept of any con-
sideration, except a little tohacco, which I would have
him accept, being of my own produce.
Neither was this all: but my goods being all English
manufacture, such as cloths, si nifs, haize, and things
particularly valuable and desirable in the conntry, I
fonnd meaus to sell them to a very great advantage; so
that I might say, I had more than fonr times the value
of my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my
poor neighbonr, I mean in the advancement of mv plan-
tation: for the first thing I did, I bonght me a Negro
slave, and an European servant also; I mean another,
besides that which the captain bronght me from Lisbon.
But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very
meaus of onr adversity, so was it with me. I went en
the next year with great success in my plantation: I
raised fifty great rolls of tohacco on my own gronnd,
more than I had disposed of for necessaries among my
neighbonrs; and these fifty rolls, being each of above
a bundred weight, were well cured, and laid by agaiust
the return of the Hcet from Lisbon: and now, increasing
in business and in wealth, my head began to be full of
projects ~ 'il undertakings beyond mv reach ; such as
are, indced, often the ruin of the best heads in business.
Had I continued in the station I WHS now in, I had room
for all the happy things to have yet befallen me, for which
my father so earnestly recommended a quiet, retired
life, and which he had so sensibly described the middle
station of life to be fall of: but other things attended
me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of all my own
miseries; and particularly, to increase my fanlt, and
donble the reflectious upon myself, which in my future
sorrows I shonld have leisure to make, all these mis-
carriages were procured by my apparent obstinate ad-
hering to my foolish inclination of wandering abont,
and pursuing that inclination, in contradiction to the
clearest views of doing myself good in a fair and plain
pursuit of those prospects, and those measures of life,
which nature and providence concurred to present me
with, and to make my duty.
As I had once done tbus in breaking awav from my
parents, so I conld not be content now, but I must go
and leave the happy view I had of being a rich and
thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a
rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the
nature of the thing admitted; and tbus I cast myself
down again into the deepest gulf of buman misery that
ever man fell into, or perhaps conld be cousistent with
lifc, and a state of health in the world.
To come, then, by just degrees, to the particulars of
ihis part of my story:—Yon may suppose, that having
now lived almost fonr years in the Brazils, and begin-
ning to thrive and prosper very well upon mv planta-
tion, I had not only learned the language, but had
contracted an acquaintance and friendship among my
fellow planters, as welt as among the merchants at St.
Salvador, which was our port; and that, in my dis-
conrses among them, I had frequently given them an
acconnt of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the
manner of trading with the Negroes there, and how
easy it was to purchase on the coast for trifles—such as
beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets, hits of glass, and
the like—not only gold dust, Guinea graius, elephants'
teeth, &c. but Negroes, for the service of the Biazils,
in great numbers.
They listened always very attentively to my dis-
conrses on these heads, but especially to that part
which related to the buying Negroes; which was a
trade, at that time, not only not far entered into, but,
as far as it was, had been carried on by the assientos, or
permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and en-
grossed from the public; so that few Negroes were
bonght, and those excessive dear.
It happened, being in company with some merchants
and planters of inv acquaintance, and talking of those
thingsvery earnestly, three of'them came to me the next
morning, and told me they had been musing verv much
upon what I had disconrsed with them of the last night,
and they came to make a secret proposal to me: and,
after enjoining me to secrecy, they told me that they had
a mind to fit ont a ship to go to Guinea; that thev hnd
all plantatious as well as I, and were straitened for no-
thing so much as servants; that as it was a trade that
conld not be carried on, becanse they conld not pub-
licly sell the Negroes when they came home, so they
desired to make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes
on shore privately, and divide them among their own
flantatious: and, in a word, the question was, whether
would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage the
trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and ihey offered
me that I should have an equal share of the Negroes,
withont providing any part of the stock.
This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed, had
it been made to any one that had not a settlement and
plantation of his own to look after, which was in a fair
way of coming to be very cousiderable, and with a good
stock upon it. But for me, that was tbus entered and
established, and had nothing to do but go on as I had
begun, for three or four years move, and to have sent
for the other bundred ponnds from England; and who,
in that time, with that little addition, conld scarce have
failed of being worth three or fonr thonsand ponnds
sterling, and that increasing too; for me to think of such
a vovage was the most preposterons thing that a man,
in such circumstances, conld be guilty of.
But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, conld
no more resist the ofler than I conld restrain my first
rambling desigus, when my father's good couusel was
lost upon me. In a word, I told them I wonld go with
all my heart, if they wonld undertake to look after my
plantation in my absence, and wonld dispose of it to
such as I shonld direct, if I miscarried. This they all
engaged to do, and entered into writings or covenants
to do so: and I made a formal will, disposing of my
plantation and effects, in case of mv death; making the
captain of the ship that had saved my life, as before,
my universal heir; hat obliging him to dispose of my
effects as I had directed in my will; one half of the
produce being to himself, and the other to be shipped
to England.
In short, I took all possible cantion to preserve my
effects, and to keep up my plantation: had I used half
as much prndence to have looked into my own interest,
and have made a jndgment of what I onght to have
done, and not to have done, I had certainly never gone
away from so prosperons an undertaking, leaving all
the prohable views of a thriving circumstance, and
gone a voyage to sea, attended with all its common ha-
zards, to say nothing of the reasous I had to expect par-
ticular misfortunes to myself.
But I was burried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates
of my fancy rather than my reason: and accordingly,
the ship being fitted ont, and the cargo furnished, and
all things done as by agreement, by my partners in the
vovage, I went on board in an evil honr again, the 1st
of September, 1659, being the same day eight years that
I went from my father and mother at Hull, in order to
act the rebel to their anthority, and the fool to my own
interest.
Our ship was abont one bundred and twenty tous
burden, carried six guus, and fonrteen men, besides the
master, his boy, and myself; we had on board no large
cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit for onr
trade with the Negroes, such as beads, hits of glass,
shells, and odd trifles, especially little looking-glasses,
knives, scissars, hatchets, and the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to the northward upon onr own coast, with design
to stretch over for the African coast. When they came
to abont ten or twelve degrees of northern latitnde,
which, it seems, was the manner of their course in those
days, we had very good weather, only excessive hot all
the way upon onr own coast, till we came to tho height
of Cape St. Aagustino; from whence, keeping farther
oft' at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we
were bound for the isle of Fernando de Noronha, bold-
ing onr conrse N- E. by N. aiid leaving those isles on
ibe east, hi Ihis conrse we passed the Line in abont
tweh e days' time, and were, by onr last observation, in
7 degrees U-J minutes northern latitnde, when a violent
tornado, or burricane, took us quite oat of onr know-
ledge: it began from the sooth-east, came about to the
north-west, and then settled in the north-east; from
whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that for twelve
days together we conld do nothing but drive, and, scud-
ding away before it, let it carry us whither ever fate
and the fury of the winds directed ; and, during these
twelve davs, I need not say that I expected every day
to be swallowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship
expect to save their hves.
In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the
storm, one of onr men died of the calenture, and one
man and a boy washed overboard. About the twelfth
day, the weather ahating a little, the master made an
observation as well as he conld, and found that be was
in abont 11 degrees north latitnde, but that he was 22
degrees of longitnde difference, west from Cape St. Au-
gustino; so that he fonnd he was got upon the coast of
Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river
Amazous, toward that of the river Oroonoque, com-
monly called the Great River; and began to cousult
wiih me what conrse he shonld take, for the ship was
leaky and very much disabled, and be was for going
directly hack to the coast of Brazil.
I was positively agaiust that; and looking over tbe
charts of the seacoast of America with hini, we con-
clnded there was no inhahited conntry for us to have
reconrse to, till we came within the circle of the Carib-
bee islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for
Barbadoes; which by keeping offto sea, to avoid the
indraft of the hay or gulf of Mexico, we might easily
perform, as we hoped, in abont fifteen days' sail; where-
as we could not possibly make onr voyage to the coast
of Africa withont some assistance, both to onr ship and
onrselves.
With this desigu, we changed oar coarse, and steer-
ed away N. W. by W. ia order to reach some of onr
English islands, where I hoped for relief: but onr
voyage was otherwise determined; for, being in the
latitnde of 12 decrees 18 minutes, a second storm came
upon us, which carried us away with the same impetu-
osity westward, and drove us so ont of the very way of
all buman commerce, that had all onr lives been saved,
as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being de-
voured by savages, than ever returning to onr own
conntry.
In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one
of onr men early in the morning cried ont, Land! and
we had no sooner run ont of the cahin to look ont, in
hopes of seeing whereabonts in the world we were, hat
the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her
motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in
such a manner, that we expected we shonld all have
perished immediately; and we were immediately driven
into onr close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam
and spray of the sea.
1t is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the cousterna-
tion of men in such circumstances; we knew nothing
where we were, or upon what land it was we were
driven, whether an island or the main, whether inha-
hited or not inhahited; and as the rage of the wind was
still great, thongh rather less than at first, we conld not
so much as hope to have the ship bold many minutes,
withont breaking in pieces, unless the wind, by a kind
of miracle, should immediately turn abont. In a word,
we sat looking upon one another, and expecting death
every moment, and every man acting accordingly, as
preparing for another world; for there was little or no-
thing more for us to do in this: that which was onr
present comfort, and all the comfort we had, was, that
contrary to onr expectation, the ship did not break yet,
and that the master said the wind began to abate.
Now, thongh we thonght that the wind did a little
ahate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting off,
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing
to. do bat to think of saving onr lives as well as we
conld. We had a boat at oar stern just before the
storm, but she was first staved by dashing agaiust the
ship's rndder, and, in the next place, she broke away,
and either sunk or was driven off to sea; so there was
no hope from her: we had another boat on board, bat
how to get her off into the sea was a donbtful thing:
however, there was no room to dehate, for we fancied
the ship wonld break in pieces ever}- minute, and some
told us she was actually broken already.
In this distress, the mate of onr vessel laid hold of
the boat, and with the help of the rest of the men, they
fot her flung over the ship's side; and getting all into
er, let her go, and committed onrselves, being eleven
in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea: for
thongh the storm was ahated cousiderably, yet the sea
went dreadful high upon the shore, and might be well
called den wild zee, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.
Aud now onr case was very dismal indeed; for we
all saw plainly, that the sea went so high that the boat
conld not live, and that we shonld be inevitably drown-
ed. As to makhig sail, we had none; nor, if we had,
oonld we have done any thing with it; so we worked
at the oar towards the land, thongh with heavy hearts,
like men going to execution; for we all knew that
when the boat came nearer to the shore, she wonld be
dashed in a thonsand pieces by the breach of the sea.
However, we committed onr sonls to God in the most
earnest manner; and the wind driving us towards the
shore, we hastened our destruction with onr own hands,
pulling as well as we conld towards land.
What the shore was—whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal—we knew not; the only hope that conld
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was,
if we might happen into some hay or gulf, or the month
of some river, where by great chance we might have
run onr boat in, or got under the lee of the land, and
perhaps made smooth water, tint there was nothing of
this appeared; and as we made nearer and nearer the
shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.
After we had rowed, or rather driven, abont a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-
like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly hade us ex-
pect the conp de grace. In a word, it took as with such
a fury, that it overset the boat at once; and separating
as, as well from the boat as from one another, gave us
not time hardly to say, " O God!" for we were all
swallowed up in a moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thonght which
I felt when I sunk into the water; for thongh I swam
very well, yet I conld not deliver myself from the waves
so as to draw my breath, till that wave having driven
me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards the
shore, and having spent itself, went hack, and left me
upon the land almost dry, but half dead with the water
I took in. I had so much presence of mind, as well as
breath left, that seeing myself nearer the main land
than I expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavonred
to make on towards the land as fast as I conld, before
another wave shonld return and take me up again; but
I soon fonnd it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw
the sea come after me as high as a great hill, and as
furious as an enemy, which I had no meaus or strength
to contend with: my business was to hold my breath,
and raise mvsclf upon the water, if I conld ; and so, by
swimming, to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself
towards the shore, if possible; my greatest concern
now being, that the wave, as it wonld carry me a great
way towards the shore when it came on, might not
carry me hack agam with it when it gave hack towards
the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me at
once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body; and I
conld feel myself carried with a mighty force and
swiftness towards the shore a very great way; but I
held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still for-
ward with all my might. I was ready to burst with
holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising up, so,
to my immediate relief, I fonnd my head and hands
shoot ont above the surface of the water; and though
it was not two seconds of time that I conld keep myself
so, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath, and new
conrage. I was covered again with water a good
while, but not so long but I held it ont; and finding
the water had spent itself, and began to return, I struck
forward agaiust the return of the waves, and felt gronnd
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments, to
recover breath, and till the water went from me, and
then took to my heels, and ran with what strength I
had further towards the shore. But neither wonld
this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came
ponring in after me again; and twice more I was lilted
up by ihi; waves and carried forwards as before, the
shore being very flat.
The last time of these two had well nigh been fatal
to me; for the sea having burried me along, as before,
landed me, or rather dashed me against a piece of a
rock, and that with such force, that it left me seuseless,
and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance; for the
blow taking my side and breast, beat the breath, as it
were, quite ont of my body; and had it returned again
immediately, I must have been strangled in the water:
but I recovered a little before the return of the waves,
and seeing I shonld again be covered with water, I re-
solved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to hold
my breath, if possible, till the wave went hack. Now
as the waves were not so high as the first, being nearer
land, I held my bold till the wave ahated, and then
fetched another run, which bronght me so near the
shore, that the next wave, thongh it went over me, yet
did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the
next run I took, I got to the main land ; where, to my
great comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the shore,
and sat me down upon the grass, free from danger, and
quite ont of the reach of the water.
I was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to
look up and thank God that my life was saved, in a
case wherein there were, some minutes before, scarce
any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to ex-
press, to the life, what the eestasies and trausports of
the sonl are, when it is so saved, as I may say, ont of
the grave: and I did not wonder now at the custom,
viz. that when a malefactor, who has the halter abont
his nock, is tied up, and just going to bo turned off,
and has a reprieve bronght to him; I say, I do not
wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let him
blood that very moment they tell him of it, that the sur-
prise may not drive the animal spirits from the heart,
and overwhelm him.
For sudden joys, like griefs, confonnd at fust,
I walked abont on the shore, lifting up my hands,
and my whole being, as I may say, wrapped up in the
contemplation of my deliverance; making a thonsand
gestures and motious which I cannot describe; reflect-
ing upon my comrades thai were drowned, and that
there shonld not be one sonl saved but myself; for, as
for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any sigu of
them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes
that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel—when the
breach and froth of the sea being so hig I could hardly
«ee it, it lay so far off—and cousidered, Lord! how
was it possible I conld get on shore?
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look ronnd me, to see
what kind of a place I was in, and what was next to be
done; and I soon fonnd my comforts ahate, and that, in
a word, I had a dreadful deliverance; for I was wet,
had no clothes to shift me, nor any thing either to eat
or drink, to comfort me; neither did I see any prospect
before me, but that of perishing with bunger, or being
devonred by wild beasts: and that which was particu-
larly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon, either
to bunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to
defend myself agaiust any other creature that might
desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I had nothing
about me but a knife, a tohacco-pipe, and a little to-
hacco in a box. This was all my provision, and this
threw me into such terrible agonies of mind, that, for a
while I ran abont like a madman. Night coming upon
me, I began, with a heavy heart, to cousider what
wonld be my lot if there were any ravenons beasts in
that conntry, seeing at night they always come abroad
for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thonghts, at that
time, was, to get up into a thick bushy tree, like a fir,
but thorn;—which grew near me, and where I resolved
to sit all night—and cousider the next day what death
I shonld die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I
walked abont a furlong from the shore, to see if I con Id
find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to my great
joy; and having drank, and put a little tohacco into
my month to prevent bunger, I went to the tree, and
getting up into it, endeavonred to place myself so, as
that if I shonld fall asleep, I might not fall ; and having
cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence,
I took up my lodging: and having been excessively fa-
tigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably, as, I
believe, few conld have done in my condition; and
fonnd inysclf the most refreshed with it that I think I
ever was on such an occasion.
When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear,
and the storm ahated, so that the sea did not rage and
swell as before; but that which surprised me most was,
that the ship was lifted oft' in the night from the sand
where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was dri-
ven up almost as far as the rock which I at first men-
tioned, where I had been so bruised by the waves
dashing me agaiust it. This being within abont a mile
from the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to
stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that at
least I might save some necessary things for my use.
When 1 came down from my apartment in the tree,
I looked about me again, and the first thing I fonnd
was the boat; which lay, as the wind and the sea bad
tossed her up, upon the' land, abont two miles on my
right hand. I walked as far as I conld upon the shore
to have got to her; but found a neck or inlet of water
between me and the boat, which was abont half a mile
broad; so I came back for the present, being more in-
tent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to find
something for my present subsistence.
A little after noon, I fonnd the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed so far ont, that I conld come within a
quarter of a mile of the ship: and here I fonnd a fresh
renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently, that if we
had kept on board, we had been all safe; that is to say,
we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been so mi-
serable as to be left entirelv destitute of all comfort and
company, as 1 now was. This forced tears from my
eyes again; but as there was little relief in that, I re-
solved, if possible, to get to the ship; so I pulled off
my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and
took the water; but whcu I came to the ship, my dif-
ficulty was still greater to know how to get on board;
for as she lay agronnd, and high ont of the water, there
was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I spied a smalt
piece of a rope, which I wondered I did not see at first,
hang down by the fore chaius so low, as that with great
difficulty I got hold of it, and by the help of that rope
got into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that
the ship was bulged, and had a great deal of water in
her hold; but that she lay so ou the side of a hank of
hard sand, or rather earth, that her stern lay lifted up
upon the hank, and her head low, almost to the water.
By this meaus all her quarter was free, and all that was
in that part was dry; for yon may be sure my first
work was to search and to see what was spoiled and
what was free: and first, I fonnd that all the ship's
provisious were dry and untonched by the water; and,
being very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-
room, and filled my pockets with hiscuit, and eat it as
I went about other things, for I had no time to lose.
I also fonnd some rum in the great cahin, of which I
took a large dram, and which I had indeed need
enongh of, to spirit me for what was before me. Now
I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with
many things which I foresaw wonld be very necessary
to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not
to be had, and this extremity ronsed my application:
we had several spare yards, and two or three large
spars of wood, and a spare topmast or two in the ship;
1 resolved to fall to work with these, and flung as many
overboard as I conld manage for their weight, tying
everv one with a rope that they might not drive away.
When this was done' I went down the ship's side, and
pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast together
at both ends, as well as I conld, in the form of a raft,
and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon
them crossways, I found I conld walk upon it very
well, but that it was not able to bear any great weight,
the pieces being too light: so I went to work, and with
the carpenter's saw I cut a spare topmast into three
lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great deal of
labour and paius. But the hope of furnishing myself
with necessaries enconraged me to go beyond what
I shonld have been able to have done upon another
occasion.
Ny raft was now strong enongh to bear any reason-
able weight. My uext care was what to load it with,
and how to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf
of the sea; but I was not long cousidering this. I first
laid all the planks or boards upon it iha! I conld get,
and having cousidered well what I most wanted, I got
three of the seamen's chests, which I had broken open
and emptied, and lowered them down upon my raf'i;
these I filled with provisious, viz. bread, rice, three
Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goats' flesh (which
we lived much upon), and a little remainder of Kuro-
pean corn, which had heen laid by for some fowls which
we had bronght to sea with us, but the fowls were killed.
There had been some harley and wheat together, but,
to my great disappointment, I fonnd afterwards that
the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I
fonnd several cases of bottles belonging to oar skipper,
in which were some cordial waters; end, in all, ahont
five or six gallous of rack. These I stowed by them-
selves, there being no need to put them into the chests,
nor any rootn for them. While I was doing this, I
fonnd the tide began to flow, thongh very calm ; and
I had the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waist-
coat, which I had left on shore, upon the sand, swim
away; as for my breeches, which were only linen, and
open knee'd, I swam on board in them, and my stock-
ings. However, this put me upon rummaging for
clothes, of which I fonnd enongh, but took no more
than I wanted for present use, lor I had other things
which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work
with on shore: and it was after long searching that I
found the carpenter's cbest, which was indeed a very
useful prize to me, and much more valuable than a ship
lading of gold wonld have heen at that time. I got it
down to my raft, even whole as it was, withont losing
time to look into it, for I knew in general what it
contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowlingpieces in the great
cahin, and two pistols; these I secured first, uiili some
powder horus and a small hag of shot, and two old
rusty swords. I kuew there were three harrels of pow-
der in the ship, but knew not where onr gunner had
stowed them; but with much search I fonnd them,
two of them dry and good, the third had taken water.
Those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now
I thonght myself pretty well freighted, and began to
think how I shonld get to shore with them, having
neither sail, oar, nor rndder; and the least capfull of
wind wonld have overset all my navigation.
I had three enconragements: 1st, A smooth, calm
sea: 2dly, The tide rising, and setting in to the shore:
3dly, What little wind there was blew me towards the
land. And tbus, having fonnd two or three broken
oars belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which
were in the chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a ham-
mer; and with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or
thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I found
it drive a little distant from the place where I had
landed before; by which I perceived that there was
some indraft of the water, and cousequently I hoped to
find some creek or river there, which I might make
use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.
As I imagined, so it was: there appeared before me
a IJJtle opening of the land, and I fonnd a strong current
of the tide set into it; so I guided my raft, as well as
I conld, to get into the middle of the stream. But
here I had like to have suflered a second shipwreck,
which, if 1 had, I think verily wonld have broken my
heart; for knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran
agronnd at one end of it upon a shoal, and not hoin^
agronnd at the other end, it wanted but a little that all
my cargo had slipped off towards that end that was
afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did my ntmost,
by setting my hack agaiust the chests, to keep them iu
their places, but conld nut thrust of}' the raft with all
my strength; neither durst I stir from the posture I was
in, but holding up the chests with all my might, I stood
in that manner near hall' an honr, in which time the
rising of the water bronght me a little more upon a le-
vel; and a little after, the water still rising, my raft
floated again, and I thrust her off with the oar I had
into the channel, and then driving up higher, I at length
found myself in the month of a little river, with land on
both sides, and a strong current or tide running up. I
looked on both sides for a proper place to get to shore,
for I was not willing to be driven too high up the river;
hoping in time to see some ship at sea, and therefore re-
solved to place myself as near the coast as I conld.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of
the creek, to which, with great pain and difficultv, I
guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that reaching
gronnd with my oar, I conld thrust her directly in; but
here I had like to have dipped atl my cargo into the
sea again; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to
say, sloping, there was no place to land but where one
end of my float, if it ran on shore, wonld lie so high,
and the other sink lower, as before, that it wonld en-
danger my cargo again. All that I conld do was to
wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft
with my oar like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to
the shore, near a flat piece of gronnd, which I expected
the water wonld flow over; and so it did. As soon as I
fonnd water enongh, for my raft drew abont a foot of
wafer, I thrust her upon that flat piece of gronnd, and
there fastened or moored her, by stickmg my two
broken oars into the gronnd; one on one side, near one
end, and one on the other side, near the other end:
and tbus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my.
raft and all my cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the conntry, and seek a
proper place for my hahitation, and where to stow mv
goods; to secure them from whatever might happen.
Where I was, I yet knew not: whether on the continent,
or on an island; whether inhahited, or not inhahited;
whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a
bill, not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep
and high, and which seemed to overtop some other hills
which lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took ont
one of the fowlingpieces, and one of the pistols, and a
hnni of powder; and tbus armed, I traveled for dis-
covery up to the top of that hill; where, after I had
with great labonr and difficulty got up to the top, I saw
my fate, to my great affliction, viz. that I was in an
island, environed every way with the sea, no land to he
seen, except some rocks, which lay a great way off,
and two small islands, less than this, which lay abont
three leagues to the west.
I fonnd also that the island I was in was harren, and,
as I saw good reason to believe, uninhahited, except by
wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none; yet I saw
abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither,
when I killed them, conld I tell what was lit. for food,
and what not. At my coming hack, I shot at a great
hird, whicb I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a
great wood. I believe it was the first gun that had been
fired there since the creation of the world: I had no
sooner fired, but from all the parts of the wood there
arose an innumerable number of fowls, of many sorts,
making a confused screaming and crying, every one ac-
cording to his usual note; but not one of them of any
kind that I knew. As for the creature I killed, I took
it to be a kind of a hawk, its colonr and beak resembling
it, hat had no talous or claws more than common. Its
flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came hack to my
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which
took me up the rest of that day: what to do with my-
self at night, I knew not, nor indeed where to rest: for
I was afraid to lie down on the gronnd, not knowing
but some wild beast might devonr me; though, as I
afterwards fonnd, there was really no need for those
fears.
However, as well as I conld, I barricadoed myself
round with the chests and boards that 1 had bronght on
shore, and made a kind of a but for that night's lodging.
As for food, I yet saw not which way to supply myself*
VoL. i. E
except that I had seen two or three creatures, like hare*,
run oat of the wood where I shot the fowl.
I now began to cousider, that I might yet get a great
man^' things ont of the ship, which wonld be useful to
me, and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and
such other things as might come to land; and I resolved
to make another voyage on hoard the vessel, if possible.
And as I knew that the first storm that blew must ne-
cessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all
other things apart, till I got every thing ont of the ship
that I conld get. Then I called a conncil, that is to
say, in my thonghts, whether I shonld take hack the
raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved to
go as before, when the tide was down; and I did so,
only that I stripped before I went from my but; having
nothing on but a chequered shirt, a pair of linen drawers,
and a pair of pumps on my feet.
I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a
second raft; and having had experience of the first, I
neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard,
but yet I bronght away several things very useful to
me: as first, in the carpenter's stores, I fonnd two or
three hags of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a do-
zen or two of hatchets; and, above all, that most useful
thing called a grindstone. All these I secured, together
with several things belonging to the gunner; particu-
larly two or three iron crows, and two harrels of musket
bullets, seven muskets, and another fowlingpiece, with
some small quantity of powder more; a large bagful I of
small shot, and a great roll of sheet-lead; but this last
was so heavy, I conld not hoist it up to get it over the
ship's side.
Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes, that
I conld find, and a spare fore-topsail, a hammock, and
some bedding; and with this I loaded my second raft,
and bronght them. all safe on shore, to my very great
comfort.
I was under some appreheusious, during my absence
from the land, that at least my provisious might be de-
vonred on shore: but when I came back, I fonnd no
sigu of any visitor; only there sat a creature like a wild
cat, upon one of the chests, which, when I came towards
it, ran away a little distance, and then stood still. Sho
sat very composed and unconcerned, and looked full in
my face, as if sue had a mind to be acquainted with me.
I presented my gun to her, but, as she did not under-
stand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did
she offer to stir away; upon which I tossed her a hit of
hiscuit, though by the way, I was not very free of it,
for my store was not great: however, I spared her a
hit, I say, and she went to it, smelled of it, and ate it,
and looked (as pleased) for more; but I thanked her,
and conld spare no more: so she marched off.
Having-got my second cargo on shore—thongh I was
fam to open the harrels of powder, and bring them by
rreels, for they were too heavy, being large casks—•
Ai.'ii! to work to make me a little tent, with the sail,
and some poles, which I cut for that purpose; and into
this tent I bronght every tiiing that i knew wonld spoil
either with rain or sun; and I piled all the empty chests
aml casks up in a circle ronnd the tent, to fortify it
from any sndden attempt either from man or beast.
When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent wiili some boards within, and an empty chest set
up on end withont; and spreading one of the beds upon
the gronnd, laying my two pistols just at my head, and
my gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time,
and slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary
and heavy; for the night before I had slept little, and
had labonred verv hard all day, as well to fetch all those
things from the ship, as to get them on shore.
I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever
was laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was not sa-
tisfied still: for while the ship sat upright in that pos-
ture, I thonght I onght to get every thing ont of her
that I conld: so every day, at low water, I went on
board, and bronght away something or other; but par-
ticularly the third time I went, I bronght awa\ as much
of the rigging as I conld, as also all the small ropes and
rope-twme I conld get, with a piece of spare canvass,
which was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the
barrel of wet guupowder. In a word, 1 bronght away
all the sails, first and last; only that I was fain to cut
them in pieces, and bring as much at a time us I conld;
for they were DO more useful to be sails, but as mere
canvass only.
But that which comforted me still more, was, that
last of all, after I had made five or six such vo\ages as
these, and thonght I had nothing more to expect from
the ship that was worth my meddling with; I say, after
all this, I fonnd a great hogshead of bread, and three
large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, and
a harrel of fine flonr; this was surprising to me, Iiecanse
I had given over expecting any more provisious, except
what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the
hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by
parcel, in pieces of the sails, which i cat ont; and, in
a word, I got all this safe on shore also.
The next day I made another voyage; and now, hav-
ing plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to
hand ont, I began with the cables, and cutting the great
cable into pieces such as I conld move, I got two cables
and a hawser on shore, with all the iron-work I conld
get, and having cut down the spritsail-yaid and the mi-
zen-yard, and every thing I conld, to make a large raft,
I loaded it with all those heavy goods, and came away;
but my good luck began now to leave me; for this raft
was so unwieldy, and su overladen, that after I was en-
tered the little cove where I had landed the rest of my
goods, nut being able to guide it so handily as I did the
other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into
the water; as for myself, it was no great harm, for!
was near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was a great
part of it lost, especially the iron, which I expected
wonld have been of great use to me: however, when
the tide was ont, I got most of the pieces of cable
ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite la-
bonr; fur I was tain to dip for it mto the water, a work
which fatigued me very much. After this I went every
day on hoard, and bronght away what I conld get.
I had been now thirteen days ashore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship; in which time I had
bronght away all that one pair of hands conld well be
supposed capable to bring; thongh I believe verily,
had the calm weather held, I shonld have bronght away
the whole ship, niece by piece; but preparing the
twelfth time to go on board, I fonnd lhe wind began to
rise: however, at low water I went on board; and
thongh I thonght I had rummaged the cahin su eflec-
tually as that nothing conld be fonnd, vet I discovered
a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found
two or three razors, and one pair of large scissars, with
some ten or a dozen of good knives and forks; in ano-
ther, I fonnd abont thirty-six ponnds value in money,
some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight,
some gold, and some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money: "O,
drug!" said I, alond, " what art thoa good fur.' Thon
art not worth to me, no, not the taking off the gronnd;
one of those knives is worth all this heap: I have no
manner of use for thee; e'en remain where thon art,
and go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not
worth saving." However, upon second thonghts, I
took it away; and wrapping all this in a piece of can-
vass, I began to think of making another raft; but
while I was preparing this, I found the skv overcast,
and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an honr
it blew a fresh gale from the shore. It presently oc-
curred to me, that it was in vain to pretend to make a
raft, with the wind off shore; and that it was my busi-
ness to be gone before the tide of flood began, or
otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore at all.
Accordingly I let myself down into the water, and swam
across the channel which lay between the ship and the
sands, and even that with difficulty enongh, partly with
the weight of the things I had abont me, and partly the
ronghness of the water; for the wind rose very hastily,
and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.
But I was got home to my little tent, where I lav,
with ail my wealth abont me very secure. It blew very
hard all that night, and lii the morning, when I looked
nut, behold, no more ship was to be seen! I was a little
surprised, but recovered myself with this satisfactory
reflection, viz. that I had lost no time, and ahated no
diligence, to get every thing ont of her that conld he
useful to me, and that, indeed, there was little left in
her that I was able to bring away, if I had had more
time.
I now gave over any more thonghts of the ship, or of
any thing ont of her, except what might drive on shore
from her wreck; as, indeed, divers pieces of her after-
wards did; but those things were of small use to me.
Mv thonghts were now wholly employed abont se-
curing myself agaiust either savages, if any shonld ap-
Eear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island; and I
ud many thonghts of the method how to do this, and
what kind ofdwelliog to make, whether I shonld make
me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth: and in
short, I resolved upon both; the manner and descrip-
tion of which it may not be improper to give an ac-
connt of.
I soon fonnd the place I was in was not for my settle-
ment, particularly becanse it was upon a low, moorish,
gronnd, near the sea, and I believed it wonld not be
wholesome; and more particularly becanse there was
no fresh water near it: so I resolved to find a more
healthy and more convenient spot of gronnd.
I cousulted several things in my situation, which I
found wonld be proper for me: 1st, Health and fresh
water, I just now mentioned: 2dly, Shelter from the
beat of the sun: 3dly, Security from ravenons creatures,
whether men or beasts: 4tbly, A view to the sea, that
if God sent any ship in sight, I might not lose any ad-
vantage for my deliverance, of which I was not willing
to hanish all my expectation yet.
In search for a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards
this little plain was steep as a honse side, so that nothing
conld come down upon me from the top. On the side
of this rock there was a hollow place, worn a little way
in, like the entrance or door ot a cave; but there was
not really any cave, or way into the rock at all.
On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place,
I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above
a bundred yards broad, and abont twice as long, and lay
like a green before my door; and, at the end of it, de-
scended irregularly every way down into the low gronnd
by the seaside. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill;
to that it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it
came to a W. and by S. suu, or thereabonts, which, in
those conntries, is near the setting.
Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before
the hollow place, which took in abont ten yards in if a
semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in its
diameter, from its beginning and ending.
In this half circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes,
driving them into the gronnd till they stood very firm
like piles, the higgest end being ont of the gronnd
abont five feet and a half, and sharpened on the top.
The two rows did not stand above six inches from one
another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which T cut in the
ship, and laid them in rows, one upon another, within
the circle between these two rows of stakes, up to the
top, placing other stakes in the iuside leaning agaiust
tln-iu, abont two feet and a half high, like a spar to a
post; and this fence was so strong that neither man nor
beast conld get into it or over it. This cost me a great
deal of time and labour, especially to cut the piles in
the woods, bring them to the place, and drive them into
the earth.
The entrance into this place I made to be not by a
door, but by a short ladder to go over the top; which
ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me; and so I
was completely fenced in and fortified, as I thonght,
from all the world, and cousequently slept secure in the
night, which otherwise I conld not have done; though,
as it appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this
caution from the enemies that I apprehended danger
from.
Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labonr I
carried all my riches, all my provisious, ammunition,
and stores, of which yon have the acconnt above; and
I made a large tent, which, to preserve me from the
raius that in one part of the year are very violent there,
I made donble, viz. one smaller tent within, and one
larger tent above it, and covered the uppermost with a
large tarpanlin, which I had saved among the sails.
And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which
I had bronght ou shore, but in a hammock, which was
indeed a very good one, and belonged to the mate 0?
the ship.
Into this tent I bronght all my provisious, and every
thing that wonld spoil ay the wet; and having tbus en-
closed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which till
now I had left open, and so passed and repassed, as I
said, by a short ladder.
When I had done this, I began to work my way into
the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that I
dug down ont throngh my tent, I laid them up within
my fence in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the
gronnd within about a foot and a half; and thus I made
Die a cave, just behind my tent, which served me like a
cellar to my honse. It cost me much labonr and many
days, before all these things were bronght to perfection;
and therefore I must go hack to some other things
which took up some of my thonghts. At the same time
it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the setting
up my tent, and makmg the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick, dark clond, a sndden flash of light-
ning happened, and after that, a great clap of thunder,
as is naturally the eflect of it. I was not so much sur-
prised with the lightning, as I was with a thonght,
which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning
itself: O my powder! My very heart sunk within me
when I thonght, that at one blast, all my powder might
be destroyed; on which, not my defence only, but the
providing me food, as I thonght, entirely depended. I
was nothing near so anxions abont my own danger,
thongh, had the powder took fire, I had never known
who had burt me.
Such impression did this make upon me, that after
the storm was over, I laid aside all my works, my build-
ing and fortifying, and applied myself to make hags and
boxes, to separate the powder, and to keep it a little
and a little in a parcel, in hope that whatever might
come, it might not all take lire at once; and to keep it
so apart, that it shonld not be possible to make one part
fire another. I finished this work in abont a fortnight;
and I think my powder, which in all was abuut 240Ib.
weight, was divided in not less than a bundred parcels.
As to the harrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend
57
any danger from that; so I placed it in my new cave,
which, in m\ fancy, I called my kitchen, and the rest I
hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no
wet might come to it, marking very carefully where I
laid it.
In the interval of time while this was doing, I went
ont at least once every day with my gun, as well to
divert myself, as to see if I could kill any thinir fit for
food ; and, as near as I conld, to acquaint myself with
what the island produced. The first time I went ont, I
presently discovered that there were goats upon the
island, which was a great satisfaction to me; but then
it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz. that
they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it
was the most difficult thing in the world to come at
them: but I was not disconraged at this, not donbting
but I might nnw and then shoot one, as it soon hap-
pened; for after I had fonnd their hannts a little, I laid
wait in this manner for them: I pbserved, if they saw
me in the valleys, thongh they w£re upon the rocks,
they wonld run away as in a terrible fright; but if they
were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks,
they took no notice of me; from whence I conclnded,
that by the position of their opties, their sight was so
directed downward, that they did not readily see ob-
jects that were above them: so, afterwards, I took this
method—I always climbed the rocks first, to get above

them, and then had frequently a fair mark. The first
shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-goai,
which had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to,
which grieved me heartily; but when the old one fell,
the kid stood stock still by her, till I came and took her
up; and not only so, but when I carried the old one
with me, upon my shonlders, the kid followed me quite
to my enclosure; upon which, I laid down the dam,
and took the kid in my arms, and carried it over my
pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame; but it wonld
not eat ; so I was forced to kill it, and eat it myself.
These two supplied me with flesh a great while, tor I
ate sparingly, and preserved my provisious (my bread
especially), as much as possibly I conld.
Having now fixed my hahitation, I fonnd it abso-
lutelv necessary to provide a place to make a fire in,
and fuel to burn; and what I did for that, as also how I
enlarged mv cave, and what conveniences I made, I
shall give a full acconnt of in its proper place: but I
must first give some little acconnt of myself, and of my
thonghts about living, which, it may well be supposed,
were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as I was
not cast away upon that island withont being driven, as
is said, bv a violent storm, quite ont of the conrse of
onr intended voyage; and a great way, viz. some bun-
dreds of leagues, ont of the ordinary conrse of the trade
of mankind, I had great reason to cousider it as a deter-
mination of Heavei); thai in this desolate place, and in
this desolate manner, I shonld end my life. The tears
wonld run plentifully down my face when I made these
reflectious; and sometimes I wonld expostulate with
myself why Providence shonld tbus completely ruin its
creatures, and render them so absolutely miserable; so
ahandoned withont help, so entirely depressed, that it
could hardly be rational to be thankful for such a life.
But something always returned swift upon me to
check these thonghts, and to reprove me: and particu-
larly, one day, walking with my gun in my hand, by the
seaside, I was very peusive upon the subject of my pre-
sent condition, when reason, as it were, expostulated
with me the other way, tbus: "Well, yon are in a de-
solate condition, it is true; but, pray remember, where
are the rest of yoo? Did not yon come eleven of yon
mto the boat? Where aro the ten? Why were not
they saved, and yon lost? Why were yon singed ont?
Is it better to be here or there?" And then I pointed
to the sea. All evils are to be cousidered with the
good that is in them, and with what worse attends them.
Then it occurred to me again, how well I was fur-
nished for my subsistence, and what wonld have been.
my case if it had not happened (which was a bundred
thonsand to one), that the ship floated from the place
where she first struck, and was driven so near to the
shore, that 1 had time to get all these things ont of her:
what wonld have been my case, if I had been to have
lived in the condition in which I at first came on shore,
withont necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply and
procure them! "Particularly, said I alond (though
to myself), what shonld I have done without a gun,
withont ammunition, withont any tools to make any
thing, or to work with, withont clothes, bedding, a
tent, or any manner of covering?" and that now I had
all these to a suflicient quantity, and was in a fair way
to provide myself in such a manner as to live withont
my gun, when my ammunition was spent: so that I had
a tolerable view of subsisting, without any want, as
long as I lived; for I considered, from the beginning,
how I shonld provide for the accidents that might hap-
pen, and for the time that was to come, not only after
my ammunition should be spent, but even after my
health or strength shonld decay.
I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my am-
munition being destroyed at one blast, I mean my pow-
der being blown up by lightning; and this made the
thonghts of it so surprising to me, when it lightened and
tbundered, as I observed just now.
And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of
a scene of sileot life, such, perhaps, as was never heard
of in the world before, I shall take it from its beginning,
and continue it in its order. It was, by my acconnt,
the 30th of September, when, in the manner as above
said, I first set foot upon this horrid island; when the
sun being to us in its antumnal equinox, was almost
just over my head: for I reckoned myself, by observa-
tion, to be in the latitnde of 9 degrees 32 minute*
north of the Line.
After I had been there abont ten or twelve days, it
came into my thonghts that I shonld lose my reckoning
of time for want of books, and pen and ink, and shonld
even forget the sabhath days from the working <lays:
but, to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large
post, in capital letters; and making it into a great
cross, I set it up on the shore where I first landed, viz.
"I came on shore here on the 30th of September, 1659.''
Upon the sides of this square post I cot every day a
notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was as
long again as the rest, and every first day of Hie month
as long again as that long one: and tous I kept my
calendar, or weekly, montbly, and yearly reckoning
of time.
But it happened, that among the many things which I
bronght ont of the ship, in the several vovages which,
as above mentioned, I made to it, I got several things
of less value, but not at all less useful to me, which I
fonnd, some time after, in rummaging the chests ; as,
in particular, peus, ink, and paper; several parcels in
the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping;
three or fonr compasses, some mathematical iustruments,
dials, perspectives, charts, and books of navigation; all
which I buddled together, whether I might want them
or no: also I found three very good hibles, which came
to me in my cargo from England, and which I had
packed up among my things; some Portuguese books
also, and, among them, two or three popish prayer
books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the
ship a dog, and two cats, of whose eminent history I
may have occasion to say something, in its place: for I
carried both the cats with me; and as for the dog, he
jumped ont of the ship himself, and swam on shore to
me the day after I went on shore with my first cargo,
and was a trusty servant to me for many years: I wanted
nothing that he could fetch me, nor any company that
he conld make up to me, I only wanted to have him
talk to me, but that wonld not do. As I observed be-
fore, I fonnd peus, ink, and paper, and I bushanded
them to the utmost; and I shall show that while my ink
luted, I kept things very exact, but after that was gona
I conld not; for I conld not make any ink, by any
meaus that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together; and
of these, this of ink was one; as also a spade, pick-
axe, and shovel, to dig or remove the earth; needles,
pius, and thread: as for linen, I soon learned to want
that withont much difiiculty.
This want of tools made every work I did go on hea-
vily; and it was near a whole year before I had entirely
fmished my little pale, or surronnded my hahitation.
The piles or stakes, which were as heavy as I conld
well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing in
the woods, and more, by far, in bringing home; so that
I spent sometimes two days in cutting and bringing
bome one of those posts, and a third day in driving it
into the gronnd; for which purpose, I got a heavy
piece of wood at first, but at last bethonght mvself of
one of the iron crows; which, however, thongh I found
it, yet it made driving these posts or piles very labori-
ons and tedious work. But what need I to have been
concerned at the tedionsuess of any thing I had to do,
seeing I had time enough to do it in? nor had I any
other employment, if that had been over, at least that I
conld foresee, except the ranging the island to seek for
food ; which I did, more or less, every day.
I now began to cousider serionsly my condition, and
the circumstance I was reduced to; and I drew up the
state of my affairs in writing, not so much to leave them
to any that were to come after me (for I was like to
have but few heirs), as to deliver my thonghts from
daily poring upon them, and afflicting my mind: and
as my reason began now to master my despondency, I
began to comfort myself as well as I conld, and to set
the good agaiust the evil, that I might have something
to distinguish my case from worse; and I stated very
impartially, like debtor and creditor, the comforts I en-
joyed agaiust the miseries I suffered, tbus:
EVIL. GOOD.
I am cast upon a horri- But I am alive; and not
b!e, desolate island, void drowned, as all my ship's
of all hope of recovery. company w ere.
I am singled ont and so- But I am singled oat too
parated, as it were, from from all the ship's crew, to-
all the world, to be miser- be spared from death; and
able. he that miraculously saved
me from death can deliver
me from this condition.
I am divided from man- But I am not starved,
kind, a solitaire; one ha- and perishing in a harren
nished from buman society, place, affording no suste-
nance.
I have no clothes to co- But I am in a hot cli-
ver me. mate, where, if I had
clothes, I could hardly
wear them.
I am withont anv de- But. I am cast on an
fence, or meaus to resist island where I see no wild
any violence of man or beast to burt me, as I saw
beast, on the coast of Africa: and
what if I had been ship-
wrecked there?
I have no sonl to speak But God wonderfully
to, or relieve me. sent the ship in near enongh
to the shore, that I have
got oat so many necessary
tiiings as will either supply
my wants, or enable me to
supplv myself, even as long
as I live.
Upon the whole, here was an undonbted testimony,
that there was scarce any condition in the world so
miserable, but there was something negative, or some-
thing positive, to be thankful for in it: and let this
stand as a direction, from the experience of the most
miserable of all conditious in this world, t!iat we may
always find in it something to comfort onrselves from,
and to set, in the description of good and evil, on the
credit side of the acconnt.
Having now bronght my mind a little to relish mv
condition, and given over looking ont to sea, to see if
I conld spy a ship; I say, giving over these things, I
began to apply myself to accommodate my way of living'
and to make things as easy to me as I conld.
I have alreadv described my hahitation, which was a
tent under the side of a rock, surronnded with a strong
pale of posts and cables; but £ might now rather call it
a wall, for I raised a kind of wall agaiust it of turfs,
abont two feet thick on the ontside: and after some
time (I think it was a year and a half), I raised rafters
from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it
with boughs of trees, and such things as I conld get, to
keep ont the rain; which I fonnd, at sonic times of the
year, very violent.
I have already observed how I bronght all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made be-
hind me. But I must observe, too, that at first this was
a confused heap of goods, which, as they lay in no order,
so they took up all my place; I had no room to turn
myself; so I set myself to enlarge my cave, and work
farther into the earth ; for it was a loose, sandy rock,
which yielded easily to the labonr I bestowed on it:
ami when I fonnd I was pretty safe as to the beasts of
prey, I worked sideways, to the right hand, into the
rock, and then turning to the right again, worked quite
ont, and made me a door to come ont in the ontside of
my pale or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were,
a hack way to my teat and to my storehonse, but gave
me room to stow my goods.
And now I began to apply myself to make such neces-
sary things as I fonnd I most wanted, particularly a
chair and a table; for withont these I was not able to
enjoy the few comforts I had in the world; I could not
write, or eat, or do several things with so much plea-
sure, withont a table: so I went to work. And here I
must needs observe, that as reason is the substance and
original of the mathematies, so by stating and squaring
every thing by reason, and by making the most rational
judgment of things, every man may he, in time, master
of every mechanic art. I had never handted a tool in
my life ; and yet, in time, by labour, application, and
contrivance, I fonnd, at last, that I wanted nothing but
I conld have made, especiallv if I had had tools. How-
ever, I made abundance of things, even withont tools;
and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet,
which perhaps were never made that way before, and
that with infmite labonr. For example, if I wanted a
board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set it
on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either side with
my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank,
and then dub it smooth with mv adze. It is true, by
this method I could make hat one board of a whole
tree; but this I had no remedy for but patience, any
more thanT hnd for a prodigions deal of time and labonr
which it took me up to make a plank or board; but my
time or labonr was little worth, and so it was as well
employed one way as another.
However, I made me a table and a'chair, as I ob-
served above, in the first place; and this I did ont of
the short pieces of boards that I bronght on my raft from
the ship. But when I wronght ont some boards, as
above, I made large shelves, of the breadth of a foot
and a half, one over another, all along one side of my
cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron work on; and,
in a word, to separate every thing at Urge in their
places, that I might easily come at them. I knocked
pieces into the wall of the rock, to hang my guus, and
all things that wonld hang up: so that had my cave beea
seen, it looked like a general magazine of all necessary
things; and I had every thing so ready at my hand,
that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my goods in
such order, and especially to find my stock of all neces-
saries so great.
And no wit was that I began to keep a jonrnal of every
day's employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too
much burry, and not only burry as to labonr, but in
much discomposure of mind: and my jonrnal wonld,
too, have been full of many dull things: for example, I
mast have said tbus—" Sept. 30th. After I had got to
shore, and had escaped drowning, iustead of being
thankful to God formy deliverance, having first vomited*
with the great quantity of salt water which was gotten
into my stomach, and recovering myself a little, I ran
abont the shore, wringing my hands, and beating my
head and face, exclaiming at my misery, and crying ont,
'I was undone, undone!' till, tired and faint, I was
forced to lie down on the gronnd to repose; but durst
not sleep, for fear of heing devonred."
Some days after this, and after I had been on board
the ship and got all that I conld ont of her, I conld not
forbear getting up to the top of a little monntain, and
looking ont to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship: then fancy
that, at a vast distance I spied a sail, please myself with
the hopes of it, and, after looking steadily till I was
almost blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a
child, and tbus increase my misery by my folly.
But, having gotten over these things in some mea-
sure, and having settled my honsehold stuff and hahi-
tation, made me a table and a chair, and all as handsome
abont me as I conld, I began to keep my jonrnal: of
which I shall here give yon the copy (though in it will
be told all these particulars over again), as long as it
lasted; for, having no more ink, I was forced to leave
it off.
THE JOURNAL.
September 30th, 1659. I, poor miserable Rohiuson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked during a dreadful storm, in
the ofling, came on shore on this dismal unfortunate
island, which I called the ISLAND OF DESPAIR ; all the
rest of the ship's company being drowned, and myself
almost dead.
All the rest of that day I spent in afflicting myself at
the dismal circumstances I was bronght to, viz. I had
neither food, honse, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to:
and, in despair of any relief, saw nothing but death be-
fore me; that I shonld either be devonred by wild
beasts, murdered by savages, or starved to death for
want of food. At the approach of night I slept in a
tree, for fear of wild creatures; but slept sonndly,
thongh it rained all night.
October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great sur-
prise, the ship had floated with the high tide, and was
driven on shore again much nearer the island; which,
as it was some comfort on one hand (for seeing her sit
upright, and not broken in pieces, I hoped, if the wind
abated, I might get on board, and get some food and
necessaries ont of her for my relief), so on the- other
hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades,
VOL. i. «•
who, I imagined, if we had all staid on board, might
have saved the ship, or, at least, that they wonld not
havc been all drowned, as they were; and that, had the
men been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat,
oat of the ruius of the ship, to have carried us to some
other part of the world. I spent great part of this day
in perplexing myself on these things; but, at length
seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as
near as I conld, and then swam on board. This day
also it continued raining, thongh with no wind at all.
From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these days
entirely spent in many several voyages to get all I conld
ont of the ship; which I bronght on shore, every tide of
flood,upon rafts. Much rain also in these days, thongh
with some intervals of fair weather: but, it seems, Ihis
was the rainy season.
Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had
got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the things
being chiefly heavy, [ recovered many of them when
the tide was ont.
Oct. 25- I* rained all night and all day, with some
gusts of wind; during which time the ship broke in
pieces (the wind blowing a little harder than before)
and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her,
and that only at low water. I spent this day in cover-
ing and securing the goods which I had saved, that the
rain mi^ht not spoil them.
Oct. 26. I walked abont the shore almost all day, to
find ont a place to fix my hahitation; greatly concern-
ed to secure myself from any attack in the night, either
from wild beasts or men. Towards night I fixed upon
a proper place, under a rock, and marked ont a semi-
circle for my encampment; which I rewired to strength-
en with a work, wall, or fortification, made of double
piles, lined within with cables, and without with turf.
From the S6th to the 30th, I worked very hard in
carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though
sonic part of the time it rained exceedinglv hard.
The 31st, in the morning, I went ont into the island
with my pun to see for some food, and discover the
country, when I killed a she goat, and her kid followed
me home, which I afterwards killed also, becanse it
wonld not feed.
November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay
there for tfce first night; making it as large as I conld,
with stakes driven in to swing my hammock upon.
Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the
pieces of timber which made my rafts; and with them
formed a fence ronnd me, a little within the place I had
marked ont for my fortification.
Nov. 3. I went oat with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In the
afternoon I went to work to make me a table.
Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of
work, of going ont with my gun, time of sleep, and time
of diversion; viz. every morning I walked ont with my
gun for two or three honrs, if it did not rain; then em-
ployed myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then
ate what I had to live on; and from twelve to two I lay
down to sleep, the weather being excessively hot; and
then in the evening, to work again. The working part
of this day and the next was wholly employed in mak-
ing my table, for I was yet but a very sorry workman:
thongh time and necessity made me a complete na-
tural mechanic soon after, as I believe they wonld any
one else.
Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and
dog, and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but
her flesh good for nothing: of every creature that I
killed I took off the skius, and preserved them. Coming
hack by the sea shore, I saw many sorts of sea fowl
which I did not understand: but was surprised, and
almost frightened, with two or three seals; which,
while I was gazing at them (not well knowing what
they were), got into the sea, and escaped me for that
time.
Nov. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work
with my table again, and finished it, though not to
my liking: nor was it long before I learned to
mend it.
LIFE AND ADVENTURES

Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the
llth was Sunday, according to my reckoning), I took
wholly up to make me a chair, and with much ado
bronght it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me;
and even in the making, I palled it in pieces several
times.
Note. I soon neglected my keeping Sandays; for,
omitting my mark for them on my post, I forgot which
was which.
Nov. 13. This day it rained; which refreshed me
exceedingly, and cooled the earth; hat it was accom-
panied with terrible tbunder and lightning, whicb
frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my powder. As
soon as it was over I resolved to separate my stock of
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it
might not be in danger.
Nov. 14,15,16. These three days I spent in making
little square chests or boxes, which might hold about a
ponnd, or two ponnds at most, of powder: and so, put-
ting the powder in, I stowed it in places as secure and
as remote from one another as possible. On one of
these three days I killed a large hird that was good to
eat: but I knew not what to call it.
Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent,
into the rock, to make room for my farther convenience.
Note. Three things I wanted exceedingly for this
work, viz, a pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheelharrow or
hasket; so I desisted from my work, and began to con-
sider bow to supply these wants, and make me some
tools. As for a pickaxe, I made use of the iron crows,
which were proper enongh, thongh heavy: but the
next thing was a shovel or spade; this was so abso-
lutely necessary that indeed I conld do nothing eflec-
tually withont it; but what kind of one to make I
knew not.
^ov. 18. The uext day, in searching the woods, I
fonnd a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the Bra-
zils they call the iron tree, from its exceeding hardness:
of this, with great labonr and almost spoiling my axe,
I cut a piece, and bronght it home too, with difficulty
enongh, for it was exceeding heavy. The excessive
hardness of the wood, and my having no other way,
made me a long while upon this machine; for I worked
it eflectually, by little and little, into the form of a sho-
vel or spade; the handle exactly shaped like onrs in
England, only that the broad part having no iron shod
upon it at bottom, it wonld not last me so long: how-
ever, it served well enongh for the uses which I had
occasion to put it to ; but never was a shovel, I believe,
made after that fashion, or so long a making.
I was still deficient: for I wanted a hasket or a wheel-
barrow. A hasket I conld not make by any meaus, hav-
mg no such things as twigs that wonld bend to make
wicker ware, at least none vet fonnd ont: and as to the
•wheelharrow, I fancied I conld make all but the wheel,
but that [ had no notion of; neither did I know how to
go about it: besides, I had no possible way to make
iron gndgeous for the spindle or axis of the wheel to
run in; so I gave it over: and for carrying away the
earth which I dug ont of the cave, I made me a thing
like a hod, which the labonrers carry mortar in for the
bricklayers. This was not so difficult to me as the mak-
ing the shovel: and yet this and the shovel, and the
attempt which I made in vain to make a wheelharrow,
took me up no less than fonr days; I mean, always ex-
cepting my morning walk with my g"u, which I seldom
omitted, and very seldom failed also bringing homo
something fit to eat.
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, be-
caase of m\ making these tools, when they were finished
I went on; and working every day, as my strength and
time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widen-
ing and deepening my cave, that it might hold my
goods commodionsly.
Note. Daring all this time, I worked to make this
room or cave spacioas enongh to accommodate me as a
warehonse or magazine, ajutchen, a dining room, and
a cellar. As for a lodging, I kept to the tent; except
that sometimes in the wet season of the year, it rained
so hard, that I conld not keep myself dry ; which cansed
me afterwards to cover all my place within my pale with
long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning agaiust the
rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of trees,
like a thatch.
December 10. I began now to think my cave or vanlt
finished; when on a sndden (it seems I had made it too
large) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top
and one side: so much that, in short, it frightened me,
and not withont reason too; for if I had been under it,
I shonld never have wanted a gravedigger. Upon this
disaster, I had a great deal of work to do over again,
for I had the loose earth to carry ont; and, which was
of more importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so
that I might be sure no more wonld come down.
Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it accord-
ingly; and got two shores or posts pitched upright to
the top, with two pieces of board across over each post;
this I fmished the next day, and setting more posts up
\\ith hoards, in abont a week more I had the roof se-
cured; and the posts, standing in rows, served me for
partitious to part off my honse.
Dec. 17. From this day to the 20th, I placed shelves,
and knocked up nails on the posts, to hang every thing
up that conld be bung up; and now I began to be in
some order within doors.
Dec. 20. I carried every thing into the cave, and
began to furnish my honse, and set up some pieces of
boards like a dresser, to order my victuals upon; bat
boards began to be very scarce with me: also I made
me another table.
Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day: no stirr-
ing ont.
Her. 25. Rain all day.
//«•. '-'(>. No rain; and the earth much cooler than
before, and pleasanter.
Dec. '27. Killed a yonng goat, and lamed another,
so that I catched it, and led it home in a string: when
J had it home, I bonnd and splintered up its leg, which
was broke.
V. II. I took such care of it that it lived; and the
leg grew well and as strong as ever: but, hv nursing it
so long, it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at
m v door, and wonld not go away. This was the first
time that I entertained a thonght of breeding up some
tame creatures, that I might have food when 11i3 powder
and shot were all spent.
Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats, and no breeze; so
that there was no stirring abroad except in the evening,
for food: this time I spent in patting all inv things in
order within doors.
January 1. Very hot still; hat I went abroad early
and late with my gun, and Inv i-till in the middle of the
day. This evening, going farther into the valleys which
lay towards the centre of the island, I fonnd there was
plenty of goats, thongh exceeding shy, and hard to come
at; however, I resolved to try if I conld not bring my
dog to bunt them down. Accordingly, the next day I
went ont with my dog, and set him upon the goats: but
I was mistaken, for they all faced abont upon the dog;
and he knew his danger too well, for he wonld not come
near them.
Jan. o. I began my fence or wall; which, being still
jealons of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved
to make very thick and strong.
N. II. This wall being described before, I purposely
omit what was said in the jonrnal: it is sufficient to
observe, that I was no less time than from the 3d of Ja-
nuary to the 14th of April, working, finishing, and per-
fecting this wall; thongh it was no more than abont 25
yards in length, being a half circle, from one place in
the rock to another place, abont twelve yards from it,
the door of the cave being in the centre, behind it.
All this time I worked very hard; the raius hinder-
ing me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together: but
I thonght I shonld never be perfectly secure till this
wall was finished; and it is scarce credible what inex-
pressible labonr every thing was done with, especially
the bringing piles ont of the woods, and driving them
into the ground; for I made them much higger than I
needed to have done.
When this wall was finished, and the ontside donble
fenced, with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuad-
ed myself that if any people were to come on shore
there they wonld not perceive anything like a hahita-
tion: and it was very well I did so, as may be observed
hereafter, upon a very remarkable occasion.
During this time, I made my ronnds in the woods for
game every day, when the rain permitted me, and made
frequent discoveries, in these walks, of something or
other to my advantage; particularly, I fonnd a kind of
wild pigeous, who bu'-'d, not as wood pigeous, in a tree,
but rather as honse pigeous, in the holes of the rocks:
and, taking some yonng ones, I endeavonred to breed
them up tame, and did so; but when they grew older
they flew all away, which, perhaps, was at first for want
of feeding them,"for I had nothing to give them: bow-
ever, I frequently fonnd their nests, and got their yonng
ones, which were very good meat. And now, in tfie ma-
naging my honsehold aflairs, I fonnd myself wanting in
many things, which I thonght at first it was impossible
for me to make; as indeed, as to some of them it was:
for iustance, I conld never make a cask to be hooped.
I had a small runlet or two, as I observed before; but
I conld never arrive to the capacity of making one by
them, thongh I spent many weeks abont it: I conld
neither put in the heads, nor join the staves so true to
one another as to make them hold water; so I gave
that also over. In the next place, I was at a great loss
for candle; so that as soon as it W.IK dark, which was
generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed.
I remembered the lump of beeswax with which I made
candles in my African adventure; but I had none of
that now; the only remedy I had was, that when I had
killed a goat, I saved the tallow; and with a little dish
mado of clay, which I haked in the sun, to which I
added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp ;, and
this gave me light, thongh not a clear steady light like
a candle. ID the middle of all my labonrs it happened,
that in rummaging my things I fonnd a little hag; which
as I hinted before, had been filled with corn for the
feeding of ponltry; not for this voyage, but before, as I
suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon. What little
remainder of corn had been in the hag was all devonred
by the rats, and I saw nothing in the hag but busks
and dust; and being willing to have the hag for some
other use (I think it was to put powder in, when I di-
vided it for fear of the lightning, or some such use), I
shook the busks of corn ont of it, on one side of my
fortification under the rock.
It was a little .before the great rain just now mention-
ed, that I threw this stuff away; taking no notice of
anything, and not so much as remembering that I had
thrown any thing there: when abont a month after, I
saw some few stalks of something green shooting ont of
the gronnd, which I fancied might be some plant I had
.not seen; but I was surprised and perfectly astonished,
when, after a little longer time, I saw abont ten or
twelve ears come ont, which were perfect green harley
of the same kind as onr European, nay, as onr English
harley.
It is impossible to express the astonishment and con-
fusion of my thonghts on this occasion: I had hitherto
acted upon no religions fonndation at all; indeed I had
very few notious of religion in my head, nor had enter-
tained any seuse of anything that had befallen me,
otherwise than as chance, or, as we lightly say, what
pleases God; withont so much as inquiring into the end
of Providence in these things, or his order in governing
events in the world. But after I saw harley grow there,
in a climate which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially as I knew not how it came there, it startled
me strangely; and I began to suggest, that God had mi-
raculously cansed this grain to grow withont any help
of seed sown, and that it was so directed purely for my
sustenance, on that wild miserable place.
This tonched my heart a little, and bronght tears ont
of my eyes; and I began to bless myself that such a
prodigy of nature shonld happen upon my acconnt: and
this was tin? more strange to me, becanse I saw Dear it
still, all along by the side of the rock, some other strag-
gling stalks, wbich proved to be stalks of rice, and
which I knew, becanse I had seen it grow in Africa,
when I was ashore there.
I not only thonght these the pure productious of Pro-
vidence for my support, but, not donbting that there
was more in the place, I went over all that part of the
island where I had been before, searching in every cor-
ner, and under every rock, for more of it; but I conld
not find any. At last it occurred to my thonghts, that
I had shook ont a hag of chicken's meat in that place,
and then the wonder began to cease: and I must con-
fess, my religions thankfulness to God's providence
began to ahate too, upon the discovering that all this
was nothing but what was common; thongh I onght to
have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen
a providence, as if it had been miraculons: for it was
really the work of Providence, as to me, that shonld
order or appoint that ten or twelve graius of corn shonld
remain uuspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the
rest* as if it had been dropped from heaven; as also,
that I shonld throw it ont in that particular place,
where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang
up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere
efse, at that time, it wonld have been burned up and
destroyed.
I carefully saved the ears of this corn, yon may be
Bare, in their season, which was abont the end of June;
and laying up every corn, I resolved to sow them all
again; hoping, in time to have some quantity sufficient
to supply me with bread. But it was not till the fonrth
year that I conld allow myself the least grain of this
corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall show
afterwards, in its order; for I lost all that I sowed the
first season, by not observing the proper time; as I
sowed just before the dry season, so that it never came
up at all, at least not as it wonld have done; of which
in its place.
Besides this harley, there were, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same
care; and whose use was of the same kind, or to tho
same purpose, viz. to make me bread, or rather food;
for I fonnd ways to cook it up withont haking, thongh
I did that also after some time.—But to return to my
Jonrnal.
I worked excessively hard these three or fonr months,
to get my wall done; and on the 14th of April I closed
it up, contriving to get into it, not by a door, but over
the wall, by a ladder, that there might be no sigu on
the ontside of my hahitation.
April 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up with
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down in the iuside: this was a complete en-
closure to me; for within I had room enongh, and no-
thing conld come at me from withont, unless it conld
first monnt my wall.
The very next day after this wall was finished, I had
almost all my labonr overthrown at once, and myself
killed ; the case was tbus:—As I was busy in the in-
side of it, behind my tent just at the entrance into my
cave, I was terribly frightened with a most dreadful
surprising thing indeed; for all on a sndden, I found
the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my
cave, and from the edge of the hill over my head, and
two of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a
frightful manner. I was heartily scared; but thought
nothing of what really was the canse, only thinking that
the top of my cave was falling in, as some of it had done
before: and for fear I shonld be buried in it, I ran for-
ward to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there
neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of the
hill, which I expected might roll down upon me, I had
no sooner stepped down upon the finn gronnd than I
flainly saw it was a terrible earthquake: for the gronnd
stood on shook three times at abont eight minutes dis-
tance, with three such shocks as wonld have overturned
the strongest building that conld be supposed to have
stood on the earth; and a great piece of the top of a
rock, which stood abont half a mile from me, next the
sea, fell down with such a terrible noise as I never
heard in all my life. I perceived also that the very sea
was pat into a violent motion by it; and I believe the
shocks wet o stronger under the water than on the island.
I was BO much amazed with the thing itself (having
never felt the like, nor disconrsed with any one that
had), that I was like one dead or stupified; and the mo*
tion of the earth made my stomach sick, like one that
was tossed at sea: but the noise of the falling of the
rock awaked me, as it were, and ronsing me from the
stapified condition I was in, filled me with horror; and
I thonght of nothing bnt the hill falling upon my tent
and my honsehold goods, and burying all at once; this
sunk my very sonl within me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for
some time, I began to take conrage; yet I had not heart
enongh to go over my wall again, for fear of being bu-
ried alive, hat sat still upon the gronnd greatly cast
down and discousolate, not knowing what to do. Alt
this while I had not the least serions religions thonght,
nothing but the common Lord have mercy upon me! and
when it was over, that went away too.
While I sat tbus, I fonnd the air overcast, and grow
clondy, as if it wonld rain; and soon after the wind
rose by little and little, so that in less than half an honr
it blew a most dreadful burricane: the sea was all on a
sndden covered with foam and froth; the shore was
covered with a breach of the water; the trees were
torn up by the roots; and a terrible storm it was. This
held abont three honrs, and then began to ahate; and
in two honrs more it was quite calm, and began to rain
very hard. All this while I sat upon the gronnd, very
much terrified and dejected; when on a sndden it came
into my thonghts, that these winds and rain being the
cousequence of the earthquake, the earthquake itself
was spent and over, and I might venture into my cave
again. With this thonght my spirits began to revive;
and the rain also helping to persuade me, I went in and
sat dmvu in my tent; but the rain was so violent that
my tent was ready to be beaten down with it, and I was
forced to get into my cave, thongh very much afraid
and uneasy, for fear it shonld fall on my head. This
violent rain forced me to a new work, viz. to cut a hole
through my new fortification, like a sink, to let the
water go ont, which wonld else have drowned my cave.
After l had been in my cave for some time, ami fonnd
no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I began to be
more composed. And now to support my spirits, which
indeed wanted it very much, I went to my little store
and took a small sup of rum; which, however, I did
then, and always, very sparingly, knowing I conld have
no more when that was gone. It continued raining all
that night, and great part of the next day, so that I
conld not stir abroad: hat my mind being more com-
posed, I began to think of what I had best do; conclnd-
ing, that if the island was subject to these earthquakes,
there wonld be no living for me in a cave, but I must
cousider of building me some little but in an open place,
which I might surronnd with a wall as I had done here,
and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men:
for if I staid where I was, I shonld certainly one time
or other be buried alive.
With these thonghts, I resolved to remove my tent
from the place where it now stood, beingjust under the
hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it shonld be
shaken again, wonld certainly fall upon my tent. I spent
the two next days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in
contriving where and now to remove my hahitation.
The fear of being swallowed alive affected me so that
I never slept in quiet; and yet the appreheusion of
lying abroad withont any fence was almost equal to it:
bat still, when I looked abont, and saw how every thing
was put in order, how pleasantly I was concealed, and
how safe from danger, it made me very loath to remove.
In the mean time it occurred to me that it wonld re-
quire a vast deal of time for me to do this; and that I
mast be contented to run the risk where I was till I had
formed a convenient camp, and secured it so as to re-
move to it. With this conclusion I composed myself
for a time; and resolved that I wonld go to work with
all speed to build me a wall with piles and cables, &c.
in a circle as before, and set up my tent in it when it
•was finished; but that I wonld venture to stay where
I was till it was ready, and fit to remove to. This was
the 21st.
April £2. The next morning I began to cousider of
meaus to put this measure into execution; but I was at
a great loss abont the tools. I had three large axes,
and abundance ofhatchets (I'or we carried the hatchets
for traffic with the Indiaus); hat with much chopping
and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of
notches, and dull: and thongh I had a grindstone, I
conld not turn it and grind my tools too. This cansed
me as much thonght as a statesman wonld have bestow-
ed upon a grand point of polities, or a jndge upon the
life and death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel
with a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have
both my hands at liberty. •
Note. I had never seen any such thing in England, or
at least not to take notice how it was done, thongh since
I have observed it is very common there: besides that,
my grindstone was very large and heavy. This machine
cost me a full week's work to bring it to perfection.
April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in
grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grind-
stone performing very well.
April 30. Having perceived that my bread had been
low a great while, I now took a survey of it, and re-
duced myself to one hiscuit-cake a day, which made
my heart very heavy.
May 1. In the morning, looking toward the sea-
side, the tide being low, I saw something lie on the
shore higger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask:
when I came to it, I fonnd a small harrel, and two or
three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were dri-
ven on shore by the late burricane; and looking to-
wards the wreck itself, I thonght it seemed to lie higher
ont of the water than it used to do. I examined the
harrel that was driven on shore, and soon fonnd it was
a harrel of guupowder; but it had taken water, and
the powder was caked as hard as a stone: however, I
rolled it farther on the shore for the present, and went
on upon the sands, as near as I conld to the wreck of
the ship, to look for more.
When I came down to the ship I fonnd it strangely •
removed. The forecastle, which lay before buried in
sand, was heaved up at least six feet: and the stern
(which was broke to pieces and parted from the rest by
the force of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging
of her), was kissed as it were up, and cast on one side:
ninl the sand was thrown so hii'.ii on that side next her
stern, that I conld now walk quite up to her when the
tide was ont; whereas there was a great piece of water
before, so that I conld not come within a qnarter of a
mile of the wreck withont swimming. I was surprised
with this at first, but soon conclnded it must be done
by the earthquake; and as by this violence the ship
was more broke open than formerly, so many things
came daily on shore, which the sea had loosened, and
which the winds and water rolled by degrees to the
land.
This wholly diverted my thonghts from the desigu of
removing my hahitation; and I busied myself mightily,
that day especially, in searching whether I conld make
any way into the ship: but I found nothing was to be
expected of that kind, for all the iuside of the ship was
choked up with sand. However, as I had learned not
to despair of anything, I resolved to pull every thing
to pieces that I conld of the ship, concluding that every
thing I conld get from her wonld be of some use or
other to me.
May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a
beam throngh, which I thonght held some of the upper
part or quarter deck together; and when I had cut it
throngh, I cleared away the sand as well as I conld
from the side which lay highest; but the tide coming
in, I was obliged to give over for that time.
May 4. I went a fishing, but canght not one fish that
I Hurst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when just
going to leave off I canght a yonng dolphin. I had
made me a long tine of some ropeyarn, but I had no
hooks; yet I frequently canght fish enongh, as much
as I cared to eat; all which I dried in the sun, and ate
them dry.
May 5. Worked on the wreck: cut another beam
asunder, and bronght three great fir planks off from the
decks; which I tied together, and made swim on shore
when the tide of flood came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck; got several iron
bolts ont of her, and other pieces of iron work; work-
ed very hard, and came home very much tired, and had
thonghts of giving it over.
May 7. Went to the wreck again, but not with an
intent to work: but found the weight of the wreck had
broke itself down, the beams being cut; that several
pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose; and the iuside
of the hold lay so open that I conld see into it; but al-
most full of water and sand.
May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow
to wrench ap the deck, which lay now quite clear of
the water and sand. I wrenched up two planks, and
bronght them on shore also with the tide. I left the
iron crow in the wreck for next day.
May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt several
casks, nnd loosened them with the crow, hat conld not
break them up. I felt also a roll of English lead, and
conld stir it; but it was too heavy to remove.
May 10—14. Went every day to the wreck; and
got a great many pieces of timber and boards, or plank,
and two or three bundred weight of iron.
May 15- I carried two hatchets, to try if I conld not
cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placmg the edge of
one hatchet, and driving it with the other; but as it
lay abont a foot and a half in the water, I conld not
make any blow to drive the hatchet,
May 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the
wreck appeared more broken by the force of the water;
but I staid so long in the woods, to get pigeous for
food, that the tide prevented my going to tlie wreck
that day.
May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on
shore, at a great distance, two miles off me, but resolv-
ed to see \vhat they were, and fonnd it was a piece of
the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.
May 24- Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck; and with hard labonr I loosened some things so
much with the crow, that the first blowing tide several
casks floated ont, and two of the seamen s chests: but
the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to land
that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead, which
had some Brazil pork in it; but the salt water and the
sand had spoiled it. I continued this work every day
to the 15th of June, except the time necessary to get
food; which I always appointed, during this part of my
employment, to he when the tide was up, that I might
be ready when it was ebhed ont: and by this time I
had gotten timber, and plank, and iron-work, enongh
to have built a good boat, if I had known how: and I
also got at several times, and in several pieces, near one
bundred weight of the sheet lead.
June 16. Going down to the seaside, I found a large
tortoise, or turtle. This was the first 1 had seen, which,
it seems, was only my misfortune, not any defect of the
place, or scarcity; for had I happened to he on the
other side of the island, I might have had bundreds of
them every day, as I fonnd afterwards; but perhaps had
paid dear enongh for them.
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in
her threescore eggs: and her flesh was to UK-, at that
time, the most savonry and pleasant that I ever tasted
in in \ life; having had no flesh but of goats and fowls,
since I landed in this horrid place.
June 13. Rained all that day, and I staid within.
I thonght at this time the rain fcit cold, and I was
somewhat chilly, which I knew was not usual in that
latitnde.
June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold.
June 20. No rest all night; violent paius in my
head, and feverish.
June 21. Very ill; frightened almost to death with
the appreheusious of my sad condition, to be sick, and
no help: prated to God, for the first time since the
storm off Hull; but scarce knew what I said, or whv,
my thonghts being all confused.
June 22-. A. little better; but under dreadful appre-
heusious of sickness.
June 23. Very had again; cold and shivering, and
then a violent headach. <>
June 24. Much better.
June 25. An ague very violent: the fit held meseveu
honrs; cold fit and hot, with faint sweats after it.
June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took
my gun, but fonnd myself very weak: however I killed
a she goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and
VOL. i. «
broiled some of it, and ate. I wonld fain have stewed
it, and made some broth, but had no pot.
June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay abed
all d;i\, and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to
perish for thirst;-but so weak I had not strength to
stand up, or to get myself any water to drink. Prayed
to God again, but was lightheaded: and when I was not,
I was so iguorant that I knew not what to say; only lay
and cried, "Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity me!
Lord, have mercy upon me!" I suppose I did nothing
else for two or three hours; till the fit wearing off, I
fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night.
When I awoke, I fonnd myself much refreshed, but
weak, and exceeding thirsty: however, as i had no
water in my whole hahitation, I was forced to lie till
morning, and went to sleep again. I n this second sleep
I had this terrible dream: I thonght that I was sitting
on the gronnd on the ontside of my wall, where I sat
when the storm blew after the earthquake; and that I
saw a mao descend from a great black clond, in a bright
flame of fire, and light upon the gronnd: he was all
over as bright as a flame, so that I conld but just bear
to look towards him: his conntenance was most inex-
pressibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe:
when he stepped upon the gronnd with his feet, I
thonght the earth trembled, just as it had done before
is. the earthquake; and all the air looked, to my appre-
heusion, as if it had been filled with flashes of fire. He
had no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved for-
ward towards me, with a Ion;:' spear or weapon in his
hand, to kill me; and when he came to a rising gronnd,
at some distance, he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so
terrible that it is impossible to express the terror of it:
all thatl can say I understood was this: "Seeing all
these things have not bronght thee to repentance, now
thon shalt die," at which words I thonght he lifted up
the spear that was in his hand to kill me.
No one that shall ever read this acconnt, will expect
that I shonld be able to describe the horrors of my
sonl at this terrible vision; I mean, that even while it
was a dream, I even dreamed of those horrors; nor is
it any uioro possible to describe the impression that re-
mained upon my mmd when I awaked, mul foand it was
but a dream.
I had, alas! DO divine knowledge: what I had re-
ceived by tliu good iustruction of my father was then
worn ont, by an uninterrupted series, for eight years, of
seafaring wickedness, and a coustant conversation with
cone but such as were, tike myself, wicked and pro-
fane to the last degree. I do not remember that I had,
in all that time, one thonght that so much as tended
either to looking upward towards God, or inward to-
wards a reflection upon my own ways: but a certain
stupidity of sonl, withont desire of good, or couscions-
ness of evil, had entirely overwhelmed me; and I was
all that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature
among onr common sailors, can be supposed to be; not
having tho least seuse, either of the fear of God In dan-
ger, or of thankfulness to him in deliverances.
In the relating what is already passed of my storv, fii is
will be the more easily believed, when I shall add, that
throngh all the variety of miseries that had to this day
befallen me, I never had so much as one thonght of its
being the hand of God, or that it was a just punishment
for my tan; either my rebellions behavionr agaiust my
father, or my present sius, which were great, or even as
a punishment for the general conrse of my wicked life.
When 1 was on the desperate expedition on the desert
shores of Africa, I never had so much as one thought of
what wonld become of me; or one wish to God to di-
rect me whither I shonld go, or to keep me from the
danger which apparently surronnded me, as well from
voracions creatures as cruel savages: but I was quite
thonghtless of a God or a Providence; acted like a
mere brute, from the principles of nature, and by the
dictates of common seuse only; and indeed hardly that.
When I was delivered and taken up at sea by the Por-
tuguese captam, well used, and dealt with justly and
hononrably, as well as charitably, I had not the least
thankfulness in my thonghts. When, again, I was
shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning, on
this island, I was as far from remurse, or looking on it
as a jndgment: I only said to myself often, that I wan an
unfortunate dog, uud boru to be always miserable.
It is true, when I first got on shore hero, and fonnd
all my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was
surprised with a kind of eestasy, and some trausports of
soal, which, had the grace of God assisted, migbt have
come up to true thankfulness; but it ended where it
began, in a mere common flight of joy, or, as I may say,
being glad I was alive, withont the least reflection upon
the distinguished goodness of the hand which had pre-
served me, and had singled me ont to be preserved,
when all the rest were destroyed, or an inquiry why
Providence had been tbus merciful to me : just the
same common sort of joy which seamen generally have,
after they are got safe a.-hori; from a shipwreck; which
they drown ail in the next bowl of punch, and forget
almost as soon as it is over: and all the rest of my life
was like it. Even when I was afterwards, on due con-
sideration, made seusible of my condition,—how I was
east on this dreadful place, ont of the reach of human
kind, ont of all hope of relief, or prospect of redemp-
tion,—as soon as I saw but a prospect of living, and
that I shonld not starve and perish for hanger, all the
seuse of my affliction wore off, and I began to be very
easy, applied myself to the works proper for my preser-
vation and supply, and was far enongh from being af-
flicted at my condition as a jndgment from Heaven, or
as the hand of God agaiust me: these were thonghts
which very seldom entered into my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my Jonr-
nal, had, at first, some little influence upon me, and
began to affect me with serionsuess, as long as I thonght
it had something miraculons in it; but as soon as that
part of the thonght was removed, all the impression
which was raised from it wore off also, as I have noted
already. Even the earthquake, thongh nothing conld
be more terrible in its nature, or more immediately di-
recting to the invisible Power which alone directs such
things, yet, no sooner was Ihe fright over, but the im-
pression it had made went off also. I had no more
seuse of God, or his jndgments, much less of the present
affliction of my circumstances being from his hand, than
if I had been in the most prosperons condition of life.
But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisure view
of the miseries of death came to place itself before me;
when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a
strong distemper, and nature was exhansted with the
violence of the fever; couscience, that had slept so
long, began to awake; and I reproached myself with
m v past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon
wickedness, provoked I he justice of God to lay me
under uncommon strokes, and to deal with me m so
vindictive a manner. These reflectious oppressed me
for the second or third day of my distemper; and in the
violence as well of the fever as of the dreadful re-
proaches of my couscience, extorted from me some
words like praying to God: thongh I cannot say it was
a prayer attended either with desires or with hopes; it
was rather the voice of mere fright and distress. My
thonghts were confused; the convictious great upon my
mind; and the horror of dying in such a miserable con-
dition raised vaponrs in my head with the mere appre-
heusion: and in these hurries of my sonl, I knew not
what my tongue might express: but it was rather ex-
clamation, such as, "Lord, what a miserable creature
am I! If I shonld be sick, I shall certainly die for want
of help; and what will become of me?" Then the tears
burst ont of my eyes, and I conld say no more for a
good while. In this interval, the good advice of my
father came to my mind, and presently his prediction,
which I mentioned at the begmning of this story, viz.
that if I did take this foolish step, God wonld not bless
me; and I shonld have leisure hereafter to reflect upon
having neglected his conusel, when there might bo
none to assist in my recovery. "Now," said I, alond,
"my dear father's words are come to pass; God's jus-
tice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear
me. I rejected the voice of Providence, which had
mercifully put me in a station of life wherein I might
have been happy and easy; but I wonld neither see it
myself, nor learn from my parents to know the blessing
of it. I left them to monrn over my folly; and now I
am left to monrn under the cousequences of it: I re-
fused their help and assistance who wonld have pushed
me in the world, and wonld have made every thing
easy to me; and now I have difliculties to struggle
with too great for even nature itself to support; and
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
no assistance, no comfort, no advice." Then I cried
ont, "Lord, be my help, for I am in great distress."
This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I had
made for many years. But I return to my Jonrnal.
June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the
sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up;
and thongh the fright and terror of my dream was very
great, yet I cousidered that the fit of the ague wonld
return again the next day, and now was my time to get
something to refresh and support myself when I shonld
be ill. The first thing I did was to fill a large square
case-bottle with water; and set it upon my table, in
reach of my bed: and to take off the chill or aguish
disposition of the water, I put abont a quarter of a pint
of rum into it, and mixed them together. Then I got
me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the
coals, but conld eat very little. I walked abont; but
was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted
under a seuse of my miserable condition, dreading the
return of my distemper the next day. At night, I made
my supper of three of the turtle's eggs, which I roasted
in the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the shell: and this
was the first hit of meat I had ever asked God's bless-
ing to, as I conld remember, in my whole life. After I
had eaten, I tried to walk; but fonnd myself so weak
that I conld hardly carry the gun (for I never went ont
withont that); so I went but a little way, and sat down

upon the gronnd, looking ont upon the sea, which was
just before me, and very calm and smooth. As I sat
here, some soch thonghts as these occurred to me:
What is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so
much? Whence is it produced? And what am I, and
all the other creatures, wild and tame, buman and
brutal? Whence are we? Surely, we are all made by
some secret power, who formed the earth and sea, the
air and sky. And who is that? Then it followed most
naturally,—It is God that has made all. Well, but
then, it came on strangely, if God has made all these
things, he guides and goverus them all, and all things
that concern them; for the power that conld make all
things must certainly have power to guide and direct
them: if so, nothing can happen, in the great circuit of
his works, either withont his knowledge or appoint-
ment.
And if nothing happeus withont his knowledge, he
knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful condition:
and if nothing happeus withont his appointment, he has
appointed all this to befall me. Nothing occurred to
my thonght to contradict any of these conclusious: and
therefore it rested upon me with the greatest force,
that it must needs be that God had appointed all this to
befall me; that I was bronght to this miserable circum-
stance by his direction, he having the sole power, not
of me only, but of every thingthat happeus inthe world.
Immediately it followed, Why hasGod done this tome?
What have I done to be tbus used? My couscience
presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blas-
phemed; and methonght it spoke to me like a voice,
"Wretch! dost than ask what thon hast done? Look
hack upon a dreadful misspent life, and ask thyself,
what thon hast not done? Ask, why is it that thon wert
not long ago destroyed? Why wert thon not drowned
in Yarmouth Roads; killed in the fight when the ship
was faken by the Sallee man of war; devonred by the
wild beasts on the coast of Africa; or drowned here,
when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost thon ask
what thon hast done?" I was struck dumb with these
reflectious, as one astonished, and had not a word to
say; no, not to auswer to myself; and, rising up pen-
sive and sad, walked back to my retreat, and went over
mvwall, as if Ihad been going to bed : but my thonghts
were sadly disturbed, and I had uo inclination to sleep;
so I sat down in the chair and lighted my lamp, for it
began to be dark. Now, as the appreheusion of the
return of my distemper terrified me very much, it oc-
curred to my thonght, that the Braziliaus take no phy-
sic but their tohacco for almost all distempers; and I
had a piece of a roll of tohacco in one of the chests,
which was qnitc cured; and some also that was green,
and not quite cured.
I went, directed by Heaven no donbt: for in this
chest I fonnd a cure both for sonl and body. I opened
the chest, and fonnd what I looked for, viz. the to-
hacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there too,
I took ont one of the Bibles which I mentioned before,
and which to this time I had not found leisure, or so
much as inclination, to look into. I say, I took it ont,
and bronght both that and the tohacco with me to the
table. What use to make of the tohacco I knew not,
as to my distemper, nor whether it was good for it or
not; but I tried several experiments with it, as if I
was resolved it shonld hit one way or other. I first
took a piece of the leaf, and chewed it in my month;
which, indeed, at first, almost stupified my brain; the
tohacco being green and strong, and such as I had not
been much used to. Then I took some and steeped it
an honr or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose
of it when I lav down: and, lastly, I burned some upon
a pan of coals, and held my nose close over the smoke
of it as long as I conld bear it; as well for the heat as
almost for suflocation. In the interval of this opera-
tion, I took up the Bible, and began to read; but my
head was too much disturbed with the tohacco to bear
reading, at least at that time; only having opened the
book casually, the first words that occurred to me were
these: "Call on me in the day of tronble, and I will
deliver thee, and thon shall glorify me/' These words
were very apt to my case; and made some impression
upon my thonghts at the time of readmg them, thongh
not so much as they did afterwards; for, as for being
delivered, the word had uo sonnd, as I may say, to me;
the thing was so remote, so impossible in my apprehen-
sion of things, that, as tho children of Israel said when
they were promised Uesh to eal, "Can God spread a
table in the wilderness?" so I began to say, Can even
God himself deliver me from this place? And as it was
not for many years that any hopes appeared, this pre-
vailed very often upon my thonghts: but, however, the
words made a great impression upon me, and I mused
upon them very often. It now grew late; and the to-
bacco had, as I said, dozed my head so much that I
inclined to sleep: so I left my lamp burning in the cavet
lest I shonld want any thing in the night, and went to
bed. But before I lay down, I did what I never had
done in all my life; I kneeled down, and prayed to God
to fulfil the promise to me, that if I called upon him in
the day of tronble, he wonld deliver me. After my
broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum
in which I had steeped the tohacco; which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco that indeed I conld
scarce get it down: immediately upon this I went to
bed. I fonnd presently the rum flew up into my head
violently; but I fell into a sonnd sleep, and waked no
more till, by the sun, it must necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day: nay, to this honr
I am partly of opinion, that I slept all the next day and
night, and till almost three the day after; for otherwise
I know not how I shonld lose a day ont of my reckon-
ing in the days of the week, as it appeared some years
after I had done; for if I had lost it by crossing and
recrossing the Line, I shonld have lost more than one
day; but certainly I lost a day in my acconnt, and never
knew which way. Be that, however, one way or the
other, when I awaked, I found myself exceedingly re-
freshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful: when I got
up, I was stronger than I was the day before, and my
stomach better, for I was bungry; and, in short, I had
no fit the next day, but continued much altered for the
better. This was the 29th.
The 30th was my well day, of conrse; and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too far.
I killed a seafowl or two, something like a brand goose,
and bronght them home; but was not very forward to
eat them; so I ate some more of the turtle's eggs, which
were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine,
which I had supposed did me good the day before, viz.
the tohacco steeped in rum; only I did not take so
much as before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold
my head over the smoke: however, I was not so well
the next day, which was the 1st of July, as I hoped I
shonld have been; for I had a little of the cold fit, but
it was not much.
Jnly 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways;
and dosed myself with it as at first, and donbled the
quantity which I drank.
July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, thongh I
did not recover my full strength for some weeks after.
While I was tbus gathering strength, my thoughts ran
exceedingly upon this scripture, "I will deliver thee;"
and the impossihility of my deliverance lay much upon
my mind, in har of my ever expecting it: but as I was
disconraging myself with such thoughts, it occurred
to my mind that I pored so much upon my deliverance
from the main affliction that I disregarded the deliver-
ance I had received; and I was, as it were, made to ask
myself such questious as these, viz. Have I not been
delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness; from
the most distressed condition that conld be, and that
was so frightful to me? and what notice have I taken
of it? Have I done my part? God has delivered me,
but I have not glorified him; that is to say, I have not
owned and been thankful for that as a deliverance:
and bow can I expect a-greater deliverance? This
tonched my heart very much; and immediately I knelt
down, and gave God thanks alond for my recovery from
my sickness.
July 4. In the morning I took the Bible; and be-
ginning at the New Testament, I began serionsly to
read it; and imposed upon myself to read awhile every
morning and every night; not hinding myself to the
number of chapters, but as long as my thonghts shonld
engage me. It was not long after I set serionsly to this
work, that I fonnd my heart more deeply and sincerely
affected with the wickedness of my past life. The im-
pression of my dream revived; and the words, "All
these things have not bronght thee to repentance/' ran
•erionsly in my thonghts. I was earnestly begging of
God to give ine repentance, when it happened provi-
dentially, the very same day, that reading the scripture,
J came to these words, "He is exalted a Prince and
a Savionr; to give repentance, and to give remission."
I threw down the book ; and with my heart as well as
my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of eestasy of
joy, I cried ont alond, '' Jesus, thon Son of David!
Jesus, thon exalted Prince and Savionr! give me re-
pentance!" This was the first time in all my life I conld
say, in the true seuse of the words, that I prayed; for
now I prayed with a seuse of my condition, and with a
true scripture view of hope, fonnded on the enconrage-
ment of the word of God: and from this time, I may
say, I began to have hope that God would bear me.
Now I began to coustrue the words mentioned above,
'' Call on me, and I will deliver thee/' in a different
sense from what I had ever done before; for then I had
no notion of any thing being called deliverance, but my
being delivered from the captivity I was in: for thongh
I was indeed at large in the place, yet the island was
certainly a prison to me, and that in the worst seuse
in the world. But now I learned to take it in another
seuse: now I looked hack upon my past life with such
horror, and my sius appeared so dreadful, that my sonl
songht nothing of God but deliverance from the load of
guilt that bore down all my comfort. As for my soli-
tary life, it was nothing: I did not so much as pray to
be delivered from it, or think of it; it was all of no
cousideration in comparison with this. And I add this
part here, to hint to whoever shall read it, that when-
ever they come to a true seuse of things, they will find
deliverance from sin a much greater blessing than de-
liverance from affliction. But, leaving this part, I
return to my Jonrnal.
My condition began now to be, thongh not less mi-
serable as to my way of living, yet much easier to my
mind: aiid my thonghts being directed, by coustantly
reading the Scripture and praying to God, to things of
a higher nature, I had a great deal of comfort within,
which, till now, I knew nothing of; also, as my health
and strength returned, I bestirred me to furnish myself
with every thing that I wanted, and make my way of
living as regular as I conld.
From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly em-
ployed in walking abont with my gun in my hand, a
little and a little at a time, as a man that was gathering
up his strength after a fit of sickness: for it is hardly to
be imagined how low I was, and to what weakness I
was reduced. The application which I made use of was
perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an
ague before: neither can I recommend it to any one to
practise, by this experiment: and thongh it did carry
off the fit, yet it rather contributed to weakening me;
for I had frequent convulsious in my nerves and limbs
for some time. I learned from it also this, in particular;
that being abroad in the rainy season was the most per-
nicions thing to my health that conld be, especially in
those raius which came attended with storms and burri-
canes of wind; for as the rain which came in the dry
season was almost always accompanied with such storms,
so I found that this rain was much more dangerons than
the rain which fell in September and October.
I had now been in this unhappy island above ten
months: all possihility of deliverance from this con-
dition seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I
firmly believed that no buman shape had ever set foot
upon that place. Having secured my hahitation, as
I thonght, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to
make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to see
what other productious I might find, which I yet knew
nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a
more particular survey of the island itself. I went op
the creek first, where, as I hinted, I bronght my rafts
on shore. I fonnd, after I came abont two miles up,
that the tide did not flow any higher; and that it was
no more than a little brook of running water, very fresh
and good: but this being the dry season, there was
hardly any water in some parts of it; at least uot any
stream. On the hanks of this brook I fonnd many
pleasant savannahs or meadows, plain, smooth, and co-
vered with grass: and on the rising parts of them, next
to the higher gronnds (where the water as it might be
supposed never overflowed), I fonnd a great deal of
tobacco, green, and growing to a very great and strong
stalk: and there were divers other plants, which I had
no knowledge of, or understanding abont, and that
might, perhaps have virtues of their own, which I
conld not find ont. I searched for the cassava root,
which the Indiaus in all that climate make their bread
of, but I could find none. I saw large plants of aloes,
hat did not understand them. I saw several sugar-
canes, but wild ; and, for want of cultivation, imper-
fect. I contented myself with these discoveries for this
•time; and came hack, musing with myself what coarse
I might take to know the virtue and goodness of any
of the fruits or plants which I shonld discover; but
conld bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had
made so little observation while I was in the Brazils,
that I knew little of the plants in the field; at least,
very little that might serve me to any purpose now in
my distress.
The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again; and after going something farther than I hail
gone the day before, I fonnd the brook and the savan-
nahs begin to cease, and the conntry become more
woody than before. In this part I fonnd different fruits;
and particularly I fonnd melous upon the gronnd, in
great abundance, and grapes upon the trees: the vines
mdeed, had spread over the trees, and the clusters of
grapes were now just in their prime, very ripe and rich.
This was a surprising discovery, and I was exceed-
ingly glad of them, but I was warned by my experience
to eat sparingly of them; remembering that when I was
ashore m Barbary, the eating of grapes killed several
of onr Englishmen, who were slaves there, by throwing
them into fluxes and fevers. I fonnd, however, an ex-
cellent use for these grapes; and that was, to cure or
dry them in the sun, and keep them as dried grapes or
raisius are kept; which I thonght wonld be (as indeed
they were) as wholesome and as agreeable to eat, when
no grapes were to be had.
I spent all that evening there, and went not hack to
my habitation; which, by the way, was the first night
as I might Bay I had Iain from home. At night, I took
my first contrivance, and got up into a tree, where I
slept well, and the next morning proceeded on my dis-
covery, traveling near fonr miles, as I might jndge by
the length of the valley; keeping still due north, with
a ridge of hills on the sonth and north sides of me. At
the end of this march I came to an opening, where the
conntry seemed to descend to the west; and a little
spring of fresh water, which issued ont of the side of
the hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and
the conntry appeared so fresh, so green, so flonrishing,
every thing being in a coustant verdure, or flourish of
spring, that it looked like a planted garden. I descend-
ed a little on the side of that delicions vale, surveying
it with a secret kind of pleasure (thongh mixed with
other afflicting thonghts), to think that this was all my
own; that I was king and lord of all this conntry inde-
feasibly, and had a right of possession; and, if I conld
convey it, I might have it in inheritance as completely
as any lord of a manor in England. I saw here abun-
dance of cocoa trees, and orange, lemon, and citron
trees, but all wild, and very few bearing nny fruit; at
least not then. However, the green limes that I gather-
ed were not only pleasant to eat, but very wholesome;
and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which
made it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.
I fonnd now I had business enongh to gather anil carry
home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of
grapes as limes and lemous to furnish myself for the
wet season, which l knew was approaching. In order
to this I gathered a great heap of grapes in one place,
a lesser heap in another place; and a great parcel of
limes and melous in another place; and taking a few of
each with me, I traveled homeward; and resolved to
come again, and bring a hag or sack, or what I conld
make to carry the rest home. Accordingly, having
spent three days in this jonrney, I came home (so I
must now call my tent and my cave): but before I got
thither, the grapes were spoiled; the richness of the
fruits, and the weight of the juice, having broken and
bruised them, they were good for little or nothing ; as to
the limos, they were good, but I could bring only a few.
The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having
made me two small hags to bring home my harvest;
but I was surprised, when, coming to mv heap of
grapes, which were so rich and fme when I gathered
them, I fonnd them all spread aboiU, trod to pieces,
and dragged abont, some here, some there, and abun-
dance eaten and devonred. By this I conclnded thero
were some wild creatures thereabonts which had done
this, but what they were I knew not. However, as I
fonnd there was no laying them up in heaps, and no
carrying them away in a sack; but that one way they
wonld be destroyed, and the other way they wonld be
crushed with their own weight; I took another conrse:
I then gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and
hung them upon the ont branches of the trees, that they
might cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes
and lemons, I carried as many hack as I conld well
stand under.
When I came home from this jonrney, I contemplated
with great pleasure the fruitfuluess of that valley, and
the pleasantness of the situation; the security from
storms on that side; the water and the wood: and con-
clnded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode
in, which was by far the worst part of the country.
Upon the whole, I began to cousider of removing my
hahitation, and to loojt ont for a place equally safe as
where I was now situate, if possible, in that pleasant
fruitful part of the island.
This thought ran long in my head; and I was exceed-
ing fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the
place tempting me: but when I came to a nearer view
of it, I cousidered that I was now by the seaside, where
it was at least possible that somethmg might happen to
my advantage, and, by the same ill fate that bronght me
hither, might bring some other unhappy wretches to
the same place; and thongh it was scarce prohable that
any such thing shonld ever happen, yet to enclose my-
self among the hills and woods in the centre of the
islai.d, was to anticipate my bondage, and to render
such an aftair not only improbable, but impossible; and
that therefore I onght not by any meaus to remove.
However, I was »u enamonred of this place, that I
spent much of my time there for the whole remaining
part of the month of July; and thongh upon second
thonghts I resolved, as above stated, not to remove;
yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and surronnded
it at a distance with a strong fence, being a donble
hedge, as high as I conld rcnc.h, well staked, and filled
between with brushwood. Here I lay very secure,
sometimes two or three nights together; always gomg
over it with a ladder as before: so that I fancied now
I had my conntry and my seacoast honse. This work
took me up till the beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fence, and began to en-
joy my labonr, when the raius came on, and made me
stick close to my first hahitation: for thongh I had
made a tent like the other, with a piece of sail, and
spread it very well, yet I had not tin; shelter of a hill to
keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me to retreat
into when the raius were extraordinary.
Abont the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The
3d of August, I fonnd the grapes I had bung up were
perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good raisius
of the sun: so I began to take them down from the
trees; and it was very happy that I did so, as the raius
which followed wonld have spoiled them, and I shonld
have lost the best part of my winter food; for I had
above two bundred large bunches of them. No sooner
had I taken them all down, and carried most of them
home to my cave, but it began to rain: and from hence,
which was the 14th of August, it rained more or less
every day till the middle of October; and sometimes
so violently that I conld not stir ont of my cave for
several days.
In this season I was much surprised with the increase
of my family. I had been concerned for the loss of one
of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thonght,
had been dead; and I heard no more of her, till, to my
astonishment, she came home with three kitteus. This
was the more strange to me, becanse, abont the end of
August, thongh I had killed a wild cat as I called it,
with my gun, yet I thonght it was quite a different kind
from onr European cats: yet the yonng cats were the
same kind of honse-breed as the old one; and both of
my cats being- females, I thonght it verv strange. But
from these three, I afterwards came to be so pestered
with cats, that I was forced to kill them like vermin,
or \vikl beasts, and to drive them from m\ honse'as
much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the S!6t!i, incessant rain;
sn that I conld not stir, and was now very careful not
to he much wet. In this confinement I began to be
straitened for food; but venturing ont once or twice,
I one day killed a goat, and the last day, which was the
26th, fonnd a very large tortoise, which was a treat to
me. My food was now regulated tbus: I ate a bunch
of raisius for my breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh,
or of the turtle broiled for my dinner (for, to my great
misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew any thing);
and two or three of the turtle's eggs for my supper.
Daring ihis confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three honrs at enlarging my cave,
and by degrees worked it on towards one side, till I
came to the ontside of the hilt; and made a door, or
way ont, which came beyond my fence or wall: and so
I came in and ont this way. But I was not perfectly
easy at lying so open: for as I had managed myself
before, I was in a perfect enclosure; whereas now, I
thonght I lay exposed; and yet I conld not perceive
that there was any living thing to fear, the higgest crea-
ture that I had yet seen upon the island being a goat.
September 30. I was now come to the unhappy an-
niversary of my landing. I cast up the notches on my
post, and fonnd I had been on shore three bundred and
sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast, set-
ting it apart for religions exercise, prostrating myself
on the gronnd with the most serions bumiliation, con-
fessing my sius to God, acknowledging his righteons
jndgments upon me, and praying to him to have mercy
on me throngh Jesus Christ; and havingnot tasted the
least refreshment for twelve honrs, even till the going
down of the sun, I then ate a hiscuit and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began
it. I had all this time observed no sabhath-day; for as
at first I had no seuse of religion upon my mind, I had,
VOL. r. H
after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks, by
making a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-
day, and so did not really know what any of the days
were: but now having cast up the days as above, I
fonnd I had been there a year, so I divided it into
weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a sabbath:
thongh I fonnd, at the end of my acconnt, I had lost a
day or two in my reckoning. A little after this, my
ink beginning to fail me, I contented mjself to use i't
more sparingly; and to write down only the most re-
markable events of my life, withont continuing a daily
memorandum of other things.
The rainy season and the dry season began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so
as to provide for them accordingly; but I bonght all
my experience before I had it; and what I am going
to relate was one of the most disconraging experiments
that I had made at all.
I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of
harley and rice which I had so surprisingly fonnd
sprung up as I thonght of themselves. I believe there
were abont thirty stalks of rice, and abont twenty of
harley; and now I thonght it a proper time to sow it
after the raius; the sun being in its son them position,
going from me. Accordingly I dug a piece of gronnd,
as well as I conld with my wooden spade, and dividing
it into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was sow-
ing, it casually occurred to my thonghts that I wonld
not sow it all at first, becanse I did not know when was
the proper time for it; so I sowed abont two-thirds of
the seed, leaving abont a handful of each: and it was
a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not
one grain of what I sowed this time came to any thing;
fur the dry month following, and the earth having tbus
had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no moisture
to assist its growth, and never came up at all till the
wet season had come again, and then it grew as if it had
been but newly sown. Finding my first seed did not
grow, which i easily imagined was from the dronght, I
songht for a moister piece of gronnd to make another
trial in; and I dug up a piece of gronnd near my new-
bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a
little before the vernal equinox. This having the rainy
months of March and April to water it, sprung up very
pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but having
only part of the seed left, and not daring to sow all that
I had, I got but a small quantity at last, my whole crop
not amonnting to above half a peck of each kind. But
by this experiment I was made master of my business,
and knew exactly when was the proper time to sow;
and that I might expect two seed times and two har-
vests every year.
While this corn was growing, I made a little dis-
covery, which was of ust to me afterwards. As soon
as the raius were over, and the weather began to settle,
which was abont the month of November, i made a
visit up the conntry to my bower; where, thongh I had
not been some months, \ et I fonnd all things just as I
left them. The circle or donble hedge that I had made
was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which I
had cut ont of some trees that grew thereabonts, were
all shot ont, and grown with long branches, as much as
a willow tree usually shoots the first year after lopping
its head; but I conld not tell what tree to call it that
these stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and yet
very well pleased, to see the yonng trees grow; and [
pruned them, and led them to grow as much alike as
I conld: and it is scarce credible how beantiful a figure
they grew into in three years; so that, though the
hedge made a circle of abont twenty-five yards in dia-
meter, yet the trees, for such I might now call them,
soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufficient
to lodge under all the dry season. This made me re-
solve to cut some more stakes, and make mo a hedge
like this, in a semicircle ronnd my wall (I mean that of
my first dwelling), which I did; and placing the trees
or stakes in a donble row, at abont eight yards dis-
tance from my first fence, they grew presently; and
were at first a fine cover to my hahitation, and after-
wards served for a defence also; as I shall observe in
its order.
I fonnd now that the seasous of the year might gene-
rally be divided, not into summer and winter, as in
Kurope, bat into the rainy seasous and ihe dry seasous,
which were generally tbus: From the middle of Fe-
bruary to the middle of April, rainy; the sun being
then on or near the equinox. From the middle of April
till the middle of August, dry ; the sun being then north
of the Line. From the middle of August till the middle
of October rainy; the sun being then come hack to the
Line. From the middle of October till the middle
of February, dry ; the sun being then to the sonth of
the Line.
The rainy seasous beld sometimes longer and-some-
times shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but this
was the general observation I made. After I had fonnd,
by experience, the ill cousequences of being abroad in
the rain, I took care to furnish myself with .pro visious
beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go ont: and
I sat within doors as much as possible during the wet
months. In this time I fonnd much employment, and
very suitable also to the time; for I fonnd great occa-
sion for many things which I had no way to furnish
myself with but by hard labonr and coustant applica-
tion: particularly, I tried many ways to make m vself a
hasket; but all the twigs I conld get for the purpose
proved so brittle that they wonld do nothing-. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I
was a boy, I used to take great delight in standing at a
hasket-maker's in the town where my father lived, to
see them make their wicker ware; and being, as boys
usually are, very officions to help, and a great observer
of the manner how they worked those things, and
sometimes lending a hand, I had by these meaus full
knowledge of the methods of it, so that I wanted no-
thing but the materials; when it came into my mind,
that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes
that grew might possibly be as tongh as the sallows,
willows, and osiers, in England; I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day I went to my conntry honse,
as I called it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs,
I fonnd them to my purpose as much as I conld desire:
wherenpon I came the next time prepared with a hat-
chet to cut down a quantity, which i Soon fonnd, for
there was great plenty of them. These T set up to dry
within my circle or hedge; and when they were fit for
101
use, I carried them to my cave: and here, during the
next season, I employed myself in making, as well as I

coald, several haskets, both to carry earth, or to carry
or lay op any thing as I had occasion for. Thongh I
did not fmish them very handsomely, yet I made them
sufliciently serviceable for my purpose: and tbus after-
wards I took care never to be withont them; and as my
wicker ware decayed, I made more; especially strong
deep haskets, to place my corn in, iustead of sacks,
when I shonld come to have any quantity of it.
Having mastered this difliculty, and employed a
world of time abont it, I bestirred myself to see, if
possible, how to supply two other wants. I had no
vessel to hold anything that was liquid, except two
rnnlets, which were almost full of rum ; and some glass
bottles, some of the common size, and others (which
were case bottles) square, for the holding of waters,
spirits, &c. I had not so much as a pot to boil any-
thing; except a great kettle which I saved ont of the
ship, and which was too hig for such use as I desired
it, viz. to make broth, and stew a hit of meat by itself.
The second thing I wonld fain have had was a tohacco-
pipe, but it was impossible for me to make one; how-
ever, I fonnd a contrivance for that too at last. I em-
ployed myself in planting my second row of stakes or
piles, and also in this wicker working, all the summer
or dry season; when another business took me up more
time than it conld be imagined I conld spare.
I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to see
the whole island; and thatl had traveled up the brook,
and so on to where I had built my bower, and where I
had an opening quite to the sea, on the other side of
the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to the
seashore, on that side: so taking my gun, a hatchet,
and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot
than usual ; with two hiscuit-cakes, and a great hunch
of raisius in my ponch for my store; I began my jonr-
ney. When I had passed the vale where my bower
stood, as above, I came within view of the sea, to the
west; and it being a very clear day, I fairly descried
land, whether an island or continent I conld not tell;
but it lay very high, extending from VV. to W.S.VV. at
a very great distance; by my guess it conld not be less
than fifteen or twenty leagues off.
I conld not tell what part of the world this might be;
otherwise than that I knew it must be part of America;
and, as I conclnded by all my observatious, must be
near the Spanish dominious: and perhaps was all in-
hahited by savages, where, if I shonld have landed, I
had been in a worse condition than I was now. I there-
fore acquiesced in the dispositious of Providence,
which I began now to own and to believe ordered
every thing for the best; I say, I quieted my mind
with this, and left off afflicting myself with fruitless
wishes of being there.
Besides, after some panse upon this aflair, I cousi-
dered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I shonld
certainly, one time or other, see some vessel pass or
repass one way or other; but if not, then it was the
savage coast between the Spanish conntry and the
Brazils, whose inhahitants are indeed the worst of sa-
vages; for they are cannihals, or men-eaters, and fail
not to murder and devonr all buman beings that fall
into their hands.
With these cousideratious, walking very leisurely
forward, I fonnd this side of the island, where I now
was, much pleasanter than mine; the open or savannah
fields sweetly adorned with flowers and grass, and full
of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots; and
fain wonld have canght one, if possible, to have kept
it to bo tame, and tanght it to speak to me. I did,
after taking some paius, catch a yonng parrot; for I
knocked it down with a stick, and having recovered it,
I bronght it home: but it was some years before I
conld made him speak; however, at last I tanght him
to call me by my name very familiarly. But the ac-
cident that followed, thongh it be a trifle, will be very
diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly amused with this joarney. I
fonnd in the low gronnds hares, as I thonght them to
be, and foxes; but they differed greatly from all the
other kinds I had met with, nor conld I satisfy myself
to eat them, thongh I killed several. But I had no
need to be venturons: for I had no want offood, and of
that which was very good too; especially these three
sorts, via. goats, pigeous, and turtle, or tortoise. With
these, added to my grapes, Leadenhall market conld
not have furnished a table better than I, in proportion
to the company; and thongh my case was deplorable
euongh, yet I had great canse for thankfulness; as I
was not driven to any extremities for food, but had ra-
ther plenty, even to dainties.
I never traveled on this jonrney above two miles ont-
right in a day, or thereabonts; but I took so manyturns
and returus, to see what discoveries I conld make, that
I came weary enongh to the place where I resolved to
sit down for the night; and then I either reposed myself
in a tree, or surronnded myself with a row of stakes,
set upright in the gronnd, either from one tree to an-
other, or so as no wild creature conld come at me with-
ont waking me.
As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised to
see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the
island: for here indeed the shore was covered with in-
numerable turtles; whereas on the other side, I had
fonnd but three in a year and a half. Here was also an
infinite number of fowls of many kinds; some of which
I had seen, and some of which I had not seen before,
and many of them very good meat; but such as I knew
not the names of, except those called penguius.
I conld have shot as many as I pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot; and therefore had
more mind to kill a she goat if I conld, which I conld
better feed on. But though there were many goats
here, more than on my side the island, yet it was with
much more difliculty that I conld come near them,
the conntry being flat and even, and they saw me much
sooner than when I was upon a hill.
I confess this side of the conntry was much pleasanter
than mine; yet I had not the least inclination to re-
move; for as I was fixed in my hahitation, it became
natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was here
to be as it were upon a jonrney, and from home. How-
ever, I traveled along the seashore towards the east, I
suppose abont twelve miles; and then setting up a
great pole upon the shore for a mark, I conclnded I
wonld go home again; and that the next jonrney I took
shonld be on the other side of the island, east from my
dwelling, and so ronnd till I came to my post again:
of which in its place.
I took another way to come hack than that I went,
thinking I conld easily keep so much of the island in
my view, that I conlil not miss my first dwelling hy
viewing the conntrv, but I fonnd myself mistaken; for
heing come abont two or three miles, I fonnd my selt'
descended into a very large valley, but so surronnded
with hills, and those hills covered with wood, that I
conld not see which was my way by any direction but
that of the san, nor even then, unless I knew very well
the position of the sun at that time of the day. And it
happened, to my farther misfortune, that the weather
proved hazy for three or fonr days while I was in this
i alley; and not being able to see the sun, I wandered
abont very uncomfortable, and at last was obliged to
find ont the seaside, look for my post, and come hack
the same way I went; and then by easy jonrneys I
turned homeward, the weather being exceedingly hot,
and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other things
very heavy,
In this jonrney my dog surprised a yonng kid, and
seized upon it: and running to take hold of it, I canght
it, and saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind
to bring it home if I conld; for I had often been musing
whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two,
and so raise a breed of tame goats, which might supply
me \vhcn my powder and shot shonld he all spent.
I made a collar for this little creature, and with a string
which I had made of some ropeyarn which I always
carried ahont me, I led him along, thongh with some
difficulty, till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed
him and left him; for I was very impatient to be at
home, from whence I had been absent above a month.
I cannot express what satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old butch, and lie down in my hammook-
bed. This little wandering jonrney, withont a settled
place of abode had been so uupleasant to me, that my
own honse, as I called it to myself, was a perfect settle-
ment to me, compared to that; and it rendered every
thing abont me so comfortable, that I resolved I wonlil
never go a great way from it again, while it shonld be
my lot to stay on the island.
I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale my-
self after my long jonrney: during which, most of the
time was taken up in the weighty affair of making a
cage for my Poll, who began now to be more domestic,
and to be mighty well acquainted with me. Then I
began to think of the poor kid which I had penned
within my little circle, and resolved to fetch it home,
or give it some food: accordingly 1 went, and fonnd it
where I left it (for indeed it conld not get ont), but
was almost starved for want of food. I went and cut
bonghs of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I conld
fmd, and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I
did before to lead it away; but it was so tame with
being bungry, that I had uo need to have tied it, for it
followed me like a dog: and as I continuallv fed it, the
creature became so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that
it was from that time one of my domesties also, and
wonld never leave me afterwards.
The rainy season of the antumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the same
solemn manner as before, being the anniversary of my
landing on the island; having now been there two
years, and no more prospect of my being delivered than
the first day I came there. I spent the whole day in
bumble and thankful acknowledgments for the many
wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was
attended with, and withont which it might have been
infinitely more miserable. I gave bumble and hearty
thanks to God for having been pleased to discover to me,
that it was possible I might be more happy, even in this
solitary condition, than I shonld have been in the enjoy-
ment of society, and in all the pleasures of the world:
that he conld fully make up to me the deficiencies of
my solitary state, and the want of human society, by his
presence, and the communicatious of his grace to my
sonl; supporting, comforting, and enconraging me to
depend upon his providence here, and to hope for his
eternal pres'ence hereafter.
It was now that I began seusibly to feel how mnch
more happy the life I now led was, with all its mise-
rable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed, abomina-
ble life I led all the past part of my days: and now I
changed both my sorrows and my jovs: my very de-
sires altered, my affectious changed their gusts, and my
delights were perfectly new from what they were at my
first coming, or indeed for the two years past.
Before, as I walked abont, either on my bunting, or
for viewing the conntry, the anguish of my sonl at my
condition wonld break ont upon me on a sndden, and
my very heart would die within me, to think of the
woods, the monntaius, the deserts I was in ; .;:ind how I
was a prisoner, locked up with the eternal hars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhahited wilderness, with-
ont redemption. In the midst of the greatest compo-
sures of my mind, this wonld break ont upon me like a
storm, and make me wrmg my hands, and weep like a
child: sometimes it wonld take me in the middle of mv
work, and I wonld immediately sit down and sigh, and
look upon the gronnd for an honr or two together:
this was still worse to me; but if I conld burst into
tears, or give vent to my feelings by words, it wonld
go nif; and my grief being exhansted, wonld ahate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new
thonghts; I daily read the word of God, and applied
all the comforts of it to my present state. One morn-
ing, being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these
words, « I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee:''
immediately it occurred that these words were to me;
why else shonld they be directed in such a manner,
just at the moment when I was monrning over my con-
dition, as one forsaken of God and man? " Well then/'
said I, "if God does not forsake me, of what ill con-
sequence can that be, or what matters it, thongh the
world shonld forsake me; seeing on the other hand, if
I had all the world, and shonld lose the favonr and
blessing of God, there wonld be no comparison in
the toss?"
From this moment I began to conclnde in my mind,
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this
forsaken, solitary condition, than it was probable I
shonld ever have been in any other particular state in
the world; and with this thonght I was going to give
thanks to God for bringing me to this place. I know
not what it was, but something shocked my mind at
that thonght, and I durst not speak the words. "How
caust thon be such a hypocrite," said I even andibly,
"to be thankful for a condition, which, however thon
mayst endeavonr to be contented with, thon wonldst
rather pray heartily to be delivered from?" Here I
stopped: but thongh I conld not say I thanked God for
being here, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for open-
ing my eyes, by whatever afflicting providences, to see
the former condition of my life, and to monrn for my
wickedness, and repent. I never opened the Bible, or
sbut it, but my very sonl within me blessed God for
directing my friend in England, withont any order of
mine, to pack it up among my goods; and for assisting
me afterwards to save it ont of the wreck of the ship.
Tbus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my
third year; and thongh I have not given the reader
the tronble of so particular an acconnt of my works
this year as the first, yet in general it may be observed,
that I was very seldom idle; but having regularly di-
vided mv time, according to the several daily employ-
ments that were before me; such as, first, My duty to
God, and the reading the Scriptures, which I coustantly
set apart some time for, thrice every day: secondlv,
Going abroad with my gun for food, which generally
took me up three honrs every morning, when it did not
rain: thirdly, Ordering, caring, preserving, and cook-
ing what I had killed or catched for my supply. These
took op great part of the day; also it is to be cousider-
ed, that in the middle of the day, when the sun was in
the zenith, the violence of the heat was too great to stir
ont; so that abont fonr honrs in the evening was all the
time I conld be supposed to work in; with this excep-
tion, that sometimes I changed my honrs of bunting
and working, and went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in the afternoon.
To this short time allowed for labonr, I desire may
be added the extreme laborionsuess of my work ; the
many honrs which, for want of tools, want of help, and
want of skill, every thing I did took up ont of my time:
for example, I was full two-and-forty days making me
a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave;
whereas, two sawyers, with their tools and a saw-pit,
won Id have cut six of them ont of the same tree in half
a day.
My case was this; it was a large tree which was to
be cut down, becanse my board was to be a broad one.
This tree I was three days cuttmg down, and two more
in cutting oil' the boughs, and reducing it to a log or
piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking and
hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips, till it
was li-.;Iit enongh to move; then I turned it, and made
one side of it smooth and flat as a board, from end to
end; then turning that side downward, cut the other
side, till I bronght the plank to be abont three inches
thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may jndge
the labonr of my hands in such a piece of work; but
labour and patience carried me throngh that, and many
other things: I only observe this in particular, to show
the reason why so much of my time went away with so
little work, viz. that what might be a little to be done
with help and tools, was a vast labonr, and required a
prodigions time, to do alone, and by hand. Notwith-
standing this, with patience and labonr I went throngh
many things; and, indeed, every thing that my circnm-
atatfx-s made necessary for me to do, as will appear by
what follows.
1 was now in the months of November and Decem-
her, expecting my crop of harley and rice. The gronnd
I had manured or dug for them was not great; for, as
I observed, my seed of each was not above the quan-
tity of half a peck, having lost one whole crop by sow-
ing in the dry season: but now my crop promised very
well; when on a sodden I fonnd I was in danger of
losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, which it
was scarce possible to keep from it; as first, the goats,
and wild crcai;urs which I called hares, who, tasting
the sweetness of the blade, lav in it night and day, as
soon as it came up, and ate it so close that it conld get
no time to shoot up into stalk.
I saw no remedy for this, but by making an enclosure
abont it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of
toil; and ihe more, becanse it required speed. How-
ever, as my arable land was but small, suited to my
crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in abont three
weeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures in the
day time, I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying
him up to a stake at the gate, where he wonld stand
and har-k all nigbt long; so in a little time the enemies
forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and
well, and began to ripen apace.
But as the beasts rumed me before, while my corn
was in the blade, so the hirds were as likely to ruin me
now, when it was in the ear; for going along by the
place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop sur-
ronnded with fowls, I know not of how many sorts, who
stood, as it were, watching till I shonld be gone. I im-
mediately let fly among them (for I always had my gun
with me); I had no sooner shot, but there arose up a
little clond of fowls, which I had not seen at all, from
among the corn itself.
This tonched me seusibly, for I foresaw that in a few
days they wonld devonr all my hopes; that I shonld be
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all; and
what to do I conld not tell: however, I resolved not to
lose my corn, if possible, thongh I shonld watch it
night and day. ID the tirst place, I went among it to
see what damage was already done, and fonnd they had
spoiled a good deal of it; 'but thai as it was yet too
green for them, the loss was not so great, but that the
remainder was likely to be a good crop, if it conld be
saved.
I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming away,
I conld easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees
abont me, as if they only waited till I was gone away;
and the event proved it to be so; for, as I walked off,
as if gone, I was no sooner ont of their sight than they
dropped down, one by one, into the corn again. I was
so provoked that I conld not have patience to stay till
more came on, knowing that every grain they eat now,
was, as it might be said, a peck loaf to me in the couse-
quence; so coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and
killed three of them. This was what I wished for; so
I took them up, and served them as we serve notorions
thieves in England, viz. hanged them in chaius for a
terror to others. It is impossible to imagine that this
shonld have such an effect as it had; for the fowls not
only never came to the corn, but, in short, they forsook
all that part of the island, and I conld never see a hird
near the place as long as my scarecrows bung there.
This I was very glad of, yon may be sure; and abont
the latter end of December, which was onr second har-
vest of the year, I reaped my corn.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it
down: and all I conld do was to make one as well as
I conld, ont of one of the broad-swords or cutlasses,
which I saved among the arms of the ship. However,
as my first crop was but small, I had no great difficulty
to cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut
nothing off but the ears, and carried it away in a great
hasket which I had made, and so rubbed it ont with
my hands; and at the end of all my harvesting, I fonnd
that ont of my half peck of seed I had near two bushels
of rice, and above two bushels and a half of harley;
that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure.
However, this was great enconragement to me; and
I foresaw that in time it wonld please God to supply
me with bread; and yet here I was perplexed again;
for I neither knew bow to grind, or make meal of my
corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if made
into meal, how to make bread of it; and if how to make
it, yet I knew not bow to bake it: these things being
added to my desire of having a good quantity of store,
and to secure a coustant supply, I resolved not to taste
any of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed agaiust
the next season; and in the mean time, to employ all •
my study and honrs of working to accomplish this great
work of providing myself with corn and bread.
It migjit be truly said, that now I worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe
few people have thonght much upon, viz. the strange
multitnde of little things necessary in the providing,
producing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing this
one article of bread.
I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, fonnd
this to my daily disconragement, and was made more
seusible of it every honr, even after I had got the first
handful of seed-corn, which, as I have said, came up
unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.
First, I had no plongh to turn up the earth; no spade
or shovel to dig it: well, this I conquered by making
a wooden spade, as I observed before; but this did my
work but in a wooden manner; and thongh it cost me
a great many days to make it, yet, for want of iron, it
not only wore ont the sooner, but made my work the
harder, and performed it much worse. However, this
I bore with, and was content to work it ont with pa-
tience, and bear with the hadness of the performance.
When the corn was sown, I had no harrow, but was
forced to go over it myself, and drag a great heavy
bongh of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be
called, rather than rake or harrow it. When it was
growing and grown, I have observed already how many
Ihings I wanted to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it,
cure and carry it home, thrash, part it from the chaff,
and save it: then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to
dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an
oven to hake it; and yet all these things I did with-
ont, as shall he observed; and the corn was an inesti-
mable comfort and advantage to me: all this, as I said,
made every thing laborions and tedions to me, but that
there was no help for; neither was my time so much
loss to me, becanse, as I had divided it, a certain part"
of it was every day appointed to these works; and as I
resolved to use none of-the corn for bread till I had a
greater quantity by .me, I had the next six months to
apply myself wholly, by labonr and invention, to fur-
nish myself with uteusils proper for the performing all
the operatious necessary mr making corn fit for my use.
But now I was to prepare more land; for I had seed
enongh to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did
this, I had a week's work at least to make me a spade;
which, when it was done was but a sorry one indeed,
and very heavy, and reqnired donble labour to work
with it: however, I went throngh that, and sowed my
seed in two large flat pieces of gronnd, as near my honse
as I conld find them to my mind, and fenced them in
with a good hedge, the stakes of which were all cut off
thai wood which I had set before, and knew it wonld
grow; so that in one year's time I knew I shonld have
a quick or living hedge, that wonld want but little re-
pair. This work took me up full three months; be-
canse a great part of the time was in the wet season,
when I could not go abroad. Within doors, that is,
when it rained, and I could not go ont, I fonnd employ-
ment on the following occasious; always observing, •
that while I was at work, I diverted mvself with talk-
ing to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I
quickly learned him to know his own name, and at last
to speak it ont pretty lond, Pol; which was the first
word I ever heard spoken in the island by any month
but my own. This therefore, was not my work, but
an assistant to my work; for now as I said, I had a
great emplovment upon my hands, as follows: I had
long stndied, by some meaus or other, to make my-
self some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted much,
but knew not where to come at them: however, con-
sidering the heat of the climate, I did not donbt but if
I could find oat any clay, I might botch up some such
pot as might, being dried in the sun, be hard and
strong enongh to bear handling, and to hold any thing
that was dry, and required to be kept so ; and as this
was necessary in the preparing corn, meal, &c. which
was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as
large as I conld, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold
what shonld he put into them.
It wonld make the reader pity me, or rather langh
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise
this pastil; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made;
how many of them fell in, and how many fell ont, the
clay not being stiff enongh l«., bear its own weight;
how many cracked by the over violent heat of the sun,
being set ont'too hastily; and how many fell in pieces
with only removing, as well before as after they were
dried: and, in a word, how, after labonring hard to
find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home,
and work it, I conld not make above two large earthen
ugly things (I cannot call them jars), in abont two
months' labonr.
However, as the sun haked thes3 two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two great wicker haskets, which I had made
on purpose for them, that they might not break; and as
between the pot and the hasket there was a little room
to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and harley straw;
and these two pots being to stand always dry, I thonght
wonld hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when
the corn was hrnised.
Thongh I miscarried so much in my desigu for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better suc-
cess; such as little ronnd pots, flat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkius, and any thing my hand turued to; and the
beat of the sun baked them very hard.
But all this wonld not auswer my end, which was to
get an earthen pot to hold liquids and bear the fire,
which none of these conld do. It happened some time
after, making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat,
when I went to put it ont after I had done with it, I
found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels
in the fire, burned as hard as a stone, and red as a tile.
J was agreeably surprised to see it; and said to myself,
that certainly they might be made to burn whole, if
they wonld burn broken.
This set me to study bow to order my fire so as to
make it burn some pots. I had no notion of a kiln,
such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them with
lead, thongh I had some lead to do it with; but I
placed three large pipkius and two or three pots in a
VOL i. *
pile, one upon another, and placed my fire-wood all
ronnd it with a great heap of embers under them. I
plied the fire with fresh fuel ronnd the ontside, and
upon the top, till I saw the pots in the iuside red hot
quite throngh, and observed that thev did not crack at
all: when I saw them clear red, I let them stand in
that heat abont five or six hours, till I fonnd one of
them, thongh it did not crack, did melt or run; for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the vio-
lence of the heat, and wonld have run into glass, if I
had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually, till the
pots began to ahate of the red colonr; and watching
them all night that I might not let the fire ahate too fast,
iu the morning I had three very good, I will not sav
handsome pipkius, and two other earthen pots, as hard'
burnt as conld be desired; and one of them perfectly
glazed with the running of the sand.
After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted
no sort of earthenware for my use; but I must needs
say, as to the shapes of them, they were very indif-
ferent, as any one may suppose, as I had no way of mak-
ing them but as the children make dirt pies, or as a
woman wonld make pies that never learned to raise
paste.
No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal
to mine, when I fonnd I had made an earthen pot that
wonld bear the fire; and I had hardly patience to stay
till they were cold before I set one on the fire again,
with some water in it to boil me some meat, which it
did admirably well; and with a piece of a kid I made
some verv good broth, thongh I wanted oatmeal, and
several other ingredients requisite to make it so good
as I wonld have had it been.
My next concern was to get a stone mortar to stamp
or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no
thonght of arriving to that perfection of art with one
i>air of hands. To supply this want I was at a great
oss; for, of all trades in the woMd, I was as perfectly
unqualified for a stone cutter, as for any whatever;
neither had I any tools to go abont it with. I spent
many a day to find ont a great stone hig enongh to cut
hollow, and make fit for a mortar; but conld find none
at all, except what was in the solid rock, and which I
had no way to dig or cut ont: nor indeed were the
rocks in the island of sufficient hardness, as they were
all of a sandy crumbling stone, which wonld neither
bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor wonld break the
corn withont fitling it with sand: so, after a great deal
of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave it over, and
resolved to look ont a great block of hard wood, which
I fonnd indeed much easier; and getting one as hig as
I had strength to stir, I ronnded it, and formed it on
the ontside with my axe and hatchet; and then, with
the help of fire, and infinite labonr, made a hollow
place in it, as the Indiaus in Brazil make their canoes.
After this, I made a great heavy pestle, or beater, of
the wood called iron-wood; and this [ prepared and
laid by agaiust I had my next crop of corn, when I pro-
posed to myself to grind, or rather ponnd my corn into
meal, to make my bread.
My next difliculty was to make a sieve or scarce, to
dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the
busk, withont which I did not see it possible I conld
have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, even
but to think on; for I had nothing like the necessary
thing to make it; I mean fine thin canvass or stuff to
searce the meal throngh. Here I was at a full stop
for many months ; nor did I really know what to do;
linen I had none left, but what was mere rags; I had
goats' hair, but neither knew how to weave it nor spin
it; and had I known how, here were no tools to work
it with: all the remedy I fonnd for this was, at last re-
collecting I had among the seamen's clothes which
were saved ont of the ship, some neckcloths of calico
or muslin, with some pieces of these I made three small
sieves, proper enongh for the work; and tbus I made
shift for some years: how I did afterwards I shall show
in its place.
The haking part was the next thing to be cousidered,
and how I shonld make bread when I came to have
corn: for, first, I had no yeast; as to that part there
was no supplying the want, so I did not concern myself
much about it; but tor an oven I was indeed puzzled.
At length I fonnd ont an expedient for that also, which
was this; I made some earthen vessels, very broad, bat
not deep, that is to say, abont two feet diameter, and not
above nine inches deep: these I burned in the fire, as I
had done the other, and laid them by; and when I
wanted to hake, I made a great fire upon my hearth,
which I had paved with some square tiles, of my own
making and burning also; hat I shonld not call them
square.
When the fire-wood was burned into embers, or live
coals, I drew them forward upon the hearth, so as to
cover it all over, and there let them lie till the hearth
was very hot; then sweeping away all the embers, I set
down my loaf, or loaves, and covering them with the
earthen pot, drew the embers all ronnd the ontside of
the pot, to keep in and add to the heat; and tbus, as
well as in the best oven in the world, I haked my harley
loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastry-cook
into the hargain; for I made myself several cakes and
pnddings of the rice; luit made no pies, as I had nothing
to put into them except the flesh of fowls or goats.
It need not be wondered at, if all these things took
me up most part of the third year of my abode here; for,
it is to be observed, in the intervals of these things, I
had my new harvest and bushandry to manage: I reaped
my corn in its season, and carried it home as well as I
conld, and laid it up in the ear, in my large haskets, till
I had time to rob it ont; for I had no floor to thrash it
on, or iustrument to thrash it with.
And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I
really wanted to build my harus higger: I wanted a
place to lay it up in; for the increase of the corn now
yielded me so much, that I had of the harley abont twenty
bushels, and of rice as much, or more, iusomuch that
now I resolved to begin to use it freely; fur my bread
had been quite gone a great while: I resolved also to
see what quantity wonld be sufficient for me a whote
year, and to sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, I fonnd that the forty bushels of har-
ley and rice were much more than I conld cousume in a
year; so I resolved to sow jast the same quantity every
year that I sowed the last, in hopes that such a quantity
wonld fully provide me with bread, flee.
All the while these things were doing, yon may be
sure my thonghts ran many times upon the prospect of
land which I had seen from the other side of tiie island;
117
and I was not without some secret wishes that I was on
shore there ; fancying, that seeing the main land, and
an inhahited conntry, I might fmd some way or other to
convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find some
meaus of escape.
But all this while I made no allowance for the dan-
gers of such a condition, and that I might fall»into tin;
hands of savages, and perhaps such as I might have rea-
son to think far worse than the lious and tigers of Africa;
that if I once came in their power, I should run a hazard
of more than a thonsand to one of being killed, and
perhaps of being eaten; for I had heard that the people
of the Caribbean coast were cannihals, or man-eaters,
and I knew, by the latitnde, that I conld not be far off
from that shore. Then supposing they were not canni-
hals, yet that they might kill me, as they had many
Europeaus who had fallen into their hands, even when
they nave been ten or twenty together; much more I,
who was but one, and conld make little or no defence;
all these things, I say, which I onght to have cousidered
well of, and did cast up in my thonghts afterwards,
took up none of my appreheusious at first; yet my head
ran mightily upon the thonght of getting over to the
shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat
with the shonlder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed
above a thonsand miles on the coast of Africa; but this
was in vain: then I thonght I wonld go and look at onr
ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown up upon

the shore a great way, in the storm, when we were first
cast away. She lay nearly where she did at first, but
not quite; having turned, by the force of the waves and
the winds, almost bottom upward, agaiust a high ridge
of heachy rongh sand; but no water about her, as be-
fore. If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to
have lannched her into the water, the boat wonld have
done very well, and I might have gone back into the
Ilrii/'.ls with her easily enough; but I might have fore-
seen, that I conld no more turn her and set her upright
upon her bottom, than I conld remove the island; how-
ever, I went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers,
and bronght them to the boat, resolving to try what I
conld do; suggesting to myself, that if [ conld but turn
her dowo, and repair the damages she had received, she
wonld he a very good boat, and I might venture to sea
in her.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless
toil, and spent, I think, three or fonr weeks abont it:
at last, finding it impossible to heave her up with my
little strength, I fell to digging away the sand, to un-
dermine her, and so as to make her fall down, setting
pieces of wood to thrust and guide her right in the fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir her up
again, or get under her, much less to move her forward
towards the water: so I was forced to give it over:
and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my
desire to venture over the main increased, rather than
diminished, as the means for it seemed impossible.
At length, I began to think whether it was not possi-
ble to make myself a canoe, or periagua, snch as the na-
tives of those climates make, even withont tools, or, as
I might say, withont hands, of the trunk of a great tree.
This I not only thonght possible, but easy, and pleased
myself extremely with the idea of making it, and with
my having much more convenience for it than any of
the Negroes or Indiaus; but not at all cousidering the
particular inconveniences which I lay under more than
the Indiaus did, viz. the want of hands to move it into
the water when it was made, a difliculty mnch harder
for me to surmonnt than all the cousequences of want of
tools conld be to them: for what could it avail me, if,
after I had chosen my tree, and with much tronble cut
it down, and might be able with my tools to hew and
dub the ontside into the proper shape of a boat, and
burn or cut ont the iuside to make it hollow, so as to
make a boat of it; if, after all this, I must leave it just
where I fonnd it, and was not able to lannch it into the
water. •
One wonld imagine, if I had had the least reflection
upon my mind of my circumstances while I was making
this boat, I shonld have immediately thonght how I was
to get it into the sea: but my thonghts were so intent
upon my voyage in it that I never once cousidered how
I shonld get it oft'the land; and it was really, in its own
nature, more easy for me to guide it over forty-five
miles of sea, than the forty-five fathoms of land, where
it lay, to set it afloat in the water.
I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did, who had any of his seuses awake.
I pleased myself with the desigu, withont determining
whether I was able to undertake it; not but that tlio
difficulty of lannching my boat came often into my head ,
but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this
foolish auswer: Let me first make it; i warrant 1 will
fmd sonic way or other to get it along when it is done.
This was a most preposterons method; but the eager-
ness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I
felled a cedar tree, and I question much whether Solo-
mon ever bad such a one for the building of the Temple
of Jerusalem; it was five feet ten inches diameter at
the lower part next the stump, and fonr feet eleven in-
ches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, where it
lessened, and then parted into branches. It was not
withont infinite labour that I felled this tree: I was
twenty days hacking and hewing at the bottom, and
fonrteen more getting the branches and limhs, and the
vast spreading head of it, cut off: after this, it cost me
a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to
something like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim
upright as it onght to do. It cost me near three months
more to clear the iuside, and work it ont so as to make
an exact boat of it: this I did, indeed, without fire, by
mere mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labonr,
till I had bronght it to be a very handsome periagua,
and hig enongh to have carried six and twenty men,
and cousequently hig enongh to have carried me and all
my cargo.
When I had gone throngh this work, I was extremely
delighted with it. The boat was really much higger
than ever I saw a canoe or periagua, that was made of
one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost,
yon may be sure; and there remained nothing but to
get it into the water; which, had I accomplished, I
make no question but I shonld have begun the maddest
Toyage, and the most unlikely to be performed, that ever
•was undertaken.
But all my devices to get it into the water failed me;
thongh they cost me inexpressible labonr too. It lay
abont one bundred yards from the water, and not more;
but the first inconvenience was; it was up hill towards
the creek. Well, to take away this disconragement, I
resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so
make a declivity: this I begun, and it cost me a prodi-
gions deal of paius; (but who grndge paius that have
their deliverance in view?) when this was worked
throngh, and this difficulty managed, it was still much
the same, for I conld no more stir the canoe than I conld
the other boat. Then I measured the distance of
gronnd, and resolved to cut a dock or canal, to brmg
the water up to the canoe, seeing I conld not bring the
canoe down to the water. Well, I began this work;
and when I began to enter upon it, and calculate how
deep it was to be dug, bow broad, how the stuffwas to
be thrown ont, I fonnd by the number of hands I had,
having none but my own, that it must have been ten or
twelve years before I conld have gone throngh with it;
for the shore lay so high, that at the upper end it must
have been at least twenty feet deep; this attempt,
thongh with great reluctancy, I was at length obliged to
give over also.
This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, thongh too
late, the folly of beginning a work before we connt the
cost, and before we jndge rightly of oar own strength to
go through with it.
In the middle of tin's work, I finished my fonrth year
in this place, and kept my anniversary with the same
devotion, and with as much comfort as before; for, by
a coustant stndy and serions application to the word of
God, and by the assistance of his grace, I gained a dif-
ferent knowledge from what I had before; I enter-
tained different notious of things; I looked now upon
the world as a thing remote, which I had nothing to do
with, no expectation from, and, indeed, no desires
abont: in a word, I had nothing to do with it, nor was
ever likely to have; I thonght it looked, as we may
perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz. as a place I had
lived in, hat was come ont of it; and well might I say,
as father Abraham to Dives, " Between me and thee is
a great gulf fixed."
In the first place, I was here removed from all the
wickedness of the world; I had neither the lust of the
flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride of life. I had
nothing to covet, for I had all that I was now capable of
enjoying: I was lord of the whole manor; or, if I
pleased, I might call myself king or emperor over the
whole conntry •which I had possession of; there were
no rivals; I had no competitor, none to dispute sove-
reiguty or command with me: I might have raised ship
loadings of corn, but I had no use for it; so I let as
little grow as I thonght enongh for my occasion. I had
tortoise or turtle enongh, but now and then one was as
much as I conld put to any use; I had timber enongh
to have built a fleet of ships; and I had grapes enongh
to have made wine, or to have cured into' raisius, to
have loaded that fleet when it had been built.
But all I conld make use of was all that was valua-
ble: I had enough to eat and supply my wants, and
wfaat was the rest to me? If I killed more flesh than I
conld eat, the dog must eat it, or vermin; if I sowed
more corn than I conld eat, it must be spoiled; the
trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the gronnd;
I conld make no more use of them than for fuel, and
that I had no other occasion for but to dress my food.
In a word, the nature and experience of thmgs dic-
tated to me, upon just reflection, that all the good things
of this world are of no farther good to us than for onr
use; and that whatever we may heap up to give to
Others, we enjoy only as much as we can use, and no
more. The most covetons griping miser in the world
wonld have been cured of the vice of covetousness, if
he had been in my case; for I possessed infinitely more
than I knew what to do with. I had no room I'or de-
sire, except it was for things which I had not, and they
were comparatively but trifles, thongh indeed of great
use to me. I had, as [ hinted before, a parcel of
money, as well gold as silver, abont thirty-six pounds
sterling. Alas! there the nasty, sorry, useless stuff
lay; I had no manner of business for it; and I often
thonght within myself, that I wonld have given a hand-
ful of it for a gross of tohacco pipes, or for a handmill
to grind my corn; nay, I wonld have given it all for
sixpenuyworth of turnip and carrot seed from England,
or for a handful of peas and beaus, and a bottle of ink.
As it was, I had not the least advantage by it, or benefit
from it; but there it lay in a drawer, and grew monldy
with the damp of the cave in the wet seasous; and if I
had had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the
same case—they had been of no manner of value to me
becanse of no use.
I had now bronght my state of life to be much more
comfortable in itself than it was at first, and much easier
to my mind, as well as to my body. I frequently sat
down to meat with thankfulness, and admired the hand
of God's providence, which had tbus spread my table in
the wilderness: I learned to look more upon tite bright
side of my condition, and less upon the dark side, and
to cousider what I enjoyed rather than what I wanted:
and this gave me sometimes such secret comforts that I
cannot express them; and which I take notice of here,
to put those discontented people in mind of it, who can-
not enjoy comfortably what God has given them, be-
canse they see and covet something that he has not
given them. All onr discontents abont what we want
appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfulness
for what we have.
Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubt-
less wonld be so to any one that shonld fall into such
distress as mine was; and this was, to compare mv pre-
sent condition with whatl at first expected it wonld be;
uay, with what it wonld certainly have been, if the good
providence of God had not wonderfully ordered the
.ship to be cast up near to the shore, where I not only
conld come at her, hat conld bring what I got ont of
her to the shore, for my relief and comfort; withont
which, I had wanted for tools to work, weapous for de-
fence, and guupowder atuj shotfor getting my food.
I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in repre-
senting to myself, in the most lively colonrs, how I must
have acted if I had got nothing ont of the ship. I
conld not have so much as got any food, except fish and
turtles; and that, as it was long before I fonnd any of
them, I must have perished ; that I shonld have lived,
if I had not perished, like a mere savage; that if I had
killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no
way to flay or open it, or part the flesh from the skin
and the bowels, or to cut it up; but must guaw it with
my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a beast.
These reflectious made me very seusible of the good-
ness of Providence to me, and very thankful for my
present condition, with all its hardships and misfor-
tunes: and this part also I cannot but recommend to
the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery, to
say, Is any affliction like mine? Let them cousider
how much worse the cases of some people are, and
their case might have been, if Providence had
thonght fit.
I had another reflection, which assisted me also to
comfort my mind with hopes: and this was comparing
my present condition with what I had deserved, and had
therefore reason to expect from the hand of Providence.
I had lived a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the
knowledge and fear of God. I had been well in-
structed by my father and mother; neither had they
been wanting to me, in their endeavonrs to infuse an
early religions awe of God into my mind, a seuse of my
duty, and what the nature and end of my being re-
quired of me. But, alas ! falling early into the seafar-
ing life, which, of all lives, is the most destitute of the
fear of God, thongh his terrors are always before them;
J say, falling early into the seafaring life, and into sea-
faring company, all that little seuse of religion which I
bad entertained was langhed ont of me by my mess-
mates; by a hardened despising of dangers, and the
•views of death, which grew hahitual to me; by my long
absence from all manner of opportunities to converse
with any thing but what was like myself, or to hear
any thing that was good, or tending towards it.
So void was I of every thing that was good, or of the
least seuse of what I was, or was to be, that in the
greatest deliverances I enjoyed (such as my escape
from Sallee, my being taken up by the Portuguese
master .of a ship, my being planted so well in the Bra-
zils, my receiving the cargo from England, and the
like), I never had once the words, Thank God, so much
as on my mind, or in my month ; uor in the greatest dis-
tress had I so mnch as a thonght to pray to him, or so
much as to say, Lord, have mercy upon me! no, nor to
mention the name of God, unless it was to swear by,
and blaspheme it.
I had terrible reflectious upon my mind for many
months, as I have already observed, on account of my
wicked and hardened life past; and when I looked
abont me, and cousidered what particular providences
had attended me since my coming into this place, and
how God had dealt bonntifully with me,—had not only
Eunished me less than my iniquity had deserved, but
ad so plentifully provided for me,—this gave me great
hopes that my repentance was accepted, and that God
had yet mercies in store for me.
With these reflectious, I worked my mind up, not
only to a resiguation to the will of God in the present
disposition of my circumstances, but even to a sincere
thankfulness for my condition; and that I, who was yet
a living man, onght not to complain, seeing I had not
the due punishment of my sius; that I enjoyed so many
mercies which I had no reason to have expected in that
place, that I onght never more to repine at my condi-
tion, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for that
daily bread, which nothing but a clond of wonders
conld have bronght; that I onght to cousider I had
been fed by a miracle, even as great as that of feeding
Elijah by raveus; nay, by a long series of miracles:
and that I conld hardly have named a place in the unin-
hahitable part of the world where I conld have been
cast more to my advantage; a place where, as I had no
society, which was my affliction on one hand, so I fonnd
no ravenons beasts, no furions wolves or tigers, to
threaten my life; no venomous or poisonons creatures
which I might feed on to my burt; no savages to mur-
der and devonr me. In a word, as my life was a life of
sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy another;
and I wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort, but
to make myself seusible of God's goodness to me, and
care over me in this condition; and after I did make a
just improvement of these things, I went away, and was
no more sad.
I had now been here so long that many things which
I bronght on shore for my help ware either quite gone,
or very much wasted, and near spent.
My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time,
all but a very little, which I eked ont with water, a
little and a little, till it was so pale it scarce left any
appearance of black upon the paper. As long as it
lasted, I made use of it to minute down the days of the
month on which any remarkable thing happened to me:
and, first, by casting up times past, I remember that
there was a strange concurrence of days in the varions
providences which befell me, and which, if I had been
superstitionsiy inclined to observe days as fatal or for-
tunate, I might have had reason to have looked upon
with a great deal of cariosity.
First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke
away from my father and my friends, and ran away to
Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day afterwards I
was taken by the Sallee man of war, and made a slave:
the same day of the year that I escaped ont of the
wreck of the ship in Yarmonth Roads, that same day-
year afterwards I made my escape from Sallee in the
boat; and the same day of the year I was born on, viz.
the SOth of September, that same day I had my life so
miraculonsly saved twenty-six years after, when I was
cast on shore in this island: so that my wicked life and
my solitary life began both on one day.
The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of
my bread,I mean the hiscnit which I bronght ont of the
siiip: this I had bushanded to the last degree, allowing
myself but one cake of bread a day for above a year;
and yet I was quite withont bread for near a year before
I got any corn of my own; and great reason I had to
be thankful that I had any at all, the getting it being,
as has been already observed, next to miraculons.
My clothes, too, began to decay mightily: as to
linen, I had none for a great while, except some che-
quered shirts which I fonnd in the chests of the other
seamen, and which I carefully preserved, becanse many
times I could bear no clothes on but a shirt; and it was
a very great help to me that I had, among all the men's
clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts. There
were also, indeed, several thick watch-coats of the sea-
men's which were left, but they were too hot to wear:
and thongh it is true that the weather was so violently
hot that there was no need of clothes, vet I could not go
quite naked, no, thongh I had been inclined to it, which
I was not, nor conld I abide the thonght of it, thongh I
was all alone. The reason why I conld not go quite
naked was, I conld not bear the heat of the sun so well
when quite naked as with some clothes on; nay, the
very heat frequently blistered my skin: whereas, with
a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whist-
ling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than withont
it. No more conld I ever bring myself to go ont in
the beat of the sun without a cap or hat; the heat of the
sun beating with such violence as it does in that place,
wonld give me the bead-ach presently, by darting so
directtv upon my head, withont a cap or hat on, so that
I could not bear it; whereas, if I put on my hat, it
would presentlv go away.
Upon these views, I began to cousider abont patting
the tew rags I had, which I called clothes, into some
oider: I had worn ont all the waistcoats I had, and my
business was now to try if I conld not make jackets ont
of the great watch-coats that I had by me, and with
such other materials as I had ; so I set to work a tailor-
ing, or rather, indeed, a botching, for I made most
piteons work of it. However, I made shift to make
two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped wonld
serve me a great while: as for breeches or drawers, I
made but a very sorry shift indeed till afterwards.
I have mentioned, that I saved the skius of all the
creatures that I killed, I mean foar-footed ones; and I
had bung them up, stretched oat with sticks, in the sun,
by which meaus some of them were so dry and hard
that they were fit for little, but others I fonnd very use-
ful. The first thing I made of these was a great cap for
my head, with the hair on the ontside, to shoot off the
rain; and this I performed so well, that after this I
made me a suit of clothes wholly of the skius, that is
to suy, a waistcoat, and breeches open to the knees, and
both loose; for they were rather wanting to keep me
cool than warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that
they were wretchedly made; for if I was a had carpen-
ter, I was a worse tailor. However, they were such as
1 made very good shift with; and when I was abroad,
if it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and cap
being uppermost, I was kept very dry.
After this I spent a great deal of time and paius to
make an umbrella: I was indeed in great want of one,
and had a great mind to make one; I had seen them
made in the Brazils, where they were very useful in
the great heats which are there; and I felt the heats
every jot as great here, and greater too, being nearer
the equinox: besides, as I was obliged to be much
abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well for
the raius as the heats. I took a world of paius at it,
and was a great while before I conld make any thmg
likely to hold; nay, after I thonght I had hit the way,
I spoiled two or three before I made one to my mind;
but at last I made one that auswered indiflerently well:
the main difliculty I fonnd was to make it to let down;
I conld make it spread, but if it did not let down too,
and draw in, it was not portable for me any way but
just over my head, which wonld not do. However, at
last, as I said, I made one to auswer, and covered it
with skius, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the rain
like a pent-honse, and kept off the BUD so effectually
that 1 could walk ont in the hottest of the weather with
greater advantage than I conld before in the coulest;
and when I had no ueed of it, conld close it, and carry
it under my arm.
Tbus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind bemg en-
tirely composed by resiguing to the will of God, and
throwmg mvself wholly upon the disposal of his provi-
dence. This made my life better than sociable; for
when I began to regret the want of conversation, I
wonld ask myself, whether tbus conversing mutually
with my own thonghts, and, as I hope I may say, with
even God himself, by ejaculatious, was not better than
the utmost enjoyment of buman society in the world?
I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extra-
ordinary thing happened to me, but I lived on in the
same conrse, in the same posture and place, just as be-
fore; the chief things I was employed in, besides my
yearly labonr of planting my harley and rice, and cur-
mg my raisius, of hoth which I always kept up just
enongh to have sufficient stock of one year's provision
beforehand; I say, besides this yearly labonr, and my
daily pursuit of going ont with my gun, I had one
labonr, to make me a canoe, which at last I finished: so
that by digging a canal to it of six feet wide, and fonr
feet deep, I bronght it into the creek, almost half a
mile. As for the first, *. hicli was so vastly hig, as I
made it withont cousidering beforehand, as I onght to
do, how I shonld be able to lannch it, so, never being
able to bring it into the water, or bring the water to it,
I was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memoran-
dum to teach me to be wiser the next time: indeed, the
next time, thongh I oonld not get a tree proper for it,
and was in a place where I conld not get the water to it
at any less distance than, as I have said, near half a mile,
yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it
over: and thongh I was near two years abont it, yet I
never grndged my labonr, in hopes of having a boat to
go off to sea at last.
However, thongh my little periagua was finished, yet
the size of it was not at all auswerable to the desigu
which I had in view when I made the first; I mean of
venturing over to the terra firma, where it was above
forty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of my
boat assisted to put an end to that desigu, and now I
thonght no more of it. As I had a boat, my next desigu
was to make a cruise ronnd the island; for as I had
been on the other side in one place, crossing, as I have
already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I
made in that little jonrney made me very eager to see
other parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I thonght
of nothing hat sailing ronnd the island.
For this purpose, that I might do every thing with
discretion and cousideration, I fitted up a little mast in
my boat, and made a sail to it ont of some of the pieces
of tin; ship's sails~\vhich lay in store, and of which I had
a great stock by me. Having fitted my mast and sail,
and tried the boat, I fonnd she wonld sail very well:
then I made little lockers, or boxes, at each end of my
boat, to put provisious, necessaries, ammunition, &u.
into, to be kept dry, either from rain or the spray of the
sea; and a little, long, hollow place I cut in the iuside
of the boat, where I conld lay my gun, making a flap
to hang down over it, to keep it dry.
I fixed mv umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a
mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the
sun oft' me, like an awning; and tbus I every now and
then took a little voyage upon the sea: but never went
far ont, nor far from the littl* creek. At last, being
eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom,
I resolved upon my cruise; aiid accordingly I vic-
tualed my ship for the voyage, putting in two dozen of
loaves (cakes I shonld rather call them), of barley
bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice (a food I ate a
great deal of), a little bottle of rum, half a g'oat, and
powder and shot for killing more, and two large watch-
coats, of those which, as I mentioned before, I had
saved ont of the seamen's chests; these I took, one to
lie npon, and the oiher to cover me in the night.
It was the 6th of November, in iho sixth year of my
reigu, or my captivity, which yon please, that I set nut
on this voyage, and 1 fonnd it much longer than I ex-
pected; for thongh the island itself was not very Urge,
vet v, lu-n I came to the east side of it, I found a great
ledge of rocks lie ont abont two leagues into the sea*
some above water, some under it; and beyond that a
shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more, so that I
was obliged to go a great way ont to sea to donble the
point.
When first I discovered them, I was gomg to give
VOL. I. h
over my enterprise, and come hack again, not knowing
low far it might oblige me to go ont to sea, and, above
all, donbting how I shonld get hack again ; so I came
to an anchor; for I had made me a kind of an anchor
with a piece of a broken grappling which I got ont of
the ship.
Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on
shore, climbing up on a hill, which seemed to overlook
that point, where I saw the full extent of it, and re-
solved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that bill where I stood,
I perceived a strong, and indeed a most furions current,
which ran to the east, and even came close to the point;
and I took the more notice of it, becanse I saw there
might be some danger, that when I came into it, I
might be carried ont to sea by the strength of it, and
not be able to make the island again: and, indeed, had
1 not got first upon this hill, I believe it wonld have
been so; for there was the same current on the other side
the island, only that it set oil' at a farther distance, and
I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I had
nothing to do but to get ont of the first current, and I
shonld presently be in an eddy.
I lay here, however, two days, becanse the wind
blowing pretty fresh at E.S.fi. and that being just con-
trary to the said current, made a great breach of the
sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for me to
keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go too
far off becanse of the stream.
The third day, in the morning, the wind having
ahated over-night, the sea was calm, and I ventured:
but I am a warning-piece again to all rash and iguorant
pilots ; for no sooner was I come to the point, when I
was not even my boat's length from the shore, hat I
fonnd myself in a great depth of water, and a current
like the sluice of a mill; it carried my boat along with
it with such violence that all I conld do conld not keep
her so much as on the edge of it; but I fonnd it burried
me farther and farther ont from the eddy, which was on
my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me,
and all I could do with my paddles siguified nothing:
and now I began to give myself over for lost; for as the
current was on both sides of the island, I knew in a few
leagues distance they must join again, and then I was
irrecoverably gone; nor did I see any possihility of
avoiding it; so that I had no prospect before me but of
perishing, not by the sea, for that was calm enongh,
but of starving for bunger. I had indeed fonnd a tor-
toise on the shore, as hig almost as I conld lift, and had
tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh
water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots; but what
was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, where,
to be sure, there was no shore, no main land or island,
for a thonsand leagues at least?
And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of
God to make even the most miserable condition of man-
kind worse. Now I looked hack upon my desolate,
solitary island, as the most pleasant place in the world;
and all the happiness my heart conld wish for was to be
but there again. I stretched ont my hands to it, with
eager wishes: "O happy desert!" said I, "I shall
never see thee more. O miserable creature! whither
am 1 going!" Then I reproached myself with my un-
thankful temper, and how I had repined at my solitary
condition; and now what wonld I give to be on shore
there again! Tbus we never see the true state of onr
condition till it is illustrated to us by its contraries, nor
know how to value what we enjoy, but by the want of
it. It is scarce possible to imagine the cousternation I
was now in, being driven from my beloved island (for
so it appeared to me now to be), into the wide ocean,
almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of ever
recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till in-
deed my strength was almost exhansted, and kept my
boat as much to the northward, that is, towards the side
of the current which the eddy lay on, as possibly I
conld; when abont noon, as the sun passed the meri-
dian, I thonght I felt a little breeze of wind in my face,
springing up from S.S.E. This cheered my heart a
little, and especially when, in abont half an honr more,
it blew a pretty gentle gale. By this time I was got at
a frightful distance from the inland, and had the least
clondy or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone
another way too; for I had no compass on board, and
shonld never have known bow to have steered towards
the island, if I had but once lost sight of it; but the
weather continuing clear, I applied myself to get up my
mast again, and spread my sail, standing away to Hie
north as much as possible, to get ont of the current.
Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began
to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness of the
water some alteration of the current was near; for
where the current was so strong, the water was fonl;
but perceiving the water clear, I fonnd the current
ahate; and presently I fonnd to the east, at abont half
a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks: these
rocks I fonnd cansed the current to part again, and as
the main stress of it ran away more sontherly, leaving
the rocks to the north-east, so the otfier returned by
the repulse of the rocks, and made a strong eddy,
which ran hack again to the north-west, with a very
sharp stream.
They who know what it is to have a reprieve bronght
to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves
just going to murder them, or who have been in such-
like extremities, may guess what my present surprise
of joy was, and how gladly i put my boat into the
stream of this eddy; and the wind also freshening,
how gladly I spread mv sail to it, running cheerfully
before the wind, and with a strong tide or eddy under
foot.
This eddy carried me abont a league in my way back
again, directly towards the island, but abont two
leagues more to the northward than the current which
carried me away at first: so that when I came near the
island, I fonnd myself open to the northern shore of it,
that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to
that which I went ont from.
When I had made something more than a league of
way by the help of this current or eddy, I fonnd it was
spent, and served me no farther. However, I fonnd
that being between two great currents, viz. that on the
sonth side, which had hurried me away, and that on the
north, which lay abont a league on the other side; I
say, between these two, in the wake of the island, I
fonnd the water at least still, and running uo way; and
having still a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on
steering directly for the island, thoagh not making such
fresh way as I did 'before.
Abont fonr o'clock in the evening, being then within
a league of the island, I fonnd the point of the rocks
which occasioned this disaster, stretching ont, as is de-
scribed before, to the sonthward, and casting off tho
current more sontherly, had, of conrse, made another
eddy to the north; and this I fonnd very strong, but not
directly setting the way my coarse lay, which was due
west, but almost full north. However, having a fresh
gale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting north-west;
and, in abont an honr, came within abont a mile of the
shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to land.
When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave
God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside
all thonghts of my deliverance by my boat; and re-
freshing myself with such things as I had, I bronght
my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had
spied under some trees, and laid me down to sleep,
being quite spent with the labonr and fatigue of the
voyage.
I was now at a great loss which way to get home
with my boat; I had run so much hazard, and knew too
much of the case, to think of attempting it by the way
I went ont; and what might be at the other side (I
mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any mind
to run any more ventures; so I only resolved in the
morning to make my way westward along the shore,
and to see if there was no creek where I might lay up
my frigate in safety, so as to have her again, if I wanted
ber. In abont three miles, or thereabonts, coasting the
shore, I came to a very good inlet or hay, abont a mile
over, which narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet
or brook, where I fonnd a very convenient harbonr for
my boat, and where she lay as if she had been in a little
dock made on purpose for her. Here I put in, and
having stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore, to
look abont me, and see where I was.
I soon fonnd I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I traveled on foot to
that shore; so taking nothing ont of my boat but my
gun and umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I began m v
march. The way was comfortable enongh after such a
voyage as I had been upon, and I reached my old bower
in the evening, where I fonnd every thing; standing as I
loft it; for I always kept it in good order, being, as I
said before, my conntry honse.
I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade:
to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep,
but jndge yon, if yon can, that read my story, what a
surprise I must he in, when I was awaked ont of my
sleep by a voice, calling me by my name several times,
"Rohin, Rohin, Rohin Crusoe; poor Rohin Crusoe!
Where are yon, Rohin Crusoe? Where are yon?
Where have yon been?"
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with row-
ing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day,
and with walking the latter part, that I did not wake
thorongbly; but dozing between sleeping and waking,
thonght I dreamed that somebody spoke to me; but as
the voice continued to repeat " Rohin Crusoe, Robin
Crusoe," at last I began to wake more perfectly, and was
at first dreadfully frightened, and started up in the ut-
most cousternation; but no sooner were my eyes open,
but I saw my Pol sitting on the top of the hedge; and
immediately knew it was he that spoke to me; for
just in such bemoaning language I had used to talk to
him, and teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly
that he wonld sit upon my finger, and lay his hill close
to my face, and cry, " Poor Rohin Crusoe! Where are
yon? Where have yon been? How came yon here?"
and such things as I had tanght him.
However, even thongh I knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it conld be nobody else, it was a good while
before I could compose myself. First, I was amazed
how the creature got thither, and then, how he shonld
just keep abont the place, and no where else: but as I
was well satisfied it conld be nobody but honest Pol, I
got over it: and holding ont my hand, and calling him
by his name, Pol,.the sociable creature came to me, and
sat upon my tbumb, as he used to do, and continued
talking to me, Poor Rohin Crusoe! and how did I come
here? and where had I been? just ad if he had been
overjoyed to see me again: and so I carried him home
along with me.
I now had enongh of rambling to sea for some time,
and had enough to do for many days, to sit still, and re-
flect upon the danger I had been in. I wonld have
been very glad to have had my boat again on my side of
the island; but I knew not how it was practicable to
get it abont. As to the east side of the island, which I
had gone ronnd, I knew well enongh there was no ven-
turing that way; my very heart wonld shrink, and my
very blood run chill, hat to think of it; and as to the
other side of the island, I did not know how it might
be there; bat supposing the current ran with the same
force agaiust the shore at the east as it passed by it on
the other, I might run the same risk of being driven
down the stream, and carried by the island, as I had
been before of being carried away from it; so, with
these thonghts, I contented myself to be withont any
boat, thongh it had been the product of so many mouths'
labonr to make it, and of so many more to get it into
the sea.
In this government of my temper I remained near a
year, lived a very sedate, retired life, as yon may well
suppose; and my thoughts being very much composed,
as to my condition, and fully comforted in resigning my-
self to the dispositious of Providence, I thonght I lived
really very happily in all things, except that of society.
I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying
myself to; and I believe I conld, upon occasion, have
made a very good carpenter, especially 'cousidering how
few tools I had.
Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection
in my earthenware, and contrived well enongh to make
them with a wheel, which I fonnd infinitely easier and
better; becanse I made things ronnd and shapable,
which before were filthy things indeed to look on.
But I think I was never more vain of my own perform-
ance, or more joyful for any thing I fonnd ont, than for
my being able to make a tohacco-pipe ; and thongh it
was a very ugly, clumsy thing when it was done, and
onlv burnod red, like other earthenware, yet as it was
hard and firm, and wonld draw the smoke, I was exceed-
ingly comforted with it, for I had been always used to
smoke: and there were pipes in the ship, but I forgot
them at first, not thinking that there was tohacco in the
island; and afterwards, when I searched the ship again,
I conld not come at any pipes at all.
In my wickerware also I improved much, and made
ahundance of necessary haskets, as well as my inven-
tion showed me; thongh not very handsome, yet they
were such as were very handy and convenient for my
laying things up in, or fetching things home. For ex-
ample, if I killed a goat abroad, I conld hang it up in a
tree, flay it, dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it
home in a basket; and the like by a turtle: I conld cut
it up, take ont the eggs, and n piece or two of the flesh,
which was enongh for me, and bring them home in a
basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also large deep
haskets were the receivers of my corn, which I always
rubbed ont as soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it
in great haskets.
I began now to perceive my powder ahated cousider-
ably; this was a want which it was impossible for me
to supply, and I began serionsly to cousider what I
must do when I shonld have no more powder; that is
to say, how I shonld do to kill any goats. I had, as is
observed, in the third year of my being here, kept a
yonng kid, and bred her up tame, and I was in hopes of
getting a he-goat: but I conld not by any meaus bring
it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and as I conld
never find in my heart to kill her, she died at last of
mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as, I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set
myself to stndy some art to trap and suare the goats, to
see whether j conld not catch some of them alive; and
particularly, I wanted a she-goat great with yonng.
For this purpose, I made suares to hamper them; and I
rlo believe they were more than once taken in them;
but my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and I al-
ways fonnd them broken, and my hait devonred. At
length I resolved to try a pitfall: so I dug several large
pits in the earth, in places where I had observed the
goats used to feed, and over those pits I placed burdles,
ot my own making too, with a great weight upon them;
and several times I put ears of harley and dry rice,
withont setting the trap; and I conld easily perceive
that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn, for I
conld see the marks of their feet. At length I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, I fonnd
them all standing, and yet the hait eaten and gone; this
was very disconraging. However, I altered my traps;
and, not to tronble yon with particulars, going one
morning to see my traps, I fonnd in one of them a large
old he-goat, and in one of the others three kids, a male
and two females.
As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him;
he was so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him; that
is to say, to go abont to bring him away alive, which
was what I wanted; I conld have killed him, hat that
was not my business, nor wonld it auswer my end ; so
I even let him ont, and he ran away as if he had been
frightened ont of his wits. But I did not then know
what I afterwards learned, that bunger will tame a lion.
If I had let him stay there three or four days withont
food, and then have carried him some water to drink,
and then a little corn, he wonld have been as tame as
one of the kids; for they are mighty sagacions, tracta-
ble creatures, where they are well used.
However, for the present I let him go, knowing no
better at that time: then I went to the three kids, and
taking them ono by one, I tied them with strings toge-
ther, and with some difliculty brought them all home.
It was a good while before they wonld feed; but
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and
they began to be tame. And now I fonnd that if I ex-
pected to supply myself with goat's flesh when I had no
powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way; when, perhaps, I might have them abont my
honse like a flock of sheep. But then it occurred to
me, that I must keep the tame from the wild, or else
Ihey wonld always run wild when they grew up: and
the only way for this was, to have some enclosed piece
of gronnd, well fenced, either with hedge or pale, to
keep them in so effectually that those within might not
break ont, or those withont break in.
This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands;
yet as I saw there was an absolute necessity for (loms
it, my first work was to find ont a proper piece of
gronnd, where there was likely to be herhage for them
to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to keep them
from the sun.
Those who understand such enclosures will think I
had very little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place
very proper for all these (being a plain open piece of
meadow land, or savannah, as onr people call it in tho
western colonies), which had two or three little drills
of fresh water in it, and at one end was very woody; I
say, they will smile at my forecast, when I shall tell
them, I began by enclosing this ]>iece of gronnd in such
a manner, that my hedge or pale must have been at
least two miles abont. Nor was the madness of it so
great as to the compass, for if it was ten miles abont, I
was like to have time enongh to do it in; but I did not
cousider that my goats wonld be as wild in so much
compass as if they had had the whole island, and I
shonld have so much room to chase them in that I
shonld never catch them.
My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe abont
fifty yards, when this thonght occurred to me; so I
presently stopped short, and, for the first beginning, I
resolved to enclose a piece of abont 150 yards in length,
and 100 yards in breadth; which, as it wonld maintain
as many as I shonld have in any reasonable time, so, as
my stock increased, I conld add more gronnd to my en-
closure.
This was acting with some prndence, and I went to
work with conrage. I was abont three months hedging
in the first piece; and, till I had done it, I tethered the
three kids in the best part of it, and used them to feed
as near me as possible, to make them familiar; and
very often I wonld go and carry them some ears of har-
ley, or a handful of rice, and feed them ont of my hand:
so that after my enclosure was finished, and I let them
loose, they wonld follow me up and dowu, bleating
after me for a handful of corn.
This auswered my end: and in abont a year and a
half [ had a flock of abont twelve goats, kills and all;
and in two years more, I had three and forty, besides
several that I took and killed for my food. After that
I enclosed five several pieces of gronnd to feed them
in, with little peus to drive them into, to take them as
I wanted, and gates ont of one piece of gronnd into
another.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's
flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too; a thing
which, indeed, in the beginning, I did not so much as
think of, and which, when it came into my thonghts,
was really an agreeable surprise: for now I set up my
dairy, and dad sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a
day. And as nature, who gives supplies of food to
every creature, dictates even naturally how to make use
of it, so 1, that had never milked a cow, much less a
goat, or seen butter or cheese made, only when I was a
boy, after a great many essays and miscarriages, made me
both butter and cheese at last, and also salt (though I
fonnd it partly made to my hand by the heat of the sun
upon some of the rocks of the sea), and never wanted it
afterwards. How mercifully can onr Creator treat his
creatures, even in those conditious in which they seem-
ed to be overwhelmed in destruction! How can he
sweeten the hitterest providences, and give us canse to
praise him for dungeous and prisous! What a table
was here spread for me in a wilderness, where I saw no-
thing, at first, but to perish for bunger!
It wonld have made a stoic smile to have seen me and
my little family sit down to dinner: there was my ma-
jesty, the prince and lord of the whole island; I had
the lives of all my subjects at my absolute command; I
conld hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away; and
no rebels among all my subjects. Then to see how like
a king I dined too, all alone, attended by my servants!
Pol, as if be had been my favonrite, was the only per-
son permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now
grown very old and crazy, and had fonnd no species to
multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right hand;
and two cats, one on one side of the table, and one on
the other, expecting now and then a hit from my hand,
as a mark of special favonr.
But these were not the two cats which I bronght on
shore at first, for they were both of them dead, and had
been interred near my hahitation by my own hand ; hnt
one of ilium having multiplied by I know not what kind
of creature, these were two which I had preserved
tame; whereas the rest run wild in the woods, and be-
came indeed tronblesome to me at last; for they wonld
often come into my honse, and plunder me too, till at
last I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great
many; at length they left me.—With this attendance,
and in this plentiful manner, I lived; neither conld I
be said to want any thing but society: and of that, some
time after this, I was like to have too much.
I was something impatient, as I have observed, to
have the use of my boat, thongh very loath to run any
more hazards; and therefore sometimes I sat contriv-
ing ways to get her abont the island, and at other times
I sat myself down contented enongh without her. But
I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to tho
point of the island, where, as I have said, in my last
ramble, I went up the hill to see how tho shore lay, and
how the current set, that I might see what I had to do:
this inclination increased upon me every day, and at
length I resolved to travel thither by land, Following
the edge of the shore. I did so; but had any one in
.England been to meet such a man as I was, it must
either have frightened him, or raised a great deal of
langhter: and as I frequently stood still to look at my-
self, I conld not but smile at the notion of my traveling
throngh Yorkshire, with such an equipage, and in such
a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my figure, as
follows:
I had a great, high, shapeless cap, made of a goal's
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep
the sun from me as to shoot the rain off from running
into my neck: nothing being so burtful in these cli-
mates as the rain upon the flesh, under the clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming
down to abont the middle of the thighs, and a pair of
open-kneed breeches of the same; the breeches were
made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hang
down such a length on either side, that, like pantaloous,
it reached to ihe middle of my legs; stockings and
uioes I had none, but had made me a: pair of some-
things, I scarce know what to call them, like buskius,
to Hap over my legs, and lace on either side like spat-
terdashes: but of a most harharons shape, as indeed
were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the same, iustead of
buckles; and in a kind of a frog on either side of this,
iustead of a sword and dagger, bung a little saw and a
hatchet; one on one side, and une on the other. I had
another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the same
manner, which bung over my shonlder; and at the end
of it, under my left arm, bung two ponches, both made
of goat's skin too; in one of which bung my powder, in
the other my shot. At my hack I carried my hasket,
and on my shonlder my gun; and over my head a great,
clumsy, ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all,
was the most necessary thing I had abont me, next to
my gun. As for my face, the colonr of it was really
not so mulattolike as one might expect from a man not
at all careful of it, and living within nine or ten degrees
of the equinox. My beard I had once suffered to grow
till it was abont a quarter of a yard long; but as I had
both scissars and razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty
short, except what grew on my upper lip, which I
had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee; for
the Moors did not wear such, thongh the Turks did:
of these mustachios or whiskers, I will not say they
were long enongh to hang my hat upon them, but they
were of a length and shape moustrons enongh, and such
as, in England, wonld have passed for frightful.
But all this is by the by ; for, as to my figure, I had
so few to observe me that it was of no manner of couse-
quence; so I say no more to that part. In this kind of
figure I went my new jonrney, and was ont five or six
days. I traveled first along the seashore, directly to
the place where I first bronght my boat to an anchor, to
get upon the rocks; and having no boat now to take
care of, I went overthe land, a nearer way, to the same
height that I was upon before; when looking forward
to the point of the rocks which lay ont, and which I was
obliged to donble with my boat, as is said above, I was
surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet; no rip-
pling, no motion, no current, any more there than in
any other places. I was at a strange loss to understand
this, and resolved to spend some time in the observing
it, to see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occa-
sioned it; but I was presently convinced how it was,
viz. that the tide of ebb setting from the west, and join-
ing with the current of waters from some great river on
the shore, must be the occasion of this current; and
that according as the wind blew more forcibly from the
west, or from the north, this current came nearer, or
went farther from the shore; -for waiting thereabonts
till evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the
tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current again
as before, only that it ran farther off, being near half a
league from the shore; whereas in my case, it set close
upon the shore, and burried me and my canoe along
with it; which, at another time, it wonld not have
done.
This observation convinced me, that I had nothing to
do but to observe the ebhing and the flowing of the tide,
and I might very easily bring my boat abont the island
again: but when I began to think of putting it in prac-
tice, I had such a terror upon my spirits, at the remem-
brance of the danger I had been in, that I conld not
think of it again with any patience; but, on the con-
trary, I took up another resolution, which was more
safe, thongh more laborions; and this was, that I wonld
build, or rather make me another periagua or canoe;
and so have one for one side of the island, and one fur
tbe other.
Yon are to understand, that now I had, as I may call
it, two plantatious in the island; one, my little fortifica-
tion or tent, with the wall abont it. under the rock,
with the cave behind me, which, by this time, I had en-
larged into several apartments or caves, one within ano-
ther. One of these, which was the driest and largest,
and had a door ont beyond my wall or fortification, that
is to say, bevond where my \\alljoined to the rock, was
all filled up with the large earthen pots, of which I have
Riven an acconnt, and with fonrteen or fifteen great
baskets, which wonld hold five or six bushels each,
where I kid up my stores of provisious, especially my
corn, some in the ear, cut off short from the straw, and
the other rubbed ont with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by this
time grown so hig, and spread so very much, that there
was not the least appearance, to any one's view, of any
hahitation behind them.
Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within
the land, and upon lower gronnd, lay my two pieces of
corn land, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and
which duly yielded me their harvest in its season: and
whenever I had occasion for more corn, I had more land
adjoining as fit as that.
Besides this, I had my conntry seat; and I had now
a tolerable plantation there also: for, first, I had my
little bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair; that
is to say, I kept the hedge which encircled it in con-
stantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder standing
always in the iuside: I kept the trees, which at first
were no more than my stakes, but were now grown
very firm and tall, always cut so that they might spread
and grow thick and wild, and make the more agreeable
shade; which they did eflectually to my mind. In the
middle of this I had my tent always standing, being a
piece of a sail spread over poles, set up for that purpose,
and which never wanted any repair or renewing; and
under this I had made me a squab or conch, with the skius
of the creatures I had killed, and with other soft things;
and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to oar sea-
bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat
to cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to
he absent from my chief seat, I took up my conntry ha-
bitation.
Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle,
that is to say, my goats; and as I had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of paius to fence and enclose this gronnd,
I was so anxions to see it kept entire, lest the goats
shonld break throngh, that I never left off, till, with in-
finite labonr, I had stuck the ontside of the hedge so
full of small stakes, and so near to one another, that it
was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was~ scarce
room to pot a hand throngh between them; which
afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in
the next rainy season, made the enclosure strong like a
wall,—indeed, stronger than any wall.
This will testify fur me that I was not idle, and that I
spared no paius to hring to pass whatever appeared ne-
cessary for my comfortable support; for I cousidered
the keeping up a breed of tame creatures tbus at my
hand wonld be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter,
and cheese for me as long as I lived in the place, if it
were to be forty yearn; and that keeping them iii my
reach depended entirely upon my perfecting my enclo-
sures to such a degree, that I might be sure of keeping
them together; which, by this method, indeed, I so ef-
fectually secured, that when these little stakes began to
grow, I had planted them so very thick, that I was
forced to pull some of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my winter store of raisins,
and which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as
Ihe best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet;.
and indeed they were not only agreeahle, but medici-
nal, wholesome, nonrishing, and refreshing to the last
degree.
As this was also abont half-way between my other
hahitation and the place where I had laid up my boat,
I generally stayed and lay here in my way thither; for
I used frequently to visit my boat; and I kept all things
abont, or belonging to her, in very good order: some-
times I went ont in her to divert myself, but no more
hazardons voyages wonld I go, nor scarce ever above
K stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so apprehen-
sive of being burried ont of my knowledge again by
the currents or winds, or any other accident. But now
I come to a new scene of my life.
It happened one day, abont noon, going towards my
boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a
man's naked foot on the shore, which was very plain to
be seen in the sand. I stood like one tbunderstruck,
or as if I had seen an apparition; I listened, I looked
ronnd me, but I conld hear nothing, nor see any thing;
I went up to a rising gronnd, to look farther; I went
up the shore, and down the shore, but it was all one; I
conld see no other impression but that one. I went to
it again to see if there were any more, and to observe
if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room for
that, for there was exactly the print of afoot, toes, heel,
and every part of a foot: how it camo thither I knew
not, nor conld I in the least imagine: but, after innu-
merable fluttering thonghts, like a man perfectly con-
fused and ont of myself, I came home to my fortifica-
tion, not feeling, as we say, the gronnd I went on, but
terrified to the last degree: looking behind me at every
two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and
fancying every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor
is it possible to describe how many varions shapes my
affrighted imagination represented things to me in, how
many wild ideas were fonnd every moment in my fancy,
and what strange unacconntable whimseys came into my
thonghts by the way.
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it
ever after this,) I fled into it like one pursued; whe
ther I went over by the ladder, as first contrived, or
went in at the hole in the rock, which I had called a
door, I cannot remember; no, nor conld I remember
the next morning: for never frightened hare fled to
cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than I
to this retreat.
I slept none that night; the farther T was from the
occasion of my fright, the greater my appreheusious
were; which is something contrary to the nature of
such things, and especially to the usaal practice of all
creatures in fear; but I was so emharrassed with my
own frightful ideas of the thing that I formed nothing
but dismal imaginatious to myself, even thongh I was
now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied it must
be the Devil, and reason joined in with me upon this
supposition; for how shonld any other thing in buman
shape come into the place? Where was the vessel that
bronght them? What marks were there of any other
footsteps? And how was it possible a man shonld
come there? But then to think that Satan shonld take
buman shape upon him in such a place, where there
conld he no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the
print of his foot behind him, and that even for no pur-
pose too, for he conld not be sure I shonld sec it,—this
was an amusement the other way. I cousidered that
the Devil might have fonnd ont abundance of other
ways to have terrified me than this of the single print
of a foot; that as I lived qnite on the other side of the
island, he wonld never have been so simple as to leave
a mark in a place where it was ten thonsand to one
whether [ should ever see it or not, and in the sand too,
which the first surge of the sea, upon a high wind,
wonld have defaced entirely: all this seemed mcousis-
tent with the thing itself, and with all the notious we
usually entertain of the subtilty of the Devil,
Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue
me ont of all appreheusious of its being the Devil; and
I presently conclnded then, that it must be some more
dangerous creature, viz. that it must be some of the
savages of the main land over agaiust me, who had
wandered ont to sea in their canoes, and cither driven
by the currents or In contrary winds, had made the
island, and had been on shore, but were gone away
again to sea; beiiig as loath, perhaps, to have staved in
this desolate island as I wonld have been to have had
them.
While these rcdcctious were rolling upon my mind,
I was very thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy
ns not to bo thereabonts at that time, or that they did
not see my boat, by which they wonld have conclnded
that some inhabitants had been in the place, and per-
haps have searched farther for me; then terrible
thonghts racked my imagination abont their having
fonnd my boat, and that there were people here; and
that if so, I shonld certainly have them come again in
greater numbers, and devonr me; that if it shonld hap-
pen so that they shonld not find iue, yet they wonld find
my enclosure, destroy all my corn, and carry away all
my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at last for
mere want.
Tbus uiv fear hanished all my religious hope, all that
former confidence in God, which was founded upon
sueh wonderful experience as I had had of his good-
ness; as if he that had fed me by miracle hitherto conld
not preserve, by his power, the provision which he had
made for me by his goodness. I reproached myself
with my laziness, that wonld not sow any more corn
one year than wonld just serve me till the next season,
as if no accident wonld intervene to prevent my enjoy-
ing Hie crop that was upon the gronnd; and this I
thonght so just a reproof that I resolved for the future
to have two or three years' corn beforehand; so that,
whatever might come, I might not perish for want of
bread.
How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the
life of man! and by what secret different springs are
the aflectious burried about, as diflerent circumstances
present! To-day we love what to-morrow we hate; to-
day we seek what to-morrow we sbun; to-day we de-
sire what to-morrow we fear, nay, even tremble at the
apprehensious of; this was exemplified in me, at this
bme, in the most lively manner imaginable; for I,
whose only affliction was that I seemed hanished from
human society, that I was alone, circumscribe*! by the
bonndless ocean, cut oft' from mankind, and condemned
to what I called silent life; that I was as one whom
Heaven thonght not worthy to be numbered among the
living, or to appear am.ong the rest of his creatures;
that to have seen one of my own species wonld have
seemed to me a raising me from death to life, and the
greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to the supreme
blessin-- of salvation, conld bestow: I say, that I shonld
now tremble at the very appreheusious of seemg a man,
and was ready to sink into the gronnd at but the sha-
dow or silent appearance of a man s havmg set his loot
io the island. ... , .. r
Such is the uneven state of buman life : and it at-
forded me a great many curions speculatious afterwards,
when I had a little recovered my first surprise. I con-
sidered that this was the station of life the mfinitely
wise and good providence of God had determmed for
me • that as I conld not foresee what the ends of divine
wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to dispute his
sovereiguty, who, as I was his creature had an un-
donbted right, txy creation, to govern and dispose of me
absolutely as bethonght fit; and who, as I was a crea-
ture that had offended him, had likewise a jndicial
risht to condemn me to what punishment he thonght
fit • and that it was my part to submit to bear his mdig-
nation, becanse I had sinned agaiust him. I then re-
flected, that as God, who was not only righteons bu
omnipotent, had thonght fit tbus to pumsh andI afflict
mTso he was able to deliver me ; that if he d,d not
think fit to do so, it was my unquestioned duty to resign
mvself absolutely and entirely to his will; and, on the
other hand, it was my duty also to hope m him, pray to
him, and quietly to attend the dictates and directious of
^The'so thought took mo up many honrs, days, nay, I
mavsay weeks and months; and one particular eflect
of my cogitatious on this occasion I cannot omit: One
morning early, lying in my bed and filled with
thonghts abont my danger from the appearances of
savazes I fonnd it discomposed me very much ; upon
which these words of the Scripture came into my
thoncht*, " Call upon me m the day of tronble, and I
will deliver thee, and thon shall glorify me." Upon this,
rising cheerfully ont of my bed, my heart was not only
comforted, but I was guided and enconraged to pray
earnestly to God for deliverance: when I had done
praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to read, the
first words that presented to me were, "Wait on the
Lord, and be of good cheer, and he shall strengthen thy
heart; wait, I say, on the Lord." It is impossible to
express the comfort this gave me. In auswer, I thank-
fully laid down the book, and was no more sad, at least
0n that occasion.
In the middle of these cogitatious, appreheusious,
and reflectious, it came into my thonghts one day, that
al I this might be a mere chimera of my own, and that this
foot might be the print of my own foot, when I came
on shore from my boat: this cheered me up a little too,
and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion;
that it was nothing else but my own foot; and why
inii-hi I not come that way from the boat, as well as I
was going that way to the boat? Again, I cousidered
also, that I conld by no meaus tell, for certain, where I
Lad trod, and where I had not; and that if, at last, this
was only ihe print of my own foot, I had played the
part of those fools who try to make stories of spectres
and apparitious, and then are frightened at them more
than any body.
Now I began to take conrage, and to peep abroad
again, for I had not stirred ont of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for provisious;
for I had little or nothing within doors but some har-
ley-cakes and water: then I knew that my goats wanted
to be milked too, which usually was my evening diver-
sion; and the poor creatures were in great pain and
inconvenience for want of it; and, indeed, it almost
spoiled some of them, and almost dried up their milk.
Enconraging myself, therefore, with the belief that this
was nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and
that I might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I
began to go abroad again, and went to my conntry-
honse to milk my flock: but to see with what fear I
went forward, how often I looked behind me, how I
was ready, every now and then, to lay down my hasket,
and run for my life, it wonld have made any one have
thonght I was hannted with an evil couscience, or that
J had been lately most terribly frightened; and so, in-
deed, I had. However, as I went down tbus two or
throe days, and having seen nothing, I began to be a
little bolder, and to thmk there was really nothing in it
but my own imagination; bat I conld not persuade my-
self full; of this till I shonld go down to the shore
again, and see this print of a foot, and measure it by
my own, and see if there was any similitnde or fitness,
that I might be assured it was my own foot: but when
I came to the place first, it appeared evidently to me,
that when I laid up my boat, I conld not possibly he on
shore any where thereabonts: secondly, when I came to
measure the mark with my own foot, I fonnd my foot
not so large by a great deal. Both these things filled
my head with new imaginatious, and gave me the vaponrs
again to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold
like one in an ague; and I went home again, filled with
the belief that some man or men had been on shore
there; or, in short, that the island was inhahited, and I
might be surprised before I was aware; and what
conrse to take for my security I knew not.
O what ridiculons resolutious men take when pos-
sessed with fear! It deprives them of the use of those
meaus which reason oilers for their relief. The first
thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down my en-
closures, and turn all my tame cattle wild into the
woods, lest the enemy shonld find them, and then fre-
quent the island in prospect of the same or the like
booty: then to the simple thing of digging up my two
corn fields, lest they shonld find such a grain there, and
still be prompted to frequent the island: then to demo-
lish my bower and tent, that they might not see any ves-
tiges of hahitation, and be prompted to look farther, in
order to find ont the persous inhahiting.
These were the subject of the first night's cogitatious
after I was come home again, while the appreheusious
which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me,
and my head was full of vaponrs as above. Thus fear
of danger is ten thonsand times more terrifying than
danger itself, when apparent to the eyes; and we find
the burden of anxiety greater, by much, than the evil
which weare anxions about: and, which was worsethan
all this, I had not that relief in this tronble from the
resiguation I used to practise, that I hoped to have. I
looked, I thought, like Sanl, who complained not only
that the Philistines were upon him, but that God hail
forsaken him; for I did not now take due ways to com-
pose my mind, by crying to God in my distress, and
resting upon his providence, as I had done before, for
my defence and deliverance; which, if I had done, I
had at least been more cheerfully supported under this
new surprise, and perhaps carried throngh it with more
resolution.
This confusion of my thonghts kept me awake all
night; but in tho morning I fell asleep; and having,
l>y the amusement of my mind, been, as it were, tired,
and my spirits exhansted, I slept very sonndly, and
waked much better composed than I had ever been be-
fore. And now I began to think sedately; and, upon
the utmost dehate with myself, I conclnded Hint this
island, which was so exceedingly pleasant, fruitful, and
juo farther from the main land than as I had seen, was not
so entirely ahandoned as I might imagine; that althongh
there were no stated inhahitants who lived on the spot,
yet that there might sometimes come boats off from the
shore, who, either with desigu, or perhaps never but
when they were driven by cross winds, might come to
this place ; that I had lived here fifteen years now, and
had not met with the least shadtnv or figure of any peo-
ple yet; and that if at any time they shonld be driven
here, it was prohable they went away again as soon as
ever they conld, seeing they had never thonght fit to fix
here upon any occasion; that the most I conld suggest
auy danger from, was from any casual accidental land-
ing of straggling people from the main, who, as it was
likely, if they were driven hither, were here agaiust
their wills, so they made no stay here, but went off
again with all possible speed; seldom staying one
night on shore, lest they shonld not have the help of
the tides and daylight hack again; and that, therefore,
I had nothing to do but to cousider of some safe retreat,
in case I shonld see any savages land upon the spot.
Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave
so large as to bring a door throngh again, which door,
as I said, came ont beyond where my fortification join-
ed to the rock: upon maturely cousidering this, there-
fore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification, in
Ihc same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my
wall, just where I had planted a donble row of trees
abont twelve years before, of which I made mention:
these trees having been planted so thick before, they
wanted but few piles to be driven between them, that
thev might be thicker and stronger, and mv wall wonld
he soon finished. 80 that I had now a donble wall; and
toy onter wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old
cables, and every thing I conld think of, to make it
strong; having in it seven little holes, abont as hig as I
might put my arm ont at. In the iuside of this, I thick-
ened my wall to abont ten feet thick, with continually
bringing earth ont of my cave, and laying it at the foot
of the wall, and walking upon it; and throngh the
seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which
1 took notice that I had got seven on shore ont of the
ship; these I planted like my cannon, and fitted them
into frames, that held them like a carriage, so that I
conld fire all the seven guus in two minutes'time, this
wall I was many a weary month in finishing, and yet
never thonght myself safe till it was done.
When Ihis was done, I stuck all the gronnd withont
my wall, for a great length every way, as full with
stakes or sticks of the osierlike wood, which I fonnd
so apt to grow, as they could well stand; iusomuch,
that I belicvel might set in-near twenty thonsand of
them, leaving a pretty large space between them and
mv wall, that I might have room to see an enemy, and
they might have no shelter from the yonng trees, if they
atte'mpted to approach my onter wall.
Tbus, in two years'time, I had
> years' time, I had a thick grove; and
in five or six years' time I had a wood before my dwel-
ling, growing so moustrons thick and strong that it
was indeed perfectly impassable; and no men, of what
kind soever, wonld ever imagine that there was any
thing beyond it, much less a hahitation. As for the
way which I proposed to myself to go in and ont (for I
left no avenue), it was by setting two ladders, one to a
part of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and
li't't. room to place another ladder upon that; so when
the two ladders were taken down, no man living conld
come down to me withont doing himself mischief; mid
if they had come down, they were still on the ontside
of my onter wall.
Tbus I took all the measures buman prndence conld
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen,
at length, that they were not altogether withont just
reason; thongh I foresaw nothing at that time more
than my mere fear suggested to me.
While this was doing, I was not altogether careless
of my other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me
for my little herd of goats; they were not only a ready
supply to me on every occasion, and began to be suf-
ficient for me, withont the expeuse of powder and suot,
but also withont the fatigue of bunting after the wild
ones; and I was loath to lose the advantage of them,
and to have them all to nurse up over again.
For this purpose, after long cousideration, I conld
think of but two wavs to preserve them: one was, to
find another convenient place to dig a cave under
gronnd, and to drive Iheni into it every night; and the
other was, to enclose two or three little hits of land,
remote from one another, and as much concealed as I
conld, where I might keep abont half a dozen yonng
goats in each place; so that if any disaster happened to
the flock in general, I might be able to raise them again
with little tronble and time; and this, thongh it wonld
require a great deal of time and labonr, I thonght was
the most rational desigu.
Accordingly, I spent some time to find ont the most
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one,
which was as private, indeed, as my heart conld wish
for: it was a little damp piece of gronnd, in the middle
of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed,
1 almost lost myself once before, endeavonring to come
hack that wav from the eastern part of tho island.
Here I fonnd a clear piece of land, near three acres, so
surronnded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure
by nature; at least it did not want near so much labonr
to make it so as the other pieces of gronnd I had
worked so hard at.
I immediately went to work with this pi nee of
ground, and in less than a month's time I had so fenced
it ronnd that my flock, or herd, call it which yon
please, who were not so wild now as at first they might
be supposed to he, were well enongh secured in it: so,
withont any farther delay, I removed ten yonng she
goats, and two he goats, to this piece; and when they
were there, I continued to perfect the fence, till I had
made it as secure as the other; which, however, I did
at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a great
deal. All this labonr I was at the expeuse of, purely
from my appreheusious on the acconnt of the print of
a man's foot which I had seen; for, as yet, I never saw
any buman creature come near the island; and I had
now lived two years under this uneasiness, which, in-
deed, made my life much less comfortable than it was
before, as may be well imagined by anv who know
'what it is to live in the coustant suare of the fear of
man. And this I must observe, with grief too, that the
discomposure of my mind had too great impressious
also upon the religious part of my thonghts: for the
dread and terror of falling into the hands of savages
and cannihals lay so upon my spirits that I seldom
fonnd myself in a due temper for application to my
Maker, at least not with the sedate calmness and re-
siguation of sonl which I was wont to do: I rather
prayed to God as under great affliction and pressure of
mind, surronnded with danger, and in expectation every
night of being murdered and devonred before morning;
and I must testify from my expericuce, that a temper of
peace, thankfulness, love, and affection, is much the
more proper frame for prayer than that of terror and
discomposure; and that under the dread of mischief
impending, a man is no more fit for a comforting per-
formance of the duty of praying to God, than he is for
a repentance on a sick bed; for these discomposures
aflect the mind, as the others do the body; and the
discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as great
a disahility as that of the body, and much greater;
praying to God being properly an act of the mind, not
of the body,
But to go on: after I had tbus secured one part of
my little living stock, I went abont the whole island,
searching for another private place to muko such ano-
thcr deposit; when, wandering more to the west point
of the island than I had ever done ynf, and looking ont
to sea, I thonght I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great
distance. I had fonnd a perspective glass or two in one
of the seamen's chests, which I saved ont of onr shin,
but I had it not abont me; and this was so remote that
I conld not tell what to make of it, thongh I looked at
it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer:
whether it was a boat or not, I do not know, but as I
descended from the hill I conld see no more of it; sol
gave it over; only I resolved to go no more ont withont
a perspective glass in my pocket. When I was come
down the hill to the end of the island, where, indeed,
I had never been before, I was presently convinced that
the seeing the print of a man's foot was not such a
strange thing in the island as I imagined: and but that
it was a special providence that I was cast upon the side
of the island where the savages never came, I shonld
easily have known that nothing was more frequent than
for the canoes from the main, when they happened to
be a little too far ont at sea, to shoot over to that side
of the island for harbonr: likewise, as they often met
and fonght in their canoes, the victors, having taken
any prisoners, wonld bring them over to this shore,
where, according to their dreadful customs, being all
cannihals, they wonld kill and eat them; of which
hereafter.
Wben I was come down the hill to the shore, as I
said above, being the S.W. point of the island, I was
perfectly confonnded and amazed; nor is it possible
for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing the
sbore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones
of buman bodies; and particularly, I observed a place
v, here there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in
the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed the savage
wretches had sat down to their inbuman feastings upon
the bodies of their fellow creatures.
I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notious of any danger to myself
from it for a long while: all my appreheusious were
buried in the thonghts of such a pitch of inbuman, hel-
lish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy ot
human nature, whicb, though I bad heard of it often,
yet I never had so near a view of before: in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle ; my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of taint-
ing, when nature discharged tin? disorder from my
stomach; and having vomited with uncommon vio-
lence, I was a little relieved, but conld not bear to stay
in the place a moment; so J got me up the hill again
with all the speed I conld, and walked on towards my
own hahitation.
When I came a little ont of that part of the island,
I stood still awhile, as amazed, and then recovering
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of my
sonl, and, with a flood of tears in mv eyes, gave Gorl
thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world
where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures
as these; and that, thongh I had esteemed my present
condition very miserable, had yet given me so many
comforts in it that I had still more to give thanks for
than to complain of: and this, above all, that I had,
even in this miserable condition, been comforted with
the knowledge of Himself, and the hope of his blessing:
which was a felicity more titan sufficiently equivalent
to all the misery which I had suflered, or conld suffer.
In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my
castle, and be^an to be much easier now, as to the
stilctv of my circumstances, than ever I was before i
for I observed that these wretches never came to this
island in search of what they conld get; perhaps not
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting, anything here;
and having often, no donbt, been up in the covered
woody part of it, withont finding anything to their
purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen
years, and never saw the least footsteps of buman crea-
ture there before; and I might be eighteen years more
as entirely concealed as I was now, itl did not discover
myself to them, which I had no manner of occasion to
do; it-being my only business to keep myself entirely
concealed where I was, unless I fonnd a better sort of
creatures than cannihals to make myself known to. Yet
I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches
that I have been speaking of, and of the wretched in-
human custom of their devonring and editing one ano-
ther up, that I continued peusive and sad, and kept
close within my own circle, for almost two years after
this; when I say my own circle, I mean by it my three
plantatious, viz. my castle, my conntry seat, which I
called my bower, and my enclosure in the woods: nor
did I look after this for any other use than as an en-
closure for my goats; for the aversion which nature
gave me to these hellish wretches was such, that I was
as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the Devil himself.
I did not so much as go to look after my boat all this
tune, but began rather to think of making me another;
for I conld not think of ever making any more attempts
to bring the other boat ronnd the island to me, lest I
shonld meet with some of these creatures at sca; in
which, if I had happened to have fallen into their hands,
I knew what wonld have been my lot.
Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was
in no danger of being discovered by these people, be-
gan to wear off my uueasmess abont them; and I began
to live just in the same composed manner as before;
only with this difference, that I used more cantion, and
kept my eyes more abont me than I did before, lest I
shonld happen to be seen by any of them; and parti-
cularly, I was more cautions of firing my gun, lest any
of them, being on the island, shonld happen to hear it.
It was therefore a very good providence to me that I
had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats, and
that I had no need to bunt any more abont the woods,
or shoot at them; and if I did catch any of them after
this, it was by traps and suares, as I had done before:
so that for two years after this, I believe I never fired
my gun once off, thongh I never went ont withont it;
and, which was more, as I had saved three pistols ont
of the ship, I always carried them ont with me, or at
least two of them, sticking them in my goatskin belt.
I also furhislied up one of the great cutlasses that I had
ont of the ship, and made me a belt to hang it on also;
so that I was now a most formidable fellow to look at
when I went abroad, if yon add to the former descrip-
tion of myself, the particular of two pistols, and a great
broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but withont
a scabbard.
Things going on tbus, as I have said, for some time,
I seemed, excepting these cantious, to be reduced to my
former calm, sedate way of living. All these things teaded
to show me, more and more, how far my condition was
from being miserable, compared to some others; nay,
to many other particulars of life, which it might have
§ leased God to have made my lot. It put me upon re-
ecting how little repining there wonld be among man-
fcind at any condition of life, if people wonld rather
compare their condition with those that were worse, in
order to be thankful, than be always comparing them
with those which are better, to assist their murmurings
and complainings.
As in my present condition there were not really
many things which I wanted, so, indeed, I thonght that
the frights I had been in abont these savage wretches,
and the concern I had been in for my own preservation,
had taken off the edge of my invention for my own
conveniences; and I had dropped a good desigu,
which I had once bent my thonghts too mnch upon, and
that was, to try if I conld not make some of my harley
into malt, and then try to brew myself some beer.
This was really a whimsical thonght, and I reproved
myself often for the simplicity of it; for'I presently
saw there wonld be the want of several tiiings neces-
sary to the making my beer, that it wonld he impossible
for me to supply: as, first, casks to preserve it in,
which was a thing that, as I have observed already, I
conld never compass: no, thongh I spent not only
many days, but weeks, nay months, in attempting it, but
to no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to
make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or
kettle to make it boil; and yet with all these things
wanting, I verily believe, had not the frights and ter-
rors I was in abont Ihe savages intervened, I had un-
dertaken it, and perhaps bronght it to pass too; for I
seldom gave any thing over withont accomplishing it,
when once I had it in my head to begin it. But my
invention now ran quite another way; for, night and
day, F conld think of nothing but how I might destroy
some of these mousters in their cruel, bloody entertain-
ment, and, if possible, save the victim they shonld
brmg hither to destroy. It wonld take up a larger
volume than this whole work is intended to be, to set
down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded
upon, in my thonghts, for the destroying: these crea-
tures, or at least frightening them so as to prevent
their coming hither any more: but all this was abortive;
nothing conld he possible to take eflect, unless I was to
be there to do it myself: aiid what conld one man do
among them, when perhaps there might be twenty or
thirty of them together, with their darts, or their bows
and arrows, with which they conld shoot as true to a
mark as I conld with my gun?
Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the
place where they made their fire, and putting in five or
six ponnds of guupowder, which, when they kindled
their fire, wonld cousequently take iice, and blow up
all that was near it: but as, in the first place, I shonld
be unwilling to waste so much powder upon them, my
store being now within the quantity of one harrel, so
neither conld I be sure of its going off at any certain
time, when it might surprise them; and at best, that it
wonld do little more than just blow the fire about their
cars, and fright them, but not sufficient to make them
forsake the place: so 1 laid it aside; and then proposed
that I wonld place myself in ambush in some convenient
place, with my three guus all donble loaded, and in the
middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when
I shonld be sure to kill or wonnd perhaps two or three
at every shot; and then falling in upon them with my
three pistols, and my sword, I made no donbt but that
if there were twenty I shonld kill them all. This fancy
pleased my thonghts for some weeks; aud I was so full
of it, that I often dreamed of it, and sometimes, that f
was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I went so
far with it in niv imagination, that I employed mvself
several days to find ont proper places to put myself in
ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them; and I went
frequently to the place itself, which was now grown
more familiar to me: but while m> mind was tbus filled
with thonghts of revesgc, and a bloody putting twenty
or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call it, tin;
horror I had at the place, and at the siguals of the har-
harons wretches devonring ono another, abetted my
malice. Well, at length, I fonnd a place in the side
ni' the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely wait
till I saw any of their boats commg: and might then,
even before they wonld be ready to come on shore,
convey myself uuseen into some thickets of trees, in
one of which there was a hollow large enongh to con-
ceal me entirely; and there I might sit and observe
all their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their
heads, when thay were so close together as that it
wonld be next to impossible that I shonld miss my shot,
or that I conld fail wounding three or fonr of them at
the first shot. In this place, then, I resolved to fix my
desigu; and accordingly, I prepared two muskets and
mv ordinary fowlingpiece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of slugs each, and fonr or five smaller
bullets, abont the size of pistol bullets; and the fowling
piece I loaded with near a handful of swaushot of the
targest size: I also loaded my pistols with abont fonr
bullets each; and in this posture, well provided with
ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepared
myself for my expedition.
After i had tbus laid the scheme of my design, and,
in my imagination put it in practice, I continually made
my tonr every morning up to the top of the hill, which
was from my castle, as I called it, abont three miles,
or more, to see if I conld observe any boats upon the
sea, coming near the island, or standing over towards
it: but L began to tire of this hard duty, after I
had, for two or three months, coustantly kept my
watch, but came always hack withont any discovery;
there having not, in all thai time, been the least
appearance uot only on or near the shore, but on the
whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses conld reach
every way.
As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look
ont, so long also I kept Dp the vigonr of my desigu,
and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable
form for so ontrageons an execution as the killing
twenty or thirty naked savages, for an oftence which I
hud not at all entered into any discussion of in my
thoughts, any farther than my passious were at first
fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural custom
of the people of that conntry; who, it seems, had been
suflered by Providence, in his wise disposition of the
world, to have no other guide than that of their own
abominable and vitiated passious; and, cousequently,
were left, and perhaps had been so for some ages, ta
act such horrid things, and receive such dreadful cus-
toms, as nothing bat nature, entirely ahandoned by
Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy,
coald have run them into. But now, when as I have
said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion
which I had made so long and so far every morning in
vain, so my opinion of the action itself began to alter;
and I began, with cooler and calmer thonghts, to con-
sider what I was going to engage in; what anthority or
call I had to pretend to be jndge and executioner upon
these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit,
for so many ages to suffer, uupunished, to go on, and
to be, as it were, the executioners of his jndgments one
upon another. How far these people were oft'enders
agaiust me, and what right I had to engage in the quar-
rel of that blood which they shed promiscuonsly upon
one another, I dehated this very often with myself tbus;
How do I know what God himself jndges in this par-
ticular case? It is certam these people do not commit
this as a crime; it is not agaiust their own cousciences
reproving, or their light reproaching them; they do
not know it to be an offence, and then commit it in de-
fiance of divine justice, as we do in almost all the .sius
we commit. They think it no more a crime to kill a
captive taken in war, than we do to kill an ox; nor to
cat buman flesh, than we do to eat mutton.
When I cousidered this a little, it followed neces-
sarily that I was certainly in the wrong in it; that these
people were not murderers in the seuse that I had be-
fore condemned them in my thonghts, any more than
those Christiaus were murderers who often put to death
the prisoners taken in hattle; or more frequently, upon
many occasious, put whole troops of men to the sword,
withont giving quarter, thongh they threw down their
arms, and submitted. In the next place it occurred to
me, that althongh the usage they gave one another was
tbus brutish and inbuman, yet it was realty nothing to
me; these people had done me DO injury: that if they
attempted me, or I saw it necessary, for my immediate
preservation, to fall upon them, something might be
said for it; but that I was yet ont of their power, and
they realty had no knowledge of me, and cousequently
no desigu upon me; and therefore it conld not be just
for me to fall upon them: that this wonld justify the
conduct of tin- Spaniards in all their harharities prac-
tised in America, where they destroyed millious of
these people: who, however they were idolaters and
barhariaus, and had several bloody and harharons rites
in their customs, such as sacrificmg buman bodies to
their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, very innocent
people; and that the rooting them ont of the conntry is
"|.mken of with the utmost abhorrence and detestation
by even the Spaniards themselves at this time, and by
all other Christian natious in Europe, as a mere butch-
ery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjusti-
fiable either to God or man; and for which the very
name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and ter-
rible to all people of bumanity or of Christian com-
passion; as if the kingdom of Spain were particularly
eminent for the produce of a race of men, who were
withont principles of tenderness or the common bowels
of pity to the miserable, which is reckoned to be a
mark of generons temper in the mind.
These cousideratious really put me to a panse, and to
a kind of a full stop; and I began by little and little to
be off my desigu, and to conclnde I had taken wrong
measures in my resolution to attack the savages; and
tiiat it was not my business to meddle with them, un-
less they first attacked mo; and this it was my busiae&s,
if possible, to prevent; but that if I were discovered
and attacked by them, I knew my duty. On the other
hand, I argued with myself, that this reallv was the
way not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin and de-
stroy myself; for unless I was sure to kill every one
that not only shonld be on shore at that time, but that
should ever come on shore afterwards, if but one of
t!ium escaped to tell their conntry-people what baU
happened, they wonld come over again by thonsands t«
revenge the death of ibeir fellows, and I shonld only
bring upon myself a certain destruction, which, at pre-
sent, I had no manner of occasion for. Upon the whole,
I conclnded, that neither in principle nor in policy I
onght, one way or other, to concern myself in this af-
fair: that my business was, by all possible meaus, to
conceal myself from them, and not to leave the least
sigual to them to guess by that there were any living
creatures upon the island, I mean of buman shape.
Religion joined in with this prndential resolution; and
I was convinced now, many ways, that I was perfectly
ont of my duty when I was laying all my bloody
schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures, I
mean innocent as to me. As to the crimes they were
guilty oftowards one another, I had nothing to do with
them; they were national, and I onght to leave them
to the justice of God, who is the governor of natious,
ami knows how, by national punishments, to make a
just retribution for national offences, and to bring pub-
lic jndgments upon those who oflend in a public man-
ner, by such ways as best please him. This appeared
so clear to me now, that nothing was a greater satisfac-
tion to me than that I had not been suffered to do a
thing which I now saw so much reason to believe wonld
have been no less a sin than that of wilful murder, if I
had committed it; and I gave most bumble thanks on
my knees to God, that had tbus delivered me from
blood-guiltiness; beseeching him to grant me the pro-
tection of his providence, that I might not fall into the
hands of the harhariaus, or that I might not lay my
bands upon them, unless I had a more clear call from
Heaven to do it, in defence of my own life.
Iu this disposition I continued for near a year after
this; and so far was I from desiring an occasion for
falling upon these wretches, that in all that time I never
once went up the hill to see whether there were any of
them in sight, or to know whether any of them had
been on shore there or not, that I might not be tempted
to renew any of my contrivances agaiust them, or be
provoked, by any advantage that might present itself,
to fall upon them: only this I did, I went and removed
inv boat, which I had on the other side of the island,
ami carried it down to the oust cnd of the whole island,
fi
where I ran it into a little cove, which I fonnd under
some high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the
currents, the savages durst not, at least wonld not come
with their boats upon any acconnt whatever. With my
boat I carried away every thing that I had left there
belonging to her, thongh not necessary for the hare
going thither, viz. a mast and sail which I had made
for her, and a thing like an anchor, hat which indeed
conld not be called either anchor or grapnel; however,
it was the best I conld make of its kind: all these I
removed, that there might not be the least shadow of
any discovery, or any appearance of any boat, or of any
buman hahitation upon the island. Besides this, I kept
myself, as I said, more retired than ever, and seldom
went from my cell, other than upon my coustant em-
iloyment, viz. to milk my she goats, and manage my
ittfe flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the
other part of the island, was quite ont of danger; for
certain it is, that these savage people, who sometimes
hannted this island, never came with any thonghts of
finding anything here, and cousequently never wandered
off from the coast; and I donbt not but they might have
been several times on shore after my appreheusious of
them had made me cantions, as well as before. Indeed
I looked hack with some horror upon the thonghts of
what my condition wonld have been if I had chopped
upon them and been discovered before that, when,
naked and unarmed, except with one gun, and that
loaded often only with small shot, I walked every
where, peeping and peering abont the island to see
what I conld get; what a surprise shonld I have been
in, if, when I discovered the print of a man's foot, I
had, iustead of that, seen fifteen or twenty savages, and
fonnd them pursuing me, and by the swiftness of their
running, no possihility of my escaping them! The
thonghts of this sometimes sunk my very sonl within
me, and distressed my mind so much that I conld not
soon recover it, to think what I shonld have done, and
how I shonld not only have been unable to resist them,
but even shonld not have had presence of mind enongh
to do what I might have done ; much less what now,
after so much cousideration and preparation * might
be able to do. Indeed, after serions thinking of these
things, I wonld be very melancholy, and sometimes it
wonld last a great while; hat I resolved it all, at last,
into thankfulness to that Providence which had deli-
vered me from so many uuseen dangers, and had kept
from me those mischiefs which I conld have no way
been the agent in delivering myself from, becanse I had
not the least notion of any such thing depending, or the
least supposition of its being possible. This renewed a
contemplation which often had come to my thonghts in
former time, whni first I began to see the merciful dis-
positious of Heaven, in the dangers we run throngh in
this life; how wonderfully we are delivered when we
know nothing of it; how, when we are in a quandary
(as we call it), a donbt or hesitation whether, to go this
way, or that way, a secret hint shall direct us ihis way,
when we intended to go that way: nay, when seuse,
our own inclination, and perhaps business, has called to
go the other way, yet a strange impression upon the
mind, from we know not what springs, and by we know
not what power, shall overrule us to go this way; and
it shall afterwards appear, that had we gone that way
which we shonld have gone, and even to onr imagina-
tion onght to have gone, we shonld have been ruined
and lost. Upon these, and many like reflectious, I af-
terwards made it a certain rule with me, that whenever
I fonnd those secret hints or pressings of mind, to doing
or not doing anythmg that presented, or going this way
or that way, I never failed to obey the secret dictate;
thongh I knew no other reason for it than that such a
pressure, or such a hint, bung upon my mind. I conld
give many examples of the success of. this conduct in
the coarse of my life, but more especially in the latter
part of my inhahiting this unhappy island; besides
many occasious which it is very likely I might have
taken notice of, if I had seen with the same eyes then
that I see with now. But it is never too late to be wise;
and I cannot but advise all cousidering men, whose
lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents as
mine, or even thongh not so extraordinary, not to slight
such secret intimatious of Providence, let them come
from what invisible intelligence they will. That I shall
Hot discuss, and perhaps cannot acconnt for; bnt cer-
tainly they arc a proof of the converse of spirits, and a
secret communication between those embodied and
those anemhodied, and such a proof as can never be
withstood; of which I shall have occasion to give some
very remarkable iustances in the remainder of my soli-
tary residence in this dismal place.
1 believe the reader of this will not think it strange,
if I confess that these anxieties, these coustant dangers
I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, pot
an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances that
I had laid for my future accommodatious and conve-
niences. I had the care of my safety more now upon
my hands than that of my food. I cared not to drive a
nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I
might make shonld be heard: mnch less wonld I fire a
gun, for the same reason: and, above all, I was intole-
rably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which is
visible at a great distance in the day, shonld betray me.
For this reason I removed that part of my business
which required fire, such as burning of pots and pipes,
&c. into my new apartment in the woods; where, after
1 had been some time, I fonnd to my uuspeakable con-
solation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went
in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he
been at the'month of it, wonld be so hardy as to ven-
ture in; nor, indeed, wonld any man else, but one who
like me wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.
The month of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where by mere accident (I wonld say, if I
did not see abundant reason to ascribe all such things
now to Providence), I was cuttjng down some thick
branches of trees to make charcoal; and before I go on
I must observe the reason of my making this charcoal,
which was tbus: I was afraid of making asmoke abont
my hahitation, as I said before; and yet I conld not
live there withont baking my bread, cooking my meat,
&c. ; so I contrived to burn some wood here, as I had
seen done in England, under lurf, till it became chark,
or dry coal: and then putting the fire ont, I preserved
the coal to carry home, and perform the other services
for which fire was wanting, without danger of amok e.
But this is by the by i—While I was cutting down
some wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick
branch of low brushwood or underwood, there was a
kind of hollow place: I was curions to look in it, and
getting with difliculty into the month of it, I fonnd it
was pretty large: that is to say, sufficient for me to
stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me: but
I mast confess to yon that I made more haste ont than
I did in, when, looking farther into the place, and
which was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining
eyes of some creature, whether devil or man I knew
not, which twinkled like two stars; the dim light from
the cave's month shining directlv in, and makmg the
reflection. However, after some panse I recovered
myself, and began to call myself a thonsand fools, and
to think that he that was afraid to see the devil was
not fit to live twenty yearn in an island all alone; and
that I might well think there was nothing in this cave
that was more frightful than myself. Upon this, pluck-
ing up my conrage, I took up a firebrand, and in I
rushed again, with the stick flaming in my hand: I had
not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much
frightened as I was before; for I heard a very lond
sigh, like that of a man in some pain, and it was follow-
ed by a broken noise, as of words half expressed, and
then'a deep sigh again. I stepped hack, and was in-
deed struck with such a surprise that it put me into a
cold sweat, and if I had had a hat on my head, I wilt
not auswer for it that my hair might not have lifted it
off. But still pluck ing up my spirits as well as I could,
and enconraging myself a little with cousidering that
the power and presence of God was every where, and
was able to protect me, upon this I stepped forward
again, and by the light of the firebrand, holding it up a
little over my head, I saw lying on the ground a most
moustrons, frightful, old he goat, just making his will,
as we say, and gasping for life; and dying, indeed, of
mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I conld
get him ont, and he essaved to get up, but was not able
to raise himself; and I thonght with myself he might
even lie there; for if he had frightened me, so he would
certainly fright any of the savages, if any one of thorn
shonld be so hardy as to come in there while be had
any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to
look ronnd me, when I fonnd the cave was but very
small, that is to say, it might be abont twelve feet over,
but in no manner of shape, neither ronnd nor square, no
hands having ever been employed in making it but
those of mere Nature. I observed also that there was
a place at the farther side of it that went in further, but
was so low that it required me to creep upon my hands
and knees to go into it, and whither it went I knew not:
so having no candle, I gave it over for that time; but
resolved to come again the next day, provided with can-
dles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of
one of the muskets, with some wild fire in the pan.
Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six
large candles of my own making (for I made very good
candles now of goats' tallow, but was hard set for can-
dle-wick, using sometimes rags or rope-yarn, and some-
times the dried rind of a weed like nettles); and going
into this low place, I was ohliged to creep upon all
fonrs, as I have said, almost ten yards; which, by the
way, I thonght was a venture bold enongh, cousidering
that I knew not how far it might go, nor what was be-
yond it. When I had got throngh the strait, I fonnd
the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but
never was such a glorions sight seen in the island, I
dare say, as it was, to look ronnd the sides and roof of
this vanlt or cave; the wall reflected an bundred thon-
sand lights to me from my two candles. What it was in
the rock, whether diamonds, or any other precions
stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I
kneyv not. The place I was in was a most delightful
cavity or grotto of its kind, as conld be expected,
thongh perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level,
and had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that
there was no nanseons or venomons creature to be seen,
neither was there any damp or wet on the sides or roof:
the only difficulty in it was the entrance; which, how-
ever, as it was a place of security, and such a retreat as
I wanted, I thonght that was a convenience; so that I
was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved,
withont any delay, to bring some of those things which
I was most anxions abont to this place; particularly, I
resolved to bring hither my magazine of powder, and
all mv spare arms, viz. two fowling-pieces, for I had
three in all, and three muskets, for of them I had eight
in all: so I kept in my castle only five, which stood
ready monnted, like pieces of cannon, on my ontmost
fence; and were ready also to take ont upon any expe-
dition. Upon this occasion of removing my ammuni-
tion, I happened to open the harrel of powder, which I
took up ont of the sea, and which had been wet; and I
fonnd that the water had penetrated abont three or fonr
inches into the powder on every side, which, caking,
and growing hard, had preserved" the iuside like a ker-
nel in the shell; so that 1 had near sixty ponnds of very
good powder in the centre of the cask: this was a very
agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I carried all
away thither, never keeping above two or three ponnds
of powder with me in my castle, for fear of a surprise
of any kind: I also carried thither all the lead I had
left for bullets.
I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks,
where none conld come at them; for I persuaded my-
self, while I was here, that if five bundred savages were
to bunt me, they conld never find me ont; or, if they
did, they wonld not venture to attack me here. The
old goat, whum I fonnd expiring, died in the month of
the cave the next day after I made this discovery: and
I fonnd it much easier to dig a great hole there, and
throw him in and cover him with earth, than to drag
him ont: so I interred him there, to prevent offence to
my nose.
I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence
in this island; and was so naturalized to the place, and
the manner of living, that conld I have but enjoyed the
certainty that no savages wonld come to the place to
disturb me, I conld have been content to have capitu-
lated for spending the rest of my time there, even to the
last moment, till I had laid me down and died, like the
old goat in the cave. I had also arrived to some little
diversious and amusements, which made the time pass
a'great deal more pleasantly with me than it did before:
as, first, I had tanght my Pol, as I noted before, to
speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so arti-
culately and plain, that it was very pleasant to me; for
I believe no hird ever spoke plainer; and he lived
with me no less than six and twenty years: how long
he might have lived afterwards I know not, thongh I
know they have a notion in the Brazils that they live a
bundred years. My dog was a very pleasant and loving
companion to me for no less than sixteen years of my
time, and then died of mere old age. As for my cats,
they multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree,
that I was obliged to shoot several of them at first, to
keep them from devonring me and all I had; but, at
length, when the two old ones I bronght with me were
gone, and after some time continually driving them
from me, and letting them have no provision with me,
they all ran wild into the woods, except two or three
favonrites, which I kept tame, and whose yonng, when
they had any, I always drowned; and these were part
of my family. Besides these, I always kept two or
three honsehold kids abont me, whom I tanght to feed
oot of my hand; and I had two more parrots, which
talked pretty well, and wonld all call Rohin Crusoe,
but none like my first; nor, indeed, did I take the
paius with any of them that I had done with him. I
had also several tame seafowls, whose names I knew not,
that I canght upon the shore, and cut their wings; and
the little stakes which I had planted before my castle
wall being now grown up to a good thick grove, these
fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred there,
which was very agreeable to me; so that, as I said
above, I began to be very well contented with the life
1 led, if I conld have been secured from the dread of
the savages. But it was otherwise directed; and it
may not be amiss for all people who shall meet with
my story, to make this just observation from it, viz.
How frequently, in the conrse of onr lives, the evil
which in itself we seek most to sbun, and, which, when
we are fallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is often-
times the very meaus or door of onr deliverance, by
which alone we can be raised again from the affliction
we are fallen into. I conld give many examples of this
in the conrse of my unacconntable life; but in nothing
was it more particularly remarkable than in the circum-
stances of my last years of solitary residence in this
island.
It was now the month of December, as I said above,
in mv twenty-third year; and this, being the sonthern
solstice (for winter I cannot call it), was the particular
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty much
abroad in the fields: when going oat pretty early in
the morning, even before it was thorongh daylight, I
was surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon the
shore, at a distance from me of abont two miles, towards
the end of the island where I had observed somo
savages had been, as before, and uot on the other side;
but, to my great affliction, it was on my side of the
island.
I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and
stopped short within my grove, uot daring to go ont,
lest I might be surprised, and yet I had no more peace
within, from the appreheusious I had that if these
savages, in rambling over the island, shonld find my
corn standing or cut, or any of my works and improve-
ments, they wonld immediately conclnde that there
were people in the place, and wonld then never give
over till they had found me ont. In this extremity, I
went hack directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder
after me, and made all things withont look as wild and
natural as I conld.
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defence: I loaded all my cannon, as I called
them, that is to say, my muskets, which were monnted
Dpon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and re-
solved to defend myself to the last gasp; not forgetting
serionsly to commend myself to the divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me oat of the
hands of the barhariaus. I continued in this posture
abont two honrs; and began to he mighty impatient for
intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to send ont.
After sitting awhile longer, and musing what I shonld
do in this case, I was not able to hear sitting in iguorance
any longer; so setting up my ladder to the side of the
lull, where there was a flat place, as I observed before,
and then pulling the ladder after me, I set it up again,
and monnted to the top of the hill; and pulling ont my
perspective-glass, which I had taken on purpose, I laid
me down flat on my belly on the gronnd, and began to
look for the place. I presently fonnd there were no less
than nine naked savages, sitting ronnd a small fire thev
had made, not to warm them, for they had no need of
that, the weather being extremely hot, but, as I sup-
posed, to dress some of their harharons diet of buman
flesh, which they had bronght with them, whether alive
or dead, I conld not tell.
They had two canoes with them, which they had
hanled up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of
ebb, they seemed to me to wait for the return of the
flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine what
confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them
come on my side of the island, and so near me too; but
when I cousidered their coming must be always with
the current of the ebb, I began, afterwards, to he more
sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go
abroad with safety all the time of the tide of flood, if
they were not on shore before: and having made this
observation, I went abroad abont my harvest work with
the more composure.
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and
row (or paddle, as we call it), away. I shonld have
observed, that for an honr or more before they went ofl',
they went a dancing; and I conld easily discern their
postures and gestures by my glass. I conld not per-
ceive, by my nicest observation, but that they were
stark naked, and had not the least covering npon them;
but whether they were men or women, I conld not dis-
tinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two
guus upon my shonlders, and two pistols in my girdle,
and my great sword by my side, withont a scabhard,
and with all the speed I was able to make, went away
to the hill where i had discovered the first appearance
of all; and as soon as I got thither, which was not in
Jess than two honrs (for I conld not go apace, being so
loaded with arms as I was), I perceived there had been
three canoes more of the savages at that place; and
looking ont farther, I saw they were all at sea together,
making over for the main. This was a dreadful sight
to me, especially as, going down to the shore, I conld
see the marks of horror which the dismal work they
had been abont had left behind it, viz. the blood, Ihe
bones, and part of the flesh, of buman bodies, eaten
and devonred by those wretches with merriment and
sport. I was so filled with indiguation at the sight,
that I now began to premeditate the destruction of the
next that I saw there, let them be whom or how many
soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits which
they made tbus to this island were not very frequent,
for it was above fifteen months before any more of them
came on shore there again; that is to say, I neither saw
them, nor any footsteps or siguals of them, in all that
time; for, as to the rainy seasous, then they are sure not
to come abroad, at least not so far: yet all this while I
lived uncomfortably, by reason of the coustant appre-
heusious of their coming upon me by surprise; from
whence I observe, that the expectation of evil is more
bitter than the suffering, especially if there is no room
to shake off that expectation, or Ihoso appreheusious.
Daring all this time I was in the murdering bumonr,
and took up most of my honrs, which shonld have been
better employed, in contriving how to circumvent and
fall upon them, the very next time I shonld see them;
especially if they shonld be divided, as they were the
last time, into two parties: nor did I cousider at all,
that if I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen, I was
still the next day, or week, or month, to kill another,
and so another, even ad infnitum, till I shonld be at
length no less a murderer than they were in being man-
eaters, and perhaps much more so. I spent my days
now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind, expecting
that I should, one day or other, fall into the hands of
these merciless creatures; and if I did at any time ven-
ture abroad, it was not withont looking ronnd me with
the greatest care and cantion imaginable. And now I
fonnd, to my great comfort, how happy it was that 1 had
provided a tame flock or herd of goats; for I durst not
upon anv acconnt, fire my gun, especially near that side
of the island where they usually came, lest I shonld
alarm the savages; and if they had fled from me now,
I was sure to have them come again, with perhaps two
or three bundred canoes with them, in a few days, and
then I knew what to expect. However, I wore oat a
year and three months more before I ever saw any more
of the savages, and then I fonnd them again, as I shall
soon observe. It is true, they might have been there
once or twice, but either they made no staj', or at least
I did not see them: but in the month of May, as near as
I conld calculate, and in my lonr and twentieth year, I
bad a very strange enconnter with them; of which in
its place.
The perturhation of my mind, during this fifteen or
sixteen months' interval, was very great; I slept un-
quiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often
started ont of my sleep in the night: in the day great
tronbles overwhelmed my mind; and in the uight I
dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the reasous
why I might justify the doing of it. But, to wave all
this for a while.—It was in the middle of May, on Hie
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden
calendar wonld reckon, for I marked ail upon the post
still, I say, it was on the sixteenth of May that it blew
a very great storm of wind all day, with a great deal of
lightning and tbunder, and a very fonl uight it was after
it. I knew not what was the particular occasion of it,
but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with
very serions thonghts abont my present condition, I
was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thonght,
fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise quite of a
diflerent nature from any I had met with before; for
the notious this put into my thonghts were quite of
another kind. I started up in the greatest haste ima-
ginable, and, in a trice, clapped my ladder to the mid-
dle place of the rock, and pulled it after me; and
monnting it the second time, got to the top of the hill
the very moment that a flash of fire hid me listen for a
second gun, which accordingly, in abont half a minute,
I heard; and, by the sonnd, knew that it was from that
part of the sea where I was driven down tue current in
mv boat. I immediately cousidered that this mast be
aome ship in distress, and that they had some comrade,
or some other ship in company, and fired these for sig-
nals of distress, and to obtain help. I had ihe presence
of mind, at that minute, to think, that thongh I conld
not help them, it might be they might help me: sol
bronght together all the dry wood I conld get at hand,
and making a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon
the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely; and
thongh the wind blew verv hard, yet it burned fairly ont,
so that I was certain, if there was any such thing as a
ship, they must needs see it, and no donbt they did;
for as soon as ever my fire blazed up I heard another
Him, and after that several others, all from the same
quarter. I plied my fire all night long, till daybreak;
and when it was broad day, and the air cleared up, I
saw something at a great distance at sea, full east of the
island, whether a sail or a bull I conld not distinguish,
DO, not with my glass; tho distance was so great, and
the weather still something hazy also; at least it was so
ont at sea.
I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon per-
ceived that it did not move; so I presently concluded
that it was a ship at anchor; and being eager, yon may
be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and
ran towards the sonth side of the island, to the rocks
where I had formerly been carried away with the cur-
rent; and getting up there, the weather by this time
being perfectly clear, I conld plainly see, to my great
sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in the night upon
those concealed rocks which I fonnd when I was ontin
mv boat; and which rocks, as they checked the vio-
lence ol the stream, and made a kind of connter-stream,
or eddy, were the occasion of my recovering from ihe
most desperate, hopeless condition that ever I had been
ia, in all my life. Tbus, what is one man's safety is ano-
ther man's destruction; for it seems these men, whoever
they were, being ont of their knowledge, and the rocks
being wholly under water, had been driven upon them
in the night, the wind blowing hard at E.N.E. Had
they seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose they
did not, they must, as I thonght, have endeavonred to
have saved themselves on shore by the help of their
boat; but their firing off guus for help, especially when
they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many
thonghts: first, I imagined that upon seeing my light,
they might have put themselves into their boat, and
endeavonred to make the shore; but that the sea going
very high, they might have been cast away: other
times I imagined that they might have lost their boat
before, as might be the case many ways; as, particu-
larly, by the breaking of the sea upon their ship, which
many times obliged men to stave, or take in pieces,
their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard with
their own hands: other times I imagined they had some
other ship or ships in company, who, upon the siguals
of distress Ihey had made, had taken them up and car-
ried them off: other times I fancied they were all gone
off to sea in their boat, and being burried away by the
current that I had been formerly in, were carried ont
into the great oeean, where there was nothing but
misery and perishing; and that, perhaps, they might by
this time think of starving, and of being in a condition
to eat one another.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the
condition I was in, I conld do no more than look on
upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them; which
had still this good effect on my side, that it gave me
more and more canse to give thanks to God, who had so
happily and comfortably provided for me in my deso-
late condition; and that of two ships' companies, who
were now cast away upon this part of the world, not
one life should be spared but mine. I learned here
again to observe, that it is very rare that the providence
of God casts us into any condition of life so low, or any
misery so great, but we may see something or other to
be thankful for, and may see others in worse circum-
stances than onr own. Such certainly was the case of
these men, of whom I conld not so much as see room
to suppose any of them were saved; nothing conld
make it rational so much as to wish or expect that they
did not all perish there, except the possihility only of
their being taken up by another ship in company; and
this was but mere possihility indeed, for I saw not the
least sigu or appearance of any such thing. ( cannot
explain, by any possible energy of words, what a strange
longing or hankering of desires I felt in my sonl upon
this sight, breaking ont sometimes tbus: "Othat there
had been but one or two, nay' or but one RODl, saved
ont of this ship, to have escaped to me, that I might but
have had one companion, one fellow-orealure to have
spoken to me, and to have conversed with!" In all the
time of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong
a desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, or so
deep a regret at the want of it.
There are some secret moving springs in the affec-
tious, which, when they are set agomg by somo object
in view, or, thongh not in view, yet rendered present
to the mind by the power of imagination, that motion •*
carries ontthe sonl, by its impetuosity, to such violent,
eager embracings of the object, that the absence of it is
iusupportable. Such were these earnest wishings that
bat one man had been saved. I believe I repeated tho
words, "O that it had been but one!'' a thonsand
times; and mv desires were so moved by it, ihat when
I spoke the words my hands wonld clinch together,
and my fingers wonld press the palms of my hands, so
that if I had had any soft thing in my hand, it would
have crushed it involuntarily; and the teeth in mv head
wonld strike together, and set agaiust one another so
strong, that for some time I conld not part them again.
Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason
and manner of them: all I can say to them is, to de-
scribe the fact, which was even surprising to mp, when
I fonnd it, thongh I knew not from whence it proceed-
ed: it was donbtless the eflect of ardent wishes, and of
strong ideas formed in mv mind, realizing the comfort
which the conversation of one of my fellow-christiann
wonld have been to me.—But it was not to be; either
their fate or mine, or both, forbade it: for, till the last
vear of my being on this island, I never knew whether
any were saved ont of that ship or no; and had only
the aflliction, some days after, to see the corpse of a
VOL. i. N
LIFE AND ADVENTURES

drowned boy come on shore at the end of Hie island
which was next the shipwreck. He had no clothes on
but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen
drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct
me so much as to guess what nation he was of; he had
nothing in his pockets but two pieces-of-eight and a
tobacco-pipe;—the last was to me of ten times more
value than the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
nut in my boat to this wreck, not donbting but I might
fmd something on board that might be useful to me:
but that did not altogether press me so much as the pos-
sihility that there might be yet some living creature on
board, whose life I might not only save, but might, by
saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree;
and this thonght clung so to my heart that I conld not
be quiet night or day,but I must venture ont in my
boat on board this wreck; and committing the rest to
God's providence; I thonght the impression was so
strong upon my mind that it conld not be resisted, that
it must come from some invisible direction, and that I
should be wanting to myself if I did not go.
Under the power of this impression, I hastened
hack to my castle, prepared every thing for my voyage,
took a quantity of bread, a great pot of fresh water, a
compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a
great deal of that left), and a hasket of raisius: and
tbus, loading myself with every thing necessary, I went
down to my boat, got the water ont of her, put her
afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then wcut home
again for more. My second cargo was a great bag of
rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for a shade,
another large pot of fresh water, and abont two dozen
of small loaves, or harley-cakes, more than before,
with a bottle of goat's milk and a cheese: all which,
with great labonr and sweat, I carried to my boat; and
praying to God to direct my voyage, I put oat; ami
rowing, or paddling, the canoe along the shore, came at
last to the utmost point of the island on the north-east
side. And now I was to lannch ont into the ocean, and
either to venture or not to venture. I looked on the
rapid currents which ran coustantly on both sides of the
island at a distance, and which were very terrible to
me, from the remembrance of the hazard I had been in
before, and my heart began to fail me; for I foresaw
that if I was driven into either of those currents, I
shonld be carried a great way ont to sea, and perhaps
ont of my reach, or sight of the island again; and that
then, as my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind
shonld rise, I should be inevitably lost.
These thonghts so oppressed my mind, that I began
to give over my enterprise; and havmg hanled my
boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped ont, and
set me down upon a rising hit of gronnd, very peusive
and anxions, between fear and desire, abont my voyage;
when, as I was musing, I conld perceive that the tide
was turned, and the flood come on; upon which my
going was impracticable for so many honrs. Upon
this, presently it occurred to me, that I shonld go up to
the highest piece of gronnd I could find, and observe,
if I conld how the sets of the tide, or currents, lay
when the flood came in, that I might jndge whether, if
I was driven one way ont, I might not expect to be
driven another way home, with the same rapidness of
the currents. This thonght was no sooner in my head
than I cast my eye upon a little hill, which sufficiently
overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I had
a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and
which way I was to guide myself in my return. Here
I fonnd, that as the current of ebb set ont close by the
sonth point of the island, so the current of the flood set
in close by the shore of the north side; and that [ had
nothing to do but to keep to the north side of the island
in my return, and I shonld do well enongh.
Enconraged with this observation, I resolved, the
next morning, to set ont with the first of the tide; and
reposing myself for the night in my canoe, under the
great watch-coat I mentioned, I lannched ont. I first
made a little ont to sea, full north, till I began to feel
the benefit of the current, which set eastward, and
which carried me at a great rate; and yet did not so
burry me as the current on the sonth side had done be-
fore, so as to take from me all government of the boat;
but having a strong steerage with my paddle, I went at
a great rate directly for the wreck, and in less than two
honrs I came up to it. It was a dismal sight to look at:
the ship, which, by its building, was Spanish, stack
fast, jammed in between two rocks; all the stern and
quarter of her were beaten to pieces by the sea; and as
her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on
with great violence, her mainmast and foremast were
brought by the board, that is to say, broken short off;
but her bowsprit was sonnd, and the head and bow ap-
peared firm. When I came close to her, a dog ap-
peared upon her, who, seeing me coming, yelped and
cried; and as soon as I called him, jumped into the sea
to come to me; I took him into the boat, but fonnd
him almost dead with bunger and thirst. I gave him
a cake of mv bread, and he devonred it like a ravenons
wolf that had been starving a fortnight in the suow: I
then gave the poor creature some fresh water, with
which, if I wonld have let him, he wonld have burst
himself. After this, I went on board; but the first
sight I met with was two men drowned in the cook-
room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast
about one another. I conclnded, as is indeed prohable,
that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea
broke so high, and so continually over her, that the
men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with
the coustant rushing in of the water, as much as if they
had been under water. Besides the dog, there was QO-
thing left in tbe ship that had life; nor any goods, that
1 conld see, but what were spoiled by the water. There
were some casks of iiquor, whether wine or brandy I
knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and which, the
water being ebbed oat, I conld see; but they were too
hig to meddle with. I saw several chests, which I be-
lieved belonged to some of the seamen; and I got two
of them into the boat, withont examining what was in
them. Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the
forepart broken off, I am persuaded I might have made
a good voyage; for, by what I found in these two
chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a great deal
of wealth on board; and, if I may guess from the conrse
she steered, she must have been bonnd from Buenos
Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the sonth part of Ame-
rica, beyond the Brazils, to the Havannah, in the Gnlf
of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no
donbt, a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that
time, to any body; and what became of her crew, I
then knew not.
I fonnd, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallous, which I got into my
boat with much difficulty. There were several muskets
in the cahin, and a great powder-horn, with abont fonr
pounds of powder in it; as for the muskets, I had no
occasion for them, so I left them, but took the powder-
horn, i took a fireshovel and tongs, which I wanted
extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a copper put
to make chocolate, and a gridiron: and with this cargo,
and the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make
home again; and the same evening, abont an honr
within night, i reached the island again, weary and
fatigued to the last degree. I reposed that night in the
boat; and in the morning I resolved to harbonr what I
had got in my new cave, and not carrv it home to my
castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on
shore, and began to examine the particulars. The cask
of liquor I fonnd to be a kind of rum, but not such as
we had at the Brazils, and, in a word, not at all good;
but when I came to open the chests, I fonnd several
things of great use to me: for example, I fonnd in one
4 fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kmd, and
filled with cordial waters, fine and very good; the bot-
tles held abont three pints each, and were tipped with
silver. I fonnd two pots of very good succades, or
sweatmeats, so fastened also on the top that the salt
water had not burt them; and two more of the same,
which the water had spoiled. I fonnd some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me; and abont a
dozen ami a half of white linen handkerchiefs and
colonred neckcloths; the former were also very wel-
come, being exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a
hot day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the
chest, I fonnd there three great hags of pieces-of-eight,
which held abont eleven bundred pieces in all ; and in
one of them, wrapped up in a paper, six donbloous of
gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold; I suppose
they might all weigh near a ponnd. In the other chest
were some clothes, but of little valne; but, by the circum-
stances, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate;
thongh there was no powder in it, exeept two ponnds
of fine glazed powder, in three small flasks, kept, I
suppose, for charging their fowling pieces on occasion.
Upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage that
was of any use to me; for, as to the money, I had no
manner of occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt
under my feet; and I wonld have given it all for three
or fonr pair of English shoes and stockings, which were
things I greatly wanted, but had none on my feet for
many years. I had indeed got two pair of shoes now,
which I took offthe feet of the two drowned men whom
I saw in the wreck, and I fonnd two pair more in one
of the chests, which were very welcome to me; bot
they were not like onr English shoes, either for ease or
service, being rather what we call pumps than shoes.
I fonnd in this seaman's chest abont fifty nieces-of-eight
in rials, but no gold: I suppose this belonged to a
poorer man than the other, which seemed to belong to
some officer. Well, however, I lugged this money
home to my cave, and laid it up, as I had done that be-
fore which I bronght from onr own ship; but it was a
great pity, as I said, that the other part of this ship had
not come to my share; for I am satisfied I might have
loaded my canoe several times over with money; and
thonght I, if I ever escape to England, it might lie here
safe enongh till I may come again and fetch it.
Having now bronght all my things on shore, and se-
cured them, I went hack to my boat, and rowed or pad-
dled her along the shore to her old harbour, where I laid
her up, and made the best of my way to my old hahita-
tion, where I fonnd every thing safe and quiet. I began
now to repose myself, live after my old fashion, and
take care of my family affairs; and for a while I lived
easy enongh, only that i was more vigilant than I used
to be, looked ont oftener, and did not go abroad so
much; and if at any time I did stir with any freedom,
it was always to the east part of the island, where I was
Fretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where
could go withont so many precantious, and such a load
of arms and ammunition as i always carried with me if
I went the other way. I lived in this condition near
two years more; but my unlucky head, that was al ways
to let me know it was born to make my body miserable,
was all these two years filled with projects and desigus,
how, if it were possible, I might get away from this
island: for, sometimes I was for making another voyage
to the wreck, thongh my reason told me that there was
nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage;
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another;
and I believe verily, if I had had the boat that I went
from Sallee in, I shonld have ventured to sea, bonnd
any where, I knew not whither, I have been, in all
my circumstances, a memento to those who are tonched
with the general plague of mankind, whence, for anght
I know, one half of their miseries flow; I mean that of
not being satisfied with the station wherein God and
nature hath placed them: for, not to look hack upon
my primitive condition, and the excellent advice of my
father, the opposition to which was, as I may call it, my
original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the same kind
had been the meaus ot my coming into this miserable
condition; for had that Providence, which so happily
seated me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me with
conu'ned desires, and I conld have been contented to
have gone on gradually, I might have been by this time,
I mean in the time of my being in this island, one of the
most cousiderable planters in the Brazils; nay, I am
persuaded, that by the improvements I had made in
that little time I lived there, and the increase I shonld
prohably have made if I had remained, I might have
been worth a bundred thonsand moidores: and what
business had I to leave a settled fortune, a well stocked
plantation, improving and increasing, to turn super-
cargo to Guinea to fetch negroes, when patience and
time wonld have so increased onr stock at home, that
we conld have bonght them at onr own door from those
whose business it was to fetch them P and thongh it had
cost us something more, yet the difference of that price
was by no meaus worth saving at so great a hazard.
JBut as this is usually the fate of yonng heads, so re-
flection upon the folly of it is as commonly the exercise
of more years, or of the dear-bonght experience of
time: so it was with me now; and yet so deep had the
mistake taken root in my temper, that I conld not sa-
tisfy myself in my| station, but was continually poring
upon the meaus and possihility of my escape from this
place: and that I may, with the greater pleasure to the
reader, bring on the remaining part of my story, it may
not be improper to give some acconnt of my first con-
ceptious on the subject of this foolish scheme for my
escape, and how, and upon what fonndation I acted.
I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after
my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and se-
cured under water, as usual, and my condition restored
to what it was before; I had more wealth, indeed, than
I had before, but was not at all the richer; for I had no
more use for it than the Indiaus of Peru had before the
Spaniards came there.
It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March,
the fonr and twentieth year of my first setting foot in
this island of solitnde, I was lying in my bed or ham-
mock, awake; very well in health, had no pain, DO dis-
temper, no uneasiness of body, nor any uneasiness of
mind, more than ordinary, but could by no meaus close
my eyes, that is, so as to sleep; no, not a wink all night
long, otherwise than as follows:—It is impossible to
set down the innumerable crowd of thonghts that whirl-
ed throngh that great thoronghfare of the brain, the
memory, in this night's time: I ran over the whole his-
tory of my life, in miniature, or by abridgment, as I
may call it, to my coming to this island, and also of that
part of my life since I came to this island. In my re-
flectious upon the state of my case since I came on
shore on this island, I was comparing the happy pos-
ture of my aflairs in the first years of my hahitation
here, compared to the life of anxiety, fear, and care,
which I had lived in ever since I had seen the print of
a foot in the sand; not that I did not believe the sa-
vages had frequented the island even all the while, and
might have been several bundreds of them at times on
shore there; but I had never known it, and was inca-
pable of any appreheusious abont it; my satisfaction
was perfect, thongh my danger was the same, and I was
as happy in not knowing my danger as if I had never
really been exposed to it. This furnished my thonghts
with many very profitable reflectious, and particularly
this one: How infinitely good that Providence is, which
has provided, in its government of mankind, such nar-
row bonnds to his sight and knowledge of things ; and
thongh he walks in the midst of so many thonsand dan-
gers, the sight of which, if discovered to him, wonld
distract his mind and sink his spirits, he is kept serene
and calm, by having the events of things hid from his
eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers which sur-
ronnd him.
After these thonghts had for some time entertained
IDC, I came to reflect serionsly upon the real danger I had
been in for so many \ ears in this very island, and how
I had walked abont In the greatest security, and with
all possible tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing
but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual ap-
proach of night, had been between me and the worst
kind of destruction, viz. that of falling into the hands
of cannihals and savages, who wonld have seized on me
with the same view as I wonld on a goat or a turtle,
and have thonght it no more a crime to kill and devonr
me, than I did of a pigeon or a curlew. I wonld un-
justly slander myself, if I shonld say I was not sincerely
tfaankful to my great Preserver, to whose smgular
protection I acknowledged, with great bumility, all
these unknown deliverances were doe, and witbont
which I mast inevitably have fallen into their merciless
hands.
When these thonghts were over, my head was for
some time taken up in cousidering the nature of these
wretched creatures, I mean the savages, and how it
came to pass in the world, that the wise Governor of
all things shonld give up any of his creatures to such
inbumanity, nay, to something so much below even
brutality itself, as to devonr its own kind: but as this
ended in some (at that time) fruitless speculatious, it
occurred to me to inquire, what part of the world
these wretches lived in? how far off the coast was
from whence they came? what they ventured over so
far from home for? what kind of boats they had? and
why I might not order myself and my business so, that
I might be as able to go over thither, as they were to
come to me?
I never so much as tronbled myself to cousider what
I shonld do with myself when I went thither; what
wonld become of me if I fell into the hands of the
savages; or how I shonld escape them if they attacked
me; no, nor so much as how it was possible for me to
reach the coast, and not be attacked by some or other
of them, withont any possihility of delivering myself;
and if I shonld not fall into their hands, what I shonld
do for provision, or whither I shonld bend my conrse:
none of these thonghts, I say, so much as came in my
way; but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of
my passing over in my boat to the main land. I looked
upon my present condition as the most miserable that
conld possibly be; that I was not able to throw myself
into anything but death, that conld be called worse;
and if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps
meet with relief, or I might coast along, as I did on the
African shore, till I came to some inhahited conntry,
and where I might find some relief; and after all, per-
haps I might fall in with some Christian ship that might
take me in; and if the worst came to the worst, I conld
but die, which wonld pnt an end to all these miseries
at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed
wmd, an impaticut temper, made desperate as it wore,
by the long continuance of my tronbles, and the disap-
pointments 1 had met in the wreck I had been on board
of, and where I had been so near obtaining what I so
earnestly longed for, viz. somebody to speak to, and to
learn some knowledge from them of the place where I
was, and of the prohable meaus of my deliverance.
I was agitated wholly by these thonghts; all my calm
of mind, in my resiguation to Providence, and waiting
the issue of the dispositious of Heaven, seemed to be
suspended; and I had, as it were, no power' to turn
my thonghts to anything but to the project of a voyage
to the main, which came upon me with such force,
and such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to be
resisted.
When this had agitated my thonghts for two hours
or more, with such violence that it set my very blood
into a ferment, and mv pulse beat as if I had been in a
fever, merely with the extraordinary fervonr of my
mind abont it, nature, as if I had been fatigued and
exhansted with the very thonghts of it, threw me into
a sonnd sleep. One wonld have thonght I shonld have
dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of any thing relating
to it: but I dreamed that as I was going ont in the
morning as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore
two canoes and eleven savages, coming to land, and
that they bronght with them another savage, whom
they were going to kill, in order to eat him; when, on
a sndden, the savage that they were going to kill
jumped away, and ran for his life; and I thonght, in
my sleep, that he came running into my little thick
grove before my fortification, to hide himself; and that
I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the others
songht him that way, showed myself to him, and smil-
ing upon him, enconraged him: that he kneeled down
to me, seeming to pray me to assist him; upon which
I showed him my ladder, made him go up, and carried
him into my cave, and be became my servant: and that
as soon as I had got this man, I said to myself, " Now
I may certainly venture to the main land, for this fellow
will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do,
and whither to go for provisious, and whither not to go
for fear of being devonred; what places to venture into
and what to slum." I waked with this thonght; and
was under such inexpressible impressious of joy at the
prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disappoint-
ments which I felt upon coming to myself, and finding
that it was no more than a dream, were equally extra-
vagant the other way, and threw me into a very great
dejection of spirits.
Upon this, however, I made this conclusion; that
my only way to go abont to attempt an escape was, if
possible, to get a savage into my possession; and, if
possible, it shonld be one of their prisoners whom they
had condemned to be eaten, and should bring hither to
kill. But these thonghts still were attended with this
difficulty, that it was impossible to effect this withont
attacking a whole caravan of them, and killing them
all ; and this was not only a very desperate attempt,
and might miscarry; f.ui, on the other hand, I had
greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to myself; and mv
heart trembled at the thonghts of shedding so much
blood, thongh it was for my deliverance. I need not
repeat the arguments which occurred to me agaiust
this, they being the same mentioned before: bat thongh
I had other reasous to ofter now, viz. that those men
were enemies to my life, and wonld devonr me if they
conld; that it was self-preservation, in the highest de-
gree, to deliver myself from this death of a life, and
was acting in my own defence as much as if they were
actually assanlting me, and the like; I say, thongh
these things argued for it, yet the thonghts of shedding
buman blood for my deliverance were very terrible to
me, and such as I conld by no meaus reconcile myself
to for a great while. However, at last, after manv
secret disputes with myself, and after great perplexities
abont it (for all these arguments, one way and another,
struggled in my head a long time), the eager prevail-
ing desire of deliverance at length mastered all the
rest; and I resolved, if possible, to get one of those
aavages into my hands, cost what it wonld. My next
thing was to contrive how to do it, and this indeed was
very difficult to resolve on: but as I conld pitch upon
no prohable meaus for it, so I resolved to put myself
wpon the watch, to see them when they came oo shore,
and leave the rest to the event; taking such measures
as the opportunity shonld present, let what wonld be.
With these resolutious in my thonghts, I set myself
upon the scont as often as possible, and indeed so often,
that I was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year
and a half that I waited; and for great part of that
time went ont to the west end, and to the sonth west
corner of the island almost every day, to look for
canoes, but none appeared. This was very disconrag-
mg-, and began to tronble me much, thongh I cannot say
that it did in this case (as it had done some time before)
wear off the edge of my desire to the thing; hat the longer
it seemed to be delayed, the more eager T was for it:
in a word, I was not at first so careful to sbun the sight
of these savages, and avoid being seen by them, as I
was now eager to be upon them. Besides, I fancied
myself able to manage one, nay, two or three savages,
if [ had them, so as to make them entirely slates tome,
to do whatever f shonld direct them, and to prevent
their being able at any time to do me any hurt. It was
a great while tliat I pleased myself with this affair;
but nothing still presented; all my fancies and schemes
came to nothing, for no savages came near me for a
great while.
Abont a year and a half after I entertained these
notious (and by lung musing had, as it were, resolved
them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to pnt
them into execution), I was surprised one morning
early, with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore
together on my side the island, and the people who be-
longed to them all landed, and ont of my sight. The
number of them broke all my measures; for seeing so
many, and knowing that they always came fonr or six,
or sometimes more ia a boat, I conld not tell what to
think of ii, or bow to take my measures, to attack
twenty or thirty men single handed; so lay still in my
castle, perplexed and discomforted: However, I put
myself mto all the same postures for an attack that I
bad formerly provided, and was just ready for action,
if any thing bad presented. Having waited a good
while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at
length, being very impatient, I set my guus at the foot
of my ladder, and clambered up to the top of the hill,
by my two stages, as usual; standing so, however, that
my head did not appear above the hill, so that they
conld not perceive me by any meaus. Here I observed,
by the help of my perspective glass, that they were no
less than thirty in number; that they had a fire kindled,
and that they had meat dressed. How they had cook-
ed it I knew not, or what it was; but they were all
dancing, in I know not how many harharons gestures
and figures, their own way, ronnd the fire.
While I was tbus looking on them, I perceived, by
my perspective, two miserable wretches dragged from
the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and were
now bronght ont for the slanghter. I perceived one of
them immediately fall, being knocked down I suppose
with a club or wooden sword, for that was their way,
and two or three others were at work immediately,
cutting him open for their cookery, while the other
victim was left standing by himself, till they shonld be
ready for him. In that very moment, this poor wretch
seeing himself a little at liberty, and unbonnd, nature
iuspired him with hopes of life, and he started away
from them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the
sands, directly towards me; I mean, towards that part
of the coast where my hahitation was. I was dread-
fully frightened, I must acknowledge, when I perceived
him run my way, and especially when, as I thonght, I
saw him pursued by the whole body: and now I ex-
pected that part of my dream was coming to pass, and
that he wonld certainly take shelter in my grove: but I
conld not depend, by any meaus, upon my dream for
the rest of it, viz. that the other savages wonld not pur-
sue him thither, and find him there. However, I kept
my station, and my spirits began to recover when I
fonnd that there was not above three men that followed
him; and still more was I enconraged when I fonnd
that he ontstripped them exceedingly in running, and
gained gronnd of them; so that if he conld but hold it
for half an honr, I saw easily he wonld fairly get away
from them all.
There was between them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned often in the first part of my story,
where I landed my cargoes ont of the ship; and this I
saw plainly he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wretch wonld be taken there: hat when the savage
escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, thongh the
tide was then up; but plunging in, swam throngh in
abont thirty strokes, or thereabonts, landed, and ran
on with exceeding strength and swiftness. When the
three persous came to the creek, I found that two of
them conld swim, but the third conld not, and that
standing on the other side, he looked at the others, but
went no farther, and soon after wept softly hack again;
which, as it happened, was very well for him in the
end. I observed that the two who swam were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek, as the fel-
low was that fled from them. It came now very warmly
upon my thonghts, and indeed irresistibly, that now
was the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a com-
panion or assistant, and that I was plainly called by
Providence to save this poor creature's life. I imme-
diately ran down the ladders with all possible expedi-
tion, fetched my two guus, for they were both at the
foot of the ladders, as I observed before, and getting
up again with the same haste to the top of the hill, I
crossed towards the sea, and having a very short cut,
and all down hill, placed myself in the way between the
pursuers and the pursued, hallooing alond to him that
[led, who, looking hack, was at first perhaps as much
frightened at me as at them; but I beckoned with mv
hand to him to come hack; and in the mean time I
slowly advanced towards the two that followed; then
rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him
dowa with the stock of my piece. I was loath to fire,
becanse I wonld not have the rest hear; thongh, at
that distance, it wonld not have been easily heard, and
being ont of sight of the smoke too, they wonld not
have easily known what to make of it. Having knock-
ed this fellow down, the other who pursued him stop-
ped, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced apace
towards him: but as I came nearer, I perceived pre-
sently he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to
shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to shoot at him
first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The
P
5.
poor savage who fled, but had stopped, thongh he saw
'•"ih his enemies fallen and killed, as he thonght, yet
was so frightened with the fire and noise of my piece,
that ho stood stock still, and neither came forward nor
went hackward, thongh he seemed rather inclined still
to fly than to come on. I hallooed again to him, and
made sigus to come forward, which he easily under-
stood, and came a little way; then stopped again, and
then a little farther, and stopped again; and I conld
then perceive fhat he stood trembling, as if he had been
taken prisoner, and had just been to be killed, as tiis
two enemies were. I beckoned to him again to come
to me, and gave him all the sigus of enconragement
that I conld think of; and he came nearer and nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of
acknowledgment for saving his life. I smiled at him,
and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come
still nearer: at length he came close to me; and then
he kneeled down again, kissed the gronnd, and laid his
head upon the gronnd, and taking me by the foot, set
my foot upon his head; this it seems was in token of
swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and
made much of him, and enconraged him all I conld.
•But there was more work to do yet; for I perceived
the savage whom I knocked down was not killed, but
stunned with the blow, and began to come to himself:
M) I pointed to him, and showed him the savage, that
he was not dead ; upon this ho spoke some words to
m;.-, and thongh I conld not understand them, yet I
thonght they were pleasant to hear; for they were the
first sonnd of a man's voice that I had heard, my own
excepted, for above twenty-five years. But there was
no time for such reflectious now; the savage who was
knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up
upon the gronnd, and I perceived that my savage began
to be afraid; hut when I saw that, I presented my other
piece at the man, as if I wonld shoot him: upon this
my savage, for so I call him now, made a motion to me
to lend him my sword, which bung naked in a belt by
my side, which I did. He no sooner had it, but he
ruus to his enemy, and, at one- blow, cut off his head
so cleverly, no executioner in Germany conld have
done it sooner or better; which I thonght very strange
for one who, I had reason to believe, never saw a sword
in his life before, except their own wooden swords:
howevcr, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make
their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood
is so hard, that they will even cut off heads with them,
ay, and arms, and that at one blow too. When he had
done this, he comes langhing to me in sign of trinmph,
and brought me the sword again, and with abundance
of .gestures which I did Dot understand, laid it down,
with the head of the savage that he had killed, just
before me. But that which astonished him most, was
to know how I killed the other Indian so far off: so
Eointing to him, he made sigus to me to let him go to
iin; so I bade him go, as well as I conld. When he
came to him, be stood like one amazed, looking at him,
turning him first on one side, then on the other, looked
at the wonnd the bullet had made, which, it seems was
just in his breast, where it had made a hole, and no
great quantity of blood had followed; but he had bled
inwardly, for he was quite dead. He took up his how
and arrows, and came hack; so I turned to go away,
and beckoned him to follow me, making sigus to him
that more might come after them. Upon this, he made
sigus to me that he shonld bury them with sand, th.it
they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed ; and
so I made sigus to him again to do so. He I' I! to work;
and in an iustant he had scraped a hole in the sand with
bis hands, hig enongh to bury the first in, and then
dragged him into it, and covered him; and did so by
the other also: I believe he had buried them both in a
quarter of an honr. Then calling him away, I carried
him, not to niy castle, but qaite away to my cave, on
the farther part of the island : so I did not let my dream
eometopass in that part, viz. that he came into my grove
for shelter. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of
raisius to eat, and a dranght of water, which I fonnd
he was indeed in great distress for, by his running; and
having refreshed him, I made sigus for him to go and
lie down to sleep, showing him a place where I had laid
some rice straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to
VOL. i. °
sleep upon myself sometimes; so the poor creature lay
down, and went to sleep.
He WHS a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight strong limbs, not too large, tall and
well shaped; and, as I reckon, abont twenty-six years
of age. He had a very pood conntenance, not a fierce
and surly aspect, but seemed to have something very
manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness and
softness of an European in his conntenance too, espe-
cially when he smiled. His hair was long and black,
not curled liLc wool: his forehead very high and large;
and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes.
The colonr of his skin was not quite black, but very
tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow, nanseons tawny,
as the Braziliaus and Virginiaus, and other natives of
America are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive colonr,
that had in it something very agreeable, though not
very easy to describe. His face was ronnd and plump;
his nose small, not tlat like the Negroes; a very good
month, thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and as
white as ivory.
After be had slumbered, rather than slept, abont
half an honr, he awoke again, and came ont of the cave
to me, for I had been milking my goats, which I had in
the enclosure just by: when he espied me, he came
running to me, laying himself down Hgain upon the
ground, with all the possible sigus of an bumble thank-
fnl disposition, making a great many antic gestures to
show it. At last, be lays his head flat upon the gronnd,
close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his head,
as he had done before; and after this, made all the
sigus to me of subjection, servitnde, and submission,
imaginable, to let me know how he wonld serve me so
long as he lived. I understood him in many things,
and let him know I was very well pleased with him.
In a little time I began to speak to hmi, and teach him
t<> speak to me; and first I let him know liis name
should be FRIDAY, which was the day I saved his life:
1 called him so for the memory of the time. I like-
wise tanght him to say Master; and then let him know
that was to be my name: I likewise tanght him to sav
Yes and No, and to kuow the meaning of them. I gave
him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me
drink it before him! and sop my hread in it; and gave
him a cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly
complied with, and made sigus that it was very good
for him. I kept there with him all that night; but as
soon as it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me,
and let him know I wonld give him some clothes; at
which he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked.
As we went bv the place where he had buried the two
men, he pointed exactly to the place, and showed me
the marks that he hud made to find them again, makmg
sigus to me that we shonld dig them up again, and eat
them. At this I appeared very a»gry, expressed my
abhorrence of it, made as if I wonld vomit at the
thonghts of it, and beckoned with my hand to him to
come away; which he did immediately, with great sub-
mission, i then led him up to the tO|> of the hill, to see
it' his enemies were gone; and pulling ont my glass, I
looked, and saw plainly the place where they had been,
but no appearance of them or their canoes; so that it
was plain they were gone, and had left their two com-
rades behind them, withont any search after them.
tint I was not content with this discovery; but hav-
ing now more conrage, and cousequently more curi-
osity, I took my man Friday with me, giving him the
sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his
hack, which I found he conld use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for my-
self; and awav we marched to the place where these
creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get some
fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the place,
my very blood ran chill in my veius, and my heart sunk
Avithin me, at the horror of the spectacle; indeed, it
was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, thongh
Friday made nothing of it. The place was covered
with human bones, the gronnd dyeu with their blood,
and great pieces of flesh left here and there, half eaten,
mangled and scorched; and, in short, all the tokeus of
the trinmphant feast they had been making there, after
a victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five
hands, and the bones of three or fonr legs and feet, and
abundance of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by
his sigus, made me understand that they bronght over
fonr prisoners to feast upon; that three of them were
eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself, was the
fourth; that there had been a great hattle between
them and their next king, of whose subjects, it seems,
he had been one, and that they had taken a great nuw-
ber of prisoners; all which were carried to several
places by those who had taken them in the fight, in
order to feast upon them, as was done here by these
wretches upon those they bronght hither.
I cansed Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesb,
and whatever remained, and lay them together in a
heap, and make a great fire upon it, and burn them all
to ashes. I found Friday had still a hankering sto-
mach after some of the flesh, and was still a cannihal
in his nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at
the very thonghts of it, and at the least appearance of
it, that he durst not discover it: for I had, by some
meaus, let him know that I wonld kill him, if he of-
fered it.
When be had done this, we came hack to onr castle;
and there I fell to work for my man Friday; and first
of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had
ont of the poor gunner's chest I mentioned, which I
fonnd in the wreck; and which, with a little altera-
tion, titted him very well ; and then I made him a jer-
kin of goat's skin, as well as my skill wonld allow (for
I was now grown a tolerable good tailor); and I gave
him a cap which I made of hare's skin, very convenient,
and fashionable enongh: and tbus he was clothed for
the present tolerably well, and was mighty well pleased
to see himself almost as well clothed as his master. It
is true, he went awkwardly in these clothes at first;
wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and the
sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shonlders, and the
iuside of his arms; but a little easing them where he
complained they burt him, and using himself to them,
he took to them at length very well.
Tbe next day after I came home to my butch with
him, I began to cousider where I shonld lodge him;
and that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly
easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortificatious, in the iuside of the
tast, and in the ontside of the first. As there -was a
door or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal
framed door case, and a door to it of boards, and set it
up in the passage, a little within the entrance; and
causing the door to open in the iuside, I harred it up
in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that Friday
contd no way come at me in the iuside of my innermost
wall, withont making so mnch noise in getting over
that it must needs waken me; for my first wait had now
a complete roof over it of long poles, covering all my
tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill; which was
again laid across with smaller sticks, iustead of laths,
and then thatched over a great thickness with the rico
straw, which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or
place which was left to go in or oat by the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trapdoor, which, it* it had been at-
tempted on the ontside, would not have opened at all,
but wonld have fallen down and made a great noise:
as to weapous, I took them all into my side every night.
But I Deeded none of all this precantion; for never
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than
Friday was to me; withont passious, sullenness, or de-
sigus, perfectly obliged and engaged; his very affec-
tious were tied to me, like those of a child to a father;
and I dare say he wonld have sacrificed his life for the
saving mine, upon any occasion whatsoever: the many
testimonies he gave me of this put it ont of donbt, and
soon convinced me that I needed to use no precantious,
as to my safety on bis acconnt.
This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and
that with wonder, that however it had pleased God, in
his providence, ami in the government of the works of
his hands, to take from so great a part of the world of
bis creatures the best uses to which their faculties ami
the powers of their sonls are adapted, yet that he has
bestowed upon i hem the same powers, the same reason,
the same affectious, the same sentiments of kindness
and obligation, the same passious and resentments of
wrongs, the same seuse of gratitnde, sincerity, fidelity,
and all the capacities of doing good, and receiving
good, that he has given to us; and that when be pleases
to ofler them occasious of exerting these, they are as
readv, nay, more ready, to apply them to the right uses
for which they were bestowed, than we are. This made
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the
several occasious presented, how mean a use we make
of nil these, even thongh we have these powers enlight-
ened by the great lamp of iustruction, the Spirit of God,
and by the knowledge of his word added to onr under-
standing; and why it has pleased God to hide the like
saving knowledge from so many millious of sonls, who,
if I might jndge by this poor savage, wonld make a
much better use of it than we did. From hence, I
sometimes was led too far, to invade the sovereiguty of
Providence, and, as it were, arraigu the justiee of so
arhitrary a disposition of things, that shonld hide that
light from some, and reveal it to others, and yet expect
a like duty from both; but I sbut it up, and checked
my thonghts with this conclusion: first, That we did
not know by what light and law these shonld be con-
demned; but that as God was necessarily, and, by the
nature of his being, infinitely holy and just, so it conld
not he, but if these creatures were all sentenced to ab-
sence from himself, it was on acconnt of sinning agaiust
that light, which, as the Scripture sa^s, was a law to
themselves, and by such rules as their cousciences wonld
acknowledge to be just, thongh the fonndation was not
discovered to us; and secondly, That still, as we all
are the clay in the hand of the potter, no vessel conlU
say to him '' Why hastthon formed me tbus?"
But to return to my new companion:—I was greatly

delighted with him, and made it my business to teach
him every thing that was proper to make him useful,
handy, and helpful ; but especially to make him speak,
and understand me when I spoke: and he was the
aptest scholar that ever was; and particularly was so
merry, so coustantly diligent, and so pleased when he
conld but understand me, or make me understand him,
that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now
inv life began to be so easy that I began to. say to my-
self, that could I but have been safe from more savages,
I cared not if I was never to remove from the place
where I lived.
After I had been two Or three days returned to my
castle, I thonght that, in order to bring Friday off
from his horrid way of feeding, and from the relish of
a cannihal's stomach, I onght to let him taste other
flesh; so I took him ont with me one morning to the
woods. I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid ont of
my own flock, and bring it home and dress it; but as I
was going, I saw a she goat lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting by her. I catched hold of
Friday;—Hold, said I, stand still; and made sigus to
him not to stir: immediately I presented my piece,
shot, and killed one of the kids. The poor creature,
who had, at a distance, indeed, seen me kill the savage,
his enemy, but did not know, nor conld imagine how
it was done, was seusibly surprised, trembled and
shook, and looked so ama/.ed that I thonght he wonld
have sank down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or
perceive 1 had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat,
to feel whether he was not wonnded; and, as I found
presently, thought I was resolved to kill him: for he
came and kneeled down to me, and embracing my
knees, said a great many things I did not understand;
bot I coold easily see the meaning was, to pray me not
to kill him.
I soon fonnd a way to convince him that I wonld do
!iim no harm; and taking hnn up by the hand, langhed
at him, and pointing to the kid which I had killed,
beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he did:
and while he was wondering, and looking to see how
the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again. By
and by I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sitting upon a
tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand a little
what I wonld do, I called him to me again, pointed at
the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, thongh I thonght
it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and
to my gun, and to the gronnd under the parrot, to let
him see I wonld make it fall, I made him understand
that I wonld shoot and kill that hird ; accordingly, I
fired, and hade him look, and immediately he saw the
parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, not-
withstanding all I had said to him; and I fonnd ho was
the more amazed, becanse he did not see me put any-
thing into the gun, but thonght that there must be souic
wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing,
able to kill man, beast, hird, or anything near or far
off; and the astonishment this created in him was such
as conld not wear oft'for a longtime; and, I believe, if
I wonld have let him, he wonld have worshiped me
and mv gun. As for the gun itself, he wonld not so
much as touch it for several days after; but he wonld
speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had auswered hnn,
when he was by himself; which, as I afterwards learn-
ed of him, was to desire it not to kill him. Well, after
his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed tu
him to run and fetch the hird I had shot, which he did,
but staid some time; for the parrot, not being quite
dead, had fluttered away a good distance from the placu
where she fell: however, he fonnd her, took her up,
and bronght her to me; and as I had perceived bis ig-
norance abont the gun before, I took this advantage to
charge the gun again, and not to let him see me do it,
that I might be ready for any other mark that might
present; but nothing more offered at that time: so I
bronght home the kid, and the same evening I took the
skin off, and cut it ont as well as I conld; and having a.
pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the
flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed
very glad of it, and liked it very well ; but that which
was strangest to him was to see me eat salt with it. He
made a sigu to me that the salt was not good to eat;
and putting a little into his own month, he seemed to
nanseate it, and wonld spit and sputter at it, washing
Ijis month with fresh water after it; on the other hand,
%
I took some meat into my month withont salt, and I
pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as
he had done at the salt; but it wonld not do; he wonld
never care for salt with his meat or in his broth; at
least not for a great while, and then but a very little.
Having tbus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was resolved to feast him the next dny with roasting a
piece of the kid: this I did by hanging it before the
ire on a string, as I had seen many people do in Eng-
land, setting two poles up, one on each side of the fire,
and one across on the top, and tying the string to the
cross stick, letting the meat turn continually. This
Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste
the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well ha
liked it, that I conld not but understand him: and at
last be told me, as well as he conld, he wonld never
eat man's flesh any more, which I was very glad to
bear.
The next day, I set him to work to beating some
corn ont, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as
I observed before; and he soon understood how to do
it as well as I, especially after he had seen what the
meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of;
for after that I let him see me make myjbread, and hake
it too; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the
work for me, as well as I conld do it myself.
I began now to cousider, that having two months to
feed iustead of one, I must provide more gronnd for
my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn than I
used to do; so I marked ont a larger piece of land, and
began the fence in the same manner as before, in which
Friday worked not only very willingly and very hard,
but did it very cheerfully: and I told him what it was
for; that it was for corn to make more bread, becanse
he was now with me, and that I might have enongh for
him and myself too. He appeared very seusible of that
part, and let me know that he thonght I had much more
labonr upon me on his acconnt, than I had for myself;
and that he wonld work the harder for me, if I wonld
tell him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in
this place ; Friday began to talk pretty well, and under-
stand the names of almost every thing I had occasion
to call for, and of every place I had to send him to,
and talked a great deal to me; so that, in short, I be-
gan now to have some use fur my tongue again, which,
mdeed, I had very little occasion for before, that is to
say, about speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to
him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself:
his simple unfeigued honesty appeared to me more and
more every day, and I began really to love the crea-
ture; and, on his side, I believe he loved me more than
it was possible tor him ever to love anything before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering in-
clination to his own conntry again; and having tanght
him English so well that he conld auswer me almost
any question, I asked him whether the nation that he
belonged to never conquered in hattle? At which he
smiled, and said, " Yes, yes, we always fight the bet-
ter:" that is, he meant, always get the better io fight;
and so we began the following disconrse:
Master. Yon always fight the better; how came
yon to be taken prisoner then, Friday?
Friday. Mv nation beat much for all that.
Master. How beat? If yonr nation beat them, how
came yon to be taken?
Friday. They more many than my nation, in the
place where me was; they take one, two, three, and
me: my nation over-beat them m the yonder place,
where me no was; there my nation take one, two,
great thonsand.
Master. But why did not yonr side recover yon
from the hands of yonr enemies then?
Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe; my nation have n0 canoe that
time.
Master. Well, Friday, and what does yonr uation
do with the men they take? Do they carry them away
and eat them, as these did?
Friday. Yes, my nation eat maus too; eat all up.
Master. \V here do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place, wllere they think.
Master. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other
else place.
Master' Have yon been here with them?
Friday. Yes, I have been here (points to the N.W.
side of the island, which, it seems, was their side).
By this I understood that my man Friday had for-
merly been among the savages who u»ed i» come on
shore on the farther part of the island, on the same
man-eating occasious he was now bronght for; and,
some time af'ter, when I took the conrage to carry him
to that side, being the same I formerlv mentioned, be
presently knew the place, and told me he was there
once, whcu they eat up twenty men, two women, and
one child: be conld not tell twenty in English, but he
numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, and
pointing to me to tell them over.
I have told this passage, becanse it introduces what
follows; that after I had this discourse with him, I
asked him how far it was from onr island to the shore,
and whether the canoes were not often lost. He told
mo there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that
after a little way out tu sea, there WHS a current and
wind, always one way in the morning, the other in the
afteruooon. This I understood to be no more than tho
sets of the tide, as going out or coming in; but I after-
wards understood it was occasioned by the great draft
and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the month
or gulf of which river, as I fonnd afterwards, onr island
lay; and that this land which I perceived to the VV.
and N.W. was the great island Trinidad, on the north
point of the month of the river. I asked Friday a
thonsand questious abont the conntry, the inhabitants,
the sea, the coast, and what natious were near: he told
me all be knew, with the greatest openness imaginable.
I asked him the names of the several natious of his sort
of people, but conld get no other name than Caribs:
from whence I easily understood, that Ihece were the
Caribbees, which onr maps place on the part of Ame-
rica which reaches from the month of the river Oroo-
noko to Guiana, and ouwards to St. Martha. He told
me, that up a great way beyond the moon, Uiat was,
beyond the setting of the moon, which must he west
from their country, there dwelt white bearded men,
like me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which I
mentioned before; and that they had killed much maus,
that was his word: by all which I understood he meant
the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had been
spread over the whole conntry, and were remembered
by all the natious, from father to son.
I inquired if he conld tell me how I might go from
this island and get among those white men? he told me,
Yes, yes, yon may go in two canoe. I conld not under-
stand what he meant, or make him describe to me what
he meant by two canoe; till at last, with great difficulty,
I fonnd he meant it must be in a large boat, as hig as
two canoes. This part of Friday's disconrse began to
relish with me very well; and from this time I enter-
tained some hopes that, one time or other, I might
find an opportunity to make my escape from this
place, and that this poor savage might be a meaus to
help me.
During the long time that Friday had now been with
me, and that he began to speak to me and understand
me, I was not wanting to lay a fonndation of religions
knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked him one
time, Who made him? The poor creature did not un-
derstand me at all, but thonght I had asked him who
was his father: but I took it up by another handle, and
asked him who made the sea, the gronnd we walked on,
and the hills and woods! He told me, it was one old
Benamuckee, that lived beyond all ; he conld describe
nothing of this great person, but that he was very old,
much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the
moon or the stars. I asked him then, if this old person
had made all things, why did not all things worship
him? He looked very grave, and with a perfect look
of innocence said, Ail things say O to him. I asked
him if the people who die in his conntry went away any
where? He said, Yes; they all went to Benamuckec;
then I asked him whether lbese they eat up went thither
too? He said, Yes.
From these things I began to iustruct him in the
knowledge of the true God: I told him that tbe great
Maker of all things lived up there, pointing up towards
heaven; that he governed the world tu the same power
and providence by which he maile it, that he was om-
nipotent, and conld do every thing lor us, give every
tiiing to us, take every thing from us; and tbus, by
degrees, I opened his eves. He listened with great
attention, and received with pleasure the notion of
Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the man-
ner of making onr prayers to God, and his being able
to hear us, even in heaven. He told me ouc day, that
if onr God conld hi-ar us up beyond the sun, he must
needs be a greater God than their Bonamuckee, who
Iived but a little way off, and yet conld not hear till
they went up to the great monntaius where he dwelt
to speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither
to speak to him? He said, No; they never went that
were yonng men; none wcut thither but the old men,
whom he called their Oowokakce; that is, as I made
him explain it to me, their religions, or clergy; and
that they went to say O (so he called saying prayers),
and then came hack, and told them what Benamuckee
said. By this I observed, that there is priestcraft even
among the most blinded iguorant pagaus in the world;
and the policy of making a secret of religion, in order
to preserve the veneration of the people to the clergy,
is uot only to be fonnd in the Roman, but perhaps
among all religious in the world, even among the most
brutish and harharons savages.
I endeavonred to clear up this frand to my man
Friday; and told him, that the pretence of their old
men going up to the monntaius to say O to tiieir god
Benamuckee was a cheat; and their bringing word
from thence what he said was much more so; that if
they met with any auswer, or spake with any one there,
it must bo with an evil spirit: and then I entered into
a long disconrse with him abont the devil, the original
of him, his rebellion agaiust God, his enmity to man,
the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts
of the world to be worshiped iustead of God, and as
God, and the many stratagems he made use of to delnde
mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret access to
onr passious and io our aflectious, and to adapt his
suares to onr inclinatious, so as to canse us even to be
onr own tempters, and run upon onr destruction by onr
own choice.
I found it was not so easy to imprint right notious in
Ins mind abont the devil as it was abont the being of
a God: nature assisted all my arguments to evidence
to him even the necessity of a great First Cause, and
overruling, governing Power, a secret directing Pro-
vidence, and of the equity and justice of paying homage
to him that made us, and the like; but there appeared
nothing of this kind in the notion of an evil spirit; of
his original, his being, his nature, and, ahove all, of his
inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so loo:
and the poor creature puzzled me once in such a man-
ner, by a question merely natural and innocent, that I
scarce knew what to say to him. I had been talking a
great deal to him of the power of God, his omnipo-
tence, his aversion to sin, his being a cousuming fire to
the workers of iniquity; how, as he had made as all,
he could destroy us and all the world in a moment;
and he listened with great seriousuess to me all the
while. After this, I had been telling him bow the
devil was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used
Iill his malice and skill to defeat the good desigus of
Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the
world, and Ihe like. "Well," says Friday, " but yon
say God is so strong, so great; is he not nnich strong,
much might as the devil ?—" Yes, yes," says I, " Fri-
day, God is stronger than the devil: God is above the
devil, and therefore we pray to God to tread him down
under onr feet, and enable us to resist his temptatious,
and quench his fiery darts."—" But," says he again,
"if God much stronger, much might as the devil, why
God no kill the devil, so make him no more do wicked?"
I was strangely surprised at this question; and, after
all, thongh I was now an old man, yet I was but a
yonng doctor, and ill qualified for a casuist, or a solver
of difficulties; and at first I conld not tell what to say;
so I pretended not to hear him, and asked him what he
said; but he was too earnest for an auswer, to forget
his question, no that he repeated it in the very same
broken words as above. By this time I had recovered
myself a little, and I said, "God will at last punish
him severely; he is reserved for the jndgment, and is
to be cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with ever-
lasting fire." This did not satisfy Friday; but he re-
turus upon me, repeating my words, "Reserve at last!
me no understand: but why not kill the devil now; not
kill great ago?''—" Yon may as well ask me/' said I,
"why God does not kill yon and me, when we do
wicked things here that offend him: we are preserved
to repent and be pardoned.'' He mused some time on
this: "Well, well," says he, mighty affectionately,
4i that well: so yon, f, devil, all wicked, all preserve,
repent, God pardon all." Here I was run down again
by him to the last degree; and it was a testimony to
me, how the mere notious of nature, thongh they will
guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God,
and of a worship or homage due to the supreme being
of God, as the cousequence of our nature, yet nothing
but divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, and of redemption purchased for us, of a Me-
diator of the new covenant, and of an intercessor at the
footstool of God's throne; I say, nothing but a revela-
tion from Heaven can form these in the sonl ; and that
therefore, the gospel of onr Lord and Savionr Jesus
Christ, I mean the Word of God, and the Spirit of God,
promised for the guide and sanctifier of his people, are
the absolutely necessary iustructors of the sonls of men
i:i the saving knowledge of God, and the meaus of sal-
vation,
I therefore diverted the present disconrse between
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some snd-
den occasion of going ont; then sending him for some-
thing a good way oft', I serionsly prayed to God that he
wonld enable me to iustruct savingly this poor savage;
assisting, by his Spirit, the heart of the poor iguorant
creature to receive the light of the knowledge of God
in Christ, reconciling him to himself, and wonld guide
me to speak so to him from the Word of God, as his
couscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and
his sonl saved. When he came again to me, I entered
into a long disconrse with him upon the subject of the
redemption of man by tlie Savionr of the world, and of
the doctrine of the gospel preached from heaven, viz.
of repentance towards God, and I'tith in onr blessed
Lord Jesus. I then explained to him as well as I
conld, why onr blessed Redeemer took not on him the
nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham; and how,
for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the
redemption; that ho came only to the lost sheep of the
honse of Israel, and the like.
I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge
in all the methods I took for this poor creature's in-
struction, and must acknowledge, what I believe all
that act upon the same principle will find, that in lay-
ing things open to him, I really informed and iustruct-
ed myself in many things that either I did not know, or
had not fully considered before, but which occurred
naturally to my mind upon searching into them, for
the information of this poor savage; and I had more
aflection in my inquiry after things upon this occasion
than ever I felt before: so that, whether this poor wild
wretch was the bettor for me or no, I had great reason
to be thankful that ever he came to me; my grief sat
lighter upon me; my hahitation grew comfortable to
me beyond measure: and when I reflected that in this
solitary life which I had been confined to, I had not
only been moved to look up to heaven myself, and to
seek to the hand that had bronght me here, but was
now to be made an iustrument, under Providence, to
save the life, and, for anght I knew, the sonl of a poor
savage, and bring him to the true knowledge of reli-
gion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know
Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; I say, when I re-
flected upon all these things, a secret joy ran throngh
every pai I of my sonl, and I frequently rejoiced that
ever I was bronght to this place, which I had so often
thonght the most dreadful of all afflictious that conld
possibly have befallen me.
I continued in this thankful frame all the remainder
of my time; and the conversation which employed the
hours between Friday and me was such as made the
three years which we lived there together perfectly and
completely happy, if any such thing as complete hap-
piness can be formed in a sublunary state. This savage
was now a good Christian, a tonch better than I; thongh
I have reason to hope, and bless God for it, tlmt we
were equally penitent, and comforted, restored peni-
tents. We had here the word of God to read, and DO
farther oif from his Spirit to iustruct, than if we had
been in England. I always applied myself, in reading
the Scriptures, to let him know, as well as I conld, the
meaning of what I read; and he again, by his serions
inquiries and questionings, made me, as I said before,
a much better scholar in the Scripture knowledge than
I shonld ever have been by my own mere private read-
ing. Another thing I caunot refrain from observing
here also, from experience in this retired part of my
life, viz. how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is
that the knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of sal-
vation by Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the
Word of God, so easy to be received and understood,
that, as the bure reading the Scripture made me capa-
ble of understanding enongh of my duty to carry me
directly on to the great work of sincere repentance for
my MIL-, and laying bold of a Savionr for life and sal-
vation, to a stated reformation in practice, and obedience
to all God's commands, and this withont any teacher or
iustructor, I mean buman; so the same plain iustruc-
tion sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage
creature, and bringing him to be such a Christian as I
have known few equal to him in my life.
As to all the disputes, wrangling, strife, and conten-
tion which have happened in the world about religion,
whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes of cburch
government, they were all perfectly useless to us, and,
for anght I can yet see, they have been so tu the rest of
the world. We had the sure guide to heavea, viz. the
word of God; and we had, blessed be God, comfort-
able views of the Spirit of God teaching and iustructing
us by his word, leading us into all truth, and making
us both willmg and obedient to the iustruction of his
word. And I cannot see the least use that the greatest
knowledge of the disputed points of religion, which
have made such confusions in the world, wonld have
been to us, if we conld have obtained it.—Bat I must
go on with the historical part of things, and take every
part in its order.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquaint-
ed, and that he conld understand almost nil I said to
him, and speak pretty fluently thongh in broken Eng-
lish to me, I acquainted him with my own history, or at
least so much of it as related to my coming to this place;
how I had lived here, and how long: I let him into the
mystery, for such it was to him, of guupowder and bul-
let, and tanght him how to shoot. I gave him a knife,
which he was wonderfnlly delighted with; and I made
him a belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as in Eng-
land we wear hangers in; and in the frog, iustead of a
hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as
good a weapon in some cases, but much more useful
upon other occasious.
I described to him the conntry of Europe, particu-
larly England, which I came from; how we lived, how
v.; worshiped God, how we behaved to one another,
and bow we traded in ships to all parts of the world. I
gave him an acconnt of the wreck which I had been on
board of, and showed him, as near as I conld, the place
where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces before,
and gone. I showed him the ruius of onr boat, which
we lost when we escaped, and which I conld not stir
with my whole strength then; but was now fallen al-
most all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood
musing a great while, and said nothing. I asked him
what it was he stndied upon? At last, says he, " Me
see such boat like come to place at my nation." I did
not understand him a good while; but, at last, when I
had examined farther into it, I understood by him, that
a boat, such as that had been, came on shore upon the
conntry where he lived; that is, as he explamed it,
was driven thither by stress of weather. I presently
imagined that some European ship must have been cast
away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose
and drive ashore; but was so dull that I never once
thoaght of men making their escape from a wreck thi-
Jher, much less whence they might come: so I only
inquired after a description of tut) boat.
Friday described the boat to me well enongh; but
bronght me better to understand him when be added
with some warmth, " We save the white maus from
drown." Then I presently asked him, if there wore
any white maus, as he called them, in the boat ?" Yes,"
he said; "the boat full of white maus." I asked him
how many? He told upon his fingers seventeen. [
asked him then what became of them? He told me,
"T^- '*ve> "ie-v dwell at m.V nation."
This put new thonghts into my head; for I presently
imagined that these might be the men belonging to the
ship that was cast away in the sight of my island, as I
now called it; ami, who, after the ship was struck on
the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved
themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that
wild shore among the savages. Upon this I mquired
of him more critically what was become of them; he
assured me they lived still there; that they had been
there abont fonr years; that the savages let them alone,
and gave them victuals to live on. I asked him how it

that is to say, they never eat any men but such;
to fight with them, and are taken in hattle.
It was after this some cousiderable time, that bein"-
upon the top of the hill at the east side of the island,
from whence, as I have said, I had in a clear day dis-
covered the main or continent of America, Friday, the
weather being very serene, looks very earnestly to-
wards the main land, and, in a kind of surprise, falls
a jumping and dancing, and calls ont to me, for I was
at some distance from him. I asked him what was the
matter? "Ojoy!" says he; "O glad! there see my
conntry, there my nation '." I observed an extraordi-
nary seuse of pleasure appeared in his face, and his
eyes sparkled, and his conntenance discovered a
strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his own
conntry again. This observation of mine put a great
many thonghts into me, which made me at first not so
easy abont iny new man Friday as I was before; and I
made no doubt but that it Friday conld get hack to
his own nation again, he wonld not only forget all Ills
religion, hat all his obligation to me, and wonld he
forward enongh to give his conntrymen an acconnt of
me, and come back perhaps with a bundred or two
of them, and make a feast upon me, at which he might
be as merry as he used to be with those of his enemies,
when they were taken in war. But I wronged the poor
honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry
afterwards. However, as my jealonsy increased, aml
held me some weeks, I was a little more circumspect,
and not so familiar and kind to him as before: in which
I was certainly in the wrung too; the honest, grateful
creature having no thonght abont it, but what cousisted
with the best principles, both as a religious Christian,
and as a grateful friend; as appeared afterwards to my
full satisfaction.
While my jealousy of dim lasted, yon may be sure I
was every day pumping him, to see if he wonld dis-
cover any of the uew thoughts which I suspected were
in him: but I found everv thing he said was so honest
and so innocent that I conld n'nd nothing to nonrish my
suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he made
me at last entirely his own again; nor did he m the
least perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I conld
not suspect him of deceit.
One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the conti-
nent, I called to him, and said, " Friday, do not yon
wish yonrself in yonr own conntry, jonr own nation r"
—" Yes," he said, "I be much O glad to be at my
own nation." "What wonld yon do there? said I:
"wonld yon turn wild again, eat men's flesh again, and
be a savage, as yon were before:1" He looked full of
concern' and shaking his head, said' " No, no, Friday
tell them to live good; tell them to pray G.od; tell
them to eat corn bread, cattle flesh, milk; no eat man
again."—" Why then," said I to him, "they will kill
yon." Ho looked grave at that, and then said, "Wo,
no; they no kill me, they willing love learn." He
meant by this, they wonld be willing to learn. He
added, they learned much of tho bearded maus that
came in the boat. Then I asked him if he wonld go
back to them. He smiled at that, and told me that he
conld not swim so far. I told him, I wonld make a
canoe for him. He told me he wonld go, if I wonld
go with him. "I go!" says I, "why, they will eat
me if I come there."—" No, no," says he, " me make
they no eat yon; me make they much love yon." He
meant, he wonld telt them how I had killed his enemies,
and saved his life, and so hu wonld make them love me.
Then he told me, as well as he conld, how kind they
were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he
called them, who came on shore there in distress.
From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture
over, and see if I could possibly join with those beard-
ed men, who I made no donbt were Spaniards and Por-
tuguese: not donbting but if I conld, we might find
some method to escape from thence, being upon the
continent, and a good company together, better than I
could from an island forty miles off the shore, and
alone, withont help. So, after some days, I took Fri-
day to work again, by way of disconrse, and tofd him I
wonld give him a boat to go hack to his own nation;
am! accordingly, I carried him to my frigate, which lay
on the other side of the island, and having cleared it
of water tfor I always kept it sunk in water), I bronght
it ont, showed it him, and we both went into it. I
found he was a most dexterons fellow at managing it,
and wonld make it go almost as swift again as I conld.
So when he was in I said to him, " Well, now, Friday,
shall we go to yonr nation?" He looked verv dull at
my saying so; which it seems was, becanse he thonght
the boat too small to go so far: I then tohi him I had
a higger; so the next day I went to the place where
the first boat lay which I had made, but which I conld
not get iiito the water. He said that was hig enongh:
hat then, as I had taken no care of it, and it bad lain
two or three and twenty years there, the sun had split
and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten. Friday
told me such a boat wonld do very well, and wonld
carry " much enongh vittle, drink, bread;" that was
his way of talking.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my
d«sigu of going over with him to the continent that I
told him we wonld go and make one as hig as that,
and be shonld go home in it. He auswered not one
word, hat looked very grave and sad. I asked him
what was the matter with him? He asked me again,
'• Why yon angry mad with Friday? what me done?"
I asked him what be meant: I told him I was not am;ry
with him at all. "No angry!" says he, repealing the
words several times, " why send Friday home away to
my nation?"—" Why, says I, " Friday did not yon say
yon wished yon were there ?"—" Yes, yes," says he,
"wish be both there; no wish Friday there, no master
there." In a word, he wonld not think of going there
withont me. "I go there, Friday!" says I, " what
shall I do there?" He returned very quick upon me
at this: "Yon do great deal much good," says be;
"yon teach wild maus be good sober, tame maus; yon
tell them know God, pray God, and live new life."—
"Alas, Friday!" says I, " thon knowest not what thon
sayest; I am but an iguorant man myself."—" Yes,
yes," says he, "yon teachee me good, yon teachee
them good."—"No, no, Friday," says I, "yon shall
go withont me; leave me here to live by myself, as I
did before." lie looked confused again at that word;
and running to one of the hatchets which he used to
wear, he takes it op hastily, and gives it to me. "What
inust I do with this?" says I to him. "Yon take kill
Friday," says he. "What must I kill yon for?" said I
again. He returus very quick, "What yon send Fri-
day away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday away."
This he spoke so earnestly that I saw tears stand in his
c\es: in a word, 1 so plainly discovered the utmost
affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him,
that I told him then, and often after, that I wonld
never send him away from me, if he was willing to
stay with me.
Upon the whole, as I fonnd by all his disconrse a
settled atlection to me, and that nothing shonld part
him from me, so I fonnd all the fonndation of his de-
sire to go to his own conntry was laid in his ardent af-
fection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them
good; a thing which, as I had no notion of myself, so I
had not the least thonght or intention or desire of un-
dertaking it. Bat still I fonnd a strong inclination to
my attempting an escape, as above, founded on the sup-
position gathered from the disconrse, viz. that there
were seventeen bearded men there: and therefore,
withont any more delay, I went to work with Friday,
to find ont a great tree proper to foil, and make a targe
pcriagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There
were trees enongh in the island to have built a little
flcet, not of periaguas or canoes, but even of good large
vessels: but the main thing I looked at was, to get one
»o near the water that we might lannch it when it was
made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first. At
last, Friday pitched upon a tree; for I fonnd he knew
much better than I what kind of wood was fittest for
it; oor can I tell, to this day, what wood to call the
tree we cut down, except that it was very like the tiee
we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua wood,
for it was much of the same colonr and smell. Friday
was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree ont,
to make it for a boat, but I showed him how to cut it
with tools; which, after I had showed him huw to use,
he did very handily: and in abont a month's hard
labonr we finished it, and made it very handsome;
especiallv when, with onr axes, which I showed him
how to handle, we cut and hewed the ontside into the
true shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost na
near a fortnight's time to get her along, as it were, incb
by inch, upon great rollers into the water; but when
she was in, she wonld have carried twenty meu with
great ease.
When she was in the water, and though she was so
hig, it amazed me to see with what dexterity, and huw
swift my man Friday wonld manage her, turn her, and
jculdlc iier along. So I asked him if ho wonld, and it'
we might venture over in her. "Yes," he said, *' we
venture over in her very well, thongh great blow
wind." However, I had a farther desigu that he knew
nothing of, and that was, to make a mast and a sail, a;id
to lit her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that
was easy enongh to get; so I pitched upon a straight
yonng cedar tree, which I fonnd near the place, and
which there were great plenty of in the island: and I
set Friday to work to cat it down, and gave him direc-
tious how to shape and order it. But as to the sail,
that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails,
or rather pieces of old sails enongh; hat as I had had
them now six and twenty years by me, and had not been
very careful to preserve them, not imagining that I
shonld ever have this kind of use for them, I did not
donbt but they were all rottenj; and, indeed, most of
them were so. However, I found two pieces, which
appeared pretty good, and with these I went to work;
and with a great deal of paius, and awkward stitching
yon may be sure, for want of needles, I at length made
a throe cornered ugly thing, like what we call in Eng-
land a shoulder of mutton sail, to go with a boom at
bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as usu-
ally onr ships' long-boats sail with, and such as I best
knew how to manage, as it was sucb a one as I had to
the boat in which I made my escape from Barhary, as
related in the first part of my story.
I was near two months performing this last work,
viz. rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished
them very complete, making a small stay, and a sail,
or foresail, to it, to assist, if we shonld tarn to wind-
ward; and, which was more than all, I fixed a rndder
to the stern of her to steer with. I was but a bungling
shipwright, yet as I knew the usefulness, and even ne-
cessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so much
paius to do it, that at last I bronght it to pass; thongb,
cousidering the many dull contrivances I had for it that
failed, I think it cost me almost as much labour as mak-
ing the boat.
After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat; for, thongh he knew very well how to paddle a
canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a
rndder; and was the most amazed when he saw me
work the boat to and again in the sea by the rndder,
and how the sail gibbed, and filled this way or that
way, as the conrse we sailed changed; I say, when he
saw this, he stood like one astonished ami amazed.
However, with a little use, I made all these things fa-
miHar to him, and he became an expert sailor, except
that as to the compass; I conld make him understand
very little of that. On the other hand, as there was
very little clondy weather, and seldom or never any
fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion for a
compass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by
night, and the shore by day, except in the rainy sea-
sous, and then nobody cared to stir abroad either by
land or sea.
I was now entered on the seven and twentieth year
of my captivity in this place; thongh the three last 3 ears
thai I had this creature with me onght rather to be left
ont of the acconnt, my habitation being quite of another
kind than in all the rest of the time. I kept the anni-
•versary of my landing here with the same thankfulness
to God for his mercies as at first; and if I had such
canse of acknowledgment at first, 1 had much more so
now, having such additional testimonies ot the care of
Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of being;
effectually and speedily delivered; for I had an invinci-
ble impression upon my thonghts that my deliverance
was at hand, and that! shonld not be another year in this
place. I went on, however, with my bushandry; digging,
planting, and fencing, as usual. I gathered and cured my
grapes, and did every necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was, in the mean time,' upon me,
wben I kept more within doors than at other times.
We had stowed onr new vessel as secure as we conld,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the
beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and hanl-
ing her up to the shore at high water mark, I made my
man Friday dig a little dock, just hig enough to hold
her, and just deep enongh to give her water unongh to
float in; and then, when the tide was ont, we made a
strong dam across the end of it, to keep the water ont;
and so she lay dry as to the tide from the sea; and to
keen the rain off, we laid a great many bonghs of trees,
so thick that she was as well thatched as a honse; and
thus we waited for the months of November and De-
cember, in which I desigued to make my adventure..
When the settled season began to come in, as the
thonght of my desigu returned with the fair weather,
I was preparing daily for the voyage: and the first
thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of provi-
sious, being the stores for onr voyage; and intended,
in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
lannch ont onr boat. I was busy one morning upon
something of lhis kind, when I called to Friday, and
bid him go to the seashore, and see if he conld find a
turtle, or tortoise, a thing which we generally got once
a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the flesh.
Friday had not been long gone, when he came running
hack, and flew over my onter wall, or fence, like one
that felt not the gronnd, or the steps he set his feet 6n;
and before I had time to speak to him, he cries ont to
me, "O master! O master! O sorrow! O had!''—
"What's the matter, Friday?" says I. "O yonder,
there," says he, "one, two, three canoe; one, two,
three!" By this way of speaking, I conclnded there
were six; but on inquiry I fonnd it was but three.
"Well, Friday," says I, " do not be frightened." So
I heartened him up as well as I conld: however, I saw
the poor fellow was most terribly scared; for nothing
ran in his head but that they were come to look for
him, and wonld cut him in pieces and eat him; and the
poor fellow trembled so that I scarce knew what to do
with him. I comforted him as well as I conld, and told
him I was in as much danger as he, and that they wonld
eat me as well as him. '' But," says I, '' Friday, we
must resolve to fight them. Can yon fight, Friday?"
—" Me shoot," says he, " but there come many great
number."—" No matter for that," said I, again; " oar
£uus will fright them that we do not kill." So I asked
him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he wonld de-
fend me, and stand by me, and do just as I hid him.
He said, "Me die, when yon hid die, master." So f
went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave him;
for I had been so good a bushand of my rum, that I had
a great deal left. When he drank it, I made him take
the two fowlingpieces, which wu always carried, and
loaded them with large swaushot, as hig as small pis-
tot bullets: then I took fonr muskets, and loaded them
"ith two slugs, and five small bullets each; and my
two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each: I
hang my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and
gave Friday his hatchet. When I had tbus prepared
my ocl f, I took my perspective glass, and went up to the
side of the hill, to si-e what I conld discover; and I
fonnd quickly by my glass, that there were onc and
twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and
that their whole business seemed to be the trinmphant
hanquet upon these three buman bodies; a harharons
least indeed! but nothing more than, as I had observ-
ed, was usual with them. I observed also, that tiny
were landed, not where they had done when Friday
made his escape, but nearer to my creek, where the
shore was low, and where a* thick wood came almost
close down to the sea. This, with the abhorrence of
the inbuman errand these wretches came abont, filled
me with such indiguation that I came down again to
Friday, and told him I was resolved to go down to
them, and kill them all; and asked him if he wonld
stand by me. He had now got over his fright, and his
spirits being a little raised with the dram I had given
him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he
wonld die when I hid die.
In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which
I had charged, as before, between us: I gave Friday
one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guus upon
his shonlder; and I took one pistol, and the other three
guus, myself; and in this posture we marched ont. I
took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Fri-
day a large hag with more powder and bullets; and, as
to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and
not to stir, or shoot, or do anything, till I bid him;
and, in the mean time, uot to speak a word. In this
posture, I fetched a compass to my right hand of near
a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into the
wood, so that I conld come within shot of them before
I shonld be discovered, which I had seen by my glass
it was easy to do.
While I was making this march, m\ former thonghts
returning, I began to ahate my resolution: I do not
wean that I entertained any fear of their number; for,
as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I
was superior to them, nay, thongh I had bcea aloac.
Hut it occurred to mv thonghts, what call, what occa-
sion, much less what necessity I was in, to go and dip
my hands in blood, to attack people who had neither
done or intended me any wrong? Who, as to me,
were innocent, and whose harharons customs were their
own disaster; being, in them, a token indeed of God's
having left them, with the other natious of that part of
the world, to such stupidity, and to such inbuman
conrses; but did not call me to take upon me to be a
jndge of iheir actious, much less an executioner of his
justice; that, whenever he thonght fit, he wonld take
the canse into his own hands, and, by national ven-
geance, punish them, as a people, for national crimes;
but that in the moan time, it was none of my business;
that it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was
a declared enemv, and in a state of war with those verv
particular people, and it was lawful for him to attack
them; but I conld not say the same with respect to my-
self. These things were so warmly pressed upon my
thonghts all the way as I went, that I resolved I wonld
only go and place myself near them, that I might ob-
serve their harharons feast, and that I wonld act then
as God shonld direct; but that, unless something offer-
ed that was more a call to me than yet I knew of, I
wonld not meddle with them.
With this resolution I entered the wood: and, with
all possible wariness and silence, Friday following
close at my heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of
the wood, on the side which was next to them, onlv
that one corner of the wood lay between me and them.
Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him a great
tree which was just at the corner of the wood, I hade
him go to the tree, and bring me word if he conld see
there plainlv what they were doing. He did so, and
came immediately hack to me, and told me they might
be plainly viewed there; that they were all abont their
fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that
another lav hound upon the sand, a little from them,
which, he said, they wonld kill next, and which fired
the very soul within me. He told me it was not one of
their nation, but one of the bearded men he had told
me of, that came to their conntry in the boat. I wan
filled with horror at the very naming the white beard-
ed man; and, going to the tree, I saw plainly by my
glass a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea,
with his hands and his feet tied with Hags, or things
like rushes, and that he was an European, aud had
clothes on.
There was another tree, and a litUe thicket beyond
it, aboat fifty yards nearer to them than the place
where I was, which, by going a little way abont, I saw
I might come at undiscovered, and that then I shonld
be within hall' a shot of them: so I withheld my pas-
sion, thongh I was indeed euraged to the highest de-
gree; and going back abont twenty paces, I got behind
some hashes, which held all the way till I came to the
other tree; and then came to a little rising gronnd,
which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of
abont eighty yards.
I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the
dreadful wretches sat upon the gronnd, all close bud-
dled together, and had just sent the other two to
butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps
limb by limb, to their fire; and they were stooping
down to untie the hands at his feet. I turned to Friday
—" Now, Friday,'' said I, " do as I bid thee." Friday
said he wonld. "Then, Friday," says I, "do exactly
as \on see me do; fail in nothing." So I set dowu one
of the muskets and the fowlingpiece upon the gronnd,
and Friday did the like by his; and with the other
musket I took my aim at the savages, hidding him to
do tfae like: then asking him if he WHS ready, he said,
"Yes." "Then fire at them," said I; and the same
moment. I fired also.
Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side that he shot, he killed two of them, and
wonnded three more; and on my side, I killed onb,
and wonnded two. They were, yon may be sure, in a
dreadful cousternation; and all of them who were not
burt, jumped upon their feet, but did not immediately
know which way to run, or which way to look, for
thay knew not from whence their destruction came.
Friday kent his eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid
bim, he might observe what I did; so, as soon as the
first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took
ap the fowlingpiece, and Friday did the like: he saw
me cock and present; he did the same again. "Are
yon ready, Friday?'' said I.—" Yes,'' says he. "I>et
fly, then," savs I, "in the name of God!" and with
that I fired again among the amazed wretches, and so
did Friday; and as onr pieces were now loaden with
what I called swaushot, or small pistol bullets, we
fonnd only two drop, hut so many were wonnded, that
they ran abont yelling and screaming like mad crea-
tures, all bloody, and most of them miserably wonnded,
whereof three more fell quickly after, thon-h not quite
dead.
'' Now, Friday," savs I, laying down the discharged
pieces, and taking up the musket which was yet loaden,
"follow me;'' which he did with a great deal of con-
rage; upou which I rushed out of the wood, and show-
ed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I
perceived they saw me, I shonted as lond as I could,
and hade Friday do so too; and running as fast as I
conld, which by the way was not very fast, being
luaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards the
poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach,
or shore, between the place where they sat and the sea.
The two butchers, who were just going to work with
him, had left him at the surprise of onr first fire, and
tled in a terrible fright to the seaside, and had jumped
into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the samo
way. I turned to Friday, and hade him step forwards,
and fire at them; he understood me immediately, and
running abont forty yards, to be nearer them, he shot
at them, and I thonght he had killed them all, for I saw
them all fall of a heap into the boat, thongh I saw two
of them up again quickly: however, he killed two of
them, and wonnded the third no that he lay down in the
bottom of the boat as if he had been dead.
While my mim Friday tired at them, I pulled ont my
knife and cut the flngs that bonnd the poor victim; and
loosing his hands :md feet, 1 lifted him up, and asked
him in the Portuguese tongue, what ho was. He an-
swered in Latin, Christianus; but was. so weak and
fimit that he conld scarce stand or speak. I took my
bottle ont of m\ pocket, and gave it him, making sigus
that he shonld drink, which he did; and I gave him a
piece of bread, which he eat. Then I asked him what
conntryman he was: and he said Espaguiole; and being
a little recovered, let me know, by all the sigus he
conld possibly make, how much he was in my debt for
his deliverance. "Seiguior,'' said I, with as much
Spanish as I conld make up, " we will talk afterwards,
but we must fight now: if yon have any strength left,
take this pistol and sword, and lay abont yon." He
took them very thankfully; and no sooner had he the
arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigour
into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and
had cut two of them in pieces in an iustant; for the
truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the
poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise
of onr pieces that they fell down for mere amazement
and fear, and had no more power to attempt their own
escape, than their flesh had to resist onr shut: and that
was the case of those five that Friday shot at in the
boat; for as three of them fell with the burt they re-
ceived, so the other two fell with the fright
I kept my piece in my hand still withont firing, beinjy
willing to keep my charge ready, becanse I had given
the Spaniard my pistol and sword: so I called to Fri-
day, and hade him run up to the tree from whence -\\r
first fired, and fetch the arms which lay there that had
been discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and
then giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load
all the rest again, and hade them come to me when they
wanted. While I was loading these pieces, there hap-
pened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard, and
one of the savages, who made at him with one of their
great wooden swords, the samelike weapon that was to
have killed him before, if I had not prevented it. The
Spaniard, who was as bold and brave as conld be ima-
gined, thongh weak, had fonght this Indian a good
while, and had cut him two great wonnds on his head;
but the savage being a stont, lusty fellow, closing in
with him, had thrown him down, being faint, and WHS
wringing my sword ont of his hand; when the Spaniard,
thongh undermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew the
pistol from his girdle, shot the savage throngh the body,
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was run-
ning to help him, conld come near him.
Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches, with no weapon in his hand but his
hatchet; and with that be despatched those three, who,
as I said before, were wonnded at first, and fallen, and
all the rest he conld come up with: and the Spaniard
coming to me for a guo, I gave him one of the fowling-
pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and
wonnded them both; but, as he was not able to run,
they both got from him into the wood, where Friday
pursued them, and killed one of them, but the other
was too nimble for him; and thongh he was wonnded,
yet had plunged himself into the sea* and swam with
all his might off to those two who were left in the canoe,
which three in the canoe, with uue wonnded, that we
knew not whether he died or no, were alt that escaped
onr hands of one and twenty; the acconnt of the whole
is as follows: three killed at onr first shot from the
tree; two killed at the next shot; two killed by Fri-
day in the boat; two killed by Friday, of those at first
wonnded; one killed by Friday in the wood; three
killed by the Spaniard; fonr killed, being fonnd
dropped here and there, of their wonnds, or killed by
Friday in his chase of them; fonr escaped in the
boat, whereof one wonnded, if not dead.—Twenty-one
in all.
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get ont
of guushot, and thongh Friday made two or three shots
at them, I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday
wonld fain have had me take one of their canoes, and
pursue them ; and indeed, I was very anxions abont
their escape, lest carrying the news home to their ueo-
Elc, they shonld come hack perhaps with two or tfirco
andrcd of the canoes, and devonr us by mere multi-
tnde; so I cousented to pursue them by sea, and run-
ning to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and hade Fri-
day follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was
surprised to find another poor creature lie there, bonnd
hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slanghter,
and almost dead with fear, not knowing wbut was the
matter; for he had not been able to look up over the
side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels
and had been tied so long, that he had really hat little
life in him,
I immediately cat the twisted flags or rushes, which
they had bonnd him with, and wonld have helped him
op; but he conld not stand or speak, but groaned most
piteoosly, believing, it seems, still, that he was only un-
bonnd in order to be killed. When Friday came to
him, I hade him speak to him, and tell him of his deli-
Terance; and, pulling ont my bottle, made him give the
poor wretch a dram; which, with the news of his being
delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat. But
when Friday came to hear him speak, and look in his
face, it wonld have moved any one to tears to have
seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, bugged
him, cried, langhed, hallooed, jumped about, danced
sung; then cried again, wrung his hands, beat his own
face and head; and then sung and jumped abont a^-ain
like a distracted creature. It was a good while before
I conld make him speak to mo, or tell me what was the
matter; but when he came a little to himself, he told
me that it was his father.
It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to
see what eestasy and filial affection had worked in this
poor savage at the sight of his father, and of his being
delivered from death; nor, indeed, can I describe half
the extravagances of his affection after this; for he went
into the boat, and ont of the boat, a great many times:
when he went in to him, he wonld sit down by himj
open his breast, and hold his father's head close to his
bosom for many minutes together, to nonrish it; then
he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and
stiff with the hinding, and chafed and rubbed them with
bis hands; and I, perceiving what the case was, gave
him some rum ont of my bottle to rub them with, which
did them a great deal of good.
This affair put an end to onr pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now got almost ont
of sight; and it was happy for us that we did not, for it
blew so hard within two honrs after, and before they
conld be got a quarter of their way, and continued
VOL. i. Q
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-west,
whi eh was agaiust them, that I conld not suppose their
boat conld live, or that they ever reached their own
coast.
But, to return to Friday; he was so busy abont his
father, that I conld not find in my heart to take him off
for some time; but after I thonght he conld leave him
a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping and
langhing, and pleased to the highest extreme; tLeo I
asked him if he had given his father nay bread. He
shook his head, and said, " None; ngly dog eat all up
self." I then gave him a cake of bread, ont of a little
pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him a dram
for himself, but he wonld not taste it, but carried it to
bis father. I had in niv pocket two or three bunches of
raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father.
He had no sooner given his father these raisius, hat I
saw him come ont of the boat, and run awav, as if 1m
had been bewitched, he ran at such a rate; for he was
the swiftest fellow on his feet that ever I saw: I say, he
ran at such a rate that he was ont of sight, as it were,
iu an iustant; and thongh I called, and hallooed ont
too, after him, it was all one, away ho went; and in a
quarter of an honr I saw him come hack again, thongh
not so fast as he went; and as he came nearer, I fonnd
his pace slacker, becanse he had something in his haiul.
When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father
some fresh water, and that he had got two more cakes or
loaves of bread; the bread he gave me, but the water
be carried to his father; however, as I was very thirsty
too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived his
father more than ail the rumor spirits I had given him,
for he wasjust fainting with thirst.
Wben his father had tlrank, I called to him to know
if there was any water left: he said, "Yes/' and I
hade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as
much want of it as his lather; and I sent one of the
cakes, that Friday bronght, to the Spaniard ton, wbu
was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upou
a green place under tho shade of a tree; and whose
linibs were also very stiff, ;un! very much swelled with
the rnde handage he had been tied with. When I saw
that, upon I'rnlav's coming to him with the water, he
sat up and drank, and took the bread, and began tu i-at,
I went to him and gave him a handful of raisius: ho
looked up in my face \vith alt the tokeus of gratitnde
and thankfulness that conld appear in any conntenance;
but was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted
himself in the fight, that he conld not stand up upon his
feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was
really not able, his ankles were so swelled and so pain-
ful to him; so I hade him sit still, and cansed Friday to
rub hin ankles, and hathe them with rum, as he had
done his father's.
I observed the poor aflectionate creature, every two
minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn
ins head abont, to sec if his lather was in the same place
and posture as he left him sitting; and at last he fonnd
he was not to be seen; at which he started up, and,
withont speaking a word, flew with that swiftness to
him, that one conld scarce perceive his feet to tonch the
gronnd as he went: but whcu he camo he only fonnd
be had laid himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday
came hack to me presently; and tt.on I spoke to tho
Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if be conld, and
lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him to
onr dwelling, where I wonld take care of him: hut
Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite
up upon his hack, and carried him away to the boat,
and set him down softly upon the side or gunnel of the
canoe, with his feet in the iuside of it; and then hfting
faim quite in, he set him close to his father; and pre-
sently stepping ont again, lannched the boat ofl', and
paddled it along the shore faster than I conld walk,
thongh the wind blew pretty hard too: so he bronght
them both safo into onr creek, and leaving them in the
boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As he passed
me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went.
He told me, "Go fetch more boat:" so away he went
Hke the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like
him; and hv had the other canoe in the creek almost HA
soon as I got to it by land; so he wafted me over, and
then went to help onr new guests ont of the boat, whiuli
he did; hat they were neither of them able to walk, so
that poor Friday knew not what to do.
To remedy this, 1 went to work in my thonght, and
calling to Friday to hid them sit down on the bank
while he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-har-
row to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them both
op together upon it, between as.
But when we got them to the ontside of onr wall, or
fortification, we were at a worse loss than before, for it
was impossible to get them over, and I was resolved not
to break it down; sol set to work again; and Friday
and I, in about two honrs' time, made a very handsome
tent, covered with old sails, and above that with bonghs
of trees, being in the space withont onr ontward fence,
and between that and the grove of yonng wood which I
had planted: and here we made them two beds of such
things as I had, viz. of good rice-straw, with blankets
laid upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on
each bed.
My island was now peopled, and I thonght myself
very rich m subjects; and it was a merry reflection,
which I frequently made, how like a king I looked.
First of all, the whole conntry was my own mere pro-
perty, so that I had an undonbted right of dominion.
Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected; I was
absolutely lord and lawgiver; they all owed their lives
to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there
had been occasion for it, for me. It was remarkable,
too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three
different religious: my man Friday was a Protestant,
his father was a Pagan and a cannihal, and the Spaniard
was a Papist: however, I allowed liberty of couscience
thronghont my dominious:—But this is by the way.
As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued pri-
soners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest them
upon, I began to think of making some provision for
them; and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday to
take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, ont of
my particular flock, to be killed; when I cut off tho
hinder-quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set
Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them
a very good dishr I assure yon, of flesh and broth: anil
as I cooked it withont doors, for f made no fire within
my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and
having set a table there for them, 1 sat down, and eat
my own dinner also with them, and, as well as I conld,
cheered them and enconraged them. Friday was my
interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to the
Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language of
the savages pretty well.
After wo had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Fri-
day to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch onr mus-
kets and other fire-arfus, which, for want of time, we
had left upon the place of hattle; and, the next day, I
ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the sa-
vages, which lay open to the sun, and wonld presently
be ofleusive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid re-
maius of their harharons feast, which I knew were
pretty mnch, and which I conld not think of doing my-
self; nay, I conld not bear to see them, if I went that
way; all which he punctually performed, and effaced
the very appearance of the savages being there; so that
when I went again, I conld scarce know where it was,
otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing to
the place.
I then began to enter into a little conversation with my
two new subjects: and, first, I set Friday to inquire of
his father what he thonght of the escape of the savages
in that canoe, and whether we might expect a return of
them, with a power too great for us to resist. His fiist
opinion was, that the savages in the boat never conld
live ont the storm which blew that night they went off,
but must, of necessity, be drowned, or driven sonth to
those other shores, where they were as sure to be de-
vonred as they were to be drowned, if they were cast
away: but, as to what they wonld, if they came safe on
shore, he said he knew not; but it was Ins opinion, that
they were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of
their being attacked, the noise, and the fire, that be be-
lieved they wonld tell the people they were all killed
by tbunder and lightning, not by the hand of man; and
that the two which appeared, viz. Friday and I, were
two beavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy
them, and not men with weapous. This, he said, he
knew; becanse he heard them all cry ont so, in their
language, ODC to another; for it was impossible for
fhem to conceive that a man conld dart fire, and speak
tbunder, and kill at a distance, withont lifting Dp the
hand, as was done now: and this old savage was in the
right; for, as I understood since, bv other hands, the
savages never attempted to go over to the island after-
wards, they were so terrified with the acconnts given by
those fonr men (for, it seems, they did escape the sea)
that they believed whoever went to that enchanted
island wonld be destroyed with fire from the gods.
IHiis, however, I knew not; and therefore was under
continual appreheusious for a good while, and kept al-
ways upon my guard, with all my army: for, as there
were now fonr of as, I wonld have ventured upon a
bundred of them, fairly in the upen field, at any time.
In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of thcir coming wore off; and I began to take
my former thoughts of a vo\age to the main into cousi-
deration; heing likewise assured, by Friday's father,
that I might depend upon good usage from their nation,
on his acconnt, if I wonld go. But my thonghts were
a little suspended when I had a serious disconrse with
the Spaniard, and when I understood that there were
sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who,
having been cast away, and made their escape to that
side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages,
but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed
for life. I asked him all the particulars of their voyage,
and fonnd they were a Spanish ship, bonnd from the
Rio de la Plata to the Havanna, being directed to leave
their loading there, which was chicfly hides and silver,
and to bring hack what European goods they conld
meet with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen
on board, whom they took ont of another wreck; that
five of their own men were drowned, when first the ship
was lost, and that these escaped throngh infinite dan-
gers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the
cannihal coast, where they expected to have been de-
voured every moment. He told me they had some
arms with them, but they were perfectly useless, for
that they had neither powder nor hall, the washing of
the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a little,
which they used, at their first landing, to provide them-
selves some food.
I asked him what he thonght wonld become of them
there, and if they had formed any desigu of making
their escape. He said they had many cousultatious
abont it; but that having neither vessel, nor tools to
build one, nor provisious of any kind, their conncils al-
ways ended in tears and despair. I asked him now he
thonght they wonld receive a proposal from me, which
might tend towards an escape; and whether, if they
were all here, it might not be done. I told him with
freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill usage of
me, if I put my life in their hands; fur that gratitnde
was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did
men always square their dealings by the obligatious
they had received, so muoh as they did by the advan-
tages they expected. I told him it wonld be very hard
that 1 shonld be the iustrument of their deliverance,
and that they shonld afterwards make me their priso-
ner in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to
lie made a sacrifice, what necessity or what accident
soever bronght him thither; and that I had rather be
delivered up to the savages, and be devonred alive,
than fall into the merciless claws of the priests, and be
carried into the Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I
was persuaded, it they were all here, we might, with so
many hands, buitd a hark large enongh to carrv us all
away, either to the Brazils, southward, or'to the
islands, or Spanish coast northward; but that if, in re-
quital, they shonld, when I had put weapous into their
bands, carry me by force among their own people, I
might be ill used for my kindness to them, and make
my case worse than it was before.
He auswered, with a great deal of candonr and inge-
nuonsuess, that their condition was so miserable, and
that they were so seusible of it, that, he believed, they
wonld abhor the thonght of using any man unkindlv
that shonld contribute to their deliverance; and that if
1 pleased, he wonld go to them with the old man, and
disconrse with them abont it and return again, and
bring me their auswer; that he wonld make conditious
with them upon their solemn oath, that they shonld be
absolutely under my leading, as their commander and
captain; and they shonld swear upon the holy sacra-
ments and gospel, to be true to me, and go to such
Christian conntry as that I shonld agree to, and no
other, and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my
orders, till they were landed safely in such conntry as I
intended; and that he wonld bring a contract from
them, under their hands, for that purpose. Then he
told me he wonld first swear to me himself, that he
voold never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gave
him orders; and that he wonld take my side to the last
drop of his blood, if there shonld happen the least
breach of faith among his conntrymen. He told me
they were all of them very civil, honest men, and they
were under the greatest distress imaginable, having
neither weapous or clothes, nor any food, but at the
mercy and discretion of flic savages; ont of all hopes
of ever returning to their own conntry; and that he was
sure, if I wonld undertake their relief, they wonld live
and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage and
this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when we had
got all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself
started an objection, which had so much prndence in it
on one hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand,
that I could not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by
his advice, put offthe deliverance of his comrades for at
least half a year. The case was tbus: He had been with
us now abont a month, during which time I had let him
see in what manner I had provided, with the assistance
of Providence, for my support; and he saw evidently
what stock of corn and rico I had laid up; which,
thongh it was more than sufficient for myself, yet it was
not sufficient, withont good bushandry, for my family,
now if was increased to fonr; but much less wonld it
be sufficient if his conntrymen, who were, as he said,
sixteen, still alive, shonld come over; and, least of all,
wonld it be sufficient to victual onr vessel, if we shonld
build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies
of America; so he told me he thonght it wonld be
more advisable to let him and the other two dig and
cultivate some more land, as mnch as I conld spare
seed to sow, and that we shonld wait another harvest,
that we might have a supply of corn for his conntrv-
men, when they should come; fur want might be a
temptation to them to disagree, or not to think them-
selves delivered, otherwise than ont of one difficulty
into another. "Yon know," says he, " the children of
Israel, thongh they rejoiced at first for their being deli-
Tered ont of Egypt, yet rebelled even agaiust God him-
self, that delivered them, when they came to want bread
in the wilderness."
His cantion was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I conld not but be very well pleased with his
proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity: so
we fell to digging all fonr of us, as well as the wooden
tools we were furnished with permitted; and in abont
a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time,
we had got as much land cured and trimmed up as we
sowed two and twenty bushels of hailey on, and six-
teen jars of rice; which was, in short, all the seed we
had to spare: nor, indeed, did we leave onrselves har-
ley sufficient for onr own food, for the six months that
we had to expect onr crop; that is to say, reckoning
from the time we set onr seed aside for sowing; for it
is not to be supposed it is six months in the gronnd
in that conntry.
Having now society enongh, and onr number being
suflicient to put us ont of fear of the savages, if they had
come, unless their number had been very great, we
went freely all over the island, whenever we found oc-
casion; and as here we had onr escape or deliverance
upon onr thonghts, it was impossible, at least for me, to
have the meaus of it ont of mine. For this purpose, I
marked ont several trees which I thonght lit for onr
work, and I set Friday and his father to cutting them
down; and then I cansed the Spaniard, to whom I im-
parted my thonghts on that affair, to oversee and direct
their work. I showed them with what indefatigable
paius I had hewed a large tree into single planks, and I
caused them to do the like, till they had made abont a
dozen large planks of good oak, near two feet broad,
thirty-five feet long, and from two indies to four inches
thick: what prodigions labonr it took up, any one may
imagine.
At the same time, I contrived to mcrease my little
flock of tame goats as much as I conld ; and, for this
purpose. I made Friday and the Spaniard go oat one
day, and myself with Friday the next day (for we took
onr turus), and hy this meaus we got abont twenty
yonng kids lo breed up with the rest; for whenever we
shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added them to onr
flock. But, above all, the season for curing the grapes
coming on, I cansed such a prodigions quantity to be
bung up in the sun, that, I believe, had we been at All-
cant, where the raisius of the sun are cured, we conld
have filled sixty or eighty harrels ; and these, with onr
bread, was a great part of onr food, and was very good
living too, I assure yon, for it is exceeding nourishing.
It was now harvest, and onr crop in good order: it
was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enongh to auswer onr
end; for from twenty-two bushels of harley we bronght
in and threshed ont above two bundred and twenty
bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice; which
was store enongh for onr food to the next harvest,
though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore
with me; or if we had been ready for a voyage, it
would very plentifully have victualled onr ship to have
carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, any
part of America. When we had tbus housed and se-
cured onr magazine of corn, we fell to work to make
more wicker-ware, viz. great haskets, in which we kept
it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterons at
this part, and often blamed me that I did not make some
things for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no
need of it.
And now having a full supply of food for all the
guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over
to the main, to see what he conld do with those he had
left behind them there. I gave him a strict charge not
to bring any man with him who wonld not first swear,
in the presence of himself and the old savage, that he
.wonld no way injure, fight with, or attack the person he
shonld find in the Island, who was so kind as to send
for them in order to their deliverance; but that they
wonld stand by him, and defend him agaiust all such
attempts, aod wherever they went, wonld he entirely
under and subjected to his command; and that this
shonld be put in writing, and sigued with their hands.
How they were to have done this, when I knew thev
had neither pen or ink, was a question which we never
asked. Under these iustructious, the Spaniard and the
old savage, the father of Friday, went away i" one of
the canoes which they might he said to come in, or
rather were brought in, when they came as prisoners to
be devonred bv the savages. I gave each of them a
rnusket. with a firelock on it, and abont eight charges
ot powder and hall, charging them to be very good bus-
bands of both, and not to use either of them but upon
urgent occasious.
This was a cheerful work, being the first measures
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-
S"ven years and some days. I gave them provisious
of bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for them-
selves for many days, and sufficient for all the Spa-
niards for about eight days' time; and wishing them a
good voyage, I saw them go; agreeing with them abont
a sigual they shonld hang ont at their return, by which
1 shonld know them again, when they came hack, at a
distance, before they came on shore. They went away
with a f.iir gale, on the day that the moon was at full,
by my acconnt in the month of October; but as for an
exact reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I conld
never recover it again; nor had I kept even the num-
ber of years so punctually as to be sure I WHS right;
though, as it proved, when \ afterwards examined my
acconnl, I fonnd I had kept a true reckoning of years.
It was no less than eight days I had waited fur them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of
which the like has not perhaps been heard of in history.
I was fast asleep in my butch one morning, when my
man Friday came runnmg in to me, and called alond,
4i Master, master, they are come, they are come!" I
jumped up, and regardless of danger, I went ont as
soon as I conld get my clothes on, throngh my little
grove, which, by the way, was by this time grown to be
a very thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went
withont my arms, which was not my custom to do: bat
I was surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, j pre-
sently saw a boat at abont a league and a half distance,
standing in for the shore, with a shonlder of mutton
sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to
bring them in: also I observed presently, that they did
not come from that side which the shore lay on, bat
from the sonthernmost end of the island. Upon this, I
called Friday in, and hade him lie close, for these were
not the people we looked for, and that we might not
know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In
the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective-glass,
to see what I conld make of them; and having taken
the Udder ont, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I
used to do when I was appreheusive of any thing, and
to take my view the plainer, withont being discovered.
I [had scarce set my foot opon the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at abont
two leagues and a half distance from me.S.S.K. but not
above a league and a half from the shore. By my ob-
servation, it appeared plainly to be an English 'ship,
and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat,
I cannot express the confusion I was in; thongh the
joy of seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe
was manned by my own conntrymen, and cousequently
friends, was such as I cannot describe; but yet I had
some secret doubts bung abont me, I cannot tell from
whence they came, hidding me keep upon my guard.
In the first place, it occurred to me to cousider what
business an English ship conld have in that part of the
world, since it was not the way to or from any part of
the world where the English had any traffic; and I
knew i IK-rT had been no storms to drive them in there,
as in distress; and that if they were really English, it
v. us most prohable that they were here upon no good
desigu; and that I had better continue as I was than
fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.
Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger which sometimes are given him when he may
think there is no possihility of its being real. That
such faints and notices are given as, I believe few that
have made any observatious of things can deny; that
llii-v are certain discoveries of an invisible; world, and
a converse of spirits, we cannot donbt; and if the ten-
dency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why
shonld we not suppose they are from some friendly
agent (whether supreme, or inferior and subordinate,
is not the question), and that they are given for onr
good?
The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; for had I not been made can-
tions by this secret admonition, come it from whence it
will, I had been undone inevitably, and in afar worse
condition than before, as yon will see presently. I had
not kept myself long in this posture, but I saw the boat
draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to
thrust in at, for the convenience of landing; however,
as they did not come quite far enough, they did not see
the little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts, but
rim their boat on shore upon the beach, at abont half a
mile from me, which was very happy for me; for other-
wise they wonld have landed just at my door, as I may
say, and wonld soon have beaten me ont of my castle,
and perhaps have plundered me of alt I had. When
they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were Eng-
lishmen, at least most of them; one or two I thought
were Dutch, hat it did not prove so; there were in all
eleven men, whereof three of them I fonnd were un-
armed, and, as I thonght, bonnd; and when the first
fonr or five of them were jumped on shore, they took
those three oat of the boat, as prisoners: one of the
three 1 conld perceive using the most passionate ges-
tures of entreaty, affliction, and despair, even to a kind
of extravagance; the other two, I conld perceive, lifted
up their hands sometimes, and appeared concerned, in-
deed, but not to such a degree as the first. I was per-
fectly confonnded at the sight, and knew not what the
meaning of it shonld be. Friday called ont to me in
English, as well as ho conld, "O master! yon see
English maus eat prisoner as well as savage maus."—
"Why, Friday," says I, "do yon think they are going
to eat them then?"—" Yes/'says Friday, "they will
eat them."—" No, no," says I, "Friday; I am afraid
they will murder them, indeed, but yon may be sure
they will not eat them.''
All this while I had no thonght of what the matter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight, expecting every moment when the throe prisoners
should be killed; nay, once £ saw one «f the villaius
lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it,
or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I ex-
pected to see him full every moment; at which all the
blood in my body seemed to run chill in my veius. I
wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage
that was gone with him, or that I had any way to have
come undiscovered within shot of them, that I might
have rescued the three men, lor I saw no fire-arms they
had among them ; but it foil ont to my mind another
way. After I had observed the ontrageous usage of the
three men by the iusolent seamen, I oh.sorvcd the fel-
lows run scattering abont the island, as if they wanted
to see the conntry. I observed that the three other
men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but
they sat down all three upon the gronnd, very peusive,
and looked like men in despair. This put me in mind
of the first time when I came on shore, and began to
look abont me; how I gave myself over for lost,
how wildly I looked ronnd me; what dreadful ap-
preheusious I had; and how I lodged in the tree nil
night, for fear of being devonred by wild beasts. As
I knew nothing, that night, of the supply I was to re-
ceive bv the providential driving of the ship nearer
the land by the storms and tide, by which I have since
been so long nonrished and supported; so these threo
poor desolate men knew nothing how certain of deli-
verance and supply they were, how near it was to them,
and how effectually and reallv they were in ft condition
of safety, at the same time that they thonght themselves
lost, and their case desperate. So little do we seo be-
fore us in the world, and so much reason have we to
depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world,
that he does uot leave his creatures so absolutely de>ti-
tute, but that, in the worst circumstances, they have al-
ways something to be thankful for, and sometimes are
nearer their deliverance than they imagine; nay, are
even bronght to their deliverance by the meaus by
which they seem to be bronght to their destruction.
It was just at the top of high water when these peo-
ple came on shore; and partly while they rambled
abont to see what kind of a place they were in, they
had carelessly staid till the tide was spent, aiid the wa-
ter was ebbed cousiderably away, leaving their boat
agronnd. They had left two men in fhe boat, who,
as I fonnd afterwards, having drank a little too much
brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them waking a
little sooner than the other, and finding the boat too
fast agronnd for him to stir it, hallooed ont for the rest,
who were straggling abont; upon which they all soon
came to the boat: but it was past all their strength to
launch her, the boat being very heavy, and the shore
on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quick-
sand. In this condition, like true seamen, who are per-
haps the least of all mankind given to forethonght, they
gave it over, and away they strolled abont the conntry
agam; and I heard one of them say alond to another,
calling them off. from the boat, " VVhy, let her aluue,
Jack, can't yon? she'll float next tide :"by which I was
tull v confirmed in the main inquiry of what conntrymen
they were. All this while I kept myself very close, uot
once daring to stir ont of mv castle, any farther than to
my place of observation, near the top of the hill; and
very glad I was to think how well it was fortified. I
knew it was no less than ten honrs before the boat conld
float again, and by that time it wonld he dark, and I
might be at more liberty to see their motious, and to
hear their disconrse, if they had any. In the mean
time, I fitted myself up for a hattle, as before, thongh
with more cantion, knowing I had to do with another
kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered Friday
alf.0, whom I had made an excellent marksman with his
gua, to load himself with anus. I took myself two
fowling-pieces, and I gave him three muskets. My
figure, indeed, was very fierce; I had my formidabte
goat-skin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned,
a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and
a gun upon each shonlder.
It was my design, as I suid above, not to have made
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
any attempt till it was dark: but abont two o'clock,
being the heat of the day, I fonnd that, in short, they
were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I
thonght, laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed

men, too anxions for their condition to get any sleep,
were, however, sat down under th.e shelter of a great
tree, at abont a quarter of a mile from me, and, as T
thonght, ont of sight of any of the rest. Upon this I
resolved to discover myself to them, and learn some-
thing of their condition; immediately I marched in the
figure as above, my man Friday at a good distance be-
hind me, as formidable for his arms as I, but not mak-
ing quite so staring a spectrelike figure as I did. I
came as near them undiscovered as I conld, and then,
before any of them saw me, I called alond to them in
Spanish, " What are ye gentlemen?" They started up
at the noise; but were ten times more confonnded
when they saw me, and the uncoath figure that I made.
They made no auswer at all, but I thonght I perceived
them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them
in English: "Gentlemen," said I, "do not be sur-
prised at me: perhaps yon may have a friend near,
when yon did not expect h."—" He must be sent di-
rectly from Heaven then/' said one of them very
gravely to me, and pulling oft'his hat at the same time,
to me; " for onr condition is past the help of man.''—
"All help is from Heaven, Sir/' said I: "But can you
put a stranger in the way how to help yon? for yon
seem to be in some great distress. I saw yon when yon
landed; and when yon seemed to make application to
the brutes that came with yon, I saw OHO of them lift
up his sword to kill yon."
The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, "Am
I talking to God or man? Is it a real man or an angel?''
—" Be in no fear abont that, Sir," said I; "if God had
sent an angel to relieve yon, he wonld have come bet-
ter clothed, and armed after another manner than urn
see me: pray lay aside yonr fears; I am a man, an Eng-
lishman, and disposed to assist yon: yon see I have one
servant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell as
freely, can we serve yon? What is vour case?"—" Our
case," said he, "Sir, is too long to tell yon, while onr
murderers are so near us: but, in short, sir, I was com-
mander of that ship, my men have mutinied agaiust me;
they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder me;
and at last have set me on shore in this desolate place,
with these two men with me, one my mate, the other a
passenger, where we expected to perish, believing- the
place to be uninhahited, and know not yet what to think
of it."—"Where are these brutes, yonr enemies?"
said I: "Do yon know where they are gone?"—
"There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of
trees; "my heart trembles for fear they have seen as,
and heard yon spoak; if they have, they will certainly
marder us all."—" Have they any fire-arms?'' said I.
He auswered, " they had only two pieces, one of which
they left in the boat." "Well then," said I, "leave
the rest to me; I see they are all asleep, it is an easy
thing to kill them all: but shall we rather take them pri-
noners?" He told me there were two desperate villaius
among them, that it was scarce safe to show any mercy
io; but if they were secured, ho believed all the rest
wonld return to their duty. I asked him which they
were? He told me he conld not at that distance distin-
guish them, but he wonld obey my orders in any thing
[ wonld direct. "Well," says t, "let us retreat ont
of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will
resolve further." So they willingly went hack with me,
till the woods covered us from them.
VOL. i. R
"Look yon, Sir," said I, " if I venture upon yonr
deliverance, are yon willing to make two conditious
with me?" He anticipated my proposals, by telling
me, that both he and the ship, if recovered, shonld be
vvhollv directed and commanded by me in every thing;
and, if the ship was not recovered, he wonld live and
die with me in what part of the world soever I wonld
send him; and the two other men said the same.
"Well," says I, "my conditious are but two: first,
That while yon stay iu this island with me, yon will not
pretend to any anthority here; and if I put arms in yonr
Lands, yon will, upon all occasious, give them up tome,
and do no prejndice to me or mine upon this island ; and,
in the mean time, be governed by my orders: secondly,
That if the ship is or may be recovered, yon will carry
me and my man to England, passage free/'
He gave me all the assurances that the invention or
faith of man conld devise, that he wonld comply with
these most reasonable demands; and, besides, wonld
o\ve his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occa-
sious, as long as he lived." "Well then," said I,
"here are three muskets for yon, with powder and hall:
tell me next what yon think is proper to be done." He
showed all the testimonies of his gratitnde that he wai
able, but offered to be wholly guided by me. I told
him I thonght it was hard venturing anything; but the
best method I conld think of was to fire upon them at
once, as they lay, and if any were not killed at the first
volley, and offered to submit, rve might save them, and
so put it wholly upon God's providence to direct the
shot. He said very modestly, that he was loath to kill
them, if he conld help it: but that those two were in-
corrigible villaius, and had been the anthors of all the
mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we shonld be
undone still: ibr they wonld go on board and bring the
whole ship's company, and destroy us all. "Well
then," says I, '' necessity legitimates my advice, for it
is the only way to save onr lives." However, seeing
him still cantions of shedding blood, I tuld him they
shonld go themselves, and manage as they fonnd con-
venient.
In the middle of this disconrse we heard some of
them awake, and SUOD after wo saw two of them on their
feet. I asked him if either of them were the beads of
the mutiny? He said, No. "Well then/' said I, " you
may let them escape; and Providence seems to have
awakened them on purpose to save themselves—Now/'
says I, "if the rest escape yon, it is yonr fanlt." Ani-
mated with this, he took the musket I had given him
in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two com-
rades with him, with each a piece in his hand; the two
men who were with him going tiist, made some noise,
at which one of the seamen who was awake turned
abont, and seeing them coming, cried ont to the rest;
but it was too late then, for the moment he cried ont
they fired; I mean the two men, the captam wisely re-
serving his own piece, they had so well aimed their
shot at the men they knew, that one of them was killed
on the spot, and the other very much wonnded; but
iint being dead, he started op on his feet, and called
eagerly for help to the other; but the captain stepping
tu him, told him it was too late to cry for help, he
shonld call upon God to forgive his villany; and with
that word knocked him down with the stock of his
musket, so that he never spoke more: there were three
more in tho company, and one of them was also slightly
wonnded. By this time I was come; and when they
saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they
begged for mercy. The captain told them he wonld
spare their lives, if they wonld give him an assurance
of their abhorrence of the treachery they had been
guilty of, and wonld swear to be faithful to him in re-
covering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her hack
to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him
all the protestatious of their sincerity that conld be
desired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare
their lives, which I was not agaiust, only that I obliged
him to keep them bonnd hand and foot while they were
on the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring
away the oars and sails, which they did: and by and
by three straggling men, that were (happily for them)
parted from the rest, came hack upon hearing the guus
fired: and seeing the captain, who was before their pri-
soner, DOW their conqueror, they submitted to be bonnd
also; and so oar victory was complete.
It now remained that the captain and I shonld in-
quire into one another's circumstances: I began first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard with
an attention even to amazement; and particularly at
Ihe wonderful manner of my being furnished with pro-
visious and ammunition; and indeed, as my story is a
whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply.
But v lu-ii he reflected from thence upon himself, and
how I seemed to have been preserved there on purpose
to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he
could not speak a word more. After this communica-
tion was at an end, I carried him and his two men into
my apartment, leading them in just where I came ont,
viz. at the top of the honse, where I refreshed them
with such provision as I had, and showed them all the
contrivances I had made, durmg my long, long inhahit-
ing that place.
All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but, above alt, the captain admired my for-
tification, and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat
with a grove of trees, which, having been now planted
near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a little wood, and so
thick, that it was impassable in any part of it but at
that one side where I had reserved my little winding
passage into it. I told him this was my castle and my
residence, but that I had a seat in the conntry, as most
princes have, whither I conld retreat upon occasion,
and I wonld show him that too another time: hat at
present onr business was to cousider how to recover
the ship. He agreed with me as to that; hot told me,
he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for
that there were still six and twenty hands on board,
who having entered into a cursed couspiracy, by which
they had all forfeited their lives to the law, wonld be
hardened in it now by desperation, and wonld carry it
on, knowing that if they were subdued, they wonld be
bronght to the gallows as soon as they came to England,
or to any of the English colonies; and that therefore
there wonld be no attacking them with so small a num-
ber as we were.
I mused for some time upon what he had said, and
fonnd it was a very rational conclusion, and that there-
fore something was to be resolved on speedily, ss well
to draw the men on board into some suare for their sur-
prise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and destroy-
ing as. Upon Ihis, it presently occurred to me, that in
a little while the ship's crew, wondering what was
become of their comrades and of the boat, wonld cer-
tainly come on shore in their other boat, to look for
them; and that then perhaps they might come armed,
and be too strong for us: this he allowed to be rational.
Upon this, I told him the first tiiing we had to do' was
to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that
they might not carry her off; and taking every thing
out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be fit to
swim: accordingly we went on board, took the arms
which were left on board ont of her, and whatever else
we fonnd there, which was a bottle of brandy, and ano-
ther of rum, a few hiscuit cakes, a horn of powder, and
a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvass (the sugar
was five or six ponnds); all which was very welcome
to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had
none left for many years.
When we had carried all these things on shore (the
oars, mast, sail, and rndder of the boat were carried
away before, as above), we knocked a great hole in her
bottom, that if they had come .strong enongh to master
us, yet they conld not carry off the boat. Indeed, it
was not much in my thonghts that we conld be able to
recover the ship; but my view was, that if they went
away withont the boat, I did not much question toma&e
ber fit again to carry us to the Leeward Islands, and
call upon onr friends the Spaniards itt my way, for I had
them still in my thonghts.
While we were tbus preparing onr desigus, and had
first, by main strength, heaved the boat upon the beach
so high that the tide wonld not float her off at high
water mark, and besides, had broke a hole in her bot-
tom too hig to be quickly stopped, and were set down
musing what we shonld do, we heard the ship fire a
gun, and make a waft. with her eusigu as a sigual for the
boat to come on board: but no boat stirred; and they
fired several times, making other siguals for the boat.
At last, when all their siguals and firing proved fruit-
less, and they fonnd the boat did not stir, we saw them,
by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat ont, and
row towards the shore; and we fonnd, as they ap-
proached, that there were no less than ten men in her,
and that they had fire arms with them.
As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we
had a full view of them as they came, and a plain sight
even of their faces; becanse the tide having set them a
little to the east of the other boat, they rowed up under
shore, to come to the same place where the other had
landed, and where the boat lay; by this meaus, I say,
we had a full view of them, and the captain knew the
persous and characters of all the men in the boat, of
whom, be said there were three very honest fellows,
who, he was sure, were led into tins couspiracy by the
rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as
for the boatswain, who it seems was the chief officer
among them, and all the rest, they were as ontrageons
as any of the ship's crew, and were no donbt made des-
perate in their new enterprise; and terribly apprehen-
sive he was that they wonld be too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him that men in onr circum-
stances wese past the operation of fear; that seeing
almost every condition that conld be was better than
that which we were supposed to be in, we onght to ex-
pect that the cousequence, whether death or life, wonld
lie sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he
thonght of the circumstances of my life, and whether a
deliverance were not worth venturing for? "And
where, Sir," said I, "is yonr belief of my being pre-
served here on purpose to save yonr life, which elevated
yon a little while ago? For my part," said I, " there
seems to me but one thing amiss in alt the prospect of
it."—" What is that?" says he. "Why," said I, "it
is, that as yon say there are three or fonr honest fellows
among them, which shonld be spared: had they been
all of the wicked part of the crew, I shonld have thonght
God's providence had singled them oat to deliver them
Sato your hands; for depend upon it, every man that
comes ashore is onr own, and shall die or live as they
beiiave to us." As I spoke this with a raised voice
and cheerful conntenance, I found it greatly enconraged
him; so we set vigoronsly to onr business.
We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's
coming from the ship, cousidered of separating onr pri-
soners; and we had, indeed, secured them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured
than ordinary, I scut with Friday, and one of the three
delivered men, to my cave, where they were remote
enongh, and ont of danger of being heard or discovered,
or of finding their way ont of the woods if they conld
have delivered themselves: here they left them bonnd,
but gave them provisious; and promised them, if they
continued there quietly, to give them their liberty in a
day or two; but that if they attempted their escape,
they shonld be put to death withont mercy. They pro-
mised faithfully to bear their confinement with patience,
and were very thankful that they had such good usage
as to have provisious and light left them; for Friday
gave them candles (such as we made onrselves) for their
comfort; and they did not know but that he stood sen-
tinel over them at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of them
were kept pinioned, indeed, becanse the captain was
not free to trust them; but the other two were taken
into my service, upon the captain's recommendation,
and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with
as; so with them and the three honest men, we were
seven men well armed; and I made no donbt we shonld
be able to deal well enongh with the ten that were
coming, cousidering that the captain had said there
were three or fonr honest men among them also. As
soon as they got to the place where their other boat
lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and came all on
shore, hanling the boat up after them, which I was
glad to see, for I was afraid they wonld rather have
left the boat at an anchor some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her to guard her, and so we shonld
not be able to seize the boat. Being on shore, the first
titing they did, they ran all to their other boat; and it
was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find
her stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a
great hole in her bottom. After they had mused a while
upon this, they set up two or three great shonts, hul-
looing with all their might, to try if they conld make
their companious hear; but all was to no purpose:
then they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley of
their smalt arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the
echos made the woods ring; but it was alt one; those
in the cave we were sure conld not hear, and those in
onr keeping, thongh they heard it well enongh, yet
durst give no auswer to them. They were so astonished
at the surprise of this, that as they told us afterwards,
they resolved to go all on board again to their ship,
and let them know that the men were all murdered,
and the longboat staved; accordingly, they imme-
diately lannched their boat again, and got all of them
on board.
The captain was terribly amazed, and even confonnd-
ed at this, believing they" wonld go on board the ship
again, and set sail, giving their comrades over for lost,
and so he shonld still lose the ship, which he was in
hopes we shonld have recovered; but be was quickly
as much frightened the other way.
They had not been long put off with the boat, but
we perceived them all coming onshore again: but with
this new measure in their conduct, which it seems they
cousulted together upon, viz. to leaie three men in the
boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the
conntry to look for their fellows. This was a great
disappointment to us, for now we were at a loss what
to do, as onr seizing those seven men on shore wonld
be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape; be-
canse they wonld then row away to the ship, and then
the rest of them wonld be sure to weigh and set sail,
and so onr recovering the ship wonld be lost. How-
ever, we had no remedy but to wait and see what the
issue of tiiings might present. The seven men came
on snore, and the three who remained in the boat put
her off to a good distance from the shore, and came. to
an anchor to wait for them; MO that it was impossible
/or us to conic at them in the boat. Those Uiat came
on shore kept close together, marching towards the top
of the little hill under which my hahitation lay; and
we conld see them plainly thongh they could not per-
ceive us. We conld have been very glad they wonld
have eome nearer to us, so that we might have fired at
them, or that they wonld have gone farther off, that
we might come abroad. But when they were come to
the brow of the hill, where they conld see a great way
into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the
north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they
shonted and hallooed till they were weary; and not
caring- it seems to venture far from the shore, nor far
from one another, they sat down together under a tree
to cousider of it. Had they thonght tit to have gone
to sleep there, as the other part of them had done, they
had done the job for us; but they were too full of ap-
preheusious of danger to venture to go to sleep, thongh
they conld not tell what the danger was they had to
fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this cousultation of theirs, viz. that perhaps they would
all fire a volley again, to endeavonr to make iheir fel-
lows hear, and that we shonld all sally upon them, just
at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged,
and they wonld certainly yield, and we shonld have
them withont bloodshed. I liked this proposal, pro-
vided it was done while we were near enough to come
up to them before they conld load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen; and we lay still a long
time, very irresolute what course to take. At length
I told them there wonld be nothing done, in my opi-
nion, till night; and then, if they did not return to the
boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them
and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with
them in the hoat to get them on shore. We waited a
great while, thongh very impatient for their removing;
and were very uneasy, when, after long cousultatious,
we saw them all start up, and march down Inwards the
sea: it seems they had such dreadful appreheusious
upon them of the danger of the place, that they re-
solved to go on board the ship again, give their com-
panious over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship.
As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore,
I imagined it to be as it reallv was, that they had given
over their search, and were for going hack again; and
the captain, as soon as I told him my thonghts, was
ready to sink at the appreheusious of it: hot I presently
thonght of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and
which auswered my end to a tiitle. I ordered Friday
and the captain's mate to go over the little creek west-
ward, towards the place where the savages came on
shore when Friday was rescued, and as soon as they
came to a little rising gronnd, at abont half a mile dis-
tance, I hade ihem halloo out, as lond as they conld,
and wait till they fonnd the seamen heard them; that
as soon as ever they heard the seamen auswer them,
they shonld return it again; and then keeping ont of
sight, take a ronnd, always auswering when the others
hallooed, to draw them as far into the island, and among
the woods, as possible, and then wheel abont again to
me by such ways as I directed them.
They were just going into the boat when Friday and
the mate hallooed: and they presently heard them, and
auswering, run along the shore westward, towards the
voice they heard, when they were presently stopped
by the creek, where the water being up, they conld not
get over, and called for the boat to come up and set
them over; as, indeed, I expected. When they had
set themselves orer, I observed that the boat being
gone a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a
harbonr within the land, they took one of the three men
ont of her, to go along with them, and left only two in
the boat, having fastened her to the stump of a little
tree on the shore. This was what I wished for; and
immediately leaving Friday and the captain's mate to
their business, I took the rest with me, and crossing
the creek ont of their sight, we surprised the two men
before they were aware; one of them lying on the
shore, and the other being in the boat. The fellow on
shore was between sleeping and waking, and going to
start up; the captain, wbo was foremost, ran in upon
him, and knocked him down; and then called ont to
him in the boat to yield, or he was a dead man. There
needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to
yield, when he saw five men upon him, and his com-
rade knocked down: besides, this was, it seems, one of
the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the
rest of the crew, and therefore was easilv persuaded
not only to yield, hat afterwards to join very sincerely
with us. In the mean time, Friday and the captain's
mate so well managed their business with the rest, that
they drew them, by hallooing and auswering, from one
hill to another, and IVom one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they
were very sure they conld not reach hack to the boat
before it was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily
tired themselves also, by the time they came hack
to as.
We had nothing now to do hat to watch for them in
the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure
work with them. It was several hours after Friday
came hack to me before they came hack to their boat;
and we conld hear the foremost of them, long before
they came quite up, calling to those behind to come
along; and conld also hear them auswer, and complain
bow lame and tired they were, and not able to come
any faster; which was very welcome news \o us. At
length they came up to the boat: but it is impossible
to express their confusion wlnrn they fonnd the boat
fast agronnd in the creek, the tide ebbed ont, and their
two men gone. We conld hear them call to one ano-
ther in a most lamentable manner, telling one another
they were got into an enchanted island; that either
there were inhahitants in it, and they shonld all bo
murdered, or else there were devils and spirits in it,
and they shonld be all carried away and devonred.
Tbey hallooed again, and called their two comrades by
their names a great many times, but no auswer. After
some time, we conld see them, by the liitlu light there
was, run abont, wringing their hands like men in de-
spair, and that sometimes they wonld go and sit down
in the boat to rest themselves; then come ashore again,
and walk abont again, and so the same thing over again.
M v men wonld fain have had me give them leave tn
fall upon them at once in the dark; but I was willing
to take them at some advantage, so as to spare thcm,
and kill as few of them as I conld; and especially I w.<s
unwilling to hazard the killing any of onr men, know-
ing the others were very well armed. I resolved to
wait, to see if they did not separate; and therefore, to
make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and
ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their
hands and feet, as close to the gronnd as theyconld,
that they might not be discovered, and get as near them
as they conld possibly, before they offered to fire.
They had not been long in that posture, when the
boatswain, who was the principl ringleader of the mu-
tiny, and had now shown himself the most dejeated and
dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards them,
with two more of the crew: the captain was so eager at
having this principal rogue so much iu his power, that
he conld hardly have patience to let him come so near
as to be sure of him, for they only heard his tongue
before: but when they came nearer, the captain and
Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them. The
boatswain was kilted upon the spot; the next man was
shot into the body, and fell just by him, thongh he did
not die till an honr or two after; and the third run for
it. At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men, viz.
myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lientenant-general;
the captain and his two iucn, and the three prisoners of
war whom we had trusted with arms. We came upon
them, indeed, in the dark, so that they conld not see
onr number; and I made the man they had left in the
boat, who was now one of us, to call them by name, to
try if I conld bring them to a parley, and so might per-
haps reduce them to terms; which fell ont just as we
desired: fur indeed it was easy to think, as their con-
dition then was, they wonld be very willing to capitu-
late. So he c;ills ont as lond as he conld, to one of
them, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith an-
swered immediately, "Is that Rohiuson?" For it
seems he know the voice. The other auswered, " Av,
a_j; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down yonr arms
and yield, or yon are all dead menlhis moment,"—"XV ho
must we yield to? Where are they?" says Smith again.
"Here they are/' says he; " here's onr captain and
fifty men with him, have been bunting yon these two
honrs: the boatswain is killed, Will Fry is wonnded,
and I am a prisoner; and if yon do not yield, von are
all lost."—" Will they give us quarter then?" says
Tom Smith, " and we will yield."—"I'll go and ask,
if yon promise to yield," said Rohiuson: so he asked
the captain; and the captain himself then calls nut,
"Yon, Smith, yon know my voice; if yon lay down
yonr arms immediately, and submit, yon shall have yonr
lives, all but Will Atkius."
Upon this Will Atkius cried ont, " For God's sake,
captain, give me quarter; what have I done? They
have all been as had as I:" which, l>y the way, was
not true neither; for, it seems, this Will Atkius was
the first man that laid hold of the captain, when they
first mutinied, and used him harbaronsly, in tying his
hands, and giving him injurions language. However,
the captain told him he must lay down his arms at dis-
cretion, and trust to the governor's mercy: by which
he meant me, for they all called me governor. In a
word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their
lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with them,
and two more, who bonnd them all; and then my great
army of fifty men, which, particularly with those three,
were in all but eight, came up and seized upon them,
and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and one
more ont of sight for reasous of slate.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of
seizing the ship: and as for the captain, now he bad
leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them
upon the villany of their practices with him, and at
length upon the further xvickedness of their desigu, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows. They all ap-
peared vory penitent, and begged hard for their lives.
As for that, be told them they were none of his pri-
soners, but the commander's of the island; that they
thonght they had set him on shore in a barren, unin-
hahited island; but it had pleased God so to direct
them, that it was inhahited, and that the governor was
an Englishman; that he might hang them all there, if
he pleasi'd; but as he had given them all quarter, he
supposed he wonld send them to England, to he dealt
with there as justice required, except Atkius, whom
he was commanded by the governor to advise to pre-
pare for death, for that he wonld be hanged in the
morning.
Thongh this was all but a fiction of his own, vet it
had its desired effeet; Alkius fell upon his knees, to
beg the captain to intercede with the governor for his
life: and all the rest begged of him, for God's sake,
that I ln.-v might not be sent to England.
It now occurred to me, that the time of onr deliver-
ance was come, and that it wonld be a most easy thing
to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting pos-
session of the ship; so I retired in the dark from them,
that they might not see what kind of a governor they
had, and called the captain to me: when I called, as at
a good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak
again, and say to the captain, "Captain, the com-
mander calls for yon;" and presently the captain re-
plied, "Tell his excellency I am just a coming." This
more perfectly amused them, and they all believed that
the commander was just by with his fifty men. Upon
the captain's coming to me, I told him my project for
seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and
resolved to put it in execution the next morning. But,
in order to execute it with more art, and to; be secure
of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners,
and that he shonld go and take Atkius, and two more
of the worst of them, and send them pinioned to the
cave where the others lay. This was committed to
Friday, and the two men who came on shore with the
captain. They conveyed them to the cave as to a pri-
son: and it was, indeed, a dismal place, especially to
men in their condition. The others I ordered to my
bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full de-
scription; and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned,
tho place was secure enongh, cousidering they wure
upon their behavionr.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was
to enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try
them, and tell me whether he thonght they might be
trusted or no to go on board and surprise the ship.
He talked to them of the injury done him, of the con-
dition they were bronght to, and that thongh the go-
vernor had given them quarter for their lives as to the
present action, yet that if they were sent to England,
they wonld all be hanged in chaius, to be sure; but
that if they wonld join in so just an attempt as to re-
cover the ship, he wonld have the governor's engage-
ment for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
wonld be accepted by men in their condition; they fell
down on their knees to the captain, ami promised, with
the deepest imprecatious, that they wonld be faithful to
him to the last drop, and that they shonld owe their
lives to him, and wonld go with him all over the world;
that they wonld own him as a father to them as long as
they lived. "Well," says the captain, " I inust go and
tell the governor what yon say, and see what I can do to
bring him to cousent to it." So he bronght me an ac-
connt of the temper he fonnd them in, and that he verily
believed they wonld be faithful. However, that we
might be very secure, I told him he shonld go hack
again and choose ont those five, and tell them, that
they might see he did not want men, that he wonld take
ont those five to be his assistants, and that the gover-
nor wonld keep the other two, and the three that were
sent prisoners to the castle (my cave) as hostages for
the fidelity of those five; and that if they proved un-
faithful in the execution, the five hostages shonld be
hanged in chaius alive on the shore. This looked se-
vere, and convinced them that the governor was in
earnest: however, they had no way left them but to
accept it; and it was now the business of the prisoners,
as much as of the captain, to persuade the other five to
do their duty.
Our strength was now tbus ordered for the expe-
dition: first, The captain, his mate, and passenger:
second, Then the two prisoners of the first gang, to
whom, having their character from the captam, I had
given their liberty, and trusted them with arms: third,
The other two Ihat I had kept till now in my bower
pinioned, but, on tho captain's motion, had now re-
leased: fourth, These five released at last; so that
they were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners
in the cave lor hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ship; bat as for me and my
man Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to stir,
having seven men left behind ; and it was employment
enongh for us to keep them asunder, and supply them
with victuals. As to the five in the cave, I resolved
to keep them fast, but Friday went in twice a day to
them, to supply them with necessaries; and I made the
other two carry provisious to a certain distance, where
Friday was to take it.
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the person the
governor had ordered to look after them; and that it
was the governor's pleasure they shonld not stir any
where but by my direction ; that if they did, they wonld
be fetched into the castle, and be laid in irous: so that
as we never suflered them to see me as a governor, I
now appeared as another person, and spoke of the go-
vernor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all
occasious.
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to
furnish Ins two boats, stop the breach of one, and man
them. He made his passenger captain of one, with fonr
of the men; and himself, his mate, and five more, went
in the other; and they contrived their business very
well, for they came up to the ship abont midnight. As
soon as they came within call of the ship, he made
Robiuson hail them, and tell them they had bronght oif
the men and the boat, but that it was a long time before
they had found them, and the like, holding them in a
chat till they came to the ship's side; when the cap-
tain and the mate entering first, with their arms, imme-
diately knocked down the second mate and carpenter
with the butend of their muskets, being very faithfully
seconded by their men; they secured all the rest that
were upon the main and quarterdecks, and began to
fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were below;.
when the other boat and their men entering at the fore
chaius, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle
which went down into the cook-room, making three
men they fonnd there prisoners. When this was done,
;;nd all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate,
with three men, to break into the round honse, where
the new rebel captain lay, who, having taken the alarm,
had got up, and with two men and a boy had got fire-
arms in their hands; and when the mate with a crow
split open the door, the new captain and his men fired
boldly among them, and wonnded the mate with a mus-
ket hall, which broke his arm and wonnded two more
of ih*; im n, but killed nobody. The mate calling for
help, rushed, however, mto the ronnd house, wonnded
as he was and with his pistol shot the new captain
throngh the head, the bullet entering at his month, and
came ont again behind one of his ears, so that be never
spoke a word more: upon which the rest yielded,
and the ship was taken eflectually, withont any more
tives lost.
As soon as the ship was tbus secured, the captain
ordered seven guus to be fired, which was the sigual
agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success,
which yon may be sure I was very glad to hear, having
sat watching upon the shore for it till near two o'clocfc
in the morning. Having tbus heard the sigual plainly,
I laid me down; and it having been a day of great fa-
tigue to me, I slept very sonnd, till I was something
fin prised with the noise of a gun; and presently start-
ing up, I heard a man call me by the name of Governor,
Governor, and presently I knew the captain's voice:
when climhiijg up to the top of the hill, mere he stood,
and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his arms.
"My dear friend and deliverer," says he, "there's
yonr ship, for she is all yonrs, and so are we, and all
that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and
there she rode within little more than half a mile of the
shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they
were masters of her, and, the weather being fair, had
bronght her to an anchor just agaiust the month of the
little creek; and, the tide being up, the captain had
bronght the pinnace in near the place where I at first
landed my rafts, and so landed just at my door. I was
at first ready to sink down with the surprise; for I saw
mv deliverance, indeed, visibly put mto my hands, all
lings easv, and a large ship just ready to cany me
Rway whither I pleased to.no. At l.rst, to."-"*"!
I was not able to auswer him one word; but as he bad
taken me in Itls arms, I held fast by him or I shonld
Lave fallen to the gronnd. He perceived the surprise,

and immediately pulls a bottle ont of la pocket, and
save me a dram of cordial, which he had bronght on
lurpoTe for me. After I had drank it, I sat down upon
?he gronnd; and thongh it bronght me to myself yet
it was a good while before I conldspeak a word to him.
All this time the poor man was in as great an eestasy as
I only not under any surprise, as I was; and he said a
thonsand kind and tender things to me, to compose and
bring me to myself: but such was the flood of joy m
,ny breast that it put all my spirits mto confusion; a
ast it broke ont into tears; and m a little while after I
recovered my speech. I then took my turn and em-
braced him as my deliverer, and we rejoio.ed toge^er.
I told him I looked upon him as a man sent Irom Hea-
ven to deliver me, and that the whole trausaction seem-
ed to be a chain of wonders; that such thmgs as these
were the testimonies we had of a secret hand ot "•evi-
dence governing the world, and an evidence that tlie
eve of an infinite power conld search mto the remotest
corner of the world, and send help to the miserable
whenever he pleased. I forgot not to lift up my heart
in thankfulness to Heaven; and what heart conld iorbear
to bless Him, who had not only in a miraculons manner
provided for me in such a wilderness, and in such a
desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance
must always be acknowledged to proceed?
When we had talked a while, the captain told me he
had bronght me some little refreshment, such as the
ship afforded, and such as the wretches that had been
so long his masters had not plundered him of. Upon
this he called alond to the boat, and hade his men bring
the things ashore that were for the governor; and, in-
deed, it was a present as if I had been one that was not
to be carried away with them, but as if I had been to
dwell upon the island still. First, he had bronght me
a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters, six
large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two
quarts each), two ponnds of excellent good tohacco,
twelve good pieces of the ship's beef, and six pieces of
pork, with a hag of peas, and abont an bundred weight
of hiscuit: he also brought me a box of sugar, a box of
flonr, a hag full of lemous, and two bottles of lime juice,
and abundance of other things. But besides these, and
what was a thonsand times more useful to me, he bronght
me six new clean shirts, six very good neckcloths, two
pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of
stockings, with a very good suit of clothes of his own,
which had been worn but very little; in a word, he
clothed me from bead to foot. It was a very kind and
agreeable present, as any one may imagine, to one in
my circumstances; but never was any thing in t he world
of that kind so uupleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it
was to me to wear such clothes at first.
After these ceremonies were passed, and after all his
good things were bronght into my little apartment, we
began to cousult what was to be done with the prisoners
we had; for it was worth cousidering whether we might
venture to take them away with us or no, especially
two of them, whom he knew to be incorrigible and
refractory to the last degree; and the captain said he
knew they were such rogues that there was no oblig-
ing them, and if he did carry them away, it must be
in irous, as malefactors, to be delivered over to justice
at the first English colony he conld come at; and I fonnd
Jhat the captain himself was very anxions abont it.
Upon this I told him, that if be desired it, I wonld un-
dertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it
their own reqnest that he shonld leave them upon the
island. "I shonld be very glad of that," says the cap-
tam, "with all my heart."—" Well/' says I, " I will
send for them up, and talk with them for yon." So I
cansed Friday and the two hostages, for they were now
discharged, their comrades having performed their pro-
mise; I say, I cansed them to go to tin!1 cave, and bring
up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower,
and keep them there till I came. After some time, I
came thither dressed in my new hahit; and now I was
called governor again. Being all met, and the captain
with me, I cansed the men to be bronght before me,
and I told them I had got a full acconnt of their vil-
lanons behavionr to the captain, and how they had run
away with the ship, and were preparing to commit far-
ther robberies, but that Providence had eusnared them
in their own wavs, and that they were fallen into the
pit which they had dng for others. I let them know
that by my direction the ship had been seized ; that she
lay now in the road; and they might see by and by,
that their new captain had received the reward of his
villanv, and that they wonld see him hanging at the
\ ard arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what they
had to say why I shonld not execute them as pirates,
taken in the fact, as by my commission they conld nut
donbt but I had anthority so to do.
One of them auswered in the name of the rest, that
they had nothing to say but this, that when they were
taken, the captain promised them their lives, and they
bumbly implored my mercy. But I told them I knew
not what mercy to show them; for as for myself, I had
resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
taken passage with the captain to go for England ; and
as for the captain, he conld not carry them to England,
other than as prisoners, in irous, to be tried for mutiny
and ranning away with the ship ; the cousequence of
which, they must needs know, wonld be the gallows;
fio that I conld not tell what was best for them, unless
they had a mind to take their fate in the island; if the;
desired that, as I had liberty to leave the island, I had
some inclination to give them their lives, if they thonght
J
they conld shift on shore. They seemed very thankful
for it, and said they wonld mack rather venture to stay
there than he carried to England to be hanged: so I
left it on that issue.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty
of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this
I seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him
that they were my prisoners, not his; and that seeing I
had offered them so much favonr, I wonld be as good
as my word; and that if he did not think fit to cousent
to it, I wonld set them at liberty as I fonnd them; and
if he did not like it, he might take them again if he
conld catch them. Upon this they appeared very
thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty, and
hade them retire into the woods tu I he place whence
they came, and I wonld leave them some firearms,
some ammunition, and some directious how they shonld
live very well, if they thonght fit. Upon this I pre-
pared to go on board the ship; but told the captain I
wonld stay that night to prepare my things, and desired
him to go on board, in the mean time, and keep all
right in the ship, and send the boat on shore next day
for me ; ordering him, at all events, to canse the new
captain, who was killed, to be hanged at Ihe yard-arm,
that these men might see him.
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men np
to me to my apartment, and entered serionsly into dis-
conrse with them on their circumstances. I told them
I thonght they had made a right choice; that if the
captain had carried them away, they would certainly
be hanged. I showed them the new captain hanging
at the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had
nothing less to expect.
When they had all declared their willinguess to stay,
I then told them I wonld let them into the story of my
living there, and put them into the way of making it
easy to them: accordingly, I gave them the whole his-
tory of the place, and of my coming to it; showed them
my fortificatious, the way I made my bread, planted my
corn, cured my grapes; and, in a word, all that was
necessary to make them easy. I told them the story
also of the seventeen Spaniards that were to be expect-
ed, for whom I left a letter, and made them promise to
treat them in common with themselves. Here it may
be noted, that the captain had ink on board, who was
greatly surprised that I never hit upon a way of mak-
ing ink of charcoal and water, or of something else, as
I had done things much more difficult.
I left them my firearms, viz. five muskets, three
fowlingpieoes, aad three swords. I had above a barrel
and a half of powder left; for after the first year or
two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a
description of the way I managed the goats, and direc-
tious to milk and fatten them, and to make both butter
and cheese: in a word, I gave them every part of my
own story; and told them I shonld prevail with the
captain to leave them two harrels of guupowder more,
and some garden seeds, which I told them I wonld
have been very glad of: also I gave them the hag of
peas which the captain had bronght me to eat, and
iade them he sure to sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
P
b
went on board the ship. We prepared immediately to
sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning
early, two of the five men came swimming to the ship's
side, and making the most lamentable complaint of the
other ihree, begged to be taken into the ship for God's
sake, for they shonld be murdered, and begged the
captain to take them on board, thongh he hanged them
immediately. Upon this the captain pretended to have
no power withont me; but after some difficulty, and
after their solemn promises of amendment, they were
taken on board, and were some time after sonndly
whipped and pickled; after which they proved very
honest and quiet fellows.
Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the men;
to which the captain, at my intercession, cansed their
chests and clothes to be added, which they took' and
were very thankful for. I also enconraged them, by
tfelling them that if it lay in my power to send any ves-
sel to take them in, I wonld not forget them.
When I took leave of this island, I carried on board,
for reliques, the great goatskin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain
by me so long useless that it was grown rusty or tar-
nished, and conld hardly pass for silver, till it hud
been a little ruhhed and handled; as also the money [
fonnd in the wreck of the Spanish ship. And tuus I
left the island, the 19th of December, as I fonnd by the
ship's acconnt, in the year 1686, after I had been upon
it eight and twenty years, two months, and nineteen
days; being delivered from this second captivity the
same day of the month that I first made my escape iu
the long-boat, from among the Moors of Sal lee. In this
vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England the
llth of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five
years absent.
When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger
to all the world as if I had never l>een known there.
My benefactor and faithful steward, whom I had left
my money in trust with, was alive, but had had great
misfortunes in the world; was become a widow the se-
cond time, and very low in the world, I made her
very easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I wonld
give her no tronble; bat on the contrary, in gratitnde
for her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved
her as my little stock wonld alford; which at that time
wonld indeed allow me to do but little for her; but I
assured her I would never forget her former kindness
to me; nor did I forget her when I had sufficient to
help her, as shall be observed in its proper place. I
went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father
was dead, and my mother and all the family extinct,
except that I fonnd two sisters, and two of the children
of one of my brothers; and as I had been long ago
given over for dead, there had been no provision made
forme; so that, in a word, I fonnd nothing- to relieve
or assist me; and that the little money I had wonld not
do Hindi fur me as to settling in the world.
I met with one piece of gratitnde, indeed, which I
did not expect; and this was, that the maiter of the
ship whom I had BO happily delivered, and by the same
meaus saved the ship and cargo, having given a very
handsome account to the owners of the manner how I
had saved the lives of the men, and the ship, they in-
vited me to meet them and some other merchants con-
cerned, and all together made me a very handsome
compliment upon the subject, and a present of almost
200/. sterling.
But after making several reflectious upon the cir-
cumstances of my life, and how little way this wonld
go towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go
to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some infor-
mation of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and
of what was become of my partner, who, I had reason
to suppose, had some years past given me over for
dead. With this view I took shipping for Lisbon,
where I arrived in April following; my man Friday
accompanying me very honestly in all these ramblings,
and proving a most faithful servant upon all occasious.
When I came to Lisbon, I found ont, by inquiry, and
to my particular satisfaction, my old friend the captain
of the ship who first took me up at sea off the shore of
Africa. He was now giowu old, and had left ofl' going
to sea, having put his son, who was far from a yonng
man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade.
The old man did not know me; and, indeed, I hardly
knew him: but I soon bronght him to my remembrance,
and as soon bronght myself to his remembrance, when
I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressious of the old ac-
quaintance between us, I inquired, yon may he sun-.
after my plantation and my partner. The old man to!-
me he had not been in the Brazils for abont nine years;
but that he conld assure me, that when he came awav
i.i\ partner was living; but the trustees, whom I had
jomed with him to take coguizance of my purl, were
both dead: that, however, he believed I wonld have u
very good acconnt of the improvement of the planta-
tion; for that upon the general belief of my being cast
away and drowned, my trustees had given in the ac-
connt of the produce of my part of the plantation to the
procurator fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case I
never came to claim it, one-third to the king, and two-
thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be expend-
ed for the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of
the Indiaus to the Catholic faith; but that if I appear-
ed, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it wonld
be restored; only that the improvement, or annual
production, being distributed to charitable uses, conM
not be restored: hat be assured me that the steward of
the king's revenue from lands, and the provedore, or
steward of the monastery, had taken great care all along
that the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave
every year a faithful acconnt of the produce, of whicb
they had duly received my moiety? I asked him if be
knew to what height of improvement be bad bronght
the plantation, and whether he thonght it might be
worth looking after; or whether, on my going thither,
I shonld meet with any obstruction to my possessing
my just right in the moiety? He told me he conld not
tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improv-
ed; hat this he knew, that my partner was grown ex-
ceeding rich upon the enjoying his part of it; and that,
to the best of his remembrance, he had beard that the
kmg's third of my part, which was, it seems, granted
away to some other monastery or religions honse,
amounted to above two bundred moidores a year: that
i;s to my being restored to a quiet possession of it, there
was no question to be made of that, my partner being
alive to witness my title, and my name being also en-
rolled in the register of the conntry; also he told me,
that the survivors of my two trustees were very fair
honest people, and very wealthy; and he believed I
wonld not only have their assistance for putting me iu
possession, hat wonld fiml a very cousiderable sum of
money in their hands for my acconnt, being the pro-
duce of the farm while their fathers held the trust, and
before it wasgivun up, as above; which, as he remem-
bered, was for abont twelve years.
I showed myself a liftle concerned and uneasy at Ihis
acconnt, and inquired of the old captain how it came
to pass that the trustees shonld tbus dispose of my
effects, when he knew that I had made my will, and
had made him, the Portuguese captain, my universal
heir, &c.
He told me that was true; but that as there was no
proof of my being dead, he conld not act as executor,
until som(/certaia acconnt shonld come of my death;
and, besides, be was not willing to intermeddte with
a thing so remote: that it was true ho had registered
my will, and put in his claim; and conld bo have given
any acconnt of my being dead or alive be wonld have
acted by procuration, and taken possession of the in-
geino (so they called the sugar honse), and have given
his son, who was now at the Brazils, orders to do it.
"But," says the old man, " I have one piece of news
to telt yon, which perhaps uny not be so acceptable to
yon as the rest; and that is, believing yon were lost,
and all the world believing so also, jonr partner and
trustees did ofler to acconnt with me, in yonr name, for
the first six or eight years' profits, which I received.
There being at that time great disbursements ibr in-
creasing the works, building an ingeino, and buying
slaves, it did not amonnt to near so much as afterwards
it produced: however," says the old man, '' I shall
give yon a true acconnt of what I have received in all,
and how I have disposed of it."
Alier a few days' farther conference with this ancient
friend, he bronght me an acconnt of the first six years
income of my plantation, sigued by my partner and the
merchant-trustees, being always delivered in goods,
viz. tohacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum,
molasses, &.c. which is the cousequence of a sugar-
work; and I fonnd by this acconnt, that every year
the income cousiderably increased; but, as above, the
disbursements being large, the sum at first was small:
however the old man let me see that he was debtor lo
me fonr bundred imd seventy moidores of gold, besides
sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen donble rolls of tohacco,
which were lost in his ship ; he having been shipwreck-
ed coming home to Lisbon, abont eleven years after
my leaving the place. The good man then began to
complain of his misfortunes, and how he had been
obliged to make use of my money to recover his losses,
and buy him a share in a now ship. "However, my
old friend," says he, "yon shall not want a supply in
yonr necessity; and as soon as my son returus, yon shall
be fully satisfied." Upon this he pulls ont an old
ponch, and gives me one bundred and sixty Portugal
moidores in gold; and giving the writings of his title
to the ship, which his son was gone to the Brazils in,
of which be was a quarter-part owner, and his son ano-
ther, he puts them both into my hands for security of
the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kind-
ness of the poor man to be able to bear this; and re-
membering what he had done for me, how he had taken
me up at sea, and how generonsly he had used me on
all occasious, and particularly how sincere a friend he
was now to me, I conld hardly refrain weeping at
what be had said to me; therefore I asked him if his
circumstances admitted him to spare so much money
at that time, and if it wonld not straiten him? He told
me he conld not say but it might straiten him a little;
but, however, it was my money, and I might want it
more than he.
Every thing the good man said was full of affection,
and I conld hardly refrain from tears while he spoke;
iu short, I took one bundred of the mnidores, and
called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them:
i lien I returned him the rest, and told him if ever I
had possession of the plantation, I would return the
other to him also (as, indeed, I afterwards did); and
that as to the hill of sale of his part in his son's ship, I
wonld not take it by any meaus; but that if I wanted
the money, I fonnd he was honest enongh to pay me;
and if I did not, but came to receive what he gave me
reason to expect, I wonld never have a penny more
from him.
When this was passed, the old man aske-d me if he
shonld put me into a method to make my claim to my
plantation? I told him I thonght to go over lo it my-
self. He said I might do so it I pleased; but that if
I did not, there were ways enongh to secure my right,
and immediately to appropriate the profits to my use:
and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon just ready
to go away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a
public register, with his ath'davit, aflirming, upon oath,
that I was alive, and that I was the same person who
took up the land for the planting the said plantation at
first. This being regularly attested by a notary, and a
procuration affixed, he directed me to send it, with a
letter of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance
at the place; and then proposed my staving with him
till an acconnt came of the return.
Never was any thing more honourable than the pro-
ceedings upon this procuration; for in less than seven
months I received a large packet from the survivors ot
my trustees, the merchants, for whose acconnt T went
to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclosed.
First, There was the acconnt-current of the pro-
duce of my farm or plantation, from the year when
their fathers had halanced with my old Portugal cap-
tain, being for six years; the halance appeared to be
one thonsand one bundred and seventy-fonr moidoics
in iu^ favonr.
Secondly, There was the account of fonr years more,
while they kept the effects in their hands, before the
government claimed the administration, as being the
eflects of a person not to be fonnd, which they called
civil death ; and the halance of this, the value of the
plantation increasing, amonnted to nineteen thonsand
fonr bundred and forty-six crusadoes, being abont three
thonsand two bundred and forty moidores.
Thirdlv, Tficre was the prior of St. Augustine's ac-
connt, who had received the profits for above fonrteen
years; but not being to acconnt for what was disposed
of by the hospital, very honestly declared he had eight
bundred and seventy-two moidores not distributed,
which he acknowledged to my acconnt: as to the king's
part, that refunded nothing.
There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating
me very affectionately upon my being alive, giving me
an acconnt how the estate was improved, and what it
produced a year; with a particular of the number of
squares or acres that it contained, how plan ted, how many
slaves there were upon it, and making two and twenty
crosses for blessings, told me he had said so many Ave
Marias to thank the blessed Virgin that I was alive;
inviting me very passionately to come over and take
possession of mv own; and, in the mean time, to give
him orders to whom he shonld deliver my effects, if
I did not come myself; conclnding \\ith a hearty ten-
der of his friendship, and that of his family; and sent
me, as a present, seven fine leopards' skius, which be
had, it seems, received from Africa, by some other ship
that he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had made
a better voyage than I. He sent me also five chests
of excellent sweetmeats, and a bundred pieces of gold
uncoined, not quite so large as moidores. By the same
fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me one thon-
sand two bundred chests of sugar, eight bundred rolls
of tohacco, and the rest of the whole acconnt in gold.
I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of
Job was better than the beginning. It is impossible to
express the flutterings of my very heart when I fonnd
all my wealth abont me; for as the Brazil ships come
all in fleets, the same ships which bronght my letters
bronght my goods: and the effects were safe in the
river before the letters came to my hand. In a word,
I turned pale, and grew sick; and had not the old man
run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sndden sur-
prise of joy had overset nature, and I had died upon
the spot: nay, after that, I continued very ill, nnd was
so some honrs, till a physician being sent for, and some-
thing of the real canse of my illness being known, he
ordered me to be let blood ,• after which I had relief,
and grew well: but I verily believe, if I had not been
eased by a vent given in that manner to the spirits, I
shonld have died.
I was now master, all on a sndden, of above five
thonsand ponnds sterling in money, and had an estate,
as I might well call it, in the Brazils, of above a thon-
sand ponnds a year, as sure as an estate of lands in
England; and, in a word, I was in a condition which I
scarce knew how to understand, or how to compose
myself for the enjoyment of it. The first thing I did
was to recompeuse my original benefactor, my good
old captain, who had been first charitable to me in my
distress, kind to me in my beginning, and honest to me
at the end. I showed him all that was scut to me; I
told him, that next to the providence of Heaven, which
disposed all things, it was owing to him; and that it
now lay on me to reward him, which I wonld do a bun-
dred fold: so I first returned to him the bundred moi-
dores I had received of him; then I sent for a notary,
and cansed him to draw up a general release or dis-
charge from the fonr bundred and seventy moidores,
which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest
and firmest manner possible. After which I cansed a
procuration to be drawn, empowering him to be my
receiver of the annual profits of my plantation, and ap-
pointing my partner to acconnt with him, and make the
returus by the usual fleets to him in my name; and a
clanse in the end, being a grant of one bundred nioi-
dores a year to him during his life, ont of the effects,
and fifty moidores a year to his sou after him, for his
life: ami tbus I requited my old man,
I was now to cousider which way to steer my conrse
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence
had tbus put into my hands; and, indeed, I had more
care upon my head now than I had in m\ silent state
of life in the island, where I wanted nothmg but what
I hiid, and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas I
had nuw a great charge upon me, and my business was
how to secure it. I had never a cave now to hide my
money in, or a place where it might lie withont lock or
key, till it grew monldy and tarnished before any bodv
wonld meddle with it; on the contrary, I knew not
where to put it, or whom to trust with it. My old pa-
tron the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the
only refuge I had. In the next place, my interest in
the Brazils seemed to summon me thither; but now I
coald not tell how to think of going thither till I bad
settled my aflairs, and left my effects in some safe hands
behind me. At first I thought of my old friend the
widow, who I Kuew was honest, and wonld be just to
me; but then she was in years, and but poor, and, for
anght I knew, might be in debt; so that, in a word, I
1 had no way hat to go back to England myself, and
take my effects with me.
It was some months, however, before I resolved
upon this; and therefore, as I had rewarded the old
captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my
former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor
widow, whose buhband had been my first benefactor,
and she, while it was in her power, my faithful steward
and iustructor. So the first thing I did, I got a mer-
chant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in Lon-
don, not only to pay a hill, but to go fmd her ont, and
carry her in money a bundred ponnds from me, and to
talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty, by telU
ing her she shonld, if I lived, have a further supply:
at the same time I sent my two sisters in the conntry a
bundred ponnds each, they being, thongh not in want,
yet not in very good circumstances; one having been
married and left a widow; and the other having a bus-
hand not so kind to her as he shonld he. But among
all my relatious or acquaintance!!, I conld not \et pitch
upon one to whom I durst commit the gross oi' my
stock, that I might go away to the Brazils, and leave
things safe behind me; and this greatly perplexed me.
I had once a mind to have gone to tin- Brazils, and
have settled myself there, for I was, as it were, natu-
ralized to the place; but I had some little scruple in
my mind abont religion, which iuseusiblv drew me
luu'k. However, it was not religion that kept iue from
going there for the present; and as I had made no
scruple of being openly of the religion of the conntry
all the while I was among them, so neither did I yet;
nnly that, now and then, having of late thonght more
of it than formerly, when I began to think of living
and dying among them, I began to regret my having
professed myself a Papist, and thonght it might not be
the best religion to die with. «.
But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Brazils, but that really I
did not know with whom to leave my effects behind
me; so I resolved, at last,'to go to England with it,
where, if I arrived, I conclnded I shonld make some
acquaintance, or find some relatious that wonld be
faithful to me; and accordingly, I prepared to go to
.England with alt my wealth.
In order to prepare things for my going bome, I first,
the Brazil fleet being just going away, resolved to give
auswers suitable to the just and faithful acconnt of
thmgs I had from thence; and, first, to the prior of St.
Augustine, I wrote a letter full of thanks for their just
dealings, and the offer of the eight bundred and se-
venty-two moidores which were undisposed of, which
1 desired might be given,five bundred to the monastery,
and three bundred and seventy-two to the poor, as the
!,rior shonld direct; desiring the good padre's prayers
or me, and the like. I wrote next a letter of thanks
to my two trustees, with all the acknowledgment that
so much justice and honesty called for; as for sending
them any present, they were far above having any
occasion for it. Lastly, I wrote to m^ partner, ac-
knowledging his industry in the improvmg the planta-
tion, and Iiia integrity in increasing the stock of the
works; giving him iustrnctious for his Jut a re govern-
ment of my part, acconlingto the powers I had Ieft with
my old patron, to whom I desired him to send whatever
became due to me, till he shonld hear from me more
particularly; assuring him that it was my intentiou not
only to come to him, but to settle myself there for the
remainder of my life. To this I added a very hand-
some present of some Italian silks for his wife and two
danghters, for such the captain's son informed me he
had; with two pieces of fine English broad cloth, the
best I conld pet in Lisbon, five pieces of black haize,
and some Flanders lace of'a good value.
Having tbus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my eflects into good hills of exchange, my
next difficulty was, which way to go to England: 1
had been accustomed enongh to the sea, and yet I had
a strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time;
and thongh I conld give no reason for it, yet the difli-
culty increased upon me so much, that thongh I had
once shipped my haggage in order to go, yet I altered
my mind, and that not once, but two or three times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea, and
this might be one of the reasous; but let no man
slight the strong impulses of his own thonghts in cases
of such moment: two of the ships which I had singled
ont to go in, I mean more particularly singled ont than
any oiher, having pat my things on board one of them,
and in the other to have agreed with the captain; I
say, two of these ships miscarried, viz. one was taken
by the Algerines, and the other was cast away on the
Start, near Torhay, and all the people drowned, except
three; so that in either of those vessels I had been
made miserable.
Having been tbus harassed in my thonghts, my old
pilot, to whom I commnnicated every thing, pressed
me eariK-stI}' not to go by sea, but either to go by land
to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay to
Ilochelle, from whence it was but an easy and sale
jonrney by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover;
or to go up to Madaid, and so all the way by land
throngh France. In a word, I was so prepossessed
against my going by sea at all, except from Calais to
Dover, that I resolved to travel all the way by land;
which, as I was not iii haste, and did not value the
charge, was by mueh the pleasanter way: and to make it
more so, my old captain bronght an English gentleman,
the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to
travel with me-; after which we picked up two more
English merchants also, and two yonng Portuguese
gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that in all
there were six of us, and five servants; the two mer-
chants and the two Portuguese contenting themselves
with one servant between two, to save the charge; and
as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me as a
servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much a
stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a ser-
vant on the road.
In this manner I set oat from Lisbon; and onr com-
pany being very well monnted and armed, we made a
little troop, whereof they did me the hononr to call me
captain, as well becanse I was the oldest man, as be-
canse I had two servants, and, indeed was the original
of the whole journey.
As I have troubled yon with none of my sea journals,
so I shall trouble yon now with none of my land jonr-
nal; but some adventures that happened to us in this
tedions and difficuIt jonrney I must not omit.
When we'came to Madrid, we, being all of us stran-
gers to Spain, were willing to stav some time to see the
conrt of Spain, and to see what was worth observing;
but it being the latter part'of the summer, we hastened
away, and set ont from Madrid abont the middle of
October; but when we came to the edge of Navarre,
we were alarmed, at several towus on the way, with
an acconnt that so much suow was fallen on the French
side of the monntaius, that several travellers were
obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having at-
tempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on.
When wo came to Pampeluna itself, we fonnd it so
indeed; and to rue, that had bocu always used to a hut
climate, and to conntries where I conld scarce bear
any clothes on, the cold was iusufferable: nor indeed,
was it more painful than surprising, to como but ten
days before ont of Old Castile, where the weather was
not only warm, but very hot, and immediately to feel a
VCL. I. T
wind from the Pyrenean monntaius so very keen, so
severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger be-
numhing and perishing of onr fingers and toes.
Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the
monntaius all covered with suow, and felt cold weather,
which he had never seen or felt before in his life. To
mend the matter, when we came to Pampeluna, it con-
tinned suowing with so much violence and so long
that the people said winter was come before its time;
and the roads, which were diflicult before, were now
quite impassable; for, in a word, the suow lay in some
places too Ibick for us to travel, and being not hard
frozen, as is the case in the northern conntries, there
was no going without bemg in danger of being buried
alive every sir p. \Ve stayed no less than twenty days
at Pampeluna; when seeing the winter coming on, and
no likelihood of its being better, for it was the severest
winter all over Europe that had been known in the me-
mory of man, I proposed that we shonld all go away
to Fontarahia, and there take shipping for Itonrdeanx,
which was a very little voyage. .Bat while I was con-
sidering this, there came in fonr French gentlemen, who
having been stoppetl on the French side of the passes,
as we were on the Spanish, had fonnd ont a guide, who,
traversing the country near the head of Languedoc,
had bronght them over the monntaius by such ways
that they were not much incommoded with the suow;
for where they met with suow in any quantity, they
said it was frozen hard enongh to bear them and their
horses. We sent for this guide, who told us he wonld
undertake to carry us the same way with no hazard
from the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently to
protect onrselves from wild beasts; for, he said, upon
these great suows it was frequent for some wolves to
show themselves. at the foot of the monntaius, being
made ravenous for want of food, the gronnd being
covered with suow. We told him we were well enongh
prepared for such creatures as they were, if he wonld
eusure us from a kind of two legged wolves, which, we
were told, we were in most danger from, especially on
the French side of the monntaius. He satisfied us that
there was no danger of that kind in the way that we were
to go, so we readily agreed to follow him, as did also
Iwelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to
go, and were obliged to come back again.
Accordingly, we set oat from Pampcluna, with onr
guide, on the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was
surprised, when, iustead of going forward, he came
directly hack with us on the same road that we came
from Madrid, about twenty miles; when having passed
two rivers, and come into the plain country, \\e fonnd
onrselves in a warm climate again, where the country
was pleasant, and no suow to be seen; hut on a sndden,
turning to his left, he approached the monntaius ano-
ther way; and thongh it is true the hills and precipices
looked dreadful, yet he made so many tonrs, such
meanders, and led us by such winding ways, that we
iuseusibly passed the height of the monntaius withont
being much encumbered with the suow; and, all on a
sndden, he showed us the pleasant and fruitful pro-
vinces of Languedoc and Gascony, all green and flon-
rishing, thongh, indeed, at a great distance, and we had
some rongh way to pass still.
We were a little uneasy, however, when we found
it suowed one whole day and a night so fast that we
conld not travel; but he hid us be easy; we shonld
soon be past it all: we fonnd, indeed, that we began to
descend every day, and tc come more north than before;
and so, depending upon onr guide, we went on.
It was abont two honrs before night, when onr guide
being something before us, and not just in sight, out
rushed three moustrons wolves, and after them a bear,
ont of a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood: two of
the wolves made at the guide, and had he been far he-
fore us, he wonld have been devonred before we conld
have helped him; one of them fastened upon his horse,
and the other attacked the man with that violence, that
he had not time or presence of mind enongh to draw
Itia pistol, but hallooed and cried ont to us most lustily.
My man Friday being next me, I hade him ride up, and
see what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in
sight of the man, he hallooed ont as lond as the other,
"O master! O master!" but, like a bold fellow, rode
directly up to the poor man, and with his pistol shot the
wolf that attacked him in the head.
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for he having been used to such creatures in
his conntry, he had no fear upon him, but went close
up to him and shot him, as above; whereas any other
of us wonld have fired at a farther distance, and have
perhaps either missed the wolf, or endangered shooting
the man.
But it was enongh to have terrified a bolder man
than I ; and, indeed, it alarmed all onr company, when
with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both
sides the most dismal howling of wolves; and the noise,
redonbled by the echo of the monntaius, appeared to
us as it- there had been a prodigions number of them;
and perhaps there was not such a few as that we Irad no
cause of appreheusious: however, as Friday had killed
this wolf, the other that had fastened upon the horse
left him immediately, and fled, withont doing him any
damage, having happily fastened upon his head, where
the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth. But the
man was most burt; for the raging creature had hit
him twice, once in the arm, and the other time a little
above his knee; and thongh he had made some de-
fence, he was just as it were tumbling down by the dis-
order of his horse, when Friday came up and shot the
wolf.

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's
pistol we all mended onr pace, and rode up as fast as
the way, which was very difficult, wonld give us leave,
to sec what was the matter. As aoon as we came clear
of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw clearly
what had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged
the poor guide, thongh we did not presently discern
what kind of creature it was he had killed.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in
such a surprising manner as that which followed be-
tween Friday and the bear, which gave us all, thongh
at first we were surprised and afraid for him, the great-
est diversion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy
clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the wolf does,
who is swift and light, so he has two particular quali-
ties, which generally arc the rule of his actious: first,
as to men, who are not his proper prey (he does not
usually attempt Ihem, except they first attack him, un-
less he be excessive bungry, which it is prohable might
now be the case, the gronnd being covered with suow),
il von do not meddle with him, he wilt not meddle with
von; but then yon must take care to be very civil to
liim, and give him the road, for he is a very nice gen-
tlcman; he will not go a step ont of his way for a
prince; nay, if yon are really afraid, yonr best wav is
to look another way, and keep going on; for some-
times if yon stop, and stand still, and look steadfastly
at him, he takes it for an affront; but if yon throw or
toss anything at him, and it hits him, though it were
Imt a hit of stick as big as yonr finger, he thinks him-
self abused, and sets all other business aside to pursue
his revenge, and will have satisfaction in point of hononr;
—this is his first quality: the next is, if he be once
affronted, he will never leave yon, night nor day, till he
has his revenge, but follows at a good ronnd rate till
he overtakes yon.
My man Friday had delivered onr guide, and when
we came up to him, he was helping him off from his
horse, for the man was both burt and frightened, when
on a sndden we espied the bear come ont of the wood,
and a vast moustrons one it was, the higgest by far that
ever I saw. We were all a littlc surprised when we
saw him; but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see
joy and conrage in the fellow's conntenance: "O, O, O!"
ways Friday, three times, pointing to him ; "O master!
yon give me te leave, me shakee te hand with him; me
jnakee yon good langh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased:
"Yon foul," says 1, "he will eat yon up.''—'' Katee
me up! eatee me up!" says Friday, twice over again;
"me eatee him up; me makee yon good langh; jon
all stay here, me show yon good langh." So down he
sits, and gets off his boots in a moment, and puts on a
pair of pumps (as we call the Hat shoes they wear, and
which be had in his pocket), gives my other servant
his horse, and with his gun away he flew, swift like the
wind.
The bear was walking softlv on, and offered to med-
dle with nobody, till Friday coming pretty near, calls
to him, as if the bear conld understand him, " Hark
ye, hark ye," says Friday, "me spcakce with yon."
We followed at a distance, for now being come down
on the Gascony side of the monntaius, we were entered
a vast forest, where the conntry was plain aud pretty
open, though it had many trees in it scattered bere and
there. Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the
bear, came up with him quickly, and takes up a great
stone and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head,
but did him no more barm than if he had thrown it
agaiust a wall; but it auswered Friday's end, for the
rogue was .so void of fear that he did it purely to make
the bear follow him, and show us some langh, as be
called it. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw
him, he turus abont, and comes after him, taking devil-
ish long strides, and sbuffling on at a strange rate, so as
wonld have put a horse to a middling gallop: away
ruus Friday, and takes his conrse as if he run towards
as for help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the
bear, and deliver my man; thongh I was angry at him
heartily for bringing the bear hack upon us, when he
was going abont his own business another way: and
especially I was angry that he had turned the bear upoa
us, and then run away; and I called ont, " Yon dog, is
this yonr making us langh? Come away, and take your
horse, that we may shoot the creature." He heard me,
and cried ont, "*No shoot, no shoot; standstill, and
yon get much langh:" and as the nimble creature ran
two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a sndden on
one side of us, and seeing a great oak tree fit for his
Eurpose, he beckoned to as to follow; aad donbling
is pace, he gets nimbly up tin; tree, laving Ins gun
down upoo the gronnd, at abont five or six \unls from
the bottom of the tree. The bear soon came to the
tree, and we followed at a distance: the first thing he
did, he stopped at the gun, smelled to it, but let it tie,
and up he scrambles into the tree, climhing like a cat,
thongh so moustrons heavy. I was ama/.ed at the folly,
as I thonght it, of my man, and conld not for my life
see anything to langh at yet, till seeing the hear get up
the tree, we all rode near to him.
When we came to the tree, there was Friday got ont
to the small end of a large branch, and the bear got
abont halfway to him. As soon as the bear got ont to
that part where the limb of the tree was weaker,—
"Ha!" says he to us, " now yon see mo teaoheo the
bear dance:" so be falls a jumping and shaking the
bongh, at which the bear began to totter, but stood
still, and began to look behind him, to see how he
shonld get back: then, indeed, we did langh heartily.
But Friday had not done with him by a great deal;
when seeing him stand still, he calls ont to him again,
as if he had supposed the bear conld speak English,
"What, yon come no farther? pray yon come farther;"
so he left jumping and shaking the tree; and the bear,
just fisit he understood what he said, did come a little
farther; then he fell a jumping again, and the bear
stopped again. We thonght now was a good time to
knock him in the head, and called to Friday to stand
still, and we wonld shoot the bear: but he cried ont
earnestly, " O pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by
and then :" he wonld have said by and by. However,
to shorten the story, Friday danced so much, and the
hear stood so ticklish, that we had langhing enough,
hut still conld not imagine what the fellow wonld do:
for first we thought he depended upon shaking the
bear off; and we fonnd the bear was too cunning for
that too; for he wonld not go ont far enongh to be
thrown down, but clings fast with his great broad claws
and feet, so that we conld not imagine what wonld be
the end of it, and what the jest \\ould be at last. But
Friday pot us ont of donbt quickly: for seeing the bear
cling fast to the hongh, and that he wonld not be per-
suaded to come any farther, " Well, well," says Friday,
"yon no come farther, me go; yon no come to me, me
come to yon:" and upon this he goes ont to the smaller
end of the bongh, where it wonld bend with his weight,
and gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the
bongh till he came near enongh to jump down on Ins
feet, and away he ruus to his gun, takes it up, and stands
still. "Well," said I to him, " Friday, what will yon
do now? Why don't yon shoot him?"—"No shoot,"
says Friday, "no yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me
stay, give yon one more langh ;''and, indeed, so he did,
us yon will see presently; for when the bear saw Ins
enemy gone, he comes hack from the bongh where he
stood, but did it mighty cantiously, looking behind
him every step, and coming hackward till he got into
the body of the tree; then with the same hinder end
foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it with his
claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurelv.
At this juncture, and just before he conld set his hind
foot on the gronnd, Friday stepped up close to him,
clapped the mu/zle of his piece into his car, and shot
him dead. Then the rogue turned about to see if we
did not langh; and when he saw we were pleased, bv
onr looks, he falls a langhing himself very lond. "So
we kill bear in my conntry," says Friday. "So yon
kill them?" says I, "why, yon have no guus."—" No,"
says he, " no gun, but shoot great much long arrow."
This was a good diversion to us; but we were still in
a wild place, and onr guide very much burt, and what
to do we hardly knew: the howling of wolves ran much
in my head; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard
on the shore of Africa, of which I have said something
already, I never heard anything that filled me with so
much horror.
These things, and the approach of night, called us
off, or else, as Friday wonld have had us, we shonld
certainly have taken the skin of this moustrons creature
off, which was worth saving; but we had near three
leagues to go, and onr guide hastened us; so we left
him, and went forward on onr jonrney.
The ground was stiil covered with suow, thongh not
so deep and dangerons as on the mountaius; and Ihe
ravenons creatures, as we heard afterwards, were coma
down inlo the forest and plain conntry, pressed by
bunger, to seek for food, and had done a great deal of
mischief in the villages, where they surprised the
conntry people, killed a great many of their sheep and
horses, and some people too. We had one dangerons
place to pass, which, onr guide told us, if there were
more wolves in the conntry we shonld find them there;
and this was a small plam, surronnded with woods on
every side, and a long narrow defile, or lane, which we
were to pass to get through the wood, and then we
shonld come to the village where we were to lodge.
It was within half an honr of sunset when we entered
the first wood, and a little after suuset when we came
into the plain; we met with nothing in the first wood,
except that in a little plain within the wood, which was
not above two furlongs over, we saw five great wolves
cross the road, full speed, one after another, as if they
had been in chase of some prey, anu had it in view;
they took no notice of us, and were gone ont of sight in
a few moments. Upon this onr guide, who by the way
was but a faint-hearted fellow, hid us keep in a ready
posture, for he believed there were more wolves a com-
ing. We kept onr arms ready, and onr eyes abont us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came throngh that
wood, which was near half a league, and entered the
plain. As soon as we cameinto the plain, we had occa-
sion enongh to look abont us: the first object we met
with was a dead horse, that is to say, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of
them at work, we conld not say eating of him, but
picking of his bones rather; for they had eaten up all
the flesh before. We did not think fit to disturb them
at their feast, neither did they take much notice of us.
Friday wonld have let tiy at them, but I wonld not
suHer him bv any meaus; for I fonnd we were like to
have more business upon onr hands than we were aware
of. We were not gone half over the plain, when we
began to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our lell
in a frightful manner, and presently after we saw abont
a bundred coming on directly towards us, all in a body,
and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up by experienced officers. I scarce knew m
what manuer to receive them, but fonnd, to draw on*-
selves in a close line was the only way; so we formed
in a moment: but that we might not have too much
interval, I ordered that only every other man shonld
fire, and that the others who had not fired shonld stand
ready to give them a second volley immediately, if they
continued to advance upon us; and then that those who
had fired at first shonld not pretend 1o load their fusees
again, but stand ready, every one with a pistol, for wo
were alt armed with a fusee and a pair of pistols each
man; so we were, by this method, able to fire six vol-
leys, half of us at a time: however, at present we had
no necessity; for upon firing the first volley, the enemy
made a full stop, being terrified as well with the noise
as with the fire; fonr of them, being shot in the head,
dropped; several others were wonnded, and went
bleeding- off, as we conld see by the suow. I fonnd
they stopped, but did not immediately retreat; where-
upon, remembering that I had been told that the fiercest
creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I cansed
all tho company to halloo as lond as we conld; and I
fonnd the notion not altogether mistaken; for upon onr
shont they began to retire, and turn abont. I then or-
dered a second volley to be fired in their rear, which
put them to the gallop, and away they went to the
woods. This gave us leisure to charge oar pieces
again; and that we might lose no time, we kept going:
but we had but little more than loaded onr fusees, and
put onrselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible
noise in the same wood on oar left, only that it was
farther onward, the same way we were to go.
The night was coming on, and the light began to be
dusky, which made it worse on onr side; but the noise
increasing, we conld easily perceive that it was the
howling and yelling of those hellish creatures; and, on
a sndden, we perceived two or three troops of wolves,
one on onr left, one behind us, and one in onr front,
so that we seemed to be surronnded with them: how-
ever, as they did not fall upon us, we kept onr way
forward, as fast as we conld make onr horses go, whicb,
the way being vary rongh, was only a good hard trot.
In this manner we came in view of the entrance of a
wood, throngh which we were to pass, at the farther
side of the plain; but we were greatly surprised, when
coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. On a
sndden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the
noise of a gun, and looking that way, oat rushed a
horse, with a saddle and a bridle on him, flying like the
wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him full
speed ; indeed the horse had the heels of them, hat as
we supposed that he conld not hold it at that rate, we
donbted not but they wonld get up with him at last;
no question but they did.
But here we had a most horrible sight; for, riding up
to the entrance where the horse came ont, we fonnd
the carcasses of another horse and of two men, devonred
by the ravenons creatures; and one of the men was no
donbt the same whom we heard fire the gun, for there
lay a gaa just by him fired off; but as to the man, his
head and the upper part of his body were eaten up.
This filled us with norror, aiid we knew not what
conrse to take; but the creatures resolved us soon,
for they gathered abont us presently, in hopes of prey;
and I verily believe there were three bundred of them,
It happened very much to onr advantage, that at the
entrance into the wood, but a little way from it, there
lay some large timber trees, which had been cut down
the summer before, and I suppose lay there for car-
riage. I drew my little troop in among those trees,
and placing onrselves in a line behind one long tree,
I advised them all to alight, and keeping that tree he-
fore us for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three
fronts, enclosing onr horses in the centre. We did so,
and it was well we did; for never was a more furions
charge than the creatures made upon us in this place.
They came on with a growling kind of noise, and
monnted the piece of timber, which, as I said, was onr
breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their
prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally
occasioned by their seeing onr horses behind us. I
ordered our men to fire as before, every other man;
and they took their aim so sure, that they killed se-
veral of the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on
like devils, those behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired a second volley of onr fusees, we
thonght ihcy stopped a little, ami I hoped they wonld
have gone off, but it was l,nt a moment, for others came
forward again; so we fired two vollevs of onr pistols;
and I believe in these lour firings we had killed seven-
teen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many, yet
they came on again. I was loath to spend onr shot too
hastily; so I called my servant, not my man Friday, for
he was better employed, for, with the greatest dex-
terity imaginable, he had charged my fusee and his own
while we were engaged; but, as I said, I called my
other man, and giving him a horn of powder, I hade
him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and let it
be a large train. He did so; and had but just time to
get away, when the wolves came up to it, and some got
upon it, when I, suapping an uncharged pistol close to
the powder, set it on fire: those that were upon the
timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them
fell, or rather jumped in among us, with the force and
fright of the fire; we dispatched these in an iustant, and
the rest were so frightened with the light, which the
night, for it was now very near dark, made more terri-
ble, that they drew hack a little; upon which I ordered
oar last pistols to be fired off in one volley, and after
that we gave a shont: upon this the wolves turned
tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame
ones, that we found struggling on the gronnd, and fell a
cutting them with onr swords, which auswered onr ex-
pectation; for the crying and howling they made was
better understood by their fellows; so that they all fled
and left us.
We had, first and last, killed abont threescore of
them; and had it been daylight, we had killed many
more. The field of hattle being tbus cleared, we made
forward again, for we had still near a league to go.
We heard the ravenons creatures howl and yell in the
woods as we went, several times, and sometimes we
fancied we saw some of them, but the suow dazzling
onr eyes, we were not certain: in abont an honr more
we camc to the town where we were to lodge, which
we fouud in a terrible fright, and all in arms; for, it
seems, the night before, the wolves and some bears had
broke into the village, and put them in such terror
that they were obliged to keep guard night and day, but
especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and, in-
deed, their people.
The next morning oar guide was so ill, and his limbs
swelled so much with the rankling ofhis two wonnds,
thai he conld go no farther; so wo were obliged to take
a new guide here, and go to Thoulonse, where we
found a warm climate, a fruitful, pleasant conntry, and
no suow, no wolves, nor any thing like them: but when
we told our story at Thonlonse, they told us it was
nothing' but what was ordinary in the great forest at the
foot of the monntaius, especiallv when the suow lay on
the gronnd; but they inquired much what kind of a
guide we had got, who wonld venture to bring us that
way in such a severe season; and told us it was sur-
prising we were not all devonred. When we told
them how we placed onrselves, and the horses in the
middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was
fifty to one but we had been all destroyed; for it was
the sight of the horses which made the wolves so furi-
ous, seeing their prey; and that, at other times, they
are really afraid of a gun; but being excessive bungry,
.-mil raging on that acconnt, the eagerness to come at the
horses had made them seuseless of danger; and that if
we had not, by the continued fire, and at last by the
stratagem of the train of powder, mastered them, it had
heen great odds but that we had been torn to pieces:
whereas, had we been content to have sat still on horse-
back, and fired as horsemen, they would not have taken
the horses so much for their own, when men were on
their hacks, as otherwise; and withal they told us, that
at last, if we had stood all together, and left onr horses,
they wonld have been so eager to have devoured them
that we might have come off safe, especially having onr
fire-arms in our hands, and being so many in number.
For my part, I was never so seusible of danger in my
life; for seeing above three bundred devils come roar-
ing and open-monthed to devonr us, ami having nothing
to shelter us or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost;
and, as it was, I believe I shall never care to cross those
monntaius again; I think I wonld much rather go a
thonsand leagues by sea, thongh I was sure to meet with
a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of m my
passage throngh France, nothing but what other travel-
lers have given an acconnt of with much more advan-
tage than I can. I traveled from Thonlouse to Paris,
and withont any cousiderable stay came to Calais, and
landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January, after having
a severe cold season to travel in.
I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had
in a little time all my new-discovered estate safe abont
me; the hills of exchange which I bronght with me
having been very currently paid.
My principal guide and privy conusellor was my
good ancient widow; who, in gratitnde for the money
I had sent her, thonght no paius too much, nor care too
great, to employ for me; and I trusted her so entirely
with every thing that I was perfectly easy as to the
security of my eflects: and, indeed, I was very happy
from the beginning, and now to the end, in the uuspotted
integrity of this good gentlewoman.
And now having resolved to dispose of my plantation
in the Brazils, I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon; who
having oflered it to the two merchants, the survivors
of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they accepted
the oft'er, and remitted thirty-three thonsand pieces-of-
eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon, to pay
for it.
In return, T sigued the iustrument of sale in the form
which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man,
who sent me the hills of exchange for 32,800 pieees-of-
eight for the estate; reserving the payment of 100 moi-
dores a year to him (the old man) during his life, and
50 moidores afterwards to his son for his life, which I
had promised them; and which the plantation was to
make good as a rent-charge. And thus I have given
the first part of a life of fortune and adventure, a life of
Providence's chequer-work, and of a variety which the
world will seldom be able to show the like;'of: begin-
ning foolisbly, but closing much more happily than any
part of it ever gave me leave so much as to hope for.
Any one wonld think, that in this state of complicated
good fortune, I was past running any more hazards, and
so indeed I had been, if other circumstances had con-
curred; but I was inured to a wandering liYe, had no
family, n0r many relatious; nor, however rich, had I
contracted much acquaintance; and thongh I had sold
my estate in the Brazils, yet I conld not keep that conn-
try cat of my head, and had a great mind to be upon
the wing as;ain; especiallv I conld not resist the strung
inclination I had to see my island, and to know if the
poor Spaniards were in being there. My true friend,
the widow, earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so far
prevailed with me, that, for almost seven years, she
prevented my running abroad; daring which time I
took my two nephews, the childrcu of one of my bro-
thers, into my care: the eldest having something of his
own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a settle-
ment of some addition to his estate, after my decease.
The other I pat ont to a captain of a ship: and after five
years, finding him a seusible, bold, enterprising yonng
fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him to sea:
and this yonng fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as
I was, to farther adventures myself.
In the mean time, I in part settled myself here; for,
first of all, [ married, and that not either to my disad-
vantage or dissatisfaction, and had three children, two
sous and ono danghter; but my wife dying, and my
nephew coming home with good success from a voyage
to Spina, my inclination to go abroad, and his impor-
tunity, prevailed, and engaged me to go in Ins ship as a
private trader to the East Indies: this was in the year
1694.
In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island,
saw my successors the Spaniards, had the whole story
of their lives, and of the villaius I left there; how at
first they iusulted the poor Spaniards, how they after-
wards agreed, disagreed, united, separated, and how at
last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with
them; how they were subjected to the Spaniards; how
honestly the Spaniards used them; a history, if it were
entered into, as full of variety and wonderful accidents
as my own part: particularly also as to their hattles
with the Caribbeans, who landed several times upon the
island, and as to the improvement they made upon the
i.tland itself; and how five of them made an attempt
upon the main land, and brought away eleven mon and
five women prisoners; by which, at my coming, I fonnd
abont twenty yonng children on the island.
Here I stayed about twenty days; left them supplies
of all necessary things, and particularly of arms, pow-
der, shot, clothes, tools, and two workmen, which I
bronght from England with me • viz. a carpenter and a
smith.
Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with them,
reserved to myself the property of the whole, but gave
them such parts respectively as they agreed on; and,
having settled all things with them, and engaged them
not to leave the place, I left them there.
From thence I tonched at the Brazils, from whence I
sent a hark, which I bonght there, with more people, to
the island; and in it, besides other supplies, I seat
seven women, being such as I fonnd proper for service,
or for wives to such as wonld take them. As to the Eng-
lishmen, I promised them to send them some women from
England, with a good cargo of necessaries, if they wonld
apply themselves to planting; which I afterwards conld
not perform. The fellows proved very honest and dili-
gent, after they were mastered, and had their properties
set apart for them. I sent them also from the Brazils
five cows, three of them being hig with calf, some
sheep, and some hogs, which, when I came again, were
cousiderably increased.
But all these things, with an acconnt how three hnn-
dred Caribbees came and invaded them, and ruined
their plantatious, aud how they fonght with that whole
number twice, and were at first defeated and one of
them killed; but at last a storm destroying their enemies'
canoes, they famished or destroyed almost all the rest,
and renewed and recovered the possession of their plan-
tation, and still lived upon the island.
All these things, with some very surprising incidents
in some new adventures of my own, for ten years more,
I shall give a further acconnt of in another volume.
EXD OF VOL. I.
C. Whiuinftham, College Honse, Chiawick.
